
  In case you haven't noticed, we really, really want you at our inaugural Expand extravaganza this March 16-17! We wanted to take a moment and recap the highlights of the show we have planned so you have it all in one place (and because, let's be real, everyone loves a list):

 1) Even more reasonable ticket prices! We want to make sure Expand is as accessible to as many of you as possible so we're knocking the ticket prices for all of the above back to $50 if you buy them in advance. We're also instituting day pass pricing for those of you unable to attend the show both days. A $35 ticket gets you into Saturday's show plus our after-party from 8 to midnight, and only $25 gets you in for Sunday. Parents, kids under 13 get in absolutely free so please bring the family for a day of hands-on technology fun!

 Of course, we know many of you have variable schedules and aren't sure if you'll be able to make the show ahead of time. We'll also be selling tickets at the door for $60 for the full weekend or $40 for just Saturday and $30 for just Sunday. And if you've already purchased Expand tickets, check the email you used to register for info about a refund (we won't leave you hanging!). If you didn't receive the email or have other questions about your tickets, please hit us up at tickets at engadget dot com and we'll help you out.

 Read on for nine more reasons...


 2) Brilliant speakers on stage  We'll have two full days of inspiring speakers from all walks of technology, robotics and space on the Expand stage. See Chris Anderson (CEO, 3D Robotics and former EIC, Wired), Yancey Strickler (Co-founder and Head of Community, Kickstarter), Marc Raibert (President & Chief Robot Lover, Boston Dynamics), Scott Croyle (VP of Design, HTC), and more, including a whole set of folks we haven't even unveiled yet.

 3) Exhibition hall  We're going to fill half of Fort Mason Center's Festival Pavilion to bursting with the latest and greatest gadgets for you to get your hands on. We'll also have a collection of things you won't be able to find on retail shelves, like the complete da Vinci surgical system, on our show floor. Yes, really!

 4) Insert Coin competition  We will have 10 of the awesomest pre-crowdfunding projects from talented innovators in our Insert Coin: New Challengers competition showing off their inventions on our show floor. The top 5 finalists will also be demoing their products on stage for a chance to win a $20,000 grand prize.

 5) Consumer electronics and beyond  We'll have gadgets galore at Expand, of course (it is in our name, after all) - but we'll also have robots (lots and lots of robots), bionics, pundits, 7 Minutes of Terror, space elevators and more -- what's not to love?

 [Image credit: NASA]

 6) Free stuff!  We will be doing on stage giveaways of more stuff than you can shake a stick at. Anyone who's been to one of our reader meetups in the past knows we're talking loads o' stuff. Come on out and win yourself something pretty!

 7) Meet Engadget  Come on out and meet the Engadget editors! We're bringing the majority of our team out to reprazent at Expand. Come mingle with us, and meet some folks who are as insanely excited (i.e. certifiably obsessed!) about technology as you are.

 8) No need to catch a cab  We'll be providing bus transportation to and from Fort Mason Center from convenient pickup spots in downtown San Francisco. Don't even worry about paying for a cab or the hassle of getting yourself there -- we've got you covered!
 9) Food included  We'll be providing breakfast, lunch, and beverage service as part of your ticket price. We'll also bring in food trucks outside our pavilion at Fort Mason for your dinner pleasure on Saturday night before the party.
 [Image credit: ricardodiaz]

 10) Day 1 after-party  Speaking of which: The Party! On Saturday evening from 8pm to midnight we'll have upright arcade cabinets and an assortment of consoles on hand to get some friendly gaming competition going. We'll also have music and adult beverages for your auditory and gustatory enjoyment.
 [Image credit: Rob Boudon]

 Please come join us!

 And don't forget...
  If you're a company that would like to work with us on an exhibition or sponsorship level, please drop us a line at sponsors at engadget dot com (DIYers and small startups, please ask us about our new Indie Corner option!)  If you're interested in speaking at the event, please contact expand at engadget dot com to inquire  If you're a member of the media interested in covering Expand, please contact engadget at shiftcomm.com for more information.
