
 What's NVIDIA got up its sleeve for CES, you ask? A whole host of Sandy Bridge laptop and desktop machines, by the sound of its latest press release. The green giant of graphics has proudly announced a new record of 200 OEM design wins for Intel's incoming CPUs. The big draw of Sandy Bridge is that it's the first processor to include an integrated GPU embedded directly within its die, which is projected to improve power efficiency and overall performance -- though clearly it hasn't been impressive enough to get PC vendors to abandon discrete graphics chips. If anything, they seem to be going in the other direction and insisting on a discrete GPU as well.

In other news, whether with or without NVIDIA's help, the first Sandy Bridge laptops will feature quad-core parts. Such is the word directly from Intel, with one insider adding that the dual-core debutants will get their chance a month after CES, around the middle of February. Skip past the break for NVIDIA's boastful PR or hit the source for more on Intel's plans. 
 

Show full PR textNVIDIA Achieves Record Number of Design Wins for Intel 'Sandy Bridge' PC PlatformMore than 200 PC Models Will Feature NVIDIA GeForce GPUs with Sandy Bridge CPUs Next YearSANTA CLARA, Calif.-Dec. 16, 2010-PC manufacturers are poised to launch a record 200 new products in the first half of 2011 that feature NVIDIA® GeForce® graphics processing units (GPUs), paired with the new generation of Intel Sandy Bridge CPUs.The designs are expected to span a variety of notebook and desktop systems from leading OEMs including Acer, Alienware, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu-Siemens, HP, Lenovo, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba and more.Demand for graphics processing power continues to grow, and computer makers are increasingly turning to NVIDIA GeForce GPUs to deliver higher levels of performance not possible with integrated graphics on applications such as games, video editing, web browsing, and 3D movies. Unlike basic graphics integrated into Sandy Bridge CPUs, GeForce GPUs provide advanced features and increased compatibility for the latest PC games including those based on Microsoft DirectX 11.David Lee, associate vice president of Acer's Mobile Computing Business Unit said: "Consumers are increasingly using their notebooks for content consumption and creation – anytime and anywhere. GeForce graphics with Optimus turbocharge Acer notebooks with excellent performance when you need it, and longer battery life when you don't.""Demand from OEMs for discrete graphics solutions remains strong and above historic levels," said Dean McCarron of Mercury Research. "We are projecting healthy growth in the years ahead for discrete GPU solutions for both notebook and desktop. Based on the current attach rate for GPU shipments, Mercury Research forecasts that discrete GPU shipments will double between 2009 and 2014.""With the explosion in digital content and entertainment, it's no wonder that consumers love GeForce notebooks," said Jeff Fisher, vice president of the GeForce business unit at NVIDIA. "Our momentum reflects the overwhelming need for a better PC experience."Only NVIDIA GeForce GPUs offer differentiated features such as:- NVIDIA 3D Vision™ support, for eye-popping immersive 3D environments- PhysX™ physics engine support, for experiencing games with realistic physics effects- CUDA™ architecture support, for GPU computing applications- NVIDIA Verde™ notebook drivers, for system stability and optimal performance- Support for NVIDIA 3DTV Play™ software, for connecting 3D Vision-based notebooks and desktops to a 3D TV.Additional partner and analyst quotes:Adobe"Performance is critical for creative professionals today, which is why many Adobe Creative Suite customers have embraced NVIDIA GPUs," said Bill Roberts, director of professional video and audio product management at Adobe. "The Adobe Mercury Playback Engine in Adobe Premiere Pro CS5 is GPU-accelerated to provide dramatic performance improvements and fluid real-time editing."ASUS"Our customers are increasingly asking for enhanced graphics capabilities on their new PCs, which is why GPUs are an essential part of our lineup," said SY Shian, corporate vice president and general manager of the notebook business unit of ASUSTek. "GeForce GPUs with Optimus enable us to serve a broader variety of users who demand faster performance, better gaming support, longer battery life, and delightful features like 3D Vision."DFC Intelligence"PC gaming is a huge part of the video games industry, with annual software sales of more than US $15 billion worldwide. By 2015 PC gaming software revenue will grow to $22 billion. It's clearly an important market for both hardware and software companies," said David Cole, principal at DFC Intelligence.Enderle Associates"Integrated graphics solutions have always performed poorly versus discrete GPUs. Each year, the graphics performance of discrete GPUs increases by leaps and bounds ahead of integrated graphics. In a market increasingly defined by ever more visual high definition products the value to consumers for discrete GPUs has never been greater and will only increase from here."Toshiba"Toshiba laptops with GeForce graphics deliver an exceptional computing experience," said Hidehito Murato, Chief Marketing Executive at Toshiba Corporation, Digital Products and Network Company. "We look forward to introducing Toshiba laptops next year that feature NVIDIA technologies like 3D Vision, Optimus and PhysX."
 