
 

There are certain things worth paying to upgrade: earbuds, perhaps, and maybe even Spotify. But when it comes to buying fancy 3D glasses for the sole purpose of looking cool in a pitch-black theater -- well, aren't we already spending enough on popcorn and Funyuns? EX3D doesn't seem to think so. Starting August 13th, moviegoers in San Diego will be able to trade in those freebies for fashion at a 3D glasses vending machine. At $22 - $30 a pop, these "affordable" and "stylish" glasses may be a boon for those who wouldn't be caught dead wearing the same specs as their friends. Of course, you can also use these babies out of the theater on a passive 3D TV. As for us? We'll stick with the freebies, thank you very much. Jump past the break for the full PR.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Attention San Diego Moviegoers: Watching 3D Movies in Style Just Got Easier With Launch of the First-Ever 3D Glasses Vending Machine 		Experience the Best in 3D-Viewing with Fashionable EX3D Eyewear 		SAN DIEGO, Aug. 10, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- 		WHAT: 		In the heart of the summer blockbuster season, 3D movie fans in San Diego can escape the sweltering heat and come see the latest 3D blockbusters in style! Join EX3D™ for the debut of the first-ever RealD 3D glasses vending machine, with easy-to-use digital interface, to theater-goers in San Diego. Movie fans can now easily access the extensive line of affordable, stylish RealD-Certified EX3D glasses!  		WHO: 		EX3D, a recently launched brand of Marchon3D, the premier designer and supplier of the most technologically-advanced and fashionable 3D eyewear on the market, and UltraStar Mission Valley Cinemas are teaming up to unveil the first in-theater sale of the EX3D line of 3D glasses. EX3D will bring movie-goers the most comfortable, exciting 3D movie viewing experience available today. 		WHEN: 		Saturday, August 13, 2011		For matinee and evening shows  		WHERE:		UltraStar Mission Valley Cinemas		7510 Hazard Center Drive, #100		San Diego, CA 92108   		DETAILS:  		EX3D offers the perfect pair of RealD 3D glasses for every member of the family! The latest line features 25 styles for men, women and kids that all incorporate the patented M3D® curved lens technology at an affordable retail price (about $22 - $30). EX3D also has great, fashionable solutions for prescription wearers!   		These versatile glasses will not only work in any RealD enabled theater around the world, they are compatible with most passive systems including 3D televisions and 3D gaming systems.  		You can also visit EX3D on Facebook, Twitter (@EX3DEyewear) and at www.ex3d.com for more information and to enter for a chance to win movie tickets for a year, along with family pack of EX3D glasses, discounts on products and other great prizes. 		NOTE TO REPORTERS: EX3D will have a limited supply of samples at the theater. Please RSVP to M3D@kcsa.com to secure your sample today! 		About Marchon3D™ 		EX3D (www.EX3D.com) is a brand of Marchon3D (www.marchon3d.com), a division of Marchon Eyewear, which markets 3D eyewear featuring a portfolio of patented and patent-pending M3D™ lens technologies that stand apart from all other premium 3D lenses due to its unique, optically contoured lens design. The lenses are inserted into premium-style frames that offer wearers superior fit, comfort and an outstanding 3D viewing experience. M3D lenses also provide 100 percent UVA/UVB/UVC protection. 		Contacts:		Anne Donohoe / Samantha Wolf		KCSA Strategic Communications		212-896-1261 / 212-896-1220		adonohoe@kcsa.com / swolf@kcsa.com 		SOURCE Marchon3D		Back to top 		RELATED LINKS		http://www.marchon3d.com
 