
 
 Everybody loves a sequel, right? And what better place to launch a followup than in shiny Las Vegas? Exactly a year after launch the first generation of its consumer-friendly 3D printer, the Cube, 3D Systems is getting ready to unleash its successor on the world. The second-gen Cube offers a number of enhancements over last year's model, including the ability to print up to 1.5 times faster and printing in both ABS and recyclable PLA plastics. The printer maintains the earlier version's easily-loaded cartridges (which can be sent back empty for a discount), touchscreen controls and WiFi connectivity.

 They'll start shipping on the 21st of this month to interested makers who pre-order one now for $1,299. Cough up an extra $100 and 3D Systems will throw in three extra cartridges of plastic and the company's design software.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   3D Systems Unveils Next-Gen Popular Cube Consumer 3D Printer
  D Systems (NYSE:DDD) today unveiled the second generation of its popular home 3D printer, the Cube® with faster printability, greater materials selection and print modes including recyclable ABS plastic and compostable PLA and more colors including glow in the dark blue and green. The Cube meets all IEC 60950 Printer Safety Requirements making it the only consumer 3D printer that is safe for at-home use by adults and children alike. The new Cube will be on display at CES, January 8th – January 11th, 2013, in the Las Vegas Convention Center in the Main Hall, booth 15447 and the CES MomyTech Zone, booth 71003 in the Venetian.
  Awarded "easiest to use" and "most reliable" by Make Magazine in 2012, 3D Systems has made 3D printing even easier to own and simpler to use by offering a Print Pack valued at, $1500 for just $1399. This comprehensive value pack includes the Cube 3D printer, 4 cartridges, 25 free prints, and Cubify Invent design software – the only 3D design tool optimized for 3D printing. Cubify.com provides more easy printing options for new users with 3D apps that generate free print files and an entire 3D printing marketplace of items to choose from.
  Product Features:
  Print Experience – up to 1.5X faster, quieter print speed and fidelity for up to 5.5" cubed. Full tech specs are available here.  Greater Material and Print Mode Choices – Cube now prints in 2 materials, compostable PLA and recyclable ABS plastics. Both materials are available in 16 different color cartridges including new glow in the dark green and blue and metallic silver colors. Cube offers a choice of print mode fill density: Lite, Medium and Solid in both PLA and ABS plastics with optional easy, breakaway supports for the most complex prints.  Smart Cartridge System- Moisture-lock cartridge ensures extended shelf life and total material usage improving print quality and sustainability. The printer detects material type automatically based on the cartridge eliminating the need to change print settings. The cartridges are easy to load and store while preserving the life and quality of the materials.  Improved Safety for the Home – Cube meets all IEC 60950 Printer Safety Requirements making it the only 3D printer certified for home use and safe for use by children.  Sleek Design and Ease of Use – Building on the success of the original, the second generation Cube has the same intuitive, touchscreen interface, compact sleek design, plug-and-print simplicity, WiFI connectivity and both MAC and PC compatibility. .  Sustainability – Users can now send back their empty cartridges to designated 3D Systems locations for reuse in exchange for a discount on new cartridges and return their used ABS and PLA prints for responsible recycling or composting by the company. All Cubes are shipped locally from USA and EU distribution centers reducing freight. The new Cube comes with proprietary heatless print pad that conserves power compared to other 3D printers. 3D Systems is committed to making consumer 3D printing affordable safe and sustainable.  3D Printing Services – registering your Cube for free on Cubify.com allows for easy hardware and software updates and immediate access to Cubify 3DCloud printing service, whether users store designs on Cubify or use 3DCloud Printing for higher quality prints and consumer products. Cube Experts hotline and email support is available everyday from 3:00am to 8:00pm EST providing 16 hours each day of services.
  "With the next generation Cube, we are giving consumers the best ever at-home 3D printing experience with more options for more fun." said Cathy Lewis, CMO 3D Systems, "Our growing selection of 3D Apps, designs and lifestyle accessories on Cubify.com makes 3D printing accessible to everyone and our sustainability and safety enhancements makes 3D printing responsible and enjoyable for the entire family."
  The company is now accepting pre-orders and plans to commence commercial shipments on January21, 2013. Order your Cube today on Cubify.com.
 
