
3D Systems has been on a bit of a shopping spree lately, snatching up companies left and right for its portfolio of print offerings. This latest deal is a bit sweeter than most, however. The company has picked up Sugar Lab, an LA-based startup that prints edible 3D objects in sugar. This isn't quite the breakthrough in 3D-printed food we've been waiting for, but it certainly suggests that the company is taking a much more serious look at the space, as CEO Avi Reichental suggested during our interview at Expand back in March.


We reached out to the exec for comment on this latest acquisition, and he told us: "We are all foodies at heart, and for as long as we could remember, food provided a great canvass for our creativity. Adding third dimension to food creation is one of the most exciting initiatives I am involved with." At the very least, it takes us a step closer to the Star Trek cake we've wanted since we were 10.



Show full PR textPhoto Release -- 3D Systems Acquires The Sugar Lab
3D Systems (NYSE:DDD) announced today that it has acquired The Sugar Lab, a start-up micro-design firm based in Los Angeles, California, dedicated to 3D printing customized, multi-dimensional, edible confections in real sugar. The terms of the transaction were not disclosed. The Sugar Lab adopted 3D Systems' Color Jet Printing (CJP) technology to print on a sugar bed using different flavored edible binders that meet all food safety requirements. 3D Systems plans to immediately integrate The Sugar Lab 3D printing technique into its professional and consumer content-to-print platforms with a variety of production-quality applications as well as the ability to 3D print indulgences at home.
A photo accompanying this release is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=20862
"The overlap of technology, food and art is so rich, and the potential for customization and innovation is limitless," said Liz von Hasseln, cofounder of the Sugar Lab. Existing commercial applications for printable sugar include complex sculptural cakes for weddings and special events that are made possible only with 3D printing, and customizable confections for bake shops and restaurants. Continued von Hasseln, "We see our technology quickly evolving into a variety of flavors and foods, powered by real food printers for professionals and consumers alike and we could not think of a more qualified partner than 3D Systems to help make that a reality."
"I believe there is a social covenant for indulgence that begins with desserts and The Sugar Lab will accelerate our ability to bring edible 3D printables to the masses while empowering chefs, restaurateurs and confectioners with never before explored digital creation tools for food," said Avi Reichental, President and CEO of 3D Systems. "We are absolutely thrilled to partner with two kindred spirits; Liz and Kyle von Hasseln to quickly re-purpose our core 3D Systems print technology and jointly create delicious, custom confections."
Explore the almost unlimited possibilities of 3D printed edibles at 3DSystems.com.

