
  Never let it be said that good things don't come to those who wait and wait and... well, you get the point. Having finally delivered a much-delayed firmware update to the 3DS last December, the Big N appears ready to make good on its DLC promises. Starting tomorrow, gamers visiting the eShop will be able to take a tour of Racoon City and fire off a few shots at its zombie denizens with a downloadable demo of Resident Evil Revelations. The company's only announced one other title, Mario & Sonic At The London Olympic Games, for later this month, but plans are on deck to refresh the service with new trial content from Rayman Origins and Metal Gear Solid Snake Eater 3D, amongst others in the coming year. Sure, it's no Kid Icarus, but this is Nintendo we're talking about -- you have to take what you can get.
      

 

  Show full PR text  FREE NINTENDO 3DS GAME DEMOS HEAD TO NINTENDO ESHOP  Resident Evil Revelations Demo Available Tomorrow  REDMOND, Wash., Jan. 18, 2012 - Nintendo 3DS™ owners soon will be able to play free downloadable demo versions of select games. Starting tomorrow, owners can go to the Nintendo eShop to download a free demo version of Resident Evil® Revelations from Capcom. A free demo version of Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games™ published by SEGA will launch on Jan. 26. The Nintendo eShop will be periodically updated with new game demos.  "The demo program allows Nintendo 3DS players to be among the first to test-drive select games," said Tony Elison, Nintendo of America's senior director and general manager of Network Business. "Players can try out new genres or series, often weeks before the full versions are available in stores."  Additional demos coming soon include Rayman® Origins from Ubisoft and METAL GEAR SOLID® Snake Eater 3D from Konami Digital Entertainment. Specific dates and other games in the demo program will be announced at a later time.  Remember that Nintendo 3DS features parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/3ds.
 