
 3net, the joint venture from Sony, Discovery and IMAX that's a 3D channel and more recently a production studio, is ready to announce its first slate of content. While so far the channel has mainly sourced content from the three partners, the new slate of projects, with one that it says is the world's first native 4K project for TV. Called Space, it combines 3D and Ultra HD footage to explore the universe. Of course, at $20k~ a pop for Ultra HD TV sets and a lack of anyone broadcasting in the format so far it may be a bit early, but it will probably air in standard HD/3D at first and when the tech catches up, it will be ready. Other shows in the works include Marksmen, a 3D motion comic, documentary Frozen In Time: Our History in 3D, Wingsuit Warrior: Jeb Corliss vs. The World and travelogue series Daydream. Anyone that scrounged for HD in the early 2000s is probably familiar with this type of demo-ready content, and if you're one of the first with a 4K set, it will probably be in your library for a while before Hollywood is ready to sell you the same movies again, just in higher resolution.



  Show full PR text   3NET STUDIOS ANNOUNCES INITIAL PRODUCTION SLATE   -- Lineup to Include Original, Native 3D Projects and World's First 4K Television Series --    November 14, 2012 – Culver City, CA – On the heels of launching 3net Studios, the Sony - Discovery - IMAX joint venture 3net has revealed an initial slate of original 3D and 4K TV series and specials to be produced under its newly formed production arm. The announcement-made today by 3net President/CEO Tom Cosgrove-breaks new ground for television, representing several global firsts in 3D and 4K programming.   3net Studios' diverse lineup includes live-action and animated projects such as SPACE, the first series to be produced in what the company calls "TotalD" (native 3D 4K, 2D 4K, 3D 2K and both 3D/2D HD formats), as well as MARKSMEN, the world's first 3D motion comic series for television. Additional 3D projects include the documentary series FROZEN IN TIME: OUR HISTORY IN 3D; the live-action special WINGSUIT WARRIOR: JEB CORLISS VS. THE WORLD; and the travelogue series DAYDREAM.   "Today's announcement marks an important first step in our ongoing mission to meet the increasing global demand for high-quality, original 3D and 4K television content head on," said Cosgrove. "We're proud of the diverse initial slate of live-action and animated series we have created and look forward to expanding it as 3net Studios finalizes its full 2013 development schedule."   3net Studios Initial Development and Production Slate:   SPACE:  From the Big Bang to the present and forward into the future, Space gives a vision of the birth, evolution and end of the phenomena that make up the universe as never seen before. Billed as the world's first native 4K project for television, the series employs lyrical and deeply stereoscopic 3D and Ultra HD shots to immerse the viewer within space itself as concepts are presented with relatable visual storytelling. What's the view like from inside a nebula, or a comet's tail? What does traveling at the speed of light really look like, and just how hot is the planet Mercury? Each hour long episode of this three-part series won't just answer these questions, it will also offer viewers an unprecedented opportunity to experience the answers through the use of breakthrough 3D and 4K production techniques. A 3net Studios original production in association with Percolate Digital.   MARKSMEN:  This innovative 3D stop-motion graphic novel series takes viewers into a post-apocalyptic wasteland - following the government collapse, a civil war erupts between two cities as they fight for control of the world's scarce remaining resources. Rebuilt by a group of top scientists and protected by the Navy Seals stationed at the Coronado Navel Base, "New San Diego" is a technological utopia that lives in peace and must defend itself against the oil-hungry and war driven, "Lone Star." This half-hour, four-part series follows Drake McCoy and his band of high-tech soldiers, the "Marksmen," on their heroic quest to protect "New San Diego" from total annihilation. A 3net Studios original production in association with Jump! 3D.   FROZEN IN TIME: OUR HISTORY IN 3D:  This three-part, hour-long original 3D series takes an immersive look at history's most monumental milestones – from World War II to the Industrial Revolution and the migration to the American West. The series makes unique use of historic and captivating original 3D photographs – fully restored and presented in their true native form for the first time ever. A 3net Studios original production in association with Tom Jennings Productions/1895 Films.   WINGSUIT WARRIOR: JEB CORLISS VS. THE WORLD:  Renowned BASE jumper and wingsuit pioneer Jeb Corliss tragically crashed while wingsuit flying in Capetown, South Africa. The debilitating crash in early 2012 caused Jeb to break his leg, both ankles and opened a deep, gaping hole in his shin. This hour-long original 3D special follows Jeb and wingsuit expert Joby Ogwyn as they take viewers through the arduous process of rehab, re-learning the skills of wingsuit flying and tackling some of the biggest mountains in Europe. Viewers will hear and see their incredible journey as they prepare to face their demons and find redemption on the deadly slope of Table Mountain in Cape Town, where Jeb came close to losing his life. A 3net Studios original production in association with New Wave Entertainment.   DAYDREAM:  Spanning both popular and exotic geographic locations, DAYDREAM delivers stunning visual 3D imagery, offering viewers an immersive look at the earth and mankind's most spectacular creations. Each episode takes viewers on a 3D "travel adventure" to a unique and iconic destination, offering a visual escape as the day passes in each location. Produced by Z3D Films – a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3net Studios.   About 3net Studios:   Announced in October 2012, 3net Studios - based at both Sony Pictures headquarters in Los Angeles, CA and Discovery Communications headquarters in Silver Spring, MD - employs a team of creative personnel, utilizing the world-class technology and production expertise of the parent company's joint venture partners to produce the highest quality native 3D and 4K content available. The formation of 3net Studios allows the company to further build upon the award-winning library that fuels its flagship 3net channel service in the United States, while also offering existing and new partners around the world a vibrant, top quality 3D and 4K content source. For more information, please visit www.3netstudios.com.

 
