
 
Not sure if you noticed (though you probably did), but these so-called netbooks never actually ended up being nearly as inexpensive as we were all led to believe. Matter of fact, some manufacturers even took the liberty of charging more than basic 15-inchers as they pimped the whole "pay a premium for portability" aspect. Nevertheless, we're glad to see the stickers declining on at least one subset, as Acer has announced price drops today on its Aspire One. The Windows XP unit will fall to $349 (from $399), while the Linpus Linux Lite model will sink to $329 (from $379). Best of all, the longevous six-cell battery-packin' flavor is now $399. Full release is after the break.
      

 

  Acer Drives Outstanding Value in the Netbook Category with Price Reductions on its Popular Aspire oneIdeal for Students, an Acer Aspire one Ultra-Lightweight Mobile Internet Device Featuring Windows XP is Now Available for Just $349 SAN JOSE, Calif., August 22, 2008 – Acer America, the third largest vendor in the global PC market (source: Gartner data, 2Q 2008), today announced it has lowered the price of the popular Aspire one ultra-lightweight mobile Internet device in the U.S. retail channel. In a move that will provide affordability and value just in time for back-to-school, the Aspire one featuring Windows XP Home® will now retail for $349. Compact and smart, the Aspire one provides continuous access to the Internet in an easy-to-use, stylish and ultra-mobile platform. Light enough to tote in a backpack at just 2.17 pounds, the Aspire one is designed to be an affordable, entry-level, "first PC" solution for students, as well as a secondary computing device for on-the-go tech savvy enthusiasts and professionals. The Aspire one is ideal for everyday tasks such as Web browsing, checking email, listening to music, instant messaging, viewing photos, VOIP calls and streaming video. Equipped with Intel® Atom™ processor, Windows XP® Home, 1GB of RAM memory installed, 120 GB internal hard drive, and a three-cell battery, the Aspire one AOA150-1570 is now priced at $349. The Aspire one AOA110-1722 with Linpus™ Linux Lite is now priced at $329. "The Aspire one is a breakthrough product that meets the connectivity needs of both students and mobile professionals," said Kristin Markworth, senior manager of notebook product marketing for Acer America. "By increasing the value of our mobile Internet device lineup, Acer is opening the Aspire one experience to a whole new base of users." Also introduced for business and education customers, the Aspire one AOA150-1447 offers a professional solution for those who require added performance. Featuring a six-cell battery, 160GB internal hard drive and Windows XP Home, the Aspire one is perfect for on-the-go business travellers and environments which require long-lasting battery power. The Aspire one AOA150-1447 is now available via Acer authorized resellers with prices beginning at $399. Pricing and Availability The Acer Aspire one netbook is available now via Acer's authorized resellers and at major retailers nationwide. All models come with a one-year limited warranty.

       

 