


Acer certainly takes the cake for most product announcements before IFA's even officially begun. In addition to outing a new smartphone, tablet, all-in-one (and a few Haswell updates), the company is introducing a 27-inch WQHD display. The T272HUL's edge-to-edge, 2,560 x 1,440-pixel panel offers 10-point multi-touch, and the monitor's stand allows you to tilt the display up to 60 degrees. (It's also wall-mountable, if you're fancy like that.) A 2MP webcam and an integrated mic are also on board for video calls. Connectivity options include dual-link DVI, DisplayPort, HDMI and three USB 3.0 ports. The T272HUL will retail for €799 in September -- just don't look for this guy to hit the US.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!

Show full PR textA Touch More Real-Estate with Acer T272HUL 27" WQHD LED Display @ IFA 2013
Editor's Summary:
• 27-inch 2,560 x 1,440 WQHD LED panel delivers four times the resolution of HD and a 178-degree viewing angle

• 10-point multi touch display for a more ergonomic and collaborative touch experience

• Seamless video calls or video conferences thanks to an integrated webcam and microphone

BERLIN, Sept. 2, 2013 – Acer today unveiled the T272HUL display featuring a 27-inch WQHD LED display with 10-point multi-touch for a touch more viewing real estate and collaborative experience. The built-in webcam and microphone allows users to set-up vibrant video conferences in full HD. Slender and elegant, the new Acer T272HUL edge-to-edge display is a masterpiece of design and technology appealing to graphic artists, professionals and design-conscious users.

Delivering four times the pixel resolution of HD, the 27-inch Acer T272HUL is a 2,560 by 1,440 Wide Quad High Definition (WQHD) touch monitor that brings incredible definition to games, videos and everything else. The wide viewing angle with VA panel enables more pristine image quality with a 178-degree viewing angle to easily share what's on the screen with others.

A touch more management
Acer's exclusive Adaptive Contrast-Management (ACM) optimizes contrast to present the highest level of clarity and detail by analysing every scene, adjusting images frame by frame, and enhancing detail and gradation. Featuring an outstanding dynamic contrast ratio of 100,000,000:1, the T272HUL renders razor-sharp images with rich colours through the enhancement of detail and gradation in bright or dim scenes. The 5ms response time helps avoid the blurring effect in fast-paced videos or games.

A touch edge-to-edge
The T272HUL edge-to-edge display flaunts a stylish asymmetric stand that gives the monitor a futuristic look and allows users to adjust the tilt angle up to 60-degrees. This ensures a more comfortable touch experience, especially during sustained use, as it allows touch control from above. The 10-point multi-touch technology means the T272HUL monitor supports multi-user scenarios and makes for a seamless collaborative touch experience. To engage in live video chats with friends and share colourful images and feelings, the display is equipped with a two megapixel full HD webcam and integrated microphone.

A touch connectivity
Digital input maximizes the connection quality between LED monitors and other digital sources, such as touch notebooks, tablets or smartphones. The Acer T272HUL monitor comes with both dual-link DVI, DisplayPort 1.2 and HDMI 1.4 to provide advanced digital connectivity and enable outstanding high-definition viewing and quality audio. Complementing its high-definition visuals, it's built with two 2-watt speakers for high-quality audio playback. Three USB 3.0 ports ensure fast data transfer to and from external devices, plus one port can be used to fast charge devices. For greater convenience and space savings this display is also wall-mountable.


