
  After trotting out some mobile fare at MWC, Acer hasn't pulled in the reigns on its new product horse, announcing its new V5 notebook this morning at CeBIT. Yes, notebook. At 30 percent slimmer than the class it replaces, these are still trim machines. The 11.6-inch model is only 15mm thick, which is way into Ultrabook territory, while the 14- and 15-inch models land at 21 and sub-23mm respectively. It's Intel on the inside, including Core i3 and Core i5 processors, with NVIDIA GeForce GT series on-board to handle graphics. Release is penciled in for Q2, and pricing is expected to range from €499 to €699 (about $650 to $920). If you're in the market for something a bit less expensive but you're into the V5's design, you might take notice of the Aspire One netbook, which is set to use the same chassis but will ship with Intel Pentium and Celeron processors instead, with pricing estimated between €399 and €449 (about $525 to $590).We went hands-on with a dummy model of the V5 at CeBIT, though the prototype we saw today may not be the exact design you'll find in stores later this month. The 15.6-inch sample was very thin and relatively light, with a full-size chiclet keyboard and numberpad on the side. There's a USB 3.0 port on the left-hand side, along with two standard USB 2.0 ports, an HDMI connector and proprietary Ethernet port. There's also a pop-out optical drive on the right, though there's no SD slot in sight. Overall, it's a very nice design, but we'll need to wait for the company to demo functional versions before we can pass judgement on performance. As always, you'll find our video overview just past the break.






  Zach Honig contributed to this report.  Show full PR text  Acer Introduces the Aspire V5 Series  New Ultra-slim notebook featuring all-round mobility with impressive performance, thermal comfort, and affordability   HANNOVER, GERMANY (March 6, 2012) - Acer presents the Aspire V5 Series at the CeBIT tradeshow in Hannover, Germany. This new range of thin and light notebooks suits budget-conscious users looking for impressive performance, thermal comfort, cool style, plus convenient mobile usability.  While the current trend is towards thinner and lighter notebooks with the capability for infotainment consumption and content creation anytime, anywhere, Acer knows how to meet the consumers' expectations. The V5 Series notebooks are all 30% slimmer than the same class so they're extremely easy to handle on the go. The 11.6-inch model is less than 15 mm thin while the 14-inch model includes an optical drive and is under 21 mm and 2.1 kg; the 15.6-inch model, also with an optical drive, is thinner than 23 mm, and weighs less than 2.3 kg.  The V5 Series features powerful Intel® Core™ family processors,* and renowned NVIDA® GeForce® GT Series graphics* for impressive daily multitasking, content creation and multimedia enjoyment. A smart power management and component layout optimizes acoustics and thermal comfort without compromising performance. These notebooks can be used quietly and comfortably on the lap during computing and media playback. ENERGY STAR® certified, the V5 Series conserves power and is environment-friendly.  Easy to use on the go, the V5 Series features Acer Instant Connect, which automatically scans and registers most-visited access points, letting users connect to the Internet in just 2.5 seconds, which is four times faster than conventional methods.  The cool, fluid design has smooth surfaces that make this notebook comfortable to the touch. Full-size chiclet keyboard and large click-pad are well-placed and ergonomic for easy navigation and enhanced productivity. The new range of Aspire V5 is ultra-slim and modern with cool design, available in a selection of appealing colors.  Users can enjoy all-round mobility with LAN/VGA combo port to easily extend connectivity online and external display from one cable. Sharing files among other digital devices is also quick and easy via USB 3.0 ports.  The V5 will start shipping in Q2 2012.
 