
 We found ourselves quite enamored with Samsung's latest entry into the Chromebook line, mostly thanks to its incredibly low price of $250. Now Acer's done gone even lower: $199 for its new C7 Chromebook. It's an 11.6-inch (1,366 x 768) machine with a 320GB HDD and an Intel processor, rated for 3.5 hours of battery life -- just about half that of Samsung's ARM-powered entry. It still manages to be under an inch thick and packs a full-size Ethernet port, plus 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi, three USB 2.0 ports and both HDMI and VGA output. (Cellular connectivity does not appear to be an option.) The C7 is available starting tomorrow at the link below, and while we know many of you still aren't sold on the Chromebook idea, at a buck less than $200 maybe it's time to start pondering more seriously.



  Show full PR text   Acer America's New C7 Chromebook: Secure, Speedy and Simple
   SAN JOSE, Calif., (Nov. 12, 2012) – Acer America today debuts its new Acer C7 Chromebook, its next-generation mobile computer that runs Google's Chrome operating system and is priced at a low $199.  The new Acer C7 Chromebook is the ideal additional laptop for families, students and business people that need a fast, easy and secure way to get online to do their computing in the cloud, such as using Gmail, keeping up on social networks, shopping, and paying bills.

   "Today's computer users are doing more online heightening the need for enhanced security, quicker online access and an easy-to-use interface," Jim Wong, corporate president, Acer Inc. "The Acer C7 Chromebook provides all this at an affordable price, making it the right choice for families and students on a budget as well as anyone who wants a new or second mobile PC for web-based computing."  "The core of Google's Chromebook vision is creating a better, more simple computing experience and making it available to everyone," said Sundar Pichai, senior vice president, Chrome and Apps, Google. "We're excited about the Acer C7 Chromebook, the newest addition to the Chromebook family. The Acer C7 delivers a hassle-free computing experience with the speed, security and simplicity that users expect of Chromebooks built in."

   Speedy, Secure Online Access  Customers can get online quickly with the Acer C7; it boots up in less than 18 seconds and resumes nearly instantly from sleep mode. The overall Chromebook experience is easy-to-use and navigate. Users can access their favorite apps with a single click through the app launcher and find new favorites from the thousands of Chrome apps and games featured in the Chrome Web Store.

   Customers will appreciate that the Acer C7 Chromebook has security features built in to defend against malware and viruses. Plus, since the Acer C7 is automatically updated, customers can be assured that they have the latest software version and protection against online threats. It comes with integrated 802.11b/g/n WiFi, so customers can quickly connect to hotspots and wireless networks.  Safe Storage, Convenient access to Content

   The Acer C7 Chromebook is easy to maintain and share with others around the home, school or work. Users can have separate accounts and simply log in to get things done. Once on the Acer C7, it's easy to share and collaborate on documents and projects and share work and personal calendars. Acer Chromebook customers are offered up to 100GB of free Google Drive storage for the first two years after purchase, so files, documents, photos and more are stored safely in the cloud even if the Acer C7 is lost, damaged or stolen. Customers can also access files offline, or create and edit Google Documents and use Gmail offline as well.

   Sleek Design for the Mobile Lifestyle  The Acer C7 is portable and sleek for today's on-the-go mobile lifestyle. It weighs only 3.05 pounds and measures a mere one inch thin, so it can be easily taken anywhere as it fits into a backpack, briefcase or purse. The slim size still houses a full-sized keyboard, so customers can comfortably create and edit documents and spreadsheets. The fully-clickable touchpad allows customers to conveniently get things done.

   The Acer C7's integrated HD 1.3MP webcam w/ LED indicator and microphone is great for video conferencing, as well as capturing video and photos for sharing online. Websites, documents, photos and high-definition video look crisp and clear on the C7's 11.6-inch HD Widescreen CineCrystalTM LED-backlit LCD.

   Appealing to frequent travelers, the Acer C7 Chromebook also enables users to get online at 30,000 feet with free Gogo in-air internet passes. It comes with 12 free passes (estimated at $150 value) that can be used over two years on domestic U.S. flights.

   Acer Chromebook Built for Performance  The premiere offering in the Acer C7 Chromebook line is the Acer C710-2847. Powered by an Intel Celeron 847 processor (2MB L3 cache, 1.10GHz, DDR3 1333 MHz) and 2GB of DDR3 memory, the Acer C7 provides the performance to speed through the web, access files, enjoy video and more. It also has an ample 320GB HDD for storing files.(2)

   The Acer C7 connects to popular consumer electronics devices such as camcorders, digital cameras and smart phones via its three USB 2.0 ports. It also has an HDMI port for pushing video and content to external displays and HDTVs. In addition, its card reader supports SD card and MMC, so customers can play their music and video directly from the card, or upload photos, video and music to their favorite sites.  Pricing, Availability and Warranty

   The Acer C710-2847 will be available starting tomorrow on the Google Play store, at Best Buy stores and on BestBuy.com for customers in the United States for $199.00.  The new Acer C7 comes with a standard one-year parts and labor warranty, which can be extended to three years with the Acer Advantage service. All Acer Chromebooks are backed by toll-free service and support.(3)

   About Acer  Since its founding in 1976, Acer has broken barriers between people and technology, enabling users to explore, create and grow. Acer ranks No. 2 for notebook PCs globally.(1) The Acer Group employs 8,000 people across the globe, and revenues for 2011 reached US$15.7 billion.  Acer's channel business model is instrumental to the company's success, while its multi-brand approach integrates Acer, Gateway, and Packard Bell brands in worldwide markets. Acer designs environmentally friendly products and, with its vendors, has established a green supply chain.  Acer is proud to be a Worldwide Partner of the Olympic Movement. That includes supporting the Vancouver 2010 Olympic Winter Games and London 2012 Olympic Games.  More information is at www.acer-group.com.

   © 2012 Acer America Corp. All rights reserved. Acer and the Acer logo are registered trademarks of Acer Inc. Other trademarks, registered trademarks, and/or service marks, indicated or otherwise, are the property of their respective owners. All offers subject to change without notice or obligation and may not be available through all sales channels. Prices listed are manufacturer suggested retail prices and may vary by location. Applicable sales tax extra.

 
