
To kick off IFA, Acer's announcing a new tablet running Android Jelly Bean, the 10.1-inch Iconia A3. Available in both WiFi and 3G versions, the A3 will hit Africa, Europe and the Middle East in early October with a starting price of €249. The slate's IPS panel sports a 1,280 x 800 resolution, and Acer's touting the tablet's audio chops -- Dolby Digital Plus is on board to provide "a virtualized 5.1-channel surround experience over headphones." The Iconia A3 runs a quad-core cortex A7 processor clocked at 1.2GHz, and you have your choice of 16GB or 32GB of internal storage (expandable via microSD, of course).


In addition to launching the Iconia A3, Acer's announcing new color options for its Iconia A1 and B1 tablets. The 7.9-inch A1 is now available in white, Smokey Grey and Ivory Gold, while the 7-inch B1 comes in Oceanic Blue and Vermilion Red. Head past the break for the full press release.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!

Show full PR textAcer Launches a Touch More Entertainment with 10.1" Android Tablet@ IFA 2013
Update: Iconia A1 and Iconia B1 with a touch more colour

Editors' Summary:
• Immersive, cinematic sound experience with Dolby Digital and ergonomic speaker placement• Smooth media performance with quad-core processor• Vivid, consistent visuals on 10.1" LED-backlit display with IPS¹ technology

BERLIN, Sept. 2, 2013 - Acer will unveil at IFA 2013 the new Acer Iconia A3, a 10.1-inch tablet was designed to offer a touch more entertainment, multimedia, gaming and web experiences. Movie and music lovers will find in the Iconia A3 their perfectly balanced couch mate with immersive sound, wide viewing angles and quad-core performance to further enhance their entertainment and enjoyment.The Acer Iconia A3 was introduced alongside other product updates, including the Acer Iconia A1 and B1 with additional colour options. The full-featured single-handed use 7.9-inch tablet is now available in a touch of white, smoky grey and ivory gold. The Iconia B1 7-inch tablet, targeted at first time users or tablet newbies, is now also available in a touch of oceanic blue and vermilion red.

A touch comfier
Designed for rich multimedia entertainment, the Iconia A3 comes with Dolby® Digital Plus™ creating a virtualized 5.1 channel surround experience over headphones, reduced background noise and dialogue volume boost resulting in clear dialogues and consistent volume levels, without sways across content and apps. To top this off, the Iconia A3 boasts an ergonomic placement of the speakers on both sides creating a virtual sound box for stereo sound effects.

The 10.1" WXGA display (1,280 x 800) with IPS technology offers crisp and accurate colours from wide viewing angles for a better visual experience whether users are lounging on the sofa, lying on the bed or sharing the view with a loved one. The 16:10 aspect ratio of the Inconia A3 is ideally suited to watch video content and playing games in landscape mode. Complete with a built-in micro HDMI port, users can connect the tablet to an external display to share and enjoy movies and videos on a bigger screen. The Acer Iconia A3 keeps consumers connected to Wi-Fi networks or built-in 3G mobile data connection. Plus, the integrated Bluetooth 4.0 lets consumers quickly connect the tablet to a variety of other devices, such as headsets and printers.

A touch smarter
Powered with a quad-core 1.2GHz cortex A7 processor, the Iconia A3 delivers smooth 9 hours of video playback, better mobile gaming, as well as fluid and fast navigation through apps and websites.Acer IntelliSpin expands the tablet's screen image rotation feature, so that even when lying flat, the screen image will rotate to match the tablet's orientation when turned.

Acer's Touch WakeApp provides users with fast access to their favourite apps straight from sleep mode. A great feature if the tablet is shared by different users, the multi-user support featured by Android 4.2 allows customers to create up to eight separate and customisable user spaces on a single device.

To maximise user fun, the 5MP back camera can take snapshots at full video resolution while recording a video. It can also snap immersive 360° pictures and wide angle shots. Available as 16GB or 32GB version with the option to expand via microSD, the Iconia A3 is the ideal home entertainment companion for people who like sharing and consuming multimedia content.

A touch purer
A smooth profile with rounded edges make it easy to grab the tablet with one hand. The minimalist design is accentuated by the silver profile that sets off the white of the back cover and complements the current design of Acer's Android tablet family. With a slim profile at just 10.15 mm and a weight of less than 600 grams, the Iconia A3 is easy to carry along and check anything in a flash whenever needed.

Pricing and Availability
The Iconia A3 (WiFi) version will be available in Europe, Middle East and Africa early October with a suggested a starting price of €249.

The Iconia A3 (3G) version will be available in Europe, Middle East and Africa early November with a starting price of €299.


