
  One phone is never enough. Acer's revealed that it's bringing a second handset to Barcelona next week and it's got that Ice Cream Sandwich we know you love. With a 3.7-inch WVGA (800 x 480) display, the Liquid Glow packs a 1GHz processor and a 5-megapixel camera underneath that glossy colored shell. Those underwhelming specs are pepped up a bit with the promise of Android 4.0, but we still expect those gentle specifications will keep the phone pretty keenly priced -- it's unlikely to go toe-to-toe with its quad-core sibling. Acer says that we can expect it to arrive in the UK this summer, but we'll be sure to try it out ahead of that in just a few days.
      

 

  Show full PR text  The New Liquid Glow Smartphone - A handful of friendship and fun  Acer presents its Liquid Glow smartphone at the 2012 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Based on the Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich operating system, this smartphone brings the ultimate balance between style, performance and affordability - ideal for today's fun-seeking, social-networking youth.  The Liquid Glow sports a 3.7-inch screen and portrays Acer's signature look with nice curves, chrome details, and a soft-touch casing combined to deliver the perfect size, grip and feel. This new smartphone will be available in a series of trendy colors: Sakura Pink, Alpine White, and Cat's-eye Black. Going a step further, the onscreen display style varies with the external color, making each smartphone a unique fashion statement.  The Liquid Glow brings together the power and the convenience of Ice Cream Sandwich, providing a user-friendly interface along with widgets to easily stay connected, entertained and updated. It also works with the latest voice-input engine from Google, which guarantees a continuous "open microphone" experience and streaming voice recognition.  The smartphone's 5 MP rear camera features an LED flash for low light, as well as panoramic image capture and touch focus. With Android Beam, photos can be shared by a single tap with another NFC powered Android device, without the hassle of launching application or pairing. What's more, Android Beam can also share anything like contacts, favorite apps, music or videos instantaneously through NFC.  Please come and see the new Liquid Glow smartphone at Acer Pod, located inside the Google Android Booth, Hall 8 - 8C25.  The Acer Liquid Glow will be available in early summer 2012.
 