
 
 Acer's itchy trigger-finger has caused it to launch two new Ice Cream Sandwich-powered smartphones before IFA kicks off next week. The Liquid Gallant comes in single (Solo) and dual-sim (Duo) variants, packing a 1GHz MT6575, 1GB RAM, a 4.3-inch qHD capacitive display, 5-megapixel camera and a 1,500mAh battery. It'll include 4GB on-board storage, which can be bolstered with microSD up to 32GB, there's 802.11 b/g/n WiFi and Bluetooth 3.0 + EDR. The budget-nature of the specs gives us hope that it'll be moderately priced when the Duo arrives in September, rapidly followed by its single-sim kid brother -- with both available in "Gentle Black" and "Ceramic White."



  Show full PR text   Acer launches Liquid Gallant and Liquid Gallant Duo - Everything you need in the palm of your hand
   Acer announces a winning twin of smartphones, the Liquid Gallant and Liquid Gallant Duo. With their advanced features and rich functionalities, these smartphones are the perfect companions of modern day's explorers.  From the Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich operating system, to the dual-sim dual stand-by model, ideal for globetrotters or for who wants to choose the better rate, these smartphones are designed to offer an enhanced user experience.

   The Liquid Gallant and its dual-sim twin brother, the Liquid Gallant Duo, sport a 4.3-inches display with a qHD resolution, offering a clear and detailed rendering of every image and text on screen. The unique design, that makes the Liquid Gallant (Duo) so comfortable to hold in your hand, is further enhanced by the power button placed on the back of the phone, so that lighting the screen when you slide it out of your pocket has never been more convenient. The Liquid Gallants are available in two colors: Gentle Black and Ceramic White.

   "This new Acer smartphone mission is quite simple: bring the best experience to all the modern days' explorers, which results in creating a very affordable phone with no compromise on performance and usability" says Allen Burnes, SPBG EMEA Vice President.

   Indeed the Liquid Gallants combine powerful processors and plenty of memory to enjoy an exceptional browsing experience. They run Android ICS 4.0.4 for a smooth and user-friendly performance. As usual, Acer has improved the user experience, adding cool touches such as the convenient unlock screen, the improved notification area, the famous Swype keyboard and more.

   The 5 MP rear camera with LED flash deliver advanced features for an extraordinary experience. Taking a one-time shot in a circular path you'll be able to capture a 2.5D view of your beloved. With automatic smile detection, you'll never miss a person smiling. You can take pictures with higher contrast and rich of details and easily assemble them into a single panoramic photo. What's more you can set the focus point where you want simply by touching anywhere on the viewfinder.

   Finally, the Liquid Gallants bring a premium clear and loud sound experience to the users with enhanced Surround Sound, whether they are used as hands-free conference devices or as portable music players.

   The Liquid Gallant Duo will start hitting the shelves in September 2012, closely followed by the Single-sim variant.

   Come discover these striking twins at the Acer booth at IFA - Hall 12 booth 101, from Aug. 31st to Sept. 5th.

 
