
Acer was only willing to tease its Haswell-powered Chromebook at last month's Intel Developer Forum, but it's ready to spill the beans today. Now called the C720, the 11.6-inch system revolves around a more efficient 1.4GHz Celeron processor that (along with 4GB of low-power RAM) allows a healthy 8.5 hours of claimed battery life. The PC also ditches the hard drive of its ancestor; there's now a 16GB solid-state drive that improves responsiveness and helps Acer slim the design by 30 percent, to 0.75 inches thick. The company isn't saying just when the C720 will ship, but Amazon and Best Buy are both taking pre-orders today for a $250 based model that undercuts HP's Chromebook 11.



Show full PR textAcer C720 Chromebook Launches with Sleek Design, Speed and Security
Editors' Summary:· Customers will enjoy fast, responsive performance and up to 8.5 hours of long battery life with new Intel processor based on Haswell micro-architecture
· New 30 percent thinner design pairs with anti-glare display that reduces reflection for a better visual experience
· Less than 7-second boot time gets customers quickly learning, creating and connecting
· Simple to use, great for sharing between family members and students
· Available for pre-order now at Amazon.com and BestBuy.com for $249.99 with 4GB memory
SAN JOSE, Calif., (Oct. 10, 2013) – Acer America today debuts its new Acer C720 Chromebook line that features processors based on the Haswell micro-architecture for faster performance and up to 8.5 hours of battery life.(1)
This third-generation Chromebook has a design that is 30 percent thinner than its predecessor. It's also lighter and for the first time, it features an anti-glare display, making it ideal for families and students who want a Chromebook that can be enjoyed in a range of settings, even outdoors in sunlight.
"The Acer C720 is a significant step forward for our highly-acclaimed Acer Chromebook line, as it delivers speedy performance, quick boot times, a matte anti-glare display and a slimmer design that is portable enough for anywhere use," said Arif Maskatia, chief technology officer, Acer America. "These key advances allow families and students to continue collaborating, learning and playing in exciting ways, all while staying secure since Chrome OS includes multiple layers of protection from online threats."
The new Acer C720 Chromebook builds on the popular Acer C710 Chromebook, which was lauded for its performance and integration of Google's Chrome operating system at a ground-breaking affordable price. It meets the needs of students, families, anyone on a budget, and the growing number of customers who enjoy the Google ecosystem for school, work and entertainment.
Speedy Performance and Long Battery Life
Customers can begin their online fun, research and social networking quickly with the Acer C720. It boots up in less than 7 seconds and resumes nearly instantly from sleep mode thanks to the fast Solid State Drive.(2) The new Chromebook is powered by an Intel Celeron 2955U processor based on the Intel Haswell micro-architecture, so it delivers a noticeable boost in both performance and battery life. The battery keeps customers going for up to 8.5 hours, ideal for all day productivity and fun.(1) Customers can power through web pages and docs, and will also enjoy fluid HD video and apps with the support of up to 4GB of DDR3L memory.(2) Plus, the Acer C720 quickly connects to hotspots and wireless networks via 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi.
Security for Multiple Users, Collaboration
Customers will appreciate that the Chrome OS is updated automatically, so it always has the latest features. Multiple layers of security features including data encryption and verified boot defend the Acer C720 Chromebook against online threats, malware and viruses. This is especially useful for parents and school administrators who are responsible for protecting students. IT administrators can also manage the Chromebooks remotely for speedier app roll-outs and increased efficiency.
The Acer C720 Chromebook also keeps data safe when the device is used by multiple users, such as for collaboration in the classroom and for projects for home, school or work. Users can have separate accounts to ensure their project, Gmail and other information is kept safe if the Chromebook is lost, stolen, or lent to a friend. Storage on Google Drive protects files, documents, and photos safely in the cloud, and ensures that the most current version is always available.(3) Customers can also access files offline, and even open and edit MS Office documents as well as Google Documents. Schools will appreciate that the Acer C720 Chromebooks have a Kensington lock to secure them to a classroom or mobile cart.
New Thinner, Lighter Design with all the Extras
The new Acer C720 has a design that is more than 30 percent thinner than its predecessor, measuring only 0.75-inches thick. It still includes a full-sized keyboard, so customers can comfortably create and edit documents and spreadsheets. The device weighs only 2.76 pounds, so it's easy to carry in a backpack or bag. The slim and sleek size of the Acer C720 still provides room for a vibrant 11.6-inch ComfyView™ HD display with a 1366x768 resolution that keeps websites, images and video crisp and clear. Plus, the display has a matte, anti-glare property, enabling students and families to enjoy the Chromebook outside in sunlight for classwork, reading, playing games and more.
The Acer C720's integrated HD webcam delivers sharp and detailed images and rich color saturation. Combined with the microphone, the Chromebook is great for video chatting as well as capturing video and photos for sharing online. Plus, the dual speaker design ensures crisp and clear stereo audio for enjoying music, video and more. The Acer C720 connects to popular consumer electronics devices such as camcorders, digital cameras and smart phones via its fast USB 3.0 port as well as a USB 2.0 port. It also has an HDMI port for pushing video and content to external displays and HDTVs. In addition, customers can access other media and files through the SD card reader.(2)
Pricing, Availability and Warranty
The first model in the Acer C720 Series, the C720-2800, is available for pre-order now at Amazon.com and BestBuy.com with 4GB of memory and a 16GB SSD at a manufacturer's suggested retail price of only $249.99 in the United States. Additional configurations will be available in the coming weeks.
The new Acer C720 comes with a standard one-year parts and labor warranty, which can be extended to three years with the Acer Advantage service. All Acer Chromebooks are backed by toll-free service and support.(4)

