
 Acer recently announced pricing and availability for its Iconia W700, and now its other Windows 8 tablet, the Iconia W510, is getting that same treatment. The 10.1-inch slate will ship for $500 and up when it goes on sale November 9th.

 The W510 sports an IPS display with a 1,366 x 768 resolution, and that panel is coated in Gorilla Glass 2 for some extra scratch resistance. Unlike the Ivy Bridge-packing W700, this device runs a 1.5GHz dual-core Intel Atom Z2760 processor (from the Clover Trail series) with 2GB of RAM and up to 64GB of solid-state storage. Connections include a microSD card reader, micro-HDMI and a micro-USB 2.0 port. Acer also offers a $150 keyboard dock, which connects to the tablet from the top and offers a full-size USB 2.0 port. Without the dock, the tablet is rated for up to nine hours of battery life; the dock adds another nine. We got a chance to play with an early unit of the W510 -- head over to our in-depth preview for a closer look. 




  Show full PR text   Acer Iconia W510 Tablet PC with Windows 8 Is a Triple Threat Convertible
  Editor's Summary:  -Acer Iconia W510 tablet PC delivers ultimate flexibility and performance in three different  modes for an optimum experience with touch, typing and viewing  -10.1-inch HD Gorilla Glass 2 display provides convenient 10-point touch, vibrant visuals  -Superior battery life of up to 18 hours with keyboard dock, battery  -Responsive performance in an incredibly thin form factor only 0.35-inches thin  -Product available in the U.S. and Canada starting Nov 9

  SAN JOSE, Calif., (Oct. 9, 2012) Acer America, the world's number two notebook provider,  today announced that the Acer Iconia W510 tablet PC featuring Windows 8 will be available for the U.S. and Canadian markets. The new tablet PC features a sleek convertible design that can be used in three different modes to make computing more natural and intuitive.  Conventional tablet PC mode provides first-rate multi-touch navigation as customers enjoy the intuitive and comfortable design, as well as the responsive 10.1-inch HD LED-backlit Gorilla Glass 2 full high-definition screen that is beautiful, strong and scratch-resistant. The Gorilla Glass 2 display enhances the crisp and vibrant images, and is durable and flexible enough to handle the routine impacts of daily use.

   The Intel Atom Z2760 mobile-optimized processor smoothly and seamlessly blazes through  games, websites and new Windows 8 apps. Plus, in conventional tablet PC mode, the Acer  Iconia W510 delivers up to 9 hours of battery life for video playback or WiFi browsing to  boost all-day productivity.

   Customers get a boost in efficiency using the Iconia W510 in productivity mode. The keyboard dock seamlessly connects to the tablet PC, transforming it into a full-featured notebook for a first-rate typing experience. With it, the Iconia W510 becomes a powerhouse for creating and editing documents, spreadsheets and multimedia content. In addition, the keyboard dock houses an additional battery, extending battery life up to 18 hours for multi-day use, further ensuring productivity and uptime.   Rotating the keyboard on the Iconia W510 back 295 degrees allows it to be used as a stand for presentation mode. This hands-free usage mode is ideal for showing off the latest video, photo slideshow or presentation, while the display's wide viewing angle ensures multiple people can comfortably enjoy the visuals. The W510's 1366x768 resolution Gorilla Glass 2 HD display vibrantly highlights everything on it with consistent and accurate colors and clarity. HD audio support and two built-in stereo speakers ensure excellent sound quality.

   "Customers will enjoy optimized experiences for touch, typing and viewing on the Iconia W510 tablet PC," said Sumit Agnihotry, vice president of product marketing for Acer. "The versatility of the new tablet PC and durability of the Gorilla Glass 2 display pairs beautifully with the responsive performance to take advantage of the capabilities of Windows 8 for a first-rate tablet PC experience."

   The Acer Iconia W510 features the latest technology and extras that make it incredibly useful. The tablet PCs come with either a 64GB or 32GB SSD to power on the device and retrieve data quickly and securely. The microSD card reader allows easy transfer of content to and from the tablet PC. The micro-USB port on the tablet PC and full-sized USB on the keyboard dock enable quick and convenient connections to external devices, such as printers and external HDD or USB flash drives. Plus, the Iconia W510 has a Micro HDMI port and dual independent display support for sharing content onto external displays.

   The Iconia W510 is smartly designed with curved edges and a slim 0.35-inch thin build. The  tablet PC weighs a mere 1.27 pounds, so it's comfortable to hold for web browsing, reading,  and enjoying Windows 8 apps on the go. With the full-featured keyboard, the Iconia W510 still measures just 0.84-inches thin and is very lightweight at only 2.63 pounds. Since customers will want to take it with them anywhere, the W510's 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi provides a quick and reliable connection to hotspots. In addition, the new tablet PC can take advantage of locationbased and travel applications with its integrated G-Sensor, E-Compass and Gyro-Meter.

   The new Acer Iconia W510 features Acer Always On and Acer Always Connect technologies that enable data upload and retrieval anytime, anywhere, and deliver power-saving features as well. Acer Always On technology ensures the Iconia W510 powers on nearly instantly, similar to a TV or phone. In addition, it provides instant-resume functionality in just 1.5 seconds. Acer Always Connect lets customers connect to previously used hotspots in just 2.5 seconds for better productivity and enjoyment. In addition, Always Connect features remote wakeup for AcerCloud applications, which makes digital content easy to access and share between their Iconia W510 and other PCs anytime, anywhere.

   Dual Acer Crystal Eye webcams ensure customers can capture images and video, as well as  enjoy video conferencing on the go. The front-facing 2MP HD 1080p camera captures video in 1920x1080 resolution that is crisp and clear. The 8MP HD rear camera also captures full HD 1080p video in 3264x2448 resolution with auto focus and LED flash support. Dolby  Home Theater v4 boosts sound for headphones as well as built-in speakers. Plus, the built-in digital microphone ensures that audio is crisp and clear for video conferencing and video emails.

   The Acer Iconia W510 tablet PC will be available starting November 9 at leading retailers  across the U.S. and Canada in several configurations. For example, the W510-1422 with a 64GB SSD and the keyboard dock provides additional battery life at a Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) of $749.99 USD and CAD. The Iconia W510-1674 comes with a 32GB SSD at the budget-friendly (MSRP) of only $499.99 USD and CAD.

   Acer corporate customers in the U.S. and Canada can be assured the Acer Iconia W510P with Windows 8 Pro will support their legacy Windows programs as well as provide the security and authentication they need through the option of TPM (Trusted Platform Module). The Acer Iconia W510P is backed by an extended two-year warranty and is priced at $799.99 USD and CAD.

 
