
 We haven't heard much from Acer on the smartphone front since it announced a pair of handsets at Mobile World Congress, but the company's now back with another that it hopes will improve its standing in markets outside North America: the Liquid E2. Expectedly, this one is an update to the E1, and includes a bump up from a dual-core to a 1.2GHz quad-core processor, and the addition of an optional dual-SIM card slot (availability of it will depend on the particular market). Otherwise, you'll get a 4.5-inch qHD IPS display, an 8 megapixel camera that promises "zero shutter delay," the same dual-speakers 'round back found on the E1, and stock Jelly Bean for an OS. There's no word yet of this one making its way over here, but you can look for it to hit the UK, France, Germany and a number of other countries in early-to-mid-May for €229, or just under $300.



  Show full PR text   Acer Liquid E2:  instantly catch everything
   Editor's Summary:  · Quad-core processor and 42 Mbps connectivity[1] so that everything loads quickly  · Awesome stereo audio via dual speakers and DTS Sound™  · 8MP camera with fast continuous shooting and crisp 1080p video at 30 fps, to capture the best moments   Bioggio (Switzerland), April 24, 2013– Following the success of the Liquid E1 and Z2, Acer today unveiled the Liquid E2 smartphone. This is the latest addition to the lineup and the third smartphone Acer launched since the beginning of the year, further strengthening the company commitment to the smartphone market.   Targeted at multimedia user, the Liquid E2 is the first Acer quad-core phone with optional dual[2] SIM card slot giving users all the convenience of having two mobiles in one and easily manage personal and business communications. High-performance quad-core processor combined with an HSPA+ (up to 42 Mbps) data connection lets favorite apps react quickly and flow smoothly, while web pages and streaming media load very quickly. Everything responds instantly.   The Liquid E2 is equipped with a zero shutter delay 8MP camera, so every moment can be instantly caught when the capture button is pressed. With speedy continuous shooting, users can take up to 8 pictures per second just by holding down the camera softkey. While the camera lets users capture everything around them, the large 4.5" qHD display based on IPS technology with wide viewing angle allows enjoying photos or videos with friends or family.The camera is also capable of recording crisp 1080p videos at 30 fps so that any event will be memorable.   Liquid E2 also features an impressive dual-speaker system and DTS Sound™ for enhanced audio with volume maximization, so users can enjoy their favorite music at its best. The integrated Moodagent creates music playlists based on an individual's mood or uses songs from the library to create playlists that not only matches a person's mood, but also a specific taste in music.    Pricing and Availability  The Acer Liquid E2 will be available in Belgium, Netherlands, Ukraine, France, followed by Spain, UK, Italy, Germany and Russia starting from mid-May at a suggested price of €229. The Acer Liquid E2 will be available in two colours: Rock Black and Classic White.    Liquid E2 Specifications  Size  Dimensions  131 x 68 x 9.9 mm   Weight  140 g (with battery)  Battery  Talk time  Talk time: up to 9 h   Standby time  Standby: up to 450 h   Capacity  2000 mAh  Radio  HSPA  900 / 2100 MHz (42Mbps DL, 11Mbps UL)   GSM / EDGE  850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900 MHz  Processing  CPU / Modem  Quad Core 1.2 GHz   ROM / RAM  4 GB / 1 GB  Imaging  Camera  8 MP AF with flash LED, BSI sensor + 2MP front  Display  LCD  4.5" qHD   Touch screen  Cap. Touch  Connectivity  Wi-Fi  802.11b/g/n   Bluetooth / FM  Class 3.0+EDR / FM receiver   GPS  Yes, with A-GPS support   Micro-SD slot  Yes   SIM slot  Dual SIM or Single SIM*   Micro-USB  Yes   Audio output  3.5mm audio jack, Dual speaker  Sensors  Sensors on board  Accelerometer, e-compass, light sensor, proximity Sensor  Hard keys  Volume  Volume Up / Down keys   Power  Power key  OS  Version  Android Jelly Bean  UI  Version  Android default  Text Entry  Keyboard  Google virtual keyboard / SWYPE Input Method  Messaging  Universal inbox  SMS, MMS, E-mail   Email  Gmail   IM  Gtalk  Web  Browser  Android Browser   Search  Google Search  Entertainment  Video, Music  Google default   Video streaming  YouTube   Social network  Facebook  Productivity  Push mail  Gmail   PC sync  Google Cloud sync   Cloud sync  Acer Cloud   Office  Polaris Editor  Location-based Services  A-GPS  Satellite Data Update   Maps & directions  Google Maps, Latitude, Street View  Online Store  App download  Google Play Store  Online Update   FOTA  SAR   0.227 W/kg (Head, CE)   ****  About Acer  Established in 1976, Acer is an information and communication technology company dedicated to the research, design, marketing, sale and support of innovative products that enhance people's lives. Acer's green supply chain delivers environmentally friendly PCs, displays, projectors, servers, tablets and smartphones -tools our customers need to explore beyond limits and experience more. Ranked No. 3 for notebooks globally (IDC 2012), Acer employs 8,000 people, and 2012 revenues reached US$14.7 billion. Please visit www.acer.comfor more information.  © 2013 Acer Inc. All rights reserved. Acer and the Acer logo are registered trademarks of Acer Inc. Other trademarks, registered trademarks, and/or service marks, indicated or otherwise, are the property of their respective owners.

 
