
 

Not surprisingly, Acer's jumping on the quickly-expanding Ultrabook bandwagon here at CES 2012, with the Aspire S5 being the first out of the chute. It's a 13.3-incher that'll check it at under three pounds, offering up Instant On functionality, a magnesium-aluminum alloy cover (in Onyx Black), HDMI / USB 3.0 / Thunderbolt (!) ports and an SSD for good measure. We're told that it'll start shipping in Q2 of this year, but other details remain under wraps.


 


 		Show full PR text  8 Jan 2012		Acer Unveils World's Thinnest Ultrabook: Aspire S5 		Acer unveiled the world's thinnest Ultrabook with the Aspire S5, an ultra-slim device that measures only 15 mm at the maximal point. It weighs less than 1.35 kg (less than 3 lbs.) and is built with a 13.3-inch (34 cm) LCD. In addition, it features the unique Acer Green Instant On technology for fast boot and resume, and Acer Always Connect, which lets users manage their multimedia and data on all their devices at anytime, anywhere - even from sleep. 		"The Ultrabook is much more than just a product segment," said Jim Wong, president of Acer Inc. "It's a new trend that will become the mainstream for mobile PCs, and customers will see the unique features gradually extended across Acer's notebook family." 		Instantly on and always connected		Innovative Acer Green Instant On and Acer Always Connect technologies enable data upload and retrieval anytime, anywhere, and deliver power-saving features as well. 		Acer Green Instant On provides instant-resume functionality (in 1.5 seconds) and ensures battery life that lasts several weeks. 		Acer Always Connectgets users online faster than conventional connections for better productivity and infotainment enjoyment. With their Facebook, Twitter and Outlook email accounts open, users can see updates instantly upon resuming. Furthermore, Acer Always Connect can wake up the Aspire S5 from a remote device like a smartphone. Access to all documents, music, pictures and video files is fast and always available. 		Ultra-fluid contours		Adorned with a delicately curved chassis in Onyx Black, the Aspire S5's cover rim wraps around the system body like a protective shell. A magnesium-aluminum alloy cover and palmrest provide a slimmer and sturdier form, while the metallic brushed detail presents subtle elegance. The clean and ultra-fluid contours seen from all angles make the S5 a vision of beauty. 		Magical I/O port panel		The Aspire S5 is Acer's first Ultrabook to feature a smartly designed MagicFlip I/O port panel concealed just below the hinge. This design feature enhances the overall slenderness and streamlined form of the S5. When needed, a press of the MagicFlip key opens the panel to reveal a selection of I/O ports: HDMI®, USB 3.0 and 20 Gbps Thunderbolt. 		Performance and eco-friendly features		The Aspire S5 features an Intel® Core™ processor, SSD storage for speed and increased shock resistance, professionally-tuned Dolby® Home Theater® v4, long battery life via the PowerSmart battery pack (with a 3X longer life cycle1 than traditional batteries), and is equipped with a chiclet keyboard. 		The Aspire S5 will start shipping in Q2 2012.
 