
 
We've pretty much known about all of these Acer netbooks that are officially being announced today, but their very tempting price tags are definitely new to us. First up is the 11.6-inch Aspire One 721 and 10.1-inch 521, both of which we checked out last month. While the duo are powered by the same AMD Athlon II Neo K125 processors and ATI Radeon HD 4225 graphics, the 721 will start at $429.99 while the 521 at $349.99. And let's not forget that, unlike Intel Atom powered netbooks, they sport HDMI ports and claim to be "HD capable." Speaking of Intel netbooks, Acer's got those in store too -- the 10-inch, Atom powered Aspire One D260 and 533 will also be available later this month. The D620 packs an Atom N450 processor, 1GB of RAM and a three-cell battery for $298. On the flip side, the $330 Aspire One 533 has a slightly faster N475 processor, a 250GB hard drive and a six-cell battery. Enticing, right? The full press release is after the break, but hopefully we'll be able to assist you in choosing one of these with some full reviews soon.
      

 

Show full PR textAcer Expands Its Best-Selling Aspire One Netbook Line with AMD High-Definition, High Performance Processors New Aspire One AO721 and Aspire One AO521 Netbooks Get Updated with Fresh, New Looks and AMD Athlon™ II Neo ProcessorsSAN JOSE, Calif., June 18, 2010 – Acer America today announced two new versions of its popular Aspire One netbooks, including AMD-based high-definition capabilities. Updated with fresh new ID treatments and powerful AMD Athlon™ II Neo processors, the 11.6-inch Aspire One AO721 and the 10.1-inch Aspire One AO521 are designed for ultra-portability and usability, delivering high-definition graphics and video playback, and smooth communications. Available for U.S. customers today, the Aspire One AO721 and AO521 are available at retail and e-tail outlets nationwide with prices beginning at $429.99 and $349.99, respectively. The Aspire One AO721 and Aspire One AO521 utilize AMD Athlon II Neo K125 processors, optimized for improved energy efficiency and designed to deliver balanced performance needed to enjoy multiple applications and features. With the powerful AMD Athlon II Neo processor and ATI Radeon HD 4225 Graphics with 384MB of dedicated system memory, Aspire One users are well-equipped for mobile performance. Users can vigorously multitask, even with visually-intense, high-def applications, while freely exploring the Internet, sending and receiving emails, watching videos and playing games – all on the go and untethered from a power source. New Eye-Catching Designs with High Performance and Portability Like its predecessors, the Aspire One AO721 and Aspire One AO521 come with ample memory and a large internal hard drive to store plenty of photo albums, music and documents. The Aspire One AO721 has a high-definition 11.6-inch CrystalBrite™ LED backlit display, offering the largest viewing area on an Acer netbook. Housed in a black matte, mesh-textured cover which limits fingerprints and smudging, the Aspire One AO721 is sleek and portable at less than one-inch thin and about three pounds in weight. The Aspire One AO721 boasts a full-sized keyboard, enabling users more accurate and comfortable typing, in a footprint smaller than a magazine. The Aspire One AO721 is equipped with a full 2GB of DDR3 memory and up to a 250GB internal hard drive, providing plenty of storage space for mobile enthusiasts. The netbook also comes with Windows® 7 Home Premium on board for easy productivity. The ultra-mobile Aspire One AO521 netbook features a HD 10.1-inch CrystalBrite LED backlit display, offering a broad viewing area for web navigation and entertainment enjoyment. Just shy of one-inch thin and about 2.75 pounds, the Aspire One AO521 features a 93%-sized keyboard for fast-paced, accurate data input while on the move, 1GB of DDR3 memory and up to 250GB internal hard drive for plenty of media storage. Available in two fashionable, patterned designs in black and brown, the Aspire One AO521 netbooks feature a smooth, glossy exterior. The Aspire One AO521 comes equipped with Bluetooth for seamless connectivity to a variety of devices and Windows 7 Starter. The Aspire One AO721 and AO521 netbooks feature HDMI™ connectivity for enjoying high-definition entertainment on large external displays. To remain connected wirelessly, the Aspire One netbooks features 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi and fast Ethernet LAN connectivity. The netbooks also come equipped with a built-in webcam, delivering smooth video streaming and high quality images for online chats and video conferences. A built-in digital microphone conveys superior voice quality, keeping background noise levels low and minimizing echoes. Both the Aspire One AO721 and AO521 netbooks feature a Multi-Gesture Touchpad, allowing users to pinch, flick and swirl their fingers across the touchpad for intuitive navigation. It also allows users to scroll, zoom in and out, and flip through web pages, photos, spreadsheets and more. The new Acer Aspire One models come with a standard one-year parts and labor warranty, which can be extended to three years with the Acer Advantage service. All Acer netbooks are backed by toll-free service and support. ------------------------------ Acer Turns Heads with Stylish New Additions to Aspire One Netbook Line  Aspire One AO721 and Aspire One AO521 netbook offers sophisticated styling for fashion-forward mobile users; Aspire One AO533 netbook combines performance and all-day battery lifeSAN JOSE, Calif., June 18, 2010 – Acer America today expanded its industry-leading line of Aspire One netbooks with the Acer Aspire One AOD260 and Aspire One AO533. These new netbook lines deliver sleek new designs and enhanced performance for highly mobile consumers. Keeping users productive and connected on the go, both notebooks feature Intel® Atom™ processors, 10.1-inch WSVGA LED-backlit displays, fast Wi-Fi connectivity, built-in webcams and large keyboards with Multi-Gesture touchpads. While they share some key mobility features, the two lines were designed to meet different customer needs. The Aspire One AOD260 blends performance with a sophisticated design that makes a fashion statement, while the Aspire One AO533 delivers long battery life and ample features at an outstanding value. "The netbook market has matured quickly and Acer is maintaining its leadership in this category by delivering multiple product lines that target unique customer requirements," said Pete Dailey, senior product marketing manager for netbooks. "Whether the customer's primary concern is style, performance, battery life or value, Acer offers the perfect netbook solution." Unique Style and Advanced Performance for the Mobile Fashionista For the mobile user that cares about style as much as performance, the Aspire One AOD260 netbook was designed as a fashion accessory. The patterned design, smooth surface, chromo-plated logos and flush battery create an elegant design from all angles. Combine the great looks with the energy-efficient Intel® Atom™ N450 processor, and the Aspire One AOD260 offers beauty and performance. Additionally, it comes with ample memory and a large internal hard drive to store plenty of digital albums, music and documents. Keeping in touch with friends, family and colleagues is simple and easy with the Aspire One AOD260. Access email and browse the web from airports, coffee shops or the home office via an integrated Wi-Fi CERTIFIED® network connection and fast Ethernet LAN. The 10.1-inch CrystalBrite™ LED display, webcam and digital microphone deliver smooth video and voice quality for real-time video chat and conferencing. Less than 1-inch thin and ranging from 2.43 to 2.76 pounds (depending on battery size), the Aspire One AOD260 is easy to take anywhere, whether for work or play. Additionally, it comes in four colors to fit anyone's style and personality – black, charcoal, pink and purple. Mobile Performance and Functionality for All Day Computing The Aspire One AO533 netbook was designed for all-around performance and all-day mobility. Featuring the high-performance yet energy-conscious Intel® Atom™ N475 processor, efficient 10.1-inch LED-backlit display and a 6-cell Li-ion battery, the Aspire One AO533 offers 8 hours of battery life on a single charge.(1) Additionally, 1GB of advanced DDR3 memory and a large 250GB hard drive make the Aspire One AO533 ready for performance-minded customers. Users can stay connected to social networks and email while on the go with the 802.11b/g/n wireless network or fast Ethernet LAN connectivity. The integrated webcam delivers smooth video streaming and high quality images for online chats and video conferences. The built-in digital microphone conveys superior voice quality, keeping background noise levels low and minimizing echoes. This 2.76-pound netbook not only performs well, but looks great too with a newly enhanced industrial design. A glossy cover in red, black or white is complimented by a chrome rim and striking logos. In addition, the battery fits flush in the chassis, making the Aspire One AO533 an ideal portable companion for users needing all day computing power. Additional Features Enhance Ease-of-Use For precise control and intuitive navigation, the netbooks utilize a Multi-Gesture Touchpad with anti-slip microbead texture, allowing users to pinch, flick and swirl their fingers across the touchpad . It also allows users to scroll, zoom in and out, and flip through web pages, photos, spreadsheets and more. Also, a larger keyboard - 93 percent standard size - is convenient for typing. Price and Availability Both netbook lines will be available later this month at leading U.S. retailers. The Acer® Aspire One AOD260 will start at a suggested retail price of $298.00, while the Acer® Aspire One AO533 will start at a suggested retail price of $329.99.  
 