
 Until PC makers figure out what consumers want in their Windows 8 PCs, they'll be throwing different designs at the proverbial wall to see what sticks. One thing's for sure, though: laptop / tablet hybrids have already made it. So far, we've seen a mix of models, some with low-power Atom processors, and others with laptop-grade Core i5 CPUs inside. Basically, a choice between amazing horsepower and long battery life.

 In Acer's lineup, specifically, we've already had a chance to play with the Iconia W510, an Atom-powered device with a keyboard dock. Now we're taking a look at the Iconia W700 ($800 and up), an 11-inch tablet that's essentially an Ultrabook with no keyboard attached. Based on that brief summary you'd think it had the same form factor as the smaller W510, but you'd be wrong. Whereas the W510 has a keyboard dock with a built-in battery, the W700 has a cradle with a modular kickstand you can use you to prop up the tablet in landscape or portrait mode. There's no battery inside the dock, and the keyboard is a standalone product; you'll have to pack it separately if you decide you need it on a trip. So is there any advantage to having a design with so many different pieces? And how does that Core i5 processor fare, anyway? Let's see.




 Look and feel 
 Think of all the pieces you'll need to carry with you if you decide to take the W700 on the road. We almost don't know where to begin. Insofar as the W700 is a laptop / tablet hybrid, we really should explain what it's like to use this thing as an 11-inch slate. Suffice to say, it feels well-built, which makes sense, as the casing is fashioned entirely out of aluminum. The problem is that as nicely constructed as it is, it's rather bulky, at 2.09 pounds and 0.47 inch thick. To some extent, the port selection is the culprit: the W700 is home to a full-sized USB 3.0 socket, so clearly this was not destined to be a razor-thin tablet. (The remaining ports include: a micro-HDMI port, a headphone jack, volume rocker, power button, screen orientation lock and dual speakers. There's an HDMI-to-VGA adapter, in case you plan on hooking up a projector.)

 Also, given that this has a laptop-grade Core i5 processor inside, it requires some serious vents, which you'll find along the top edge. Obviously, any fanless, Atom-powered Windows 8 tablet will be thinner and lighter. But even some i5 tablets are more lighter than this. Take Samsung's ATIV Smart PC Pro, which clocks in at 1.96 pounds. (To be fair, it's about as thick as the W700.)

 But what difference do a few ounces make when the entire form factor borders on absurd? To be fair, it doesn't look so bizarre at first glance. Not until you play with it, anyway. The W700 comes with a docking cradle that you can use to prop up the tablet in either landscape or portrait mode. There's no battery built in, but you do get three extra USB 3.0 ports, which you'll appreciate if you want to use a wireless mouse or any other accessory that might require a dongle; you'll need to keep that plugged in, so it's nice to have a spare USB connection free. Inside the cradle there's a male USB connector, which plugs into the USB port on the tablet itself. Thankfully, it stays put; you'll need to wrest the tablet out with both hands when you're ready to undock it.

 
 Here's where it gets weird: the kickstand on the back of the dock is removable, and can be inserted in one of two ways (again, to support the tablet in landscape or portrait mode). Though the kickstand ships with an illustrated instruction sticker on it, it's still way too easy to insert it incorrectly. It's at this point, in fact, that I wish I could narrate this review in GIFs, or at least show you a candid-camera-style video of all the people who tried and failed to put the dock together while swinging by my desk. It's not a terribly intuitive design. It's also thick and heavy with a puffed-out back, and the empty cradle's sharp edges make us nervous about putting it in a bag next to more delicate items. The whole thing is ugly too, but that's almost beside the point.

 Worse, though: think of all the pieces you'll need to carry with you if you decide to take the W700 on the road. We've already mentioned three: the tablet, cradle and kickstand. But if you're going to be using this with the cradle, you'll probably also want the Bluetooth keyboard, which comes in the box. That's four. If you're using this in desktop mode, you'll also want some sort of wireless mouse or trackpad (not included in the box, sadly). That's five pieces. The AC adapter is six. Then there's the bundled faux-leather case, which fits the tablet only. Take that and you're up to seven. It's a lot to remember, and some of the pieces (the cradle, kickstand) don't lie flat, so they'll take up more space in your bag than a device with a regular ol' keyboard dock. And really, there wouldn't have been much of a downside if Acer went with that form factor instead: you'd get the cradle and keyboard in one piece, along with a built-in battery and a smattering of ports. The only thing you wouldn't be able to do is dock the tablet in portrait mode, which is fine by us.

 Fortunately, at least, the case can be folded in such a way that you can prop the tablet up (in landscape mode). That'll save you some baggage, though you won't get any additional ports, as you would on the cradle or any competitors' keyboard docks.

 Keyboard 
 The Bluetooth keyboard is similar to the one that comes built into the W510's keyboard dock, in that it has white plastic keys against a gray frame. Here, though, the keys aren't squished into a keyboard dock meant to fit a 10-inch tablet; it's more expansive, with no shrunken or undersized keys. It shouldn't take you long before you're typing at your usual brisk pace. What's more, we appreciate that the keyboard has an on / off switch, which takes any potential confusion out of the pairing process (i.e., there's no need to hold down a button or anything like that).

 If anything, as we said, we just wish Acer went with a keyboard dock instead of a separate cradle that you have to assemble every time you set up shop somewhere. Maybe a slightly larger (read: less cramped) version of the one that comes with the W510. We know you can do it, Acer. Maybe next time.

 We feel compelled to add, too, that it would've been nice if Acer threw in a mouse, particularly since there's no trackpad area on the keyboard (hybrids with traditional keyboard docks often have a small touchpad built in). Heck, we would've been happy to have a mouse instead of a carrying case, though that leathery folio is admittedly nice to have. Seriously, though, what is one supposed to do with the tablet in desktop mode with 1080p resolution and no pointing device? Particularly on such a dense screen, it is very difficult to get around the traditional Windows desktop using your fingers. As it happens, we had Logitech's Rechargeable Trackpad lying around, though most of you will need to go out and buy something, especially if you want to pull off certain Windows 8-specific gestures, like swiping in from the left to toggle through open apps. Fortunately, at least, there's a growing body of options, so assuming you're willing to shell out an extra $50 or $60, you should be fine.

 Display 
 Acer's Aspire S7 already holds claim to one of our favorite laptop displays, so we weren't terribly surprised to find that the W700 also has a high-quality panel. This, too, is a 1080p IPS screen (this time coated in Gorilla Glass), though that resolution looks especially crisp on the smaller 11-inch screen (versus a 13-inch laptop, that is). It's the sort of thing you'll notice in desktop mode, when framing photos or even flicking through the Start Menu. With the brightness cranked all the way up to 350 nits we had no problem previewing photos we took using the stock camera app. That bodes well for indoor viewing angles as well, though it's a bummer that you can't adjust the screen angle, thanks to the fixed cradle and all. The ability to fiddle with the precise angle might come in handy if you're sitting a few feet away watching a movie, or trying to thwart glare from the overheard lights in your office. With the brightness at its max setting, we could indeed still see some reflections, but only when we bothered to look: the screen isn't so glossy that it ever distracted us from getting work done.

 Camera 
 As you've probably gathered by now, we're not normally fans of tablet cameras, but we actually managed to get some usable shots from the W700. The autofocusing, 5-megapixel camera seems to home in on subjects a bit faster than other tablets we've used recently, such as the Samsung ATIV Smart PC. Colors were usually pleasing, and we even had a little bit of luck in harshly lit situations. We deliberately chose to lead with the above photo because it's a telling one: we were able to preserve the blueness of the sky (albeit, in an oversaturated way) even though the stock camera app doesn't have any sort of HDR mode. Poke around in the gallery, though, and you'll still find some pictures with washed-out backgrounds, so whatever magic at work here won't necessarily save every shot you take.



