
       
We knew good and well Acer was prepared to ship a few more Android phones in the new decade, and it's sure starting off on the right foot here in Barcelona. Just a few months after the original Liquid began to ship, along comes a minor upgrade in the Liquid e. The main improvements? For starters, Android 2.1 has supplanted Android 1.6 as the onboard operating system, but much to our displeasure, the Snapdragon in this bad boy is still underclocked to 768MHz. If you still have the will to care, you'll get to enjoy the 3.5-inch WVGA display, 5 megapixel camera (with AutoFocus), inbuilt GPS (or so says the specs sheet), 802.11b/g WiFi, Bluetooth 2.0, 256MB of RAM, an accelerometer, 3.5mm headphone jack and support for 7.2Mbps HSDPA. Head on past the break for the full release, but don't expect to find any pricing or release details.
      

 

Show full PR textAcer Liquid eSocialize in high definitionBarcelona, 15-18 february 2010 - Acer is proud to present Liquid e, the new version of the already well known Liquid smartphone. Acer Liquid e features the latest Android™ 2.1 Operating System (aka Éclair). Building on the processing and graphical capabilities of the Qualcomm™ Snapdragon™ and its high definition screen, Liquid e is the state-of-the-art for multimedia, web browsing, and social media integration. It should thrill both avid users of internet on-the-go and new users eager to experience the rich possibilities offered by this innovative device.This appealing high definition smartphone is the ideal solution for users demanding the best from their devices and in particular for high-definition video playback or streaming, gaming and browsing smoothly rich-content internet sites. What's new on Liquid e with Android Éclair 2.1: • Home screens - The new version now handles five home screens by default, allowing users to easily install more applications from the rich selection available on the Android Market, as well as shortcuts and widgets; • Quick Contacts – a feature that lets users easily switch between the address book and the social network applications; • Live wallpapers to customize your Liquid e on the fly; • A new keyboard layout with an extended dictionary for predictive input;• An updated version of the Android browser, supporting HTML5, double-tap zooming, video tagging support and geo-location API support. With its 3.5" high-definition capacitive touch screen, Acer Liquid e offers an unparalleled experience when watching pictures or videos, and proposes an abundance of new applications on Android™ Smart Handhelds - games, professional applications and web applets that will enrich the end user experience. Powered by the powerful Qualcomm™ Snapdragon™ processor, Acer Liquid e provides instant access to web pages, smooth streaming of videos or music, and instant response from popular mail, maps and search applications. The high-speed processing capabilities and high-speed internet access (HSPA) of Snapdragon™ brings to life the Android™ experience: no idle-time, almost instant uploads of web pages and downloads of rich multimedia content. The developer community can now take full advantage of these capabilities to bring to market innovative applications that demand raw computing power and superior handling of 3D graphics. 
 