
 


	If we got your Spidey senses tingling when we put the Core i5 powered Acer Aspire S3 Ultrabook through the wringer, you can now snag an i7 model. Need a quick refresher? The 13.3-inch beaut tips the scales at just about 3 pounds, awakes from naps with haste (in about two seconds) and features a 240GB SSD. Should you splurge for this speedy Intel Core i7 model, prepare yourself to part with $1,299. If you're looking to spend a little less -- it is the holidays, after all -- you can opt for the version we reviewed for a mere $899. Head on over to your favorite retailer to grab yours now, but don't go far without your charger... that battery life is nothing to write home about.
 

 		Show full PR text 		The recently announced Acer Aspire S3 Ultrabook is now available with a solid state drive (SSD) and energy-efficient second-generation Intel Core i7 processor power. This new breed of ultra-light-weight PCs are just half-an-inch thin and weigh about 3 pounds. New technology lets them power on instantly and connect to the Web in seconds. Available this week at several retailers including Amazon, NewEgg, TigerDirect and BestBuy.com, the Core i7 version of the Aspire S3 Ultrabook retails for $1299 (Core i5 versions begin at $899). 		A bit more about the Aspire S3 Ultrabook: 		• The 13.3-inch HD widescreen LED-backlit display features a 16:9 aspect ratio and 1366 x 768 resolution, delivering sharp, rich visuals.		• Acer Green Instant On lets you resume your computing session in less than 2 seconds.		• Acer Instant Connect gets you on the Internet in just 2.5 seconds – four times faster than conventional connections.		• A mere .51 inches thin and weighing a scant 2.98 pounds, the Aspire S3's aluminum/ magnesium chassis delivers strength in a lightweight design.		• Acer Hybrid Standby Technology provides up to 50 days of standby power and up to 6 hours of continuous usage.		• An Intel® Core™ i7 Processor and roomy 240GB solid state drive deliver as much performance and storage capacity as much larger, full-size notebooks.		• Available now for $1299 at several retailers including Amazon, NewEgg, TigerDirect and BestBuy.com.
 