
 
 We spotted Acer's new Aspire Timeline Ultra M5 laptops at Computex earlier this month, and though we already knew some key specs (NVIDIA's Kepler-based graphics, for example), these Ultrabooks hadn't yet been announced for the US market. Today that changes, as Acer just revealed full specs and pricing details for those of us here in the states.

 The Aspire Timeline Ultra M5, available with 14- and 15-inch screens, lives up to its Ultrabook classification with a 0.81-inch thick profile and up to eight hours of battery life. As we noted previously, the M5 maintains some of the Aspire M3's design cues, including the chiclet keyboard, 1366 x 768 display and thin silhouette. At the same time, it ups the premium quotient with aluminum alloy done up in a brushed-metal finish. All models include a DVD drive and 500GB of storage plus a 20GB SSD.

 The base configuration will feature a second-gen (read: Sandy Bridge) Intel processor clocked at 1.5GHz, but higher-level options step up to an Ivy Bridge CPU clocked as high as 2.6GHz. The 14-inch version weighs 4.3 pounds and starts at $680 with Intel HD Graphics 4000 but is also available with an NVIDIA GeForce GT640M LE GPU for $780. The $830 15.6-inch M5 features an edge-to-edge screen, along with that same NVIDIA chip, but it weighs a heftier 5.07 pounds. The Aspire Timeline Ultra M5 Series will ship at the end of June -- in the meantime, check out the photos and press info below.



 
  Show full PR text    Acer Introduces Aspire Timeline Ultra M5 Ultrabooks in the U.S. – Slim, Stylish and Strong, All Day Long
   Editor's Summary:  - Thin and light, the Timeline Ultra M5 Series Ultrabooks measure just .81 inches thin.  - With 8 hours of battery life, a single charge provides a full day of computing.  - Acer Green Instant On resumes the computer from sleep in less than 2 seconds and  from deep sleep in 6 seconds.  - Acer Always Connect gets you to the web in 2.5 seconds.  - Setting a new standard in Ultrabook performance, the Timeline Ultra M5 Series includes  3rd Generation Intel® Core processors, the latest in NVIDIA discrete graphics, optical drives, and 14- and 15.6-inch displays.

  SAN JOSE, Calif., June 20, 2012 – Acer America today announced the Aspire Timeline Ultra M5 line of Ultrabooks in the U.S. Slimmer and lighter than earlier generations of the Timeline series, the new Timeline Ultra models are just .81 inches thin, weigh as little as 4.3 pounds and offer the best of both worlds – a slim, lightweight design, larger displays, all-day battery life, and powerful Intel and NVIDIA technologies – making them some of the most robust and versatile Ultrabooks on the market.

  Slim, Stylish and Strong, All Day Long  The ultra-thin profile of the Ultra M5 Series delivers a minimalist, modern look. The stylish silver cover is made of an aluminum alloy that not only looks modern and elegant, but adds to the system's overall sturdiness. The 15.6-inch models include a sleek edge-to-edge display that keeps the LCD screen smooth and streamlined. A full-size chiclet keyboard with an independent standard numeric keypad makes typing more comfortable and increases productivity.

   These no-compromise Ultrabooks provide up to 8 hours of computing on a single charge via the PowerSmart long-life battery pack which provides up to three times longer battery life cycles than traditional batteries (1,000 vs. 300 cycles). These batteries also maintain 80 percent capacity after the 1,000 cycle count, which means the battery will last longer, reducing the need to replace it. In addition, advanced thermal technology keeps users comfortable even when the Timeline Ultra is placed on a lap.  ￼￼ Instantly On, Always Connected for Today's "Always On" Lifestyle  Featuring the innovative ―Acer Green Instant On‖ and ―Acer Always Connect‖ technologies, users can manage their multimedia and data on all their devices at anytime, anywhere.

   - Acer Green Instant On resumes the Timeline Ultra's computing session from sleep in less than 2 seconds and from deep sleep in 6 seconds; the 20GB SSD drive returns to the PC's state just as it was left. Turn the PC back on, and any websites, emails or documents that were left open are instantly restored and ready.

   - Acer Always Connect connects to the web in 2.5 seconds by remembering previously used Wi-Fi spots. When they come within range again, the Timeline Ultra M5 instantly connects to the Internet, so consumers can immediately access instant messaging, Internet services and email after the system resumes.

  Powerful Features, including New Technologies from Intel and NVIDIA  Depending on configuration, the Timeline Ultra Series offers 3rd Generation Intel® CoreTM i3 or Core i5 processors, NVIDIA discrete graphics and 14-inch LCDs or 15.6-inch edge-to- edge displays. All models include a 2-spindle design (DVD drive and hard drive). A 500GB hard disk drive offers plenty of space for large files, while a 20GB integrated solid state drive enables instant-on capability.

   Featuring two USB 3.0 ports, consumers can charge external devices when the Timeline Ultra is in sleep, hibernation or even when it's turned off. Transfer speeds will be up to 10 times faster than older generations of USB.

  Entertainment Features include Discrete Graphics, DVD Drive, Backlit Keyboard, Dolby Audio and more  For those that like to play, the Timeline Ultra M5 Series includes models with top-of-the-line entertainment enhancements, maximizing the value of these super slim designs. For powerful gaming or video editing, NVIDIA GeForce GT 640M LE dedicated graphics powers the latest games with amazing special effects and incredible detail. HD video and photos can be created quickly with GPU-accelerated software and popular photo applications. In addition, NVIDIA Optimus technology delivers the performance of dedicated graphics when needed, and conserves battery life when not in use.

   Backlit keyboards make it easy to game or type in low light conditions, while the professionally-tuned Dolby® Home Theater® v4 and premium speakers deliver high volume, clear dialogue and crisp sound effects for games, music and movies.

   While still maintaining a thin and light design, the Timeline Ultra M5 Series features a built-in optical drive, allowing consumers to burn file copies of their data for safekeeping, or pop in a disk to enjoy movies or music. An HDMI port allows for easy connection to a big screen TV or monitor.

   And whether users are managing a large or small library, Acer clear.fiTM makes it easy to manage, store, share, and enjoy media among any clear.fi-enabled devices, in any room throughout the home.

   Staying in touch with friends, family and co-workers across the miles is easy with Acer's advanced 1.3 megapixel HD webcam. It enables crystal-clear video chat sessions and snaps still pictures in HD, providing high pixel density for amazing video image quality at 24 frames per second.

  Anti-Theft Technology Protects Data and Provides Peace of Mind  Whether the Timeline Ultra M5 is for home use to keep track of finances and other secure personal information or for business to access corporate data and applications, Intel Anti-Theft Technology (Intel® AT) allows owners to quickly and easily disable their lost or stolen Ultrabook remotely from anywhere in the world, making the computer useless to thieves.

   Because the technology is built right into the BIOS, it's activated as soon as the machine is turned on-even before startup. It works without Internet access and is hardware based, so it is tamper resistant. If the Timeline Ultra M5 is lost or stolen, a local or remote ―poison pill‖ can be activated that renders the laptop completely inoperable. Once it's returned, it can be easily reactivated without harm to the notebook's data or digital content.This feature is available on all Timeline Ultra M5 models, and requires a service subscription from an Intel AT-enabled service provider.

   All models in the Timeline Ultra M5 Series also include Acer AntiTheft, a free software based solution. When enabled, the Ultrabook recognizes the distance from a designated WiFi signal source, and if the system moves beyond 10 feet of the signal, a loud siren will sound from the Ultrabook's speakers. This feature can easily be enabled and disabled, and will be especially useful when traveling.

  Pricing and Availability  The Acer Aspire Timeline Ultra M5 Series of Ultrabooks will be available at http://us- store.acer.com/ and leading retailers across the U.S. beginning at the end of June. Prices begin at $679.99 and range up to $829.99.

   Customers who buy an Acer Ultrabook PC pre-loaded with Windows 7 Home Basic, Home Premium, Professional or Ultimate will be eligible to purchase Windows 8 Pro for only $14.99 (U.S.) ERP. The Offer is valid June 2, 2012 through January 31, 2013, for complete details visit http://windowsupgradeoffer.com.

 
