
 


	Given that it's not 2008 and all, it's not every week that we tell you about a new Atom-powered-netbook -- not that any of the usual suspects seem likely to throw in the towel anytime soon. Acer just announced availability for the Acer Aspire Happy 2, that rippled, Easter Egg-colored number that reared its head back in April. As you'd expect, it runs on a dual-core Atom N570 CPU -- a small upgrade over the N450 the last generation offered. And while it still has the usual 10.1-inch display, 250GB hard drive, and WiFi radio, it steps down to 1GB of RAM from 2GB. Aside from the predictable specs, Acer is clearly trying to make dented laptops happen, in case that wasn't already obvious. That and pastels. "Banana Cream," "Blueberry Shake," "Strawberry Yogurt," and "Papaya Milk" sound like your tall glass of crushed fruit? She's available as you read this for $269.99.
 

 		Show full PR text   Acer Introduces New Line of Color-Inspired Netbooks			for U.S. Consumers 			Festive and Fresh Aspire One Happy 2 Netbooks Now Available 			SAN JOSE, Calif., June 30, 2011 – Acer America today expanded its popular line of netbooks to include the Aspire One Happy 2, a series of stylish netbooks in four fun and flavorful colors. With unique names such as "Banana Cream," "Blueberry Shake," "Papaya Milk," and "Strawberry Yogurt," the Aspire One Happy 2 netbooks bring a new sense of fun and style to the ultra-light, mobile PC experience. 			Sporting a new look, the Aspire One Happy 2 netbook's cover features a bright and shiny finish with a textured liquid "water ripple" pattern, heightening visual and tactile appeal. Like its predecessors, the streamlined and ultra-compact 10.1-inch netbooks are light and portable enough to tote anywhere and come packed with powerful features and performance to boost productivity. Utilizing the latest Intel dual-core technology for netbooks, the Acer Aspire One Happy 2 series consumes less power, allowing users to stay mobile longer with better battery life. The netbook also provides the computing performance needed to tackle Office applications, stay in touch with social networks and enjoy web-based video. 			"We've made our industry-leading netbook line more personal by giving consumers a wider variety of colors and style treatments," said Pete Dailey, senior product marketing manager for netbooks. "The new Aspire One Happy 2 offers users fresh and bright color options, while maintaining the Aspire One's legacy of offering PC productivity for mobile consumers."  Mobile Performance and Connectivity			Designed for easy mobility and connectivity, the Aspire One Happy 2 netbooks feature the Intel® Atom™ N570 dual-core processor, integrated Intel graphics, up to 8 hours of battery life and fast Wi-Fi connectivity. All this power and functionality comes in a package that is only 1-inch thin and weighs just over 2-1/2 pounds. 			Supporting power savings and longer battery life, the Aspire One Happy 2 netbook has a 10.1-inch CrystalBrite™ LED-backlit display that saves 22.2 percent power compared with other netbook displays and offers an optimal viewing experience. Further enhancing the product's usability, it has a stylish white keyboard that is 93 percent of a standard size keyboard for convenient typing on the go. 			To remain connected, the netbook features 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™ and fast Ethernet LAN connectivity. For further communications needs, the line is equipped with a built-in 0.3 megapixel Webcam, delivering smooth video streaming and high quality images for online chats and video conferences. A built-in digital microphone conveys superior voice quality, keeping background noise levels low and minimizing echoes. 			Rounding out its feature set, the Aspire One Happy 2 netbooks come with 1GB of DDR3 memory and a large 250GB internal hard drive to store plenty of digital albums, music and documents. It also includes Windows® 7 Starter and Microsoft® Office Starter 2010, offering the latest software with the familiarity and compatibility of Windows.  Pricing and Availability			The Acer Aspire One Happy 2 Series Netbooks are available now at leading U.S. retailers for a MSRP of$269.99.  Limited Warranty			The new Acer Aspire One Happy 2 Series comes with a standard one-year parts and labor warranty, which can be extended to three years with the Acer Advantage service. All Acer notebooks and netbooks are backed by toll-free service and support. 
 