
 


	We've already seen it pass through the FCC and pop-up in a family-friendly video, but today, Acer's Iconia Tab A200 has finally received official status, courtesy of an announcement obtained by Netbook News. Powered by NVIDIA's 1GHz Tegra 2 processor, the company's latest Android slate comes with 1GB of RAM and boasts a "generous" 10.1-inch display, with 1280 x 800 resolution. Available in either Titanium Gray or Metallic Red, the slate also features a two megapixel front facing camera and, as we observed earlier, comes packed with Acer Ring -- a multitasking manager that provides shortcuts to Google Maps, screenshot functions and other apps. Acer says it began shipping Honeycomb-laced models to select countries in November, but promises that an Ice Cream Sandwich version will be available worldwide in January (along with a free update for early buyers). No word yet on pricing or current availability, but you can find more information in the full press release, after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Acer Presents the ICONIA TAB A200		The tablet for sharing good times with family at an affordable price 		TAIPEI, TAIWAN (December 2, 2011) - Acer Inc. announces the release of the ICONIA TAB A200, the company's latest tablet. Ideal for sharing good times via gaming, e-books, movies, music, photography, social networking and more, this tablet is an amazing hub of activity for people of all ages, and it comes at a very affordable price. Shipments in select countries include the Android 3.2 OS (code named Honeycomb) beginning in November. Shipments with Android 4.0 (code named Ice Cream Sandwich, or ICS) will start in January 2012 worldwide. A free ICS upgrade to current ICONIA TAB A200 users will also be made available at that time. 		Priced right and looking sleek from all angles, the ICONIA TAB A200 stands out in Titanium Gray or Metallic Red. The rear side is soft to the touch and features an eye-catching pattern. Made especially for multimedia enjoyment, this tablet packs hardware and apps for loads of fun. Visuals are fantastic on the generous 10.1" multitouch screen, and even thrilling games run smoothly thanks to the NVIDIA® Tegra™ 2 Dual Core 1 GHz processor and gyrometer. 		The ICONIA TAB A200 improves multitasking with the Acer Ring interface for setting easy-access apps from any screen. It also features Screenshot, which quickly captures web images, articles, Google Maps and even smiling faces from video calls. Screenshot can be used in any app on any screen for maximum convenience. 		Adapted perfectly for mobility, this tablet has a full-size USB port for hooking up other devices and a MicroSD slot for passing data. A 2 MP web camera enables face-to-face chats for keeping friends and family close at hand wherever you are. Whether on the road or at home, sharing multimedia is easy; you can read an e-book or watch a streaming movie, anytime. For enhanced social networking the ICONIA TAB A200 includes Acer SocialJogger, which consolidates Facebook, Twitter and more.
 