
 
 Acer is expanding its tablet lineup with a new budget-minded 7-inch slate running Jelly Bean. The Iconia B1-A71 pairs a dual-core 1.2GHz processor from Mediatek with 512MB of RAM for a machine that certainly wont set any benchmark records, but won't hurt any wallets either. The rest of the specs, like the WSVGA screen, 8GB of storage and lone 0.3-megapixel camera are certainly also helping keep costs down. At 11.3 ounces and 11.3mm thick it's a pretty svelte device, especially considering its expected starting price of under $150. Sadly there's no concrete time frame for release. If you're hungry for a few more details check out the PR below.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Acer Tablet Family Welcomes New Arrival For New Users
   Editor's Summary:  Acer expands tablet portfolio with its 7" Acer Iconia B1-A71  Ideal for new users or families opting for a 2nd tablet for their children  Also easy to carry, read and explore, and powerful enough for fast media consumption – it is an excellent mobile companion for the busy executive

   TAIPEI (Jan. 7, 2013) – Acer today announced the Iconia B1-A71 tablet targeted at young or new users or families looking for an additional tablet for their children. The Iconia B1 is also ideal for busy individuals seeking a convenient mobile companion. At 7 inches – the same size as a standard book page - the display is comfortable for e-reading, web browsing, playing games and watching videos.

   Super Portable: The Iconia B1 is easy to hold and use in one hand, a triangular corner grip on the lower left side improves single-hand usage even more. It's also easy to tote around in a bag or jacket at a feather-light 320 grams, making it one of the lightest 7-inch tablets in the market.

   Highly Responsive Fun: To take your experience to the next level, this tablet combines a 1.2GHz dual-core processor for fast and smooth gaming, web browsing and video watching  with Android's Jelly Bean operating system to get quickly precise answers to your search  queries and seamless browsing. For many search queries performed through VoiceSearch, you can now hear a spoken answer quickly.

   Fast and Free Media: Over 500 free online magazines from hundreds of publishers and top web sites are always at your fingertips thanks to Google Currents. The recently updated smart mobile app allows you to discover, read, and share your favorite new outlets, blogs and online magazine on the 7-inch WSVGA (1,024 x 600) capacitive display – even when offline. If you are into playing, you have more than 700,000 games and apps from the Play Store to choose from.

   News releaseCapture and Share More: To top off the rich experience, the Iconia B1 comes with a frontfacing camera to engage in live chats with your friends. The camera is on the top right corner and works also when in landscape mode, allowing your friends to get into the picture during a video chat.

   The Iconia B1 is an affordable entry level device to the wide family of Acer products and is designed for the everyday usage of Modern Day Explorers – in this case young explorers or busy mobile explorers. The Iconia B1 is, like its Acer family products, a device which provides the most premium experience at its price point. Available as 8GB version with the option to expand via microSD™ slot, the Iconia B1 is the ideal easy companion for tablet newbies or children while adults use their own.

   The new Iconia B1 expands the Acer tablet family now offering three 10-inch Android, two 7-inch Android, one 11" Windows 8 and one 10-inch Windows 8 Hybrid Tablets.

   Pricing, Availability and Warranty  The Acer Iconia B1-A71 will be available with a starting price less than $150.

   Acer Iconia B1-A71 features and specs:  -Android JellyBean operating system  - Mediatek dual-core 1.2GHz processor (MTK 8317T)  -7-inch diagonal WSVGA capacitive multitouch screen with 1,024 x 600 resolution display  -8GB(1) of internal storage and 512MB DDR3 memory  -Wireless connectivity: Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n -Bluetooth® wireless technology 4.0 -GPS  -3.5mm headset/headphone/microphone jack  -internal speaker  -microSD™ expansion slot with up to 32GB support  -front-facing 0.3-megapixel webcam  -Rechargeable 2,710 mAh battery  -micro-USB (charging and PC connect) with USB 2.0  -Dimensions: 197.4 mm x 128.5 mm x 11.3 mm  -Weight: 320 g

 
