
 
It really does feel like it was just yesterday that Acer released its new TimelineX series, but believe it or not, it's processor upgrade time for the thin and light lappie line. The 11.6-inch Aspire TimelineX 1830T will now be available with ultra-low voltage Core i3, i5 and i7 CPU options, though Acer's pushing the $900 Core i7 680UM-powered version (the 1830T-68U118) rather hard. If you're looking for that sort of power in a 3.1-pound chassis, it's not all that bad of a deal, especially considering the similarly spec'd Lenovo IdeaPad U160 costs north of $1,000. We are a bit skeptical of Acer's eight hour battery life claim on that one, however. The other TimelineX machines -- the 13.3-inch 3820T, 14-inch 4820T and the 15.6-inch 5820T -- are also being injected with more standard voltage Core i3 and i5 processor options, and those will start around the $700 mark. All the new models should be available at retailers soon, and those dying for some more configuration details should hit the break for the full press release. 






Show full PR textAcer Heightens Performance and Maximizes Mobility in New Aspire TimelineX Full-Day Computing NotebooksPremiere Acer Aspire 1830T is compact, highly capable with 11.6-inch HD display and Intel Core i7 processor; Full line of Timeline X notebooks updated with latest performance technologySAN JOSE, Calif., Sept. 27, 2010 – Acer America today unveiled new models in the company's award-winning line of Acer Aspire TimelineX notebooks, acclaimed for their industry-leading combination of performance, mobility and all-day eight-hour battery life. (1)The new Aspire TimelineX 1830T-68U118 combines maximum performance with ultra-portability along with battery life of up to eight hours.(1) Powered by an Intel® Core™ i7 680UM processor with Intel® Turbo Boost technology, the notebook delivers speed and processing capabilities typically not available in such a compact device. It's also incredibly lightweight, weighing a mere 3.09 pounds and featuring an 11.6-inch LED-backlit HD display, so it won't weigh down road warriors who want to remain productive and connected on-the-go.The three additional Acer TimelineX lines have also been updated with the latest processors and technology to continue delivering the balance of performance, mobility and all-day eight-hour battery life(1) that today's savvy mobile customers want. The new models in the Acer Aspire TimelineX family are the 13.3-inch 3820T, 14-inch 4820T and the 15.6-inch 5820T, powered by Intel® Core™ i3 and Core i5 processors.All of the new models in the Aspire TimelineX family were designed with mobility and maximum battery life in mind. The combination of Intel Core™ processors, advanced power management and an LED-backlit display in a sleek design contributes to the notebooks' battery life of up to eight hours(1). As a result, consumers, students and professionals on the move can have a thin, light, more energy-efficient and longer-lasting mobile PC."Our new Aspire TimelineX 1830T delivers a rare combination of ultra-mobility and superb performance using an Intel Core i7 processor that gives customers enormous capabilities in a highly compact design," said Pete Daily, senior manager of product marketing, Acer notebooks. "Additionally, the rest of the TimelineX line delivers the same sought-after attributes of incredibly long and reliable all-day battery life, slim and sleek designs and enhanced performance."The new Acer Aspire TimelineX models are available at retailers now.Aspire TimelineX with 11.6-inch Display is Compact, Packed with FeaturesThe Aspire TimelineX 1830T-68U118 elevates mobile performance to an impressive level. It boasts an Intel Core i7-680 1.46GHz ultra low voltage processor with Intel® Turbo Boost Technology running at speeds of up to 2.53GHz. The compact three-pound device will easily fit into book bags, backpacks and purses thanks to its compact size that measures only 11.22 (w) x 8.03 (d) x1.01-1.10 (h) inches. The configuration is well-equipped with integrated Bluetooth, 4GB of DDR3 dual-channel memory, and a large 500GB hard drive.(2) It has a manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP) of $899.99.The new Acer Aspire TimelineX 1830T is available in several other configurations – all with the same sleek form factor that make the line the ultimate road warrior's machine. Additional configurations come with either Intel Core® i3™ or Core™ i5 ULV (ultra low voltage) processors with Intel Turbo Boost Technology, up to 4GB of DDR3 memory and up to a large 500GB internal hard drive(2) for storage of digital photos, albums, media and other files. MSRP for these additional Aspire TimelineX models starts at $599.99.Additional Sizes Deliver Productivity with Mobility, PerformanceThe three remaining Acer Aspire TimelineX notebook lines have also been updated with the latest Intel Core processors, so even customers who want a larger notebook can enjoy a slim, sleek design along with excellent performance and battery life.Offering full notebook capabilities and large screens, the Aspire 5820T (15.6-inch screen and 5.5 pounds) and the Aspire 4820T (14-inch screen, 4.65 pounds) come with integrated DVD drives and are configured with either Intel® Core™ i3 or i5 processors, supported by up to 4GB of memory expandable to 8GB. Lots of files can be stored on the large hard drives up to 500GB in capacity.(2) The Aspire 5820T also features a dedicated numeric keypad. The starting MSRP for both lines is $699.99.Customers can enjoy realistic gaming and enhanced video with two 14-inch Aspire TimelineX models with discrete graphics and full DirectX® 11 support. The two Aspire 4820TG models have ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 5650 Graphics that are Switchable™ to let users have the best of both worlds – maximum performance when connected to power and long battery life when on-the-go. They each have an Intel Core i5-460M processor and are priced starting at $799.99 MSRP.Highly mobile users will appreciate the Aspire TimelineX 3820T line. It offers either Intel® Core™ i3 or Core™ i5 processors for full computing performance in an incredibly thin-and-light form factor that weighs only 3.97 pounds and is a thin 0.86-1.14 inches thin. The Aspire TimelineX 3820T comes with an ample 3GB or 4GB of memory that is expandable up to 8GB and up to a 320GB hard drive.(2)TimelineX Models Equipped for Enjoyment, ProductivityThe new Aspire TimelineX models feature a CineCrystal™ LED-backlit display with 16:9 HD True Cinematic View for stunning clarity and viewing at any angle. The excellent 1366x768 resolution is further enhanced by Intel® HD Graphics to provide superb visual performance for sharp images, rich color and lifelike video.Additionally, the new Aspire TimelineX models have HDMI 1080p output, which lets customers use a convenient single cable connection to deliver HD video and audio to an external source, such as a home entertainment system or LCD display. Mobile entertainment is enhanced with High Definition audio support with Dolby Sound Room audio and two built-in stereo speakers.The Aspire TimelineX Series notebooks are well-equipped to tackle multiple applications. All models, even the ultraportable 1830T have a 100 percent full-size keyboard for accurate and comfortable typing. The Aspire TimelineX notebooks come with Windows® 7 Home Premium for maximum productivity. Navigating through documents and websites is easy with the multi-gesture touchpad for mouse-less, fingertip control for intuitive control using movements such as rotate, zoom and scroll.Ready to Stay in Touch with Wi-Fi, HD WebcamStaying in touch with the new Acer Aspire TimelineX notebooks is easy and fun. All models have 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi CERTIFIED for connecting at wireless home networks and hotspots. The integrated 1.3MP HD webcam with 1280x1024 resolution gives consumers an easy way to capture photos and video, record video emails and take part in video-conferencing. Plus, the built-in digital microphone conveys excellent voice quality, keeping background noise levels low and minimizing echoes. Gigabit Ethernet LAN delivers a reliable wired connection.The notebook PCs easily connect to peripherals such as printers, displays and digital cameras. The Acer Aspire TimelineX notebooks can connect to multiple devices simultaneously as well as Gigabit Ethernet, VGA ports and up to four USB 2.0 ports. Plus, the Aspire TimelineX models feature a multi-in-one digital card reader for accepting popular digital media cards.The new Acer Aspire TimelineX models come with a standard one-year parts and labor warranty, which can be extended to three years with the Acer Advantage service. All Acer netbooks are backed by toll-free service and support.(3)About AcerSince its founding in 1976, Acer has achieved the goal of breaking the barriers between people and technology. Globally, Acer ranks No. 2 for total PCs and notebooks.(4) A profitable and sustainable Channel Business Model is instrumental to the company's continuing growth, while its multi-brand approach effectively integrates Acer, Gateway, Packard Bell, and eMachines brands in worldwide markets. Acer strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain through collaboration with suppliers. Acer is proud to be a Worldwide Partner of the Olympic Movement, including the Vancouver 2010 Olympic Winter and London 2012 Olympic Games. The Acer Group employs 7,000 people worldwide. 2009 revenues reached US$17.9 billion. See www.acer-group.com for more information.© 2010 Acer America Corp. All rights reserved. Acer and the Acer logo are registered trademarks of Acer Inc. Other trademarks, registered trademarks, and/or service marks, indicated or otherwise, are the property of their respective owners. All offers subject to change without notice or obligation and may not be available through all sales channels. Prices listed are manufacturer suggested retail prices and may vary by retail location. Applicable taxes extra.1. Battery life varies depending on product specifications, computer settings and applications or features launched. All batteries' maximum capacity diminishes with time and use.2. Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes; GB = 1 billion bytes.3. Limited warranties and service agreements apply. May not be available in all locations. Availability varies. Other conditions apply.4. Source: Gartner data, FY 2009# # #
 