
 

Acer's just previewed its latest entry to cloud computing, aptly titled AcerCloud, allowing users to access multimedia and data files remotely whether or not their main PC is asleep. The feature will be available free of cost on all future consumer Acer PCs. Acer's latest enlists the outfit's Always Connect service to wake up PCs from sleep mode, enabling transfer from smartphones and tablets. Among the services included are PicStream, which allows for cloud-based photo sharing, AcerCloud Docs, for storing and accessing (guess what?) documents, and clear.fi that allows for streaming of media from the cloud to almost any device. Compatibility is currently limited to Android smartphones and tablets, but support is apparently in the works for Windows-based devices. The feature will start popping up on new PCs in Q2 2012 and will launch worldwide in Q4. You can sign up now and get a notice when it's available.

For more, check out the full PR after the break. 






 		Show full PR text 		8 Jan 2012		AcerCloud Connects All Personal Devices Securely for Anytime, Anywhere Access to Digital Media and Data 		Acer today previewed its upcoming AcerCloud, which securely connects all personal smart devices for anytime, anywhere access. Featuring Acer Always Connect technology, users can retrieve multimedia and data files anytime, even when their main PC is in sleep (standby/hibernation) mode. Users can enjoy these advantages knowing that their information is stored and transferred securely via strong encryption and authentication. Bringing users tremendous functionality and value, Acer will include the AcerCloud, without additional cost, on all new Acer consumer PCs. 		Acer reduces the complexities of today's fast-paced lifestyles by developing solutions that enable devices to communicate, simplifying the process of content sharing. With the ever-growing number of smart digital devices, users need to share and back up their multimedia and data files in a simple, smart way. 		Create, acquire and consume on different devices		AcerCloud makes it easy to take photos on a smartphone while on the go, and then view them on a main PC at home or in the office, without the delay and complication of manually transferring files. It also allows users to purchase a movie from an all-in-one PC, and then watch it on a tablet or smartphone on a train or airplane. As long as the main PC is in sleep (standby/hibernation) mode, Acer Always Connect technology can wake it up through Wi-Fi® so media can be retrieved via a mobile device. AcerCloud, meanwhile, intelligently uses local and cloud storage together so all data is always available. Other features of AcerCloud include: 		PicStream		1Through PicStream, users can take holiday snapshots on their smartphone, back them up on the main PC, and share them efficiently with other smart devices. Users can stream photos via clear.fi in the Cloud to PCs and other devices; photos are backed up permanently on their PC, and temporarily accessible for 30 days in their personal cloud and on other devices. 		AcerCloud Docs		2Professionals can update sales documents on a PC and save them, and the documents will be put into the personal cloud and streamed to other devices. They can then go to their meeting with their notebook or tablet PC and have immediate access to all the updated files. The files will be temporarily accessible for 30 days in the personal cloud and on the devices, or they can choose to download the files on to other devices for long-term storage. 		clear.fi Media		3With Acer's unique clear.fi Media application, users can also access all their multimedia at any time. They can use clear.fi to connect to the personal cloud and stream live, or download and enjoy content offline for convenient on-the-go entertainment.   		Acer Inc. President Jim Wong stated, "AcerCloud not only provides the simplicity and efficiency when accessing and sharing data, but it's also free with a new Acer PC and gives our users peace-of-mind, knowing that their data is safely transferred in a personal cloud space." 		AcerCloud will be bundled on all Acer consumer PCs starting Q2 2012. It will support all Android devices, while future support is planned for Windows-based devices. The service will be available in America, Europe, Asia and China.
 