
 

Wondering just how hot the Ultrabook token is here at CES? Wonder no more. Acer just tacked "Ultra" onto its revised Timeline series, pushing the actual boundaries of the definition. The new range -- which includes a 14-inch and 15-inch model -- touts up to eight hours of battery life, a "two-spindle" design, Instant On functionality, a chassis that measures 20mm thick, Intel's latest Core i processors, dedicated graphics and a slim DVD Super Multi optical drive. Those who buy in will get their choice of HDD or SSD and an HDMI port, with shipments starting this quarter. Shame there's no price to pore over, though. 



 


 		Show full PR text  8 Jan 2012		Acer Presents Aspire Timeline Ultra 		Since Acer rolled out the first Ultrabook in September 2011, the company has extended the product's unique features across its mainstream line of notebooks with 14-inch and 15-inch models. Acer today unveils the Aspire Timeline Ultra featuring 8 hours of battery life, high performance and a 2-spindle design in an Ultrabook. They feature Acer Green Instant On for fast boot and resume, and Acer Always Connect technology, which lets users manage their multimedia and data on all their devices at anytime, anywhere -even from sleep. 		The new Aspire Timeline Ultra are slimmer and lighter than earlier generations of the Timeline series, which reach a delicate equilibrium between computer lightness and battery life, providing an entire day of computing on a single charge. Aspire Timeline Ultra measure just 20 mm thin, boast more than 8 hours of battery life,1 the latest Intel® Core™ i processor performance, dedicated graphics for intensive 3D gaming, and even a slim DVD-Super Multi optical drive. 		Instantly on and always connected		Innovative Acer Green Instant On and Acer Always Connect technologies enable data upload and retrieval anytime, anywhere, and deliver power-saving features as well. 		Acer Green Instant On provides instant-resume functionality (in 1.5 seconds) and ensures battery life that lasts several weeks. 		Acer Always Connectgets users online faster than conventional connections for better productivity and infotainment enjoyment. With their Facebook, Twitter and Outlook email accounts open, users can see updates instantly upon resuming. Furthermore, Acer Always Connect can wake up the Timeline Ultra from a remote device like a smartphone. Access to all documents, music, pictures and video files is fast and always available. 		Performance and Timeline design heritage		The Aspire Timeline Ultra features the latest Intel® Core™ i Series processors, an SSD/HDD storage option, professionally-tuned Dolby® Home Theater® v4 surround sound, as well as HDMI® and USB 3.0 ports. They also retain the Timeline design heritage of more than 8 hours of battery life via the PowerSmart long-life battery pack (with a 3X longer life cycle than traditional batteries2 and a thermal technology that keep users comfortable even when the Timeline Ultra is placed on their lap. 		The Aspire Timeline Ultra will start shipping in Q1 2012.
 