
 
It was only a matter of time before Acer let out the pricing / availability details on its dual-core Atom netbook, and as we could have predicted, the Taiwanese company's smacked an extremely enticing pricetag on this one. Ringing up at an aggressive $329.99, the 2.2-pound D255 looks almost identical to the D260 -- yes, even those with the worst of cataracts could tell it's an Aspire One from afar -- but in terms of specs it's got that notable difference of a brand new dual-core Atom N550 processor. But not to worry, even though it's now the cheapest dual-core netbook around, it's still got the netbook standards -- including 1GB of RAM, 250GB hard drive and six-cell battery. The single-core version will go for $269.99, but we do have to say that shelling out that additional $50 for that extra core does buy you slightly faster performance (see our HP Mini 5103 review for some Atom N550 performance results). Sounds mighty tempting to us, but it still doesn't make us forget about that Chrome OS netbook Acer's been promising.
 

Show full PR textAcer Debuts New Aspire One Netbook Packed with Dual-Core Processor Power and All Day Battery Life and Updates Full Line of Products Aspire One AOD255 delivers powerful performance with Intel® Atom™ dual-core processor and eight hours battery life; Aspire One AO521 and AO721 feature AMD Athlon™ II Neo Processors and high-definition graphics for digital entertainment on the goSAN JOSE, Calif., Oct. 4, 2010 – Acer America today expanded its industry-leading line of Aspire One netbooks to include dual-core processing power. Leading with the new Aspire One AOD255, this mobile powerhouse delivers Intel Atom dual-core processing power in an ultra-thin design for enhanced mobile performance. Additionally, the updated Aspire One AO721 and AO521 were designed for mobile entertainment, featuring AMD Athlon II Neo processors, excellent connectivity and high-definition graphics. These new netbook lines are packed with powerful features and performance to boost productivity and battery life for highly mobile consumers. Featuring the latest Intel dual-core technology for netbooks, the Acer Aspire One AOD255 includes the new Intel® Atom™ N550 processor, which provides consumers with more responsiveness while surfing the Internet remotely. It also brings advanced DDR3 memory support in a lightweight and compact mobile computer. Additional Aspire One AOD255 models support single-core Intel® Atom N450 processors. "We have enhanced our best-selling Aspire One netbook line with the improved performance and better power efficiency to improve the mobile computing experience for consumers," said Pete Dailey, senior product marketing manager for netbooks. "With the new Aspire One AOD255, users are able to multitask, explore the Internet, connect with friends, and enjoy entertainment applications, without worrying about battery life or being tethered to an electrical outlet." Dual-Core Mobile Performance and Efficiency Designed for all day mobility and connectivity, the Aspire One AOD255 netbook features the latest Intel® technology with the Intel Atom N550 dual-core processor, integrated Intel graphics, up to 8 hours of battery life(1) and fast Wi-Fi connectivity. All this power and functionality comes in a package that is only 1-inch thin and weighs just over 2-1/2 pounds. Supporting power savings and longer battery life, the Aspire One AOD255 has a 10.1-inch CrystalBrite™ LED-backlit display that saves 22.2 percent power compared with other netbook displays(2) and offers an optimal viewing experience. Further enhancing the product's usability, it has a keyboard that is 93 percent of a standard size keyboard for convenient for typing on the go. To remain connected, the netbook features 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™ and fast Ethernet LAN connectivity. For further communications needs, the line is equipped with a built-in 1.3 Megapixel HD Webcam, delivering smooth video streaming and high quality images for online chats and video conferences. A built-in digital microphone conveys superior voice quality, keeping background noise levels low and minimizing echoes. Rounding out its feature set, the AOD255 comes with 1GB of DDR3 memory and a large 250GB internal hard drive to store plenty of digital albums, music and documents. It also includes Windows® 7 Starter and Microsoft® Office Starter 2010, offering the latest software with the familiarity and compatibility of Windows. The Aspire One AOD255 comes in a variety of colors to fit anyone's style - red, black, brown and aquamarine. High-Definition Graphics and Advanced Performance Designed for ultra-portability and high-def entertainment, the Acer Aspire One AO721 and Aspire One AO521 netbooks feature powerful AMD Athlon™ II Neo processors, high-definition ATI Radeon™ graphics, ample memory, large hard drives and LED-backlit displays. The AO721 and AO521 utilize AMD Athlon II Neo K125 processors, designed to deliver balanced performance for multiple applications while saving power. With the powerful ATI Radeon HD 4225 Graphics with 384MB of dedicated system memory, Aspire One users are well-equipped for mobile performance whether surfing the Internet, playing games, watching videos or working. Additionally, the netbooks offer HDMI™ connectivity for enjoying high-definition entertainment on large external displays. To keep in touch with friends, family and colleagues, the Aspire One AO721 and AO521 netbooks features 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, fast Ethernet LAN connectivity, built-in webcam and a digital microphone. The Aspire One AO721 has a high-definition 11.6-inch CrystalBrite™ LED-backlit display with true cinematic 16:9 aspect ratio, delivering an optimal viewing experience. Sleek and portable at less than one-inch thin and about three pounds in weight, the Aspire One AO721 boasts a full-sized keyboard, enabling more accurate and comfortable typing. The Aspire One AO721 is equipped with a full 2GB of DDR3 memory and up to 250GB internal hard drive, providing plenty of storage space for mobile enthusiasts. It also comes with Windows® 7 Home Premium and nearly six hours of battery life for easy productivity. The ultra-mobile Aspire One AO521 features a 10.1-inch CrystalBrite LED-backlit display, offering a broad viewing area for web navigation and entertainment enjoyment. Just shy of one-inch thin and about 2.75 pounds, it is still packed with features. The 1GB of DDR3 memory and 160GB internal hard drive offer plenty of media storage. The Aspire One AO521 comes equipped with Windows 7 Starter and delivers up to six hours of battery life. Additional Features Enhance Ease-of-Use For precise control and intuitive navigation, the three new netbooks utilize a Multi-Gesture Touchpad with anti-slip microbead texture, allowing users to pinch, flick and swirl their fingers across the touchpad. It also allows users to scroll, zoom in and out, and flip through web pages, photos, spreadsheets and more. Price and Availability All three netbooks will be available later this month at leading U.S. retailers. The Acer® Aspire One AOD255 with dual-core Atom N550 processors has a MSRP of $329.99 and single-core Atom N450 processors prices begin at MSRP $269.99. The Acer® Aspire One AO721 has a MSRP of $429.99 and the Acer® Aspire One AO521 has a MSRP of $349.99. About Acer Since its founding in 1976, Acer has achieved the goal of breaking the barriers between people and technology. Globally, Acer ranks No. 2 for total PCs and notebooks.(3) A profitable and sustainable Channel Business Model is instrumental to the company's continuing growth, while its multi-brand approach effectively integrates Acer, Gateway, Packard Bell, and eMachines brands in worldwide markets. Acer strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain through collaboration with suppliers. Acer is proud to be a Worldwide Partner of the Olympic Movement, including the Vancouver 2010 Olympic Winter and London 2012 Olympic Games. The Acer Group employs 7,000 people worldwide. 2009 revenues reached US$17.9 billion. See www.acer-group.com for more information.
 