
 
You're probably already fairly familiar with Acer's foray into speedy netbooks with the the Ferrari One -- the 11.6-incher we found to be slightly underwhelming when we got our hands on it back in September. Still, the famous branding and the red hot lid is sure to be a draw for some, and other than that, this laptop boasts an 1.2GHz AMD Athlon 64 X2 CPU, an AMD M780G chipset, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3200 graphics, plus WiFi, Bluetooth, optional WWAN and a 6-cell battery. It'll run you about $600 to grab one up and it's available now. Full press release is after the break.
 

Show full PR textAcer Revs Up the Holiday Season With New Ferrari One NotebookThe Latest Notebook Inspired by Racing Legend Scudetto Ferrari Exudes Beauty, Power and Excitement SAN JOSE, Calif.--Acer America, part of the world's second largest PC vendor1, today debuted the new Ferrari One notebook PC to U.S. customers. An Acer exclusive, the Ferrari One is a full-featured, 11.6-inch notebook PC utilizing the same exquisite details and performance features celebrated by Scudetto Ferrari, the world's most prestigious racing team. Racing Performance in a Notebook PC In the true spirit of the Ferrari racing team, the Ferrari One notebook combines performance and extreme portability. Fueled by VISION technology from AMD, the notebook delivers highly responsive, balanced multitasking performance via the AMD Athlon™ 64 X2 dual-core processor with low-power CPU designed for long-lasting battery power. ATI Radeon™ HD 3200 Graphics provides high-definition visual quality coupled with up to 4GB of DDR2 667MHz system memory to drive digital and multimedia features and other demanding applications with ease. The Ferrari One comes equipped with Windows 7 Home Premium, 250GB hard drive and a built-in optical drive. Along with its 11.6-inch HD widescreen display, the Ferrari One notebook features a sleek, ultraportable design, measuring about one inch thin and weighing only 3.31 pounds. The look and feel of Formula 1 racing is shown throughout the notebook's detailed design, including the checkered palm rest extending into a comfortable full-size keyboard, the metallic LED-lit power button and yellow prancing horse emblem that perfectly complements the notebook's red cover. Ferrari enthusiasts will also note the tire-shape grips underneath the notebook's body, racing-inspired wallpaper and calendar, as well as a quick access key to Ferrari.com. The notebook features enhanced stereo speakers and Dolby® Home Theater® Audio Enhancement, which deliver vibrant surround sound and bass effects to bring a true cinema-style experience to movies, music and casual games. The Ferrari One notebook's integrated 802.11a/b/g/Draft-N wireless technology and Gigabit LAN facilitates smooth and trouble-free emailing and web browsing. The Acer Crystal Eye webcam and Video Conference solution enables high-quality video chats and VoIP with friends, family and work associates, even in noisy environments. The notebook's Ferrari-engraved Multi-Gesture Touchpad lets users pinch, flick and swirl fingers on the touchpad for intuitive navigation. It also allows users to scroll, zoom in and out and flip through web pages, photos, spreadsheets and more. "Both Acer and Ferrari have a tradition of designing products built on passion, innovation and performance," said Chris White, senior director of U.S. business management for Acer America. "The new Ferrari One notebook blends the ideas of racing and technology into a superior PC product." Acer Ferrari One FO200-1799 Notebook Specifications * AMD Athlon™ 64 X2 dual-core processor L310 (1.20 GHz, 1 MB L2 cache, 800 MHz FSB) * Windows® 7 Home Premium 64-bit * 11.6" HD Widescreen CineCrystal™ LED-backlit Display * AMD M780G Chipset * ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 3200 Graphics * 4096MB DDR2 Dual-Channel Memory * 250GB 5400RPM SATA Hard Drive * Multi-in-1 Digital Media Card Reader * Acer InviLink™ 802.11a/b/g/Draft-N Wi-Fi CERTIFIED® * Integrated Acer Crystal Eye Webcam * Two built-in stereo speakers * 3rd Generation Dolby Home Theater® audio enhancement * Full-size Acer FineTip Keyboard * Multi-Gesture Touchpad supporting circular-motion scrolling, pinch-action zoom and page flip * 3 - USB 2.0 Ports * 1 – VGA port * 6-cell Li-ion Battery (5600 mAh), up to 5-hour battery life2 * 3.31 lbs. (system unit only) * 11.2 x 8.03 x 0.9/1.2 inches * MSRP: $599.99 Availability and Pricing The Acer Ferrari One FO200-1799 netbook is available now via Acer's authorized resellers and at major retailers nationwide, with prices beginning at $599.99. The Ferrari One comes with a one-year limited warranty. About Acer America Since its founding in 1976, Acer has pursued the goal of breaking the barriers between people and technology. Globally, Acer ranks top 3 for total PCs and No. 2 for notebooks, with the fastest growth among the top-five players. A profitable and sustainable Channel Business Model is instrumental to Acer's continued growth, while the successful acquisitions of Gateway and Packard Bell complete the company's global footprint by strengthening its presence in the U.S. and enhancing its strong position in Europe. Acer is proud to be a Worldwide Partner of the Olympic Movement in staging the Vancouver 2010 Olympic Winter and London 2012 Olympic Games.The Acer Group employs more than 6,000 people worldwide. 2008 revenues reached US$16.65 billion. See www.acer-group.com for more information. © 2009 Acer Inc. All rights reserved. Acer and the Acer logo are registered trademarks of Acer Inc. Other trademarks, registered trademarks, and/or service marks, indicated or otherwise, are the property of their respective owners.
 