
 
Cherry Red and Midnight Black too harsh for your innocent eyes? How's about a gaggle of pastel options to take the edge off? Acer has just issued a new line of netbooks catering to those still stuck in the 70s, with the flower-powered Aspire One Happy range offering the most delightful lids of any netbook, ever. This 10.1-inch machine packs a WSVGA panel, six-cell battery (up to eight hours of battery life), Atom N450 CPU, GMA 3150 GPU, 250GB hard drive, WiFi, 2GB of memory and inbuilt Bluetooth. It also supports dual booting (Windows 7 and Android 2.1), but the highlight of the show is the abundance of color options: Candy Pink, Lavender Purple, Lime Green and Hawaii Blue. All four hues are available now across the pond for £249.99 ($397), but mum's the word on a stateside release. But don't worry... be happy.
      

 

Show full PR textWant a Happy One?Acer Aspire One Happy paints your life with the colours of joyLondon, 11th October 2010 – Just think of the ocean or a lavender field. It will immediately make you feel better, filling you with a sense of well-being and happiness. This is the power of colours. They stir up instantaneous reactions; they can bring happiness to our life, uplift our mood, soothe and relax or energize and excite.As sweet as candy, scented as a field of lavender, brisk as lime juice or fresh as the ocean, Aspire One Happy comes in four delightful colours that fill your life with excitement and joy: Candy Pink, Lavender Purple, Lime Green and Hawaii Blue, four hip colours that transform this netbook into a fashion statement.Add a touch of femininity and playfulness to your life with the Candy Pink version or show off the refinement, elegance and uniqueness of the Lavender model; type away on the Lime Green one, brimming with life and energy just like you, or feel the freshness of the ocean and the freedom of the sky with the Hawaii Blue version. Each one is just perfect to become the next must have digital accessory for young fashionable people who are highly mobile and want to create their own trends.Getting online and sharing your life with family and friends is only a few clicks away on the Aspire One Happy. To make your life even easier, it is equipped with Android (2.1) as well as Windows 7 operating system. Jumpstart your social life and launch Android if you want a quick chat with your friends. When you need top productivity just switch the OS to take advantage of Windows® functionalities with no need to reboot.Whether you use it at home or away, the Aspire One Happy sets you free from cables for up to 8 hours, so you can keep in touch with what is going on in your social networks, finish a school project while you are on the bus, check your emails or surf the net as much as you want. And when you need to charge it, the Acer MiniGo adapter makes your travel hassle-free thanks to the interchangeable AC converters.On top of all this, the Aspire One Happy incorporates advanced communication technologies, including a Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™ connection, to take advantage of all accessible wireless networks, or Fast Ethernet, in case you need wired LAN connection. Other available options are an embedded 3G connection, to keep you always on top of your social networking, and Bluetooth® to share photos and music with friends in a matter of seconds.Slip the Aspire One Happy in your backpack or even in your handbag and you will barely notice it is there. Ultra-thin (only 24mm) and ultra-light – 1.25 kg for models with 6-cell battery pack– yet it features a superb 28 cm (10.1") WSVGA high-brightness display with a 16:9 aspect ratio, perfect for web-chatting, web browsing and video streaming. And, for better performance and power savings, the display is LED backlit.Fitted with a comfortable keyboard with larger keys for easy typing and a wide multi-gesture touchpad, which is perfect for scrolling documents, rotating images, zooming and browsing, all with fingertip convenience, the Aspire One Happy is ideal do to some research for school or work. And if you want just to relax a bit, you can chat face-to-face with your friends via the Acer Crystal Eye webcam and microphone.With a choice of the Intel Atom N450 or the high-performing and low consuming dual-core Intel Atom N550 at its heart, the Aspire One Happy comes also with up to 2GB of system memory and a rich selection of applications, to let you surf the net, share photos and videos, listen to music, and if you really have to, you can also finish that tricky school assignment, all at the same time. Plus, Intel® Graphics Media Accelerator 3150 teams up with the processor for a superb graphics. A large internal hard disk with up to 250 GB of capacity and a built-in multi-in-one card reader ensure convenient storage options and file sharing.And wherever we are, we all must take responsibility for the environment. This is why the Aspire One Happy is designed with sustainability in mind. Smart power technologies combine with environmentally friendly production to create an all-round green device. RoHS and WEEE compliance means less hazardous substances were used in the production; single charge all-day power, Acer MiniGo adapter, LED backlit display and low power processor ensure conformity with Energy Star® requirements.The Aspire One Happy is available now with an RRP of £249.99inc
 