
  Hot off the tails of the Aspire V5 is another new release from Acer. This time it's the Aspire V3 notebook, which comes in any one of three configurations, with 14, 15.6 and 17.3-inch screens in-tow. Each variation will be powered by an Intel Core i3, i5 and i7 processor, with NVIDIA GeForce GT series graphics throwing up the visuals. As with the V5, specs are difficult to come by at this point, though Acer has confirmed that the 17.3-inch model will include a 1600 x 900 pixel display. There's Blu-ray, HDMI, Bluetooth 4.0 and USB 3.0 on board, as well as support for SSD and hard drive combos (17.3-inch model only). Aesthetically, it'll launch in three colors (black, gold and gray) when it eventually debuts in Q2 of this year. Pricing starts at €400 (about $520) for the entry-level spec, rising to €900 (roughly $1180) at the top end.Unlike the V5, we got to try out a fully-working model here at CeBIT. The V3 feels much larger and heftier when compared to its slimmer siblings, but the full-length speaker above the keyboard and generous LCD size tells you that Acer intended this model for a very different user. The finish may be plastic, but the gloss and matte combination looks nice enough. It feels relatively heavy in the hand, but it is carrying a reasonable amount of I/O baggage. Be sure to check out our video after the break for a more-detailed look.






  Zach Honig contributed to this report.  Show full PR text  Acer Introduces the V3 Series  Brilliant all-around performance  HANNOVER, GERMANY (March 6, 2012) - Acerhas unveiled the V3 Series, a range of notebooks optimized for today's digital needs,available in 14-, 15.6- and 17.3-inch models.With excellent performance, entertainment enhancements, communication tools and a classy design, these notebooks are intended for tech-savvy users who want daily high-definition audio and visual experiences.  The latest generation Intel® Core™ family processors,* plus NVIDA® GeForce® GT Series graphics*ensure excellent performance for multitasking with lots of apps, music, Internet video, movies, games and more.  Specialized entertainment enhancements include the Acer CineCrystal™ HD+ 1600 x 900 LED-backlit display on the 17.3" screen and , Dolby® Home Theater® v4 and a Blu-ray Disc™ drive.* Users can even enjoy notebook entertainment on an HDTV viathe HDMI®-out port.  The V3 Series features Acer InviLink™Nplify™ Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™wireless connectivity and Gigabit Ethernet to keep users online, and the Acer Crystal Eye HD webcam guarantees high-resolution face-to-face communication.  Acer clear.fi 2.0 automatically connects all digital-home devices. This lets users manage, share and enjoy media from any device in any room at home. Sharing files among other digital devices is also possible viaa multi-in-1 card slot, Bluetooth® 4.0 and USB 2.0/3.0 ports (with USB power-off charging).*  Design-wise, the cover has a glossy finish and its color matches the screen bezel and palm rest. The Acer chiclet keyboard is stylish, ergonomic and complemented by a multi-gesture touchpad for enhanced comfort and productivity. The V3 Series comes in Midnight Black, Dawn Gold, Nightfall Gray and Thunderbolt Silver.  * Specifications vary depending on model.
 