
 
Nothing too groundbreaking here, but Acoustic Research has a new pair of WiFi radios on tap at CES. The first one is the ARIR200 Infinite Radio, which pulls double duty as an internet / AM / FM radio and a traditional alarm clock. It provides direct access to Slacker content and comes bundled with a prepaid subscription to WeatherBug. Moving onto greener pastures, we've got the ARIR600i, which adds in a "subwoofer" and includes an iPod dock for charging your PMP and playing back tunes while docked. They'll be available in February / mid-May, respectively for $129.99 / $199.99.
      

 

  Acoustic Research Internet Radios Bring Music, Talk and More without a PC Tether    Built-In Wi-Fi Connectivity, Simple Set-up and Personalization of  Web Content and Major Content Partners Differentiate the New Line   LAS VEGAS – January 7, 2009, International CES, Booth 11006-10506 - Audiovox  Corporation (NASDAQ: VOXX). As Internet radio gains popularity in the U.S., Acoustic  Research is debuting two new products that should help increase online listeners by  disconnecting traditional Internet cables and adding desirable music and weather features. The  two models offer built-in wireless connectivity, AM/FM radio, USB and Ethernet connections  and 512MB memory for up to 10 hours of recording off the Internet as well as the AM/FM  bands. Additionally, the AR Infinite Radio is simple to use and customize on the Personal  Portal, listen to Slacker™ Personal Radio stations and get immediate weather alerts from  WeatherBug®.   "With virtually millions of Americans tuning into Internet radio each week, we wanted to cut the  PC tether and bring the vast Internet radio station experience into other rooms of the home in a  way unmatched by any competitive product," said Tom Malone, president, Audiovox Electronics  Corporation. "We added connectivity and customization partners that will bring consumers an  enhanced level of enjoyment available exclusively in the AR Infinite Radios."   Bringing Acoustic Research Infinite Radio To a New Level   The AR Infinite Radio experience starts with the Personal Portal, which  allows the consumer to access premium content features that come with  AR Infinite Radio through innovative content partnerships. The portal  lets a consumer add custom stations and URLs - select from more than  12,000 stations and store favorite presets and genres."   The Acoustic Research Slacker partnership allows direct connect to  Slacker Personal Radio Music Service with millions of tracks, 100  genre stations and more than 10,000 artist stations, all in high-quality  sound equal to HD and satellite radio. Users can create their own music  libraries using Slacker content.   Weather is one of the most frequently searched content sections  for any Web site, making the WeatherBug partnership  important to consumers. This free benefit includes one and three-day forecasts, continuous  emergency weather alerts and instant text-to-speech conversion from four synthesized voices.    (more)   Acoustic Research Introduces Infinite Radio ... Page 2    The ARIR200 Infinite Radio does double-duty as a high-performing Internet  radio and an alarm clock radio with wake-up options ranging from Internet to  terrestrial content and includes snooze and sleep options. It provides direct  access to Slacker Personal Radio and a pre-paid subscription to WeatherBug  service. Its stylish design looks as good on a desk as it does in a living room or  on a bedroom nightstand. The ARIR200 lets users listen to and rate songs using  the Heart, Ban and Tag options. It also has an AM/FM tuner with six    preset buttons per source. At retail mid-February. MSRP: $129.99.   The ARIR600i Infinite Radio is a high-performing Internet radio with an iPod dock. It includes  access to Slacker Personal Radio and a pre-paid WeatherBug service subscription, a -watt  subwoofer multi-room sound system for superior audio performance and doubles as an iPod®  dock for playback and charging. Six preset buttons per AM/FM source and a Remote control are  included. At retail mid-May. MSRP $199.99.   "At Acoustic Research, we were determined that our customer's Internet  radio experience would include content options that give superior access  to the Internet without sacrificing the consumer expectation for AR for  quality products and state of the art features and design. The AR Infinite  radio line combines the most basic elements like alarms and clock radio  features to the most sophisticated like USB/Ethernet connections for  networking and data transferring. They are easy to install and activate.  For our retail partners we have provided an easy to use gateway into  Internet radio that will open new sales and profit opportunities," Malone  concluded.   For the latest news from the Audiovox family of brands, visit www.AudiovoxNews.com.  Acoustic Research ARIR200   Acoustic Research ARIR600i

       

 