
 Subaru and Honda bit first, and now Acura has chosen the New York International Auto Show to reveal its newfangled tie-up with Harman. The cleverly-titled Aha infotainment platform -- which aims to "make web content safe for drivers" -- will soon be working its way into Acura motorcars, starting with the 2013 RLX. It'll be part of a revamped audio system, integrated via Bluetooth and able to provide drivers with access to "tens of thousands of audio stations, including web content like Internet radio, on-demand music, live news, podcasts, audio books, Facebook and Twitter newsfeeds, personalized points of interest information and much more." The Aha service is currently live in the US, Canada and Western Europe, and it sounds as if it's working hard to lure in other automakers in the near future. Pricing details are nowhere to be found, but go ahead and bank on needing that Technology package when it comes time to approach the dealership.
      

 

  Show full PR text  ACURA TO OFFER AHA'S CONNECTED INFOTAINMENT PLATFORM Aha's integration with Acura RLX will bring Web-based content safely to drivers, right through the radio  New York, NY – April 4, 2012 – Aha by HARMAN, the infotainment platform that makes Web content safe for drivers, has announced a partnership that will bring its highly personalized listening experience to drivers of Acura RLX vehicles beginning in model year 2013.  Aha, which lets drivers choose from tens of thousands of stations of Web-based content, will be part of an all-new audio system being offered in addition to Acura's award winning ELS Surround(R) sound system and will be integrated via Bluetooth(R) smart phone pairing. Acura joins Honda and Subaru as one of the first automakers to embed Aha's cutting-edge technology.  "Our vision to safely connect drivers to the latest Web content is being realized one leading automaker at a time," said Robert Acker, HARMAN VP and General Manager of Aha. "Acura is known for using the latest technology to improve the driving experience, and Aha is proud to be chosen as the platform that will connect RLX drivers to the Web in a way that makes sense at 65 miles per hour. Aha continually adds new stations in the cloud, so Acura can be sure its customers will be getting up-to-date infotainment for the life of their vehicles."  Aha is powering the Web-connected "fourth band" of radio, alongside terrestrial (AM/FM) and satellite radio. Aha users can choose from tens of thousands of audio stations, including web content like Internet radio, on-demand music, live news, podcasts, audio books, Facebook and Twitter newsfeeds, personalized points of interest information and much more. Aha delivers a unique infotainment experience by letting users prioritize the stations they want, and customize audio stations like "Hungry" and "Coffee" to suit their tastes. When Aha is connected to a compatible in-car entertainment system, the users' top stations become radio preset buttons, so drivers can put down the phone and safely switch between stations just like traditional radio. When they arrive at their destination and exit the car, users can continue enjoying their content from the smart phone.  The Aha service is currently live in the US, Canada, and Western Europe. The group is working with multiple automotive and consumer electronics manufacturers on additional integrations that will launch throughout the year  Aha representatives are available this week at the New York International Autoshow to demo the platform for press. Reporters who would like to schedule a live demo can email press@aharadio.com to book an appointment.  Aha is a part of HARMAN International (NYSE: HAR) the premium global audio and infotainment group. For more information, images and news, please visit Aha's online press room at http://www.aharadio.com/pressroom/.
 