
Wish that your beloved sportswear brand would bring its connected fitness app to your preferred smartphone platform? If your mind instantly substituted "Adidas" for the former and "Nokia" for the latter, then boom! You're in luck. Adi Dassler's firm is bringing its miCoach fitness app as an exclusive to Nokia's Windows Phone 8 devices. The app, already available on iOS and Android, lets you control playlists, use Bluetooth SMART (where available) for heart-rate monitoring and will even offer voice coaching from LA Galaxy's Omar Gonzalez. Now all we need is to scrape together the cash for a pair of adizeros and we're good to go.



Show full PR textAdidas launches next gen miCoach app for Nokia Lumia smartphones
Fitness app combines heart rate monitor and in-app playlists from Nokia Music to create customized personal training environment

[September 26, 2013] Nokia and Adidas today released the Adidas miCoach app, delivering a customized personal fitness experience through features exclusive to Nokia Lumia smartphones running Windows Phone 8. Adidas miCoach lets you choose training plans or create and track your workout progress, as well as get coaching feedback and see improvement as you work towards your own personal fitness goal.

"Adidas miCoach is a leading fitness app, and a true training accessory that is as personal to your body as the shoes you run in," said Bryan Biniak, VP & General Manager, Developer Experience, Nokia. "When combined with Nokia smartphones like the Lumia 620 with its protective cover and Bluetooth SMART connectivity, Adidas miCoach is the ideal personal coaching partner."

"This is a great partnership for miCoach; the Nokia Lumia Windows Phone is a great platform to give users a unique experience that combines engaging personal coaching with rich data visualisation," said Simon Drabble, Director, miCoach BU, adidas. "Hopefully through this new partnership even more athletes will join the miCoach family and start training smarter!"

Exercise adherence is one of the biggest challenges for many people embarking on a fitness goal, with as many as 80 percent* of people who begin an exercise program not sticking with it. Making training fun and varied, and tracking your progress towards your goal is not only very motivating, it also increases the likelihood that you will continue exercising. Adidas miCoach for Nokia Lumia helps keep your training fun, lets you monitor your progress, and helps make exercise habitual.

The fitness app combines several features unique to Lumia smartphones:

Nokia Music: Complete control of your Nokia Music playlists from within the Adidas miCoach app, letting you find just the right beat to accompany your trainingAdvanced Bluetooth Technology**: You can wirelessly connect a wearable heart rate monitor to your Lumia via Bluetooth SMART so you can exercise at the right level of intensityExclusive Athlete Coaching: Exclusive voice pack from Omar Gonzalez so you can be inspired by one of the world's greatest sportsmen while you trainmiCoach Live Tile: The top-screen miCoach live tile sets out your fitness objectives meaning you can track progress without having to even open the app, making your training program an integral part of your daily routineGPS-Enabled Route Tracking: HERE mapping to track your routes and share them with friends

The fitness app market is forecasted to grow by 63 percent by 2017 with global downloads of sports and fitness apps climbing from 156 million in 2012 to 248 million in 2017, according to IHS***. A survey of consumers conducted by IHS revealed that 62 percent of respondents interested in using sports and fitness apps also were prepared to purchase hardware such as wireless heart rate monitors that enhance the functionality of the software. The research also found that despite the abundance of sports, fitness and health apps available, the top 20 free apps in the category accounted for a cumulative total of 231 million installations as of April 2013.


