
Just a day after Nike launched the Fuelband SE, Adidas' head of interactive, Paul Gaudio, has just announced a new smartwatch at GigaOm's Mobilized conference in San Francisco. Primarily aimed at runners, he said that it'll have GPS and will not only measure speed and distance but also provide personal training coaching based on your heart rate thanks to the built-in heart rate sensor. This won't only show up on the screen, but there'll be audio coaching via Bluetooth headphones as well. Unlike other smartwatches, Gaudio says the watch can act as a standalone device and will have a media player onboard so you can use it to listen to music. We don't really know too much else about the watch, but we're assuming it's an extension of Adidas' existing miCoach fitness brand. We'll be sure to update this post once we find out more details. It'll launch on November 1st for $399, or £350 in the UK.


Update: Looks like Adidas' new device is called the miCoach SMART RUN. Curious folks can check out the press release after the break for more details.




Show full PR textAdidas revolutionizes the running watchmiCoach SMART RUN Gives Runners Everything They Need in One DevicePORTLAND, Ore., October 16, 2013 – adidas introduces the miCoach SMART RUN, the most advanced and intuitive wrist based running device on the market, available November 1. For the first time, runners of all abilities will be able to track their runs using GPS mapping, monitor their heart rate off their wrist, listen to their favorite music and get real-time coaching in a single, simple, color touch screen running watch.

There are no cables, straps or additional sensors with this unique all-in-one device. SMART RUN uses optical technology to track your heart rate from your wrist. A built-in accelerometer counts every step so you can monitor your stride rate. GPS tracks your speed, distance and logs your route and an MP3 player with Bluetooth® wireless audio delivers music and audible coaching guidance, eliminating headphone cables and music players.

"By combining the latest innovations, such as the Mio Wrist Based Continuous Heart Rate Technology, design and ease of use navigation, we consciously broke the template that defines other running watches," said Simon Drabble, director of miCoach at adidas.

"But it's not just that which sets us apart from the competition. As part of the miCoach training system, it truly unlocks human potential by making smart training easy and accessible. Whether you're starting a new running program, training for a 10k or competing in another marathon, miCoach SMART RUN will make your training more efficient so you get the results you want," continued Drabble.

Interval (or zone) training is the best way to improve strength, speed and endurance. The miCoach system is founded on this concept with 4 colored zones – blue, green, yellow and red. SMART RUN uses these zones to coach you throughout your workout. Guidance comes in various forms including vibration, through the 1.45" color touch screen display and, if you are using a Bluetooth headset, the coach will tell you to speed up or slow down.

Drabble continued, "Many runners fail to get the most out of their current running watches. Building training plans, transferring workouts and personalizing display information is cumbersome with these devices. With SMART RUN we change this. It is fully integrated with our web platform so training plans, completed workouts and settings are synced."

Smart training is not just about intervals. You will need to combine cardio with strength and flexibility to get the results you want and SMART RUN excels here too. More than 400 anatomically correct animations combine to make hundreds of workouts and plans. The animations play right on the watch helping to guide you correctly through each repetition and circuit.

"The completeness and simplicity of Smart Run is astounding," said Terrence Mahon, Lead Endurance Coach, UK Athletics Federation. "The visual and audible guidance for interval training is a leap forward from any other watch available. Another aspect that is often overlooked by runners is how important strength and flexibility workouts are in realizing performance gain and reducing injuries. To have this guidance on the watch too is truly groundbreaking."

Unrivalled in innovation and feature-set, the miCoach SMART RUN features premium design language and fine styling, including athletic lines, stainless steel trim, high performance guerrilla glass and magnesium.

The miCoach SMART RUN is the latest innovation to help athletes track their performance, learn and improve. Available in November on adidas.com, miCoach SMART RUN is $399.


