
  Keeping its promise to include iOS users in the Photoshop-enabled slate party, Adobe has announced the arrival of its Photoshop Touch iPad app today at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Sporting a number of core PS features and new tools especially designed for use on tablets, the new release joins the Adobe Touch Apps family with further iOS software expected to drop in the coming months. This mobile version of Photoshop enables users to create layered images from several different photos, make edits, apply pro-style effects, touch up photos and carry out several other essential tasks directly on their Apple slate.A Scribble Selection Tool makes for easy deletion of unwanted objects simply by scribbling on what's a keeper and then on what needs to go. Refine Edge technology offers some help for those tedious soft-edged selections and integration with both Facebook and Google Image Search makes sharing your edits a breeze. The aforementioned upcoming iOS releases include Collage (moodboards), Debut (presenting and reviewing work), Ideas (sketches), Kuler (color exploration) and Proto (web and mobile application prototyping). But for now, you can snag Photoshop Touch for your iOS 5 wielding iPad 2 from the iTunes App Store for $9.99. If you're in search of some more details before taking the leap, hit the gallery of screenshots or the full PR below.





    Show full PR text  Adobe Photoshop Touch Now Available for iPad  Highly Anticipated App Brings Image-editing Power of Photoshop to Apple iPad 2   BARCELONA, Spain - Feb. 27, 2012 - At Mobile World Congress, Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq: ADBE) today announced that Adobe速 Photoshop速 Touch is now available for iPad 2, via the iTunes App Store*. Adobe Photoshop Touch core Photoshop features, as well as new capabilities for creating and sharing in an app custom-built for tablets. The app is a central  component of Adobe Touch Apps, a family of six intuitive touch screen applications, inspired by Adobe Creative Suite速 software. iPad versions of the other Adobe Touch Apps are expected later this year.   Photoshop Touch gives users the ability to combine multiple photos into layered images, make essential edits and apply professional effects to create beautiful artwork, touch up photos, paint, lay out ideas, and much more. The Scribble Selection Tool allows users to easily extract objects in an image by simply scribbling on what to keep and, then, what to remove. With Refine Edge technology from Photoshop, even hard-to-select areas with soft edges are easily captured when making selections. Photoshop Touch helps users quickly find images and share creations through integration with Facebook and Google Image Search.   "People will be amazed with what they can create on the iPad using Photoshop Touch," said David Wadhwani, senior vice president and general manager, Digital Media Business Unit, Adobe. "Photoshop Touch combines the magic of Photoshop and its core features with the convenience of a tablet, bringing image-editing power to the fingertips of millions of people."   "Adobe Photoshop Touch offers a huge convenience factor and funnels cool Photoshop features tailored for the iPad," said Brian Yap, creative director at Boxing Clever. "Nearly all of the features I imagined being in Photoshop Touch are there, including the depth in layers, the extraction tools, and fade tool."   "I love the organic process of working on the tablet. With Adobe Photoshop Touch, I have a new form of image creation with familiar tools but in a more relaxed work space, allowing me to rediscover image making through play rather than production," Dan Marcolino, owner of Marcolina Design & MarcolinaSlate.   In addition to Photoshop Touch, Adobe expect to release the following touch apps for the iPad in the coming months: Adobe Collage for moodboards; Adobe Debut for presenting and reviewing creative work; Adobe Ideas for sketching; Adobe Kuler速 for exploring color themes; and Adobe Proto for website and mobile app prototyping.   Pricing and Availability  Adobe Photoshop Touch is available today in the iTunes App Store for US$9.99. Photoshop Touch is available in most geographies with English language support. The app will run on iPad 2 running on iOS5. Visit www.adobe.com/products/photoshop-touch.html for more information on Photoshop Touch. Customers may submit feedback on the community powered feedback site: http://feedback.photoshop.com/photoshop_family. Users may also connect with the  Photoshop Touch Team directly on Facebook, via Twitter or on the Photoshop blog. For Photoshop Touch how-to videos, visit http://tv.adobe.com/show/learn-photoshop-touch/. 
 