
As big as Adobe is in the software space, the company only announced last spring that it planned to dive into hardware, starting with a cloud-connected stylus and a drafting ruler. The Ink and Slide, as they're called, are accessories that allow the company's creative-pro customers access to Adobe's Creative Cloud service on mobile devices. Now, the final versions are available in the US, and as you might expect, Adobe has a smattering of companion apps in tow for making the most out of what could otherwise be a dear $199 purchase. With hoards of more affordable styli to choose from, are Adobe's efforts really worth the premium? As is often the case, the answer's a bit more nuanced than a simple "yes" or "no."





Hardware
When Adobe first pulled the wraps off its stylus and ruler, then code-named Project Mighty and Napoleon, the two devices already had near-final hardware. They're still wrapped in aluminum with white plastic accents where the tools come in contact with your tablet screen. This means the add-ons match white variants of the iPad Air, iPad mini and fourth-gen iPad well. It also gives the two a premium look, especially compared to other stylii, most of which are fashioned entirely out of plastic. Unfortunately, the metal surfaces here scuff about as easily as Apple's devices, too. Indeed, something as simple as transporting the Ink and Slide in the same backpack compartment could produce some wear and tear.

Thankfully, there's a lipstick-style plastic tube for the Ink stylus, an accessory that allows for both recharging and safekeeping. The end snaps magnetically into the cap where there's a micro-USB port for charging. Ink takes about an hour to fully juice up and is rated for around eight hours, allowing you to get through a full workday before plugging in again. Unfortunately, since the ruler doesn't need to be charged, it doesn't get its own storage accessory; you'll have to find your own way of protecting it from scratches, I'm afraid. Getting back to Ink, though, the same end that plugs into the cap for recharging also sports a multi-color LED, serving as an indicator for when the stylus is on and has been connected to an iPad. When charging, that light becomes a colored ring that indicates the charge status on the case itself. The same indicator can even be customized for a particular user so that in an office full of mobile sketch artists, you aren't picking up someone else's device.


Ink's overall triangular shape twists as you move down from the top to the tip and, to me, this design cue allows for a nicer feel in the hand than a straight, wedge-like design would have offered. Not only does it handle nicely, but it also allows you to comfortably rest an index finger on the topside button while working. That button -- a single, circular concave spot -- allows quick access to tools inside the companion apps without the need to swipe through a menu mid-doodle (more on that in a bit). All told, the pen is a little larger than a regular Sharpie (read: more like a marker than an ink pen) and, as you can tell, its thick shape actually makes it more comfortable to use.

Ink also features a much smaller tip than other styli I've used in the past. You know the ones: rounded, rubber-tip affairs that feel more like a marker than a pencil or fine-point pen. That's not the case here. Ink's point is a hair larger than a ballpoint pen's or graphite pencil's tip, but it allows for more accurate control thanks to its diminutive stature. Those who need to wrangle fine line work when sketching on an iPad should be quite happy with the hardware here. Sure, most drawing apps allow you to select a thin line from the options menu, but fine strokes with a stubby rubber stylus never felt comfortable to me, and it's the main reason I haven't really dove into tablet sketching. Additionally, Ink packs Adonit's Pixelpoint tech that allows for a skinnier tip with "thousands" of levels of pressure sensitivity. It also does a better job recreating the feel of a pen on paper as you're gliding across your tablet screen, but you'll still notice how slick the glass is.


When Adobe offered the first look at Slide, the short ruler had a collection of buttons on its top for each bank of shapes for straight-line drawing. Those controls have been reduced to a single concave button like on the Ink, only a bit larger to fit the extra space comfortably. You can select several libraries of shapes from within Adobe's mobile apps, and you can use the surface toggle to sort through the options before placing the desired shape or drawing those clean lines manually. Those collections include Herman Miller furniture, gadgets, UI elements and more, which should come in handy for tasks ranging from interior design to mobile-app planning. Though I thought the Slide's glossy feet would slide around, making it difficult to hold steady while sketching, I was pleasantly surprised to find that's not the case. Slide can be moved around with ease, yet it doesn't budge when you apply pressure. It's also just a bit longer than a USB thumb drive, so it'll be easy to pack away in the pocket of your backpack.

Setup and use
Once you turn Bluetooth on, you can pair Ink with the iPad from Adobe's own Sketch and Line apps (more on those in the software section). It's here that you can also choose from three palm-rejection settings, toggle Slide detection and configure the LED color. Connect your Ink device by pressing down on an on-screen circle for about five to seven seconds. Once the unit has been paired, you can use it in any of the supported apps, and it will remain active until you connect another Adobe pen. The whole process is quick and I never encountered any snags when trying to get the stylus and tablet ready for work. What's more, because they stay connected, I was able to pick up both devices in the morning and immediately resume where I had left off the night before.

While you can certainly use Ink and Slide without a Creative Cloud account, signing into one brings stored color palettes, Cloud Clipboard, access to saved files and the ability to share via Behance from your tablet. I found this particularly handy when working on projects that already had established color schemes. I was able to keep things color-coordinated from the start, and could grab existing assets for more accurate previews. Ink's onboard button offers access to Kuler swatches, drawing tools, Cloud Clipboard, palm rejection and sharing with a single click right on the pen. It handles copy/paste functions too, and that clipboard can be accessed across devices. For example, you can copy a sketch on your iPad mini, then connect Ink to a pal's iPad Air and drop the scribble inside Sketch there. As with any new hardware/software tandem, there's a slight learning curve, but Adobe has kept the controls simple and straightforward, so that even novice illustrators should be able to pick them up quickly.

Software
By now, you've surely noticed that we mentioned the iPad a few times during review. No, that's not an indication of our bias for all things Cupertino; it's a heads-up that these devices and their apps are iPad-only... for now, anyway. Adobe has always favored Apple with its mobile apps, on account of the fact that a large portion of its customers prefer Macs and iDevices. However, I was told that depending on consumer demand once Ink and Slide launch, companion apps for other platforms could eventually follow. There's no indication that these bits of software are already in the works, so once the decision is made, it could take some time before you get to use these tools on an Android or Windows slate. Actually, if we're getting technical, the Ink stylus will work with other OSes now, but just as a regular ol' capacitive stylus. 




