
 The Advent Vega was never the most polished Android tablet in the world -- after all, we had to rely on a custom ROM just to get native Android Market access -- but a reasonable price tag and NVIDIA's Tegra 2 has still made it hard to resist. For those who've managed to snag one already, you may have noticed that the Flash playback isn't exactly... awesome. That's probably because the version loaded onto already-shipped versions isn't certified by Adobe, and in order to fend off future complaints, the company's yanking Flash Player entirely from newly-shipping models for the time being. The certification process is apparently underway, and the outfit expects Vega tablets shipped "in the early part of 2011" to have a green-lit build pre-installed; as for everyone else, they'll be provided a gratis update as soon as it can be pushed out onto the interwebs. Head on past the break for the full statement.
      

 

Show full PR textImportant update on the Advent VegaThe Advent Vega has an nVidia Tegra 2 dual core 1GHz processor, but we have just learned that the version of Adobe® Flash® Player 10.1 installed on the tablet has not completed the required certification tests by Adobe.Adobe certification is a process of testing the Adobe Flash Player on the device to ensure a consistently high user experience and compatibility with common websites e.g. iPlayer and 4 on Demand.We would like to reassure customers who have already purchased an Advent Vega, which included an uncertified version of the Adobe Flash Player 10.1; that we stand behind the quality of these tablets. However, we do need to obtain a properly certified version of the Adobe Flash Player 10.1 before pre-installing it onto further models.The certification process is currently underway and we estimate this will be complete in the early part of 2011.New stocks of Advent Vegas purchased after 13th December 2010 will not have Adobe Flash Player 10.1 pre-installed, but we will be providing a seamless and free-of-charge download of the certified version as soon as it is available. This download will also be available as an update to users who have already obtained the Advent Vega which includes the uncertified Flash Player 10.1.What does this mean for me? a)	If you have purchased an Advent Vega prior to 13th December 2010Your device has an uncertified version of Adobe Flash Player 10.1. As a result, it may have not exhibit the optimal performance that the nVidia Tegra 2 processor is capable of running with certain Flash website content.Once we obtain a certified version of Flash Player 10.1 for the Advent Vega, we will provide a seamless, free-of-charge download to this version. The certified software will be available to download from our website. http://www.myadventvega.co.ukb)	If you are planning to purchase an Advent Vega from 13th December 2010 onwardsYour device will be shipped without the Adobe Flash Player 10.1 pre-installed. As soon as we obtain certification for Adobe Flash Player 10.1 we will provide a seamless, free-of- charge download from our website. http://www.myadventvega.co.ukWhat do I do next? For all customers we recommend registering your Advent Vega athttp://www.myadventvega.co.uk.Registering your Advent Vega will ensure we have your email address and contact details up to date. Once we have a certified version of Flash Player 10.1 available we will email all customers with an easy to follow set of instructions to install the new software and enable hardware accelerated Flash Player 10.1 support on your Advent Vega.
 