
Online TV streaming service Aereo is going Manifest Destiny and headed westward, specifically to the fine state of Utah. The service is set to launch statewide on August 19th, just ahead of its September launch in Chicago. "Whether you live in Salt Lake City, St. George or Ogden," the company's PR announcement reads, indicating that the service isn't localized to any one major metropolitan area (like with previous rollouts).


Should you self-identify as a "Utahn" and have interest in getting signed up, you can pre-register at Aereo's main site and get "priority access" when the service launches next month. For a look at which networks will be offered, head below for the official word from Aereo.



Show full PR textAEREO ANNOUNCES LAUNCH DATE FOR UTAHStarting August 19, more than 2.8 million Utahns will have access toAereo's innovative antenna/DVR technology to record and watch live television onlineLong Island City, New York (July 22, 2013) – Aereo, Inc., today announced plans to launch its groundbreaking online television technology in Utah on August 19. Aereo's announcement follows its expansion earlier this summer to the Boston and Atlanta metropolitan areas. The company also plans to launch its technology in Chicago on September 13."We're excited to be launching our technology in Utah, or what is fast becoming known as the Silicon Slopes," said Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia. "Utahns are connected, tech-savvy and interested in innovations that can add value to their lives. When it comes to how you watch television, Aereo's technology will bring more choice and flexibility to Utahns across the state, whether you live in Salt Lake City, St. George or Ogden. We believe consumers want and deserve a better television experience and our work is focused on delivering the best customer experience with the highest quality technology."Utahns who pre-register at Aereo.com will receive priority access to sign up. Aereo's technology will be available to all consumers across all 29 counties on August 19.Aereo's innovative remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user-friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing.In Utah, consumers will be able to use Aereo's unique antenna/DVR technology, to record and watch major networks such as KSTU-HD (FOX), KSL-DT (NBC), KUTV-HD (CBS), KTVX-HD (ABC) and KUED-HD (PBS), as well as other over-the-air special interest and foreign language channels, including BYU-TV, AntennaTV, ION, Qubo, Estrella TV and others. In addition, consumers will also have the ability to add Bloomberg Television.Aereo membership begins at $8 per month, for access to Aereo's cloud-based antenna/DVR technology and 20 hours of DVR storage. For an additional $4, consumers can upgrade their subscription and receive 60 hours of DVR storage for a total of $12 per month. Consumers who join Aereo will get their first of month of access for free.Aereo's technology works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices. Android support is expected later this summer.To learn more about Aereo's technology and how to pre-register, visit Aereo.com.


