
 Aereo's fledgling broadcast streaming service is getting a huge boost today with the news that it's now available to the 19 or so million residents in the New York "designated market area." In short, that means that it can now be used in New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania as well as within the five boroughs. Aereo's still intending to reach a further 22 cities later this year, and you'll soon be able to see adverts for the service popping up all over NYC -- so if your luddite colleagues suddenly start talking about "this Aereo TV thingy," you know why.



  Show full PR text   AEREO ANNOUNCES EXPANSION OF CONSUMER ACCESS TO ITS GROUNDBREAKING TECHNOLOGY ACROSS THE NEW YORK CITY GREATER METROPOLITAN AREA
   Aereo's technology is now available to more than 19 million people in 29 countiesacross the New York City greater metropolitan area, providing consumers increased access to free-to-air, local broadcast television

  New York, NY (February 25, 2013) – Aereo, Inc., today announced that its groundbreaking television technology is now available to the more than 19 million people living in the New York City metropolitan area. The New York City metropolitan region, commonly referred to as a designated market area (DMA), includes 29 counties across New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania. Previously, Aereo was only available to residents of New York City's five boroughs. The expansion into the NYC metropolitan areas comes less than two months after the company's announcement in January of its intention to expand to 22 additional markets in 2013.

   Aereo's innovative remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing. Getting started with Aereo is easy. Simply go online to aereo.com to create an account. There is no box to install or any wires to connect, so consumers don't have to worry about installing equipment or waiting for the 'cable guy.' No cable subscription is required to use Aereo and membership plans begin at $1/day, $8/month or $80/year

   Aereo works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices. In the New York City metro area, there are 30 over-the-air broadcast channels available to consumers using Aereo's technology. In addition, consumers can also add Bloomberg Television, for a total of 31 channels

   "Creating more choice and a competitive marketplace is a good thing for consumers," said Chet Kanojia, Aereo CEO and Founder. "Today, consumers are tethered to expensive and outdated technology that limits how, when and where they can enjoy their own television programming. Aereo's technology now lets us provide simplicity, ease of use and rational pricing – three things that have all but disappeared for the consumer. We believe that consumers deserve better and we're committed to delivering on that promise."

   Aereo today also announced the launch of its first advertising campaign, which debuts on city billboards, phone kiosks and at key city transit points, including waterways, commuter trains and PATH transit hubs this week.

   (more)

   Aereo membership is available to consumers residing in the following counties in New York State, New York, Bronx, Kings, Queens, Richmond, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Putnam, Rockland, Ulster, Sullivan, Orange, Dutchess; in Connecticut's Fairfield County; in Pennsylvania's Pike County; and in the following counties in New Jersey, Bergen, Warren, Union, Sussex, Somerset, Passaic, Ocean, Morris, Monmouth, Middlesex, Hunterdon, Hudson, and Essex. For a full list of eligible zip codes, visit: aereo.com/support.

 
