
Considering that the launch of its Android app was meant to happen last month, it's no surprise to see Aereo push the date back by a few weeks. The broadcaster-baiting online TV service will now launch on October 22nd, in all areas where Aereo has coverage, albeit in the form of a public beta. While you may be disappointed to wait a few more days, on the upside, users will now be able to connect their account to a Roku box via the new software -- assuming, of course, some litigious TV executive doesn't spoil our fun beforehand.



Show full PR textAereo Announces Release of Android App
The New Android App Will Open Up a Wider Range of Devices Consumers Can Use to Access Aereo's Groundbreaking Antenna/DVR Technology

LONG ISLAND CITY, NY--(Marketwired - Oct 10, 2013) - Aereo, Inc., today announced that it will release its first Android app, available for download in the Google Play store, on October 22, 2013. The app, which will be released in a public beta, will be available to Aereo members residing in markets where Aereo's technology has launched. The Aereo app will be compatible with phones, phablets and tablets running Android operating system 4.2 or higher. Aereo members will also now be able to connect a Roku box to their Aereo account using their Android device.

"We know consumers have been waiting a long time for an Aereo Android app and today, we're happy to announce its release later this month," said Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia. "At Aereo, we believe consumers should have more choice and control over how they watch television and a big part of that is expanding the universe of devices that they can use to access Aereo's technology. This year, our focus has been on growing our footprint across the country. It's been an exciting year for the Aereo team as we've expanded beyond the east coast and into the south and west. Our future is bright and we remain as committed and passionate as ever to creating innovative and simple to use technology for our consumers to access live TV online."

Aereo's remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user-friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing. Aereo's technology works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. In addition to the Android app, Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices.

Aereo is currently available to consumers residing in the following metropolitan areas: New York City, Boston, Atlanta, Salt Lake City, Miami, Houston and Dallas. Aereo will launch additional cities throughout the remainder of 2013 and into 2014. To see if your city is on the list visit: aereo.com/coverage.

Downloading the app is free. Aereo membership begins at $8 per month, for access to Aereo's cloud-based antenna/DVR technology and 20 hours of DVR storage. For an additional $4, consumers can upgrade their membership and receive 60 hours of DVR storage for a total of $12 per month. Consumers who join Aereo will get their first month of access for free.


