
Aereo spent much of the summer expanding its presence in southern states, but it's swinging its attention back to northern climes today. The TV streaming provider just revealed that it will launch in the Detroit metropolitan area on October 28th. Motor City viewers can pre-register for a chance to subscribe ahead of the public launch, with service starting at $8 per month for access to over 20 local channels that include ABC, Fox and NBC. The rollout is just one of many this year, but it's well-timed for Android fans; Detroit should be the first city to get Aereo service following the Android app launch on October 22nd.



Show full PR textAereo Announces Launch Date for Detroit Metro Area
Starting October 28, More Than 4.2 Million Consumers Across Michigan Will Have Access to Aereo's Innovative Antenna/DVR Technology to Record and Watch Live Television Online
LONG ISLAND CITY, NY--(Marketwired - Oct 18, 2013) - Aereo, Inc., today announced plans to launch its groundbreaking online television technology in the Detroit metropolitan area on October 28. The Detroit metro area includes nine counties across Michigan and more than 4.2 million consumers. Aereo's announcement follows its expansion earlier this year to the Boston, Atlanta, Miami, Salt Lake City, Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas and the announcement that it would release an Android app next week. Aereo also plans to announce additional launch dates for its expansion cities throughout the remainder of the 2013.
"We're thrilled to be launching in the Detroit metro area, the birthplace of Motown and the Motor City," said Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia. "Across the country, the message from consumers is clear: they want more choice and flexibility when it comes to how they watch television and they don't want to be fenced into outdated and cumbersome technology. Aereo's cloud-based antenna/DVR technology brings the old-fashioned antenna into the 21st Century, making television watching simple again."
Detroit metro area residents who pre-register at Aereo.com will receive priority access to sign up. Aereo's technology will be available to all consumers across the nine-county area on October 28.
Aereo's innovative remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user-friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing.
In the Detroit metropolitan region, consumers will be able to use Aereo's unique antenna/DVR technology to record and watch more than 20 over-the-air channels including major networks such WJBK (Fox), WDIV (NBC), WXYZ (ABC), WTVS (PBS); and special interest channels such as BounceTV, MOVIES!, ThisTV, MyNetworkTV, AntennaTV and Qubo (children's programming). In addition, consumers will also have the ability to add Bloomberg Television.
Aereo membership begins at $8 per month, for access to Aereo's cloud-based antenna/DVR technology and 20 hours of DVR storage. For an additional $4, consumers can upgrade their membership and receive 60 hours of DVR storage for a total of $12 per month. Consumers who join Aereo will get their first of month of access for free.
Aereo's technology works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod touch and devices running Android operating system version 4.2 or higher. The Aereo Android app will be available for download from the Google Play Store on October 22. Aereo is also supported on Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices.
Aereo membership will be available to consumers residing in the following nine counties in Michigan: Lapeer, Livingston, Macomb, Monroe, Oakland, Sanilac, Saint Clair, Washtenaw and Wayne.
To learn more about Aereo's technology and how to pre-register, visit Aereo.com.

