
 
 Broadcast-streaming startup Aereo is busting out tweaked price plans and a free trial for New Yorkers to try the service gratis for an hour a day. $8 per month will buy you unlimited access, live pause, rewind and 20 hours online DVR, while $12 a month doubles your storage allocation to 40 hours. Annual customers can pay $80 (plus tax, naturally) to get a deep discount off the monthly price, but for the commitment-phobic viewer, 24-hours access can be purchased for a dollar, or you can try the service for an hour each and every day without need of a sign up. Unfortunately, due to legal wrangling, it's only available within the boundaries of New York City on any iOS, OS X, AppleTV or Roku devices. There's PR and Video after the jump if you're yet to be convinced -- but think, now you catch all of Good Morning America as you walk down Broadway.



   Show full PR text   AEREO UNVEILS NEW, FLEXIBLE PRICING STRUCTURE AND Aereo Try for Free – SIMPLE, EASY WAYS TO EXPERIENCE AEREO'S INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY   Aereo rolls out a new pricing structure for consumers that includes a $1 day pass,  $8 and $12 monthly plans and an $80 annual plan   Aereo Try For Free provides consumers an easy, commitment-free way of experiencing Aereo's technology for one hour each day, free of charge  NEW YORK, NY (August 2, 2012) – Aereo, Inc. today announced a new membership pricing structure that provides consumers with more choice and flexibility to experience Aereo's groundbreaking television technology. In addition, the company also announced a new feature called Aereo Try for Free, which allows consumers the ability to access Aereo's technology for a continuous one-hour period each day, free of charge. Aereo membership is currently only available to residents of New York City and the Aereo Try For Free feature is only available to people physically present in New York.   Aereo's innovative technology allows consumers to access live broadcast television on compatible Internet connected devices, at home or on the go. With Aereo, there is no application to download and no box to install, so consumers can root for the home team, catch a newsbreak or watch their favorite broadcast programs with ease. An Aereo consumer uses a remotely located individual antenna and DVR, so users never have to worry about installing equipment or waiting for the 'cable guy.' Aereo is currently available to residents of New York City and is supported on iPad, iPhone, Safari on MacBook, AppleTV and Roku.   "We know that one size does not fit all, that's why we've designed our new pricing structure to work for a wide variety of lifestyles," said Aereo CEO Chet Kanojia. "Whether you want a day pass to watch the 'big game' on your mobile device or an annual membership that provides you with 40 hours of DVR storage, we have a plan that works for you. Our pricing is designed to work with the consumer – not against them."   Aereo Try for Free is simple to use and provides consumers access to live broadcast television free for an hour each day. For example, if your Aereo Try for Free use begins at 2PM, your access will continue to 3PM. While the Aereo Try for Free feature is free, as with any Aereo plan, users are responsible for any relevant data charges. Getting started is simple: Visit Aereo.com, create a login and password and, subject to capacity, consumers can begin using Aereo Try For Free immediately. There is no credit card to enter, but users must be located within New York City to use Aereo Try for Free.

   All Aereo users, including Aereo Try for Free will be able to use Aereo's remote antenna/DVR technology to watch broadcast television live and to pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching, just as you can with "live" television on a home DVR. With Aereo Try For Free, consumers make recordings of their programming for live play but those recordings are not retained after viewing and there is no DVR storage for future recordings. However, with a paid Aereo membership (day pass, monthly & annual memberships), consumers get live broadcast television, as well as access to remote DVR storage, based on membership level. Aereo Try For Free users are able to upgrade at any time to a membership plan.   Aereo announced its new pricing structure two weeks after federal Judge Alison J. Nathan issued a ruling denying a motion for a preliminary injunction against Aereo filed in February 2012 by a group of 17 network broadcasters.

   Aereo believes that consumers have a fundamental right to access over the air television that broadcasts on the public airwaves, and that enhancing and supporting public access to that local broadcast signal is important. Aereo allows consumers portable and simple access to that broadcast television signal. In times of emergencies and breaking news, access to timely, live information is crucial. Aereo can serve as another avenue for the public to access that important information.   In New York City, there are currently 28 broadcast channels available over-the-air, including major networks such as WABC, WNBC, WCBS, WNYW-FOX, WPIX-11, WNET-PBS, and PBS Kids, special interest channels such as NYC.GOV, NYC-LIFE, Ion and Qubo, and foreign language broadcast channels such as Telemundo, Azteca, Telefutura, Univision, Sinovision, NTDTV and CGN-TV. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, Safari on MacBook, AppleTV and Roku. Additional device support, including PC's and Android is expected later this summer. For more information on devices and a full list of available channels, please visit: Aereo.com.

 
