
Between Chicago Hope, Chicago Fire and, erm, The Chicago Code, the Windy City's got a strong pedigree in television drama. That's why it makes perfect sense that streaming TV service Aereo is coming to the Chicagoland area of Illinois on September 13th. As with Aereo's other launches, users will be able to watch the local ABC, NBC, CBS and Fox (yup) affiliates on your computer, smartphone and tablet -- with DVR add-ons starting at $8 a month. At the same time, we've also heard a rumor that Aereo CEO Chet Kanojia has revealed that the service would launch in Washington D.C. at some point in August, and we'll keep an ear to the ground to see if that's true.



Show full PR textAEREO ANNOUNCES LAUNCH DATE FOR CHICAGO
Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia announces launch date at the third annual

TechWeek Chicago, the Midwest's largest technology conference

More than 9.5 million Chicagoland consumers will have access to Aereo's innovative antenna/DVR technology to record and watch live television online

Chicago, Illinois (June 27, 2013) – Aereo, Inc., today announced plans to launch its groundbreaking online television technology in the Chicagoland area on September 13, continuing the company's nationwide rollout. The expansion to Chicago will cover 16 counties across Illinois and Indiana. Aereo's technology is currently available to consumers residing in the New York City, Boston and Atlanta designated market areas (DMA). Aereo's CEO and Founder, Chet Kanojia, will make the announcement today during a main stage Q&A at TechWeek Chicago, the annual technology summit held at Chicago's famed Merchandise Mart.

"There's no place like Chicago and we're excited to be launching in this world-class city in September," said Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia. "Consumers want more choice and flexibility when it comes to how they watch television and the enthusiastic response to our technology from people across the country has been humbling. At Aereo, we feel that we've built something meaningful for consumers and we're proud of the work we've accomplished. However, there's still much more to come as we continue our expansion into new cities throughout the summer and fall."

Aereo's innovative remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user-friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing. In Chicago, consumers will be able to use Aereo's unique antenna/DVR technology, to record and watch major networks such WLS-TV (ABC), WFLD-TV (FOX), WMAQ-TV (NBC), WBBM-TV (CBS) and WYCC (PBS), as well as other other-the-air special interest and foreign language channels. In addition, consumers can also add Bloomberg Television.

Aereo works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices. Android support is expected later this year.

Aereo membership will be available to consumers residing in the following counties in Illnois: Cook, DeKalb, DuPage, Grundy, Kane, Kankakee, Kendall, La Salle, Lake, McHenry and Will counties and in Jasper, La Porte, Lake, Newton and Porter counties in Indiana.

Aereo membership begins at $8 per month, for access to Aereo's cloud-based antenna/DVR technology and 20 hours of DVR storage. For an additional $4, consumers can upgrade their membership and receive 60 hours of DVR storage for a total of $12 per month. Consumers who join Aereo will get their first of month of access for free. To learn more about Aereo's technology and how to pre-register, visit Aereo.com.


