
For a company's that's mired in legal red tape, Aereo's nationwide expansion isn't showing any signs of slowing. The streaming service, which uses an antenna / DVR system to deliver local broadcast stations, will soon launch in three additional major cities -- Houston and Dallas-Ft. Worth, TX; Miami, FL -- in a rollout scheduled to complete by the end of September. Interested parties can head to Aereo's site now to get a leg up on pre-registration for the service, with rates starting at $8/mo for 20 hours of DVR storage. Take note, the first month's gratis, but after that it's the same old subscription ball-and-chain just like any other. And, hey, at least this is one way to guarantee Moonves' content kingdom and his trusty Chenbot still have a home on your flatscreen or iPad or, you know, device.



Show full PR textAEREO ANNOUNCES LAUNCH DATE FOR MIAMIStarting September 2, more than five million South Floridians will have access to Aereo's innovative antenna/DVR technology to record and watch live television onlineLong Island City, New York (August 8, 2013) – Aereo, Inc., today announced plans to launch its groundbreaking online television technology in the Miami metropolitan area on September 2, covering Broward, Miami-Dade and Monroe counties. Aereo's announcement follows its expansion earlier this summer to the Boston and Atlanta metropolitan areas. The company also plans to launch its technology in Utah on August 19, Chicago on September 13, Houston on September 16 and Dallas on September 23.

"South Florida is a thriving and dynamic community and we're thrilled to be joining it," said Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia. "Consumers want more choice and flexibility when it comes to how they watch television. Aereo is the easiest, most convenient way for consumers to access broadcast television online using an antenna. Consumers deserve choice and we believe we've built something that will have a meaningful and positive impact for consumers. We're excited for our launch in South Florida and look forward to moving forward with our nationwide expansion."South Floridians who pre-register at Aereo.com will receive priority access to sign up. Aereo's technology will be available to all consumers in the three-county area on September 2.Aereo's innovative remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user-friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing.In South Florida, consumers will be able to use Aereo's unique antenna/DVR technology, to record and watch major networks such as WFOR (CBS), WPBT (PBS), WTVJ (NBC), WSVN (FOX) and WPLG (ABC), as well as other over-the-air special interest and foreign language channels, including Telemundo, Univision, EstrellaTV, The CW, AntennaTV, Qubo, ION and many others. In addition, consumers will also have the ability to add Bloomberg Television.Aereo membership begins at $8 per month, for access to Aereo's cloud-based antenna/DVR technology and 20 hours of DVR storage. For an additional $4, consumers can upgrade their subscription and receive 60 hours of DVR storage for a total of $12 per month. Consumers who join Aereo will get their first of month of access for free.Aereo's technology works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices. Android support is expected later this summer.To learn more about Aereo's technology and how to pre-register, visit Aereo.com.


