
 

We've been eager to try out Aereo's TV streaming service, which sends live broadcast content to devices over the internet. But the service has had at least one significant flaw: it's only available to subscribers in the New York City area. That will soon change when it heads to Boston on May 15th, though, and the streaming service has now announced that the rates will be changing slightly then as well. The base plan, which includes unlimited streaming and 20 hours of DVR storage, will remain unchanged at $8 per month, but the $12 monthly tariff will include 60 hours of storage, compared to the 40 hours Aereo previously offered.


And that's it -- no more $1 daily or $80 yearly plans, though that latter option is still available until the new structure goes live on Wednesday. The service is supported on iOS, Chrome, IE 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Roku devices, though those geographic restrictions keep the access pool quite limited. New Yorkers can take the service for a spin today, Bostonians will get the green light come May 15th, and the rest of you can see what you're missing in the demo video after the break.


 

Show full PR textAEREO UNVEILS A NEW, SIMPLER PRICING STRUCTURE FOR CONSUMERSNew pricing plan simplifies Aereo access, making it easier for consumers to start using and enjoying an antenna to watch television againLong Island City, New York (May 13, 2013) – Aereo, Inc., today announced a new simplified pricing structure. Starting with a base plan of $8 per month, consumers will have access to Aereo's groundbreaking cloud-based antenna/DVR technology and 20 hours of DVR storage. For an additional $4 dollars, consumers can upgrade their membership and receive 60 hours of DVR storage for a total of $12 per month. The streamlined pricing plan requires no long-term commitment and eliminates the previous annual and day plans.Additionally, all new Aereo consumers will receive their first month of membership for free, with full-featured functionality, allowing consumers to record and watch live TV or save recordings for later viewing. There is no commitment and consumers may cancel at any time during the free month. The new pricing plan will go into effect on May 15."We looked at our data and it was clear, consumers want a more simple approach to pricing," said Aereo CEO and Founder Chet Kanojia. "With our new pricing structure, consumers begin with one base plan and then have the ability to upgrade their membership to triple their DVR storage capacity. We want to make it simple and easy for consumers to access our technology and we believe this updated pricing plan accomplishes just that."

The new pricing plan applies to new Aereo members. Current Aereo members will continue to enjoy the benefits of their original plans until the end of their current membership plan period. Current $12/month members will be automatically upgraded to 60 hours of DVR storage capacity.Aereo's innovative remote (cloud-based) antenna/DVR technology makes watching television simple and user-friendly. Using Aereo's technology, consumers can pause, rewind and fast-forward any program that they are watching live, or save a program for future viewing. Aereo works on 'smart' devices from tablets to phones to laptop computers. Aereo is currently supported on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9, Firefox, Safari, Opera, AppleTV (via airplay) and Roku devices.Aereo is currently available to consumers in the New York City metropolitan area and will launch in the Boston metropolitan area to pre-registered consumers on May 15. For more information on Aereo's planned expansion, visit: http://bit.ly/U1ubDK.


