
   Despite getting served by a mighty squad of TV networks, Aereo's keeping its original plans of launching on March 14th. However, the broadcast-streaming service will only be available to folks living in the Big Apple -- at least for now. If you're unfamiliar with the startup's offerings, $12 a month gets you all major network and local TV channels on any Cupertino-born device (iPad, iPhone, MacBook Pro, etc) and Roku boxes, though with HTML5 support you can tune in on most anything with Safari as the browser. Meanwhile, native support for the green robot army is said to be "coming soon." Aeroe's letting all newcomers in on a 90-day day free trial, so those of you in the land of bridges and tunnels can head over to the source link below.
 

  Show full PR text   AEREO TRANSFORMS TELEVISION ACCESS WITH BOLD NEW TECHNOLOGY THAT GIVES CONSUMERS CHOICE AND FLEXIBILITY  Innovative TV platform allows New Yorkers to watch live HD Television on Web-enabled Devices without Wires or Boxes. No Cable Required.  Free 90-day trial being offered to all new subscribers  March 14, 2012 -- NEW YORK, NY -- Aereo today announced availability for its groundbreaking online television platform in the New York market. Using a simplified approach, Aereo supports consumer choice through value-driven pricing and the convenience of mobility.  Aereo's technology offers New Yorkers the ability to watch live HD TV online. New members will receive a 90-day free trial followed by a fee of just $12 a month. Membership includes access to a remote antenna that is used to access over 20 broadcast channels, 40 hours of remote DVR storage and usage on up to five devices. Aereo is launching with compatibility on web-enabled iOS devices including the iPhone, iPad, Roku, AppleTV and MacBook, with Android support coming soon. Consumers simply register online at aereo.com. There is no application to download, no box to buy and no equipment to install. It's TV made simple.  "Technology is changing rapidly and consumers have embraced innovation that simplifies access to entertainment. People no longer want to be tethered to their TVs or cable boxes. Consumers are demanding more flexibility and value; Aereo delivers just that. This truly groundbreaking technology will usher in a new era of choice in the broadcast marketplace, making the consumers the ultimate winners," said Founder and CEO Chet Kanojia.  Register at aereo.com to experience the future of broadcast television access. Features include: Remote antenna by which a user can choose to access live 24/7 broadcasts of the major networks and local stations Remote DVR with 40 hours of cloud-based storage enabling a user to record individual shows or set season recordings with the simple touch of a button from any device. Easy-to use programming guide and unique search tool that features touch screen optimization, enabling a user to search and discover programming by topic, actor or title. Social capabilities allow users to discuss and recommend shows in real-time with other Aereo members on Facebook and Twitter.  About Aereo Aereo enables consumers to use an individual antenna to access live, HD television broadcasts on web-enabled devices and to record up to 40 hours of programming through their Remote DVR. No cable required. Members must be New York City residents with compatible iOS devices. Register at aereo.com. Upon joining, members receive a 90-day free trial followed by a $12 monthly fee. All membership is subject to availability. Aereo is based in Long Island City, NY, and recently announced $20.5M Series A financing led by IAC (Nasdaq: IACI). For more information, visit aereo.com, Twitter @aereotv or Facebook/Aereo.
 