
 It's like a match made in heaven. Agawi and Marvell have partnered up to combine a cloud-based gaming platform with the equipment that powers many popular Google TV devices. Together, both companies will offer a white-label Android gaming solution to OEMs, internet and cable providers, game publishers and retailers. As a result, we may see a number of smart TV devices begin cropping up that support Agawi's CloudPlay gaming service. Whether this solution poses a legitimate threat to the console business remains to be seen, but we're going to scour the floor at CES to bring you a demo of the system in action. In the meantime, full PR follows the break.



  Show full PR text   Tablet Cloud Gaming Leader Agawi Collaborates With Marvell for Next Generation Cloud Gaming on Android-Powered Smart TVs   With the integration of Agawi's CloudPlayTM and Marvell's awarding-winning ARMADA® 1500 HD Media SoC Platform, PC games can now be streamed directly to big screen TVs   Menlo Park, Calif.-January 9, 2013-Today at the 2013 International CES, Agawi and Marvell are teaming up to demonstrate console-quality games streamed to Marvell's award-winning ARMADA® 1500-based Android smart device. Agawi's revolutionary CloudPlayTM gaming platform enables OEMs, network operators, game publishers and retailers to deliver their own cloud gaming services to their customers. Marvell's ARMADA 1500 platform provides state-of-the-art video performance and can be built into any smart TV device. It is also a premiere hardware platform powering the latest Google TV devices from leading OEMs like Vizio, Sony, LG U+ and others.   Now anyone can play console-quality PC games on Android-powered connected TV devices. All devices containing the Marvell ARMADA 1500 chipset-and all OEMs that choose to implement it-have the power to run Agawi's CloudPlay platform, from smart TVs to connected Blu-ray players, set-top boxes and HDMI dongles.   With the mission of making great games widely accessible on any device, Agawi has teamed up with Marvell for a high quality gaming experience on smart TV products. This extends Agawi's established leadership position in cloud gaming on tablets.   "By making Agawi CloudPlay accessible via Marvell's hardware platform, we're opening up a world of opportunities for gaming on connected smart devices," said Rajat Gupta, Agawi's co-founder. "This is an elegant cloud gaming solution that any TV device manufacturer or operator can integrate into their products and services-now it's even possible to offer Agawi's instant game streaming as a preloaded application on smart TVs and the like."   Marvell's powerful HD media system-on-chip platform offers quick application launching, award-winning video performance and high-resolution graphics-all within the Android TV itself and at affordable costs, without the burden of an expensive gaming console.   "Marvell is very proud to support Agawi's innovative CloudPlay platform for Android smart TVs. Marvell aims to provide the ultimate in performance, affordability and power efficiency in cloud-based multimedia content delivery," said Winston Chen,vice president of the Smart Home Business Unit at Marvell Semiconductor, Inc. "Above and beyond traditional gaming services, the ability to deliver an immersive, console-gaming experience on an Android-based platform and on the largest screen in the house is key to allowing our ecosystem partners to rapidly roll out turnkey cloud gaming solutions. Our collaboration with Agawi is testimony to the very talented and committed engineers on our staff and demonstrates yet another way in which Marvell delivers one of the best smart TV experiences in today's connected lifestyle."   Unlike other cloud gaming platforms, Agawi CloudPlay is a flexible, white-label B2B solution that can be deployed on an open cloud environment, eliminating the need to build proprietary data centers. It is also the only cloud gaming platform that has been deployed massively on iPads and other mobile devices. Now with the addition of this smart TV capability, Agawi's vision of "any game, any where, instantly" is becoming a reality.

 
