


You pretty much can't say (or read) AIAIAI's name without feeling happy and performing a dancey hand gesture -- or maybe that's just us? It's fair to say we're fans of their work. So when we heard the Danish firm had released some new TMA-1 "Studio" cans, our ears perked up. Where as the original TMA-1s were all about the DJ, the new pair are for... well, the studio. So what's different? Mainly that 40mm titanium driver, which has been tickled to make it more transparent, and better for referencing. Those cushions now go fully over-ear for comfort and isolation, along with some more padding around the headband. You can grab them with or without a mic -- we assume for Skyping on the road, not singing a capella -- priced at $249 and $269 respectively and up for pre-order now.




Show full PR textThe TMA-1 Studio Now Available for Pre-order 
Yes, we're finally releasing the beast. The new AIAIAI headphones designed specifically for the on-the-go producer/musician will be shipped on the 20th of June.

The TMA-1 Studio was born out of necessity. Where we previously sought to fill the need for a particular kind of durable, great-sounding DJ Headphone with the TMA-1, the TMA-1 Studio is our response to the needs of today's frequently traveling producers and musicians.

Designed by longtime collaborators, KiBiSi, and engineered in cooperation with one of Scandinavias' most prominent producers and sound engineers, Jon Schumann, the latest addition to the AIAIAI headphone family provides durability for the road, comfort over longer periods of time for producing, and a meticulously engineered sound design suitable for mixing on the laptop. Where the TMA-1 enhances the DJ performance, the TMA-1 Studio enriches the music production experience.

SOUND:At the core of the TMA-1 Studio is a 40mm titanium driver insulated and filtrated by the most advanced speaker materials available. From the voice coil, to the yoke, magnet and speaker diaphragm, the TMA-1 Studio achieves crisp highs without compromising its ability to deliver rich mids and deep lows.

CUSHIONS:The design also takes the different situations in which headphones are used into account - from long studio sessions to just being on the road and recording. What's more, it offers two types of easily changeable and different over-ear cushions. Each cushion is connected to a specially designed cushion plate.

HEADBAND:The one piece TMA-1 Studio headband is designed to provide the functionality of a DJ headphone headband but also to strip it down to the bare essentials. This ensures a stronger and more durable product, which can withstand daily use for a considerable length of time. The TMA-1 Studio is equipped with a new PU headband padding, which is softer, more durable and extra comfortable to wear over longer periods of time.

TMA-1 STUDIO HIGHLIGHTS:* 40mm titanium driver, which has been tweaked for a more neutral, reference listening-friendly sound* Over-ear PU cushions that makes details stand out in full clarity* PU headband padding, which is softer, more durable and extra comfortable to wear over longer production sessions.

The new studio headphones from AIAIAI thus represent robust and thoroughly crafted audio technology for the frequently traveling, professional DJ/ producer who needs headphones that can perform while on the road, at the airport or in the air.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONSTransducer Principle: Dynamic, closedDriver Unit Size: 40 mmImpedance: 32±15% OhmLoad Rating: 0.07 WFrequency Response: 20 to 20.000 HzTotal Harmonic Distortion: <0.3%Sensitivity: 110±3dBWeight without cable: 220 Gram

AIAIAI's Research & Development Specialist, Jon Schumann, talks about the TMA-1 Studio

Please place your orders at our pre-order page. US customers: for speedier delivery, head on over to the Ghostly International webstore.

Retail price:€229 and US$249.


