
 
We hope you didn't go to the trouble of importing the Keycase Folio from the UK -- AIDACASE has just announced that it's making the iPad case available in the US in a slightly improved "deluxe" version. That naturally includes the same Bluetooth keyboard as before, but AIDACASE has opted to use a micro USB cable instead of an Apple dock connector for charging the keyboard, and it's added a new magnetic flap to keep the case securely closed. Otherwise, the case looks to be identical to the non-deluxe version, and it's available on Amazon right now for $100. Full press release is after the break.
 
 

Show full PR textAIDACASE LAUNCHES IPAD CASE WITH BUILT-IN BLUETOOTH KEYBOARD FOR SALE AND DISTRIBUTION IN THE USWhite Plains, NY. September 16, 2010 – Today, AIDACASE announced the sale and distribution of Keycase Folio Deluxe for the iPad in the U.S. The new Keycase Folio Deluxe covers your iPad with smarts and style. For its US debut, the case went through some minor improvements over its predecessor. Instead of charging the keyboard using the Apple 30 pin connector, the keyboard is charged through a Micro-B USB connector. Some other minor improvements include the design of the case with a new magnetic flap to keep the iPad securely in place.The Keycase features a built-in Bluetooth 2.0 silicone keyboard that seamlessly connects with the iPad. The keyboard can also connect with other Bluetooth devices such as the iPhone and PS3. The keyboard charges through USB cable and lasts 45 hours per charge. The durable silicone construction provides a quiet typing surface and protects the keyboard against accidental spills.The sleek leather style case can fold open into an upright, laptop-like form for ease of typing and improved viewing angle. A secure magnetic clasp runs the entire length of the case to hold the iPad snugly in place.The Keycase Folio Deluxe for the iPad is on sale at $99.99. The case comes with a one-year warranty.For more information or to place an order, please visit www.AidaCase.com.
 