
 
We don't have a lot of detail to work on here, but Altek -- a company that's no stranger to ridiculous optics slapped on the back of a phone -- is chatting up its new Leo model that will officially bow at next month's CommunicAsia show in Singapore. It's being ominously called a "smartphone" without talking about the platform at hand, but judging from the key layout, we're going to fathom a guess that it might be running Android. Around back, you have a zoom lens parked in front of a 14 megapixel sensor that's capable of 720p video capture, and the support for WiFi and HSPA alike should help you ferry those shots to where they need to go. Pricing, availability, and other pertinent details will hopefully follow -- but for now, follow the break for another teaser shot along with Altek's PR.
      

 

Show full PR textaltek Launches "Leo", the World's Smartest14 MP, 3.5G Professional Camera Phone Powerful Optical Zoom Lens Takes the Smartphone to the Next LevelAltek Corporation, a global leader in the design and manufacture of digital cameras (TWSE: 3059) is pleased to announce its imminent launch of Leo, the world's newest, smartest 3.5G professional camera phone. Operated via its generous touch screen panel, Leo delivers 3.5G (HSDPA) functionality and features a 3x optical zoom and 14 megapixels CCD. Altek plans to launch Leo in June at CommunicAsia (CMMA) in Singapore.Alex Hsia, president and CEO of Altek, notes that, "picture taking has already risen to become one of the most important mobile phone functions for consumers. Phones able to capture high definition, high quality images and video are a win‐win for users as well as telecommunication service providers, as the latter can anticipate rising bandwidth usage rates when users share images remotely.""The Leo mobile phone," Alex continued, "is the product of our accumulated advances and breakthroughs in imaging technology as well as Altek's continued refinement and improvement of optical technologies. Stylishly designed, Leo plugs users into a wireless world of excitement and fun. Its high‐end digital camera and video functions means Leo users need never again let a special moment pass by unrecorded. Leo's high definition digital images (14MP) and video (720p HD) can be uploaded instantly to the Internet via onboard Wi‐Fi and 3.5G connectivity for sharing with friends and family."
 