
 
It's hard to say if Alaska Airlines' relationship with Row44 has fizzled, but unlike that WiFi'd route between San Jose and Seattle, the aforesaid airline is relying on Aircell to provide in-flight WiFi on flights between Anchorage and Fairbanks. Reportedly, Gogo service is live today for customers flying between those two locales, with it being completely gratis until the remainder of Aircell's network in the state of Alaska goes live over the next few months. Best of all, Aircell has promised to "expand its network to include Southeast Alaska by the end of the year," ensuring that it's not The Last Frontier in absolutely every possible way.
      

 

Show full PR textAlaska Airlines Launches Inflight Wi-Fi in the State of AlaskaGogo® Inflight Internet service complimentary between Anchorage and Fairbanks and coming soon to Southeast AlaskaSEATTLE, Oct. 22 /PRNewswire/ -- Alaska Airlines launched Aircell's Gogo® Inflight Internet service today on flights between Anchorage and Fairbanks, Alaska. The service will be complimentary to passengers traveling between the two cities until the remainder of Aircell's network in the state of Alaska goes live later this year.Using Gogo, Alaska Airlines passengers with Wi-Fi-enabled devices can browse the Web; access online music, games, podcasts and webcasts; send and receive e-mail; and connect to virtual private networks while flying. The easy-to-use service provides passengers with full Internet access on any Wi-Fi-equipped laptop or personal electronic device at speeds similar to wireless mobile broadband services on the ground. Customers can visit alaskaair.com/wifi for more information about Alaska Airlines' inflight Wi-Fi."We are delighted to be making this first step in introducing inflight Wi-Fi in the state of Alaska," said Joe Sprague, Alaska Airlines' vice president of marketing. "We look forward to adding service on other routes in the state by the end of the year."The Gogo system, currently available in the Lower 48 states, is offered to customers traveling across the continental United States for $4.95 and up, based on length of flight and device used. To ensure the service is available in the airline's namesake state, Aircell will expand its network to include Southeast Alaska by the end of the year. A detailed coverage map is available for download from Alaska Airlines' image gallery at alaskaair.com/newsroom."We're pleased to expand the Gogo network to include the nation's largest state and are on schedule to complete the remainder of network deployment in Alaska by year's end," said John Happ, Aircell's executive vice president of airlines.Since May, Alaska Airlines has outfitted more than 70 percent of its Boeing 737 aircraft with the Gogo service and expects to complete fleet-wide installation in early 2011.Aircraft equipped with inflight Wi-Fi have a Wi-Fi symbol located outside the aircraft's boarding door and information about the service in seatback pockets. Gogo is available above 10,000 feet, following an announcement approving the use of portable electronic devices.Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air, subsidiaries of Alaska Air Group (NYSE: ALK), together serve more than 90 cities through an expansive network in Alaska, the Lower 48, Hawaii, Canada and Mexico. Alaska Airlines ranked "Highest in Customer Satisfaction Among Traditional Network Carriers" in the J.D. Power and Associates 2008, 2009 and 2010 North America Airline Satisfaction Studies(SM). For reservations, visit alaskaair.com. For more news and information, visit the Alaska Airlines/Horizon Air Newsroom at alaskaair.com/newsroom.
 