
Okay, so we wouldn't go so far as suggesting that Alcatel One Touch's Idol Alpha handset "takes creativity to a new level," but hey, the company's allowed to employ a little hyperbole in its press releases. That particular statement refers to the 4.7-inch handset's translucent edges, which give off light to signify things like charging and notifications. The company's also pretty psyched about the curves on the thing. "You will be attracted from the first glance of the device with its unique and sleek design which stands out from the market," according to Alcatel.


The above image likely doesn't do the curvy 7.5 millimeter thick aluminum-framed body justice (nor does it speak to the quad-core 1.2GHz processor inside), so we're holding off such attraction until we actually see one in person. Thankfully, we're already here in Berlin for IFA, so we should be doing just that in the not too distant future.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!

Show full PR textALCATEL ONE TOUCH to showcase the IDOL ALPHA at IFA
ALCATEL ONE TOUCH will give a special preview of an exciting new device in the IDOL range, the IDOL ALPHA, at IFA in Berlin which starts Friday, September 6th.
ALCATEL ONE TOUCH's design has taken a new direction, with the addition of exciting curves. You will be attracted from the first glance of the device with its unique and sleek design which stands out from the market. It mixes metal case, curves and translucent edges to create a device out of current categories. This innovative design is ideal for both business and casual use. Its unique design and great performance of Quad Core 1.2 GHz simply attract everyone's eyes.
IDOL ALPHA takes creativity to a new level with translucent edges, which illuminate in various modes such as charging, video, notifications, and more to give a smarter experience.
Finely set in an aluminum metal frame with a 7.5mm thin body and a distinctive finish. The 4.7" edge-to-edge HD IPS screen delivers the extraordinary floating lens idea and it is one of the kind.
The IDOL ALPHA shows the evolution of the IDOL family; taking creativity and design in a new and unexpected direction.

