
 Just as we had talked about Alcatel not necessarily being known for its hardware offerings, the company's now announcing its first "modular" tablet, the One Touch Evo 7. As the moniker adequately implies, the Ice Cream Sandwich slate boasts a 7-inch display (mum's the word on the resolution), which is paired alongside an unnamed processor that's clocked in at 1GHz, 1GB of RAM and a microSD slot is available to take care of up to 32GB of storage needs. While the One Touch Evo 7 is set come out of the box with WiFi capabilities only, Alcatel says a 3G option will be available as a separate bundle via a "removable 3G module." -- a fitting fact given some of the slate's additional characteristics, such as detachable colorful frames. Unfortunately, Alcatel made no mention of when it plans to release its One Touch device, but we'll let you interested Euro folk know as soon as those details come out.



  Show full PR text   ONE TOUCH EVO7: UPGRADE YOUR NEEDS
   ALCATEL ONE TOUCH announces ONE TOUCH EVO7, the modular tablet which evolves with your needs. ONE TOUCH EVO7 can be used in either WiFi mode or it can be upgraded to 3G capability.

   Milan, Italy

   ALCATEL ONE TOUCH presents its first modular tablet. ONE TOUCH EVO7 is a WiFi 7inch tablet that can be upgraded to 3G thanks to a removable 3G module. Discover ONE TOUCH EVO7 and its system of accessories.

   ONE TOUCH EVO7 is a 7inch WiFi tablet that can be easily upgraded to 3G thanks to a removable 3G module (sold in bundle or in stand alone, according to regional availability). Now you can enhance your tablet and choose your connectivity mode as either 3G or WiFi and you can switch anytime you want, it's that easy.

   ONE TOUCH EVO7 is characterized by a unique compact design: its silver back cover is bordered with a movable frame. Take it off, install the 3G module and personalize your tablet with a selection of colored frames.

   The new ALCATEL ONE TOUCH tablet is based on AndroidTM 4.0 ICS (Ice Cream Sandwich) and has a complete access to Google PlayTM; this means you can open up to a world of more than 600.000 games and apps, many of which free or freely downloadable: apps, music, games and books instantly available in one touch, whenever you are.

   Take photos and record videos with ONE TOUCH EVO7 front camera and then store all the pictures and data on the 1GB RAM or Micro SD card (up to 32GB).

   With ONE TOUCH EVO7 you'll enjoy an easier and smoother navigation, thanks to its 1GHz CPU, and you'll live a more portable multimedia experience. Work or leisure, you can count on your ONE TOUCH EVO7 to get things done on the go.

   ONE TOUCH EVO7 comes up with a complete system of stylish accessories. Customize your tablet with colorful frames and flip covers, protect and carry around your ONE TOUCH EVO7 thanks to a leather pouch or a hard zip pouch.

 
