
Alcatel's pen-toting One Touch Scribe HD now has a larger counterpart: meet the One Touch Hero. The new Android 4.2 smartphone upgrades to a 6-inch 1080p LCD, and gets a raft of optional cover accessories that augment the giant display. An E Ink cover lets owners read books without using the power-hungry main screen; there's also a wireless charging cover and a MagicFlip cover with LED notifications. Even without those extras, the Hero is overall more powerful than its Scribe HD ancestor. It carries a faster 1.5GHz quad-core processor with 2GB of RAM, a sharper 13-megapixel rear camera, an improved 2-megapixel front shooter and either 8GB or 16GB of expandable storage. Should you be intrigued, the One Touch Hero will be available in October for a "high-end" price. Alcatel will also sell a Bluetooth phone accessory (much like the HTC Mini+), a TV Link video adapter and a pico projector that doubles as a stand. 





Show full PR textALCATEL ONE TOUCH unveils the HERO - their headline act at IFA 2013
Berlin, September 4th 2013 - Want your phone to be smarter? ALCATEL ONE TOUCH presents the HERO.
Featuring a 6" Full HD IPS display, 1.5 GHz Quad Core processor and 13 megapixel camera, the HERO has a 3400 mAh battery to keep you going for longer. As usual it comes in a beautiful design.
The HERO comes with a stylus which transforms the phone into a creative enterprise tool letting you annotate, create memos and professional sketches. It is loaded with apps that fully utilize hand writing recognition, which enables desktop like functionality to create and edit office documents on the go.
There are other smart features too like wireless mirroring that lets you share your phone screen onto a computer monitor effortlessly to play a video or share important presentation by a TV Link connectivity device.
The inductive wireless charger allows users to charge their phone with just one flip. Simple and quick! Just flip the cover and place it on the charger, the phone will be charged instantly.
Extend your display with the E Ink cover. Read newspapers and magazines on a second screen with this fresh digital experience. The technology enables users to read as if physical ink and paper on their mobile device with the stable image and wider viewing angle.
However the innovators behind this great device did not want the experience to stop there. What makes this device a true original is the MagicFlip, which notifies the users of everything the smartphone does. Stay informed about the most important updates directly via the cover with the embedded LED.
Even better still a tiny companion bluetooth enabled accessory phone allows you to receive SMS, calendar entries, place voice calls, sync phonebook and so much more without removing the larger device from your pocket or bag.
Finally, project your phone screen anywhere. HERO introduces a whole new way of viewing media and doing business with the Pico Projector. Enjoy an image larger than 70" with 12Lm for all your multimedia presentations or movies.
The HERO is challenging the conventional smart phone category, merging technologies and enabling users to personalize their device to suit their passion with a wealth of accessories.

