
Not everyone needs a giant, higher-end smartphone like the One Touch Hero -- many can get by with just the basics. For those users, Alcatel has unveiled four One Touch Pop models with smaller screens and entry-level performance. The Android 4.2-based range begins with the Pop C1, a starter phone with a 3.5-inch screen, a dual-core 1GHz processor and sprightly color options like neon green and pink. Need more? The Pop C3 jumps to a 4-inch screen and a dual-core 1.3GHz chip; the Pop C5 steps up to a 4.5-inch screen, and the Pop C7 carries both a 5-inch display as well as a quad-core 1.3GHz processor. If you're interested, you can pick up the C1 or C3 as soon as October. The C5 ships in November, while the C7 arrives sometime during the last quarter of the year. 





Show full PR textALCATEL ONE TOUCH introduces new members to the POP series at IFA 2013
Berlin, September 6th 2013 - The ALCATEL ONE TOUCH POP range has been refreshed with a suite of four new phones – the POP C1, POP C3, POP C5, and POP C7. These brand new android phones reflect a youthful, playful choice which delivers both simplicity and style. The POP range offers a variety of options in display size, colors, accessories and hardware specification to provide everyone the freedom of choice to promote their own style.
POP C1
Perfect for any pocket.
This pocket friendly device offers a 3.5" HVGA display with a trendy and stylish design. The Dual Core 1 GHz CPU ensures fast Internet browsing and smooth navigation. The easy to use UI and pre-embedded apps enable users to start having fun from the moment they open the box.
POP C3
Large screen and great performance, but super compact.
As the medium-sized member of the POP family, the POP C3 offers a high quality 4" WVGA display with a stunning curved design and 3.2 megapixel camera. The Dual Core 1.3 GHz processor allows a faster and smoother user experience, great gaming performance and the power to multitask. Users can also dress up their phone with the colorful protective flip.
POP C5
Large screen and super easy to use.
The POP C5 features a large 4.5" display but still fits in the palm of your hand. The Dual Core 1.3 GHz processor allows users to enjoy watching movies, play games, and surf the Internet anywhere they go. The 5 megapixel camera comes with panoramic picture function. Users can also video chat with friends using the front camera.
POP C7
Extra-large and powerful.
Immerse yourself in the 5" extra-large display with the Quad Core 1.3 GHz processor to enhance every aspect of your life and accelerate all tasks and apps. The POP C7 also features a 5 megapixel camera capable of taking great quality images, perfect for instant sharing.
The new ALCATEL ONE TOUCH POP series POP C1, POP C3, POP C5, and POP C7 runs on Android 4.2 and features ONE TOUCH live which brings great apps into one place ready for easy download so users can easily personalise their device.

