
 Those of us picking budget smartphones in the US seldom have the choice of a toughened smartphone, and it's even more of a challenge when we're not signed on to one of the top four carriers. US Cellular is offering the cost-conscious a (hardened) olive branch by shipping the Alcatel One Touch Shockwave. Skip past the creaky Android 2.3, 800MHz processor, 3.2-megapixel camera and 3.5-inch, 480 x 320 display -- a shock- and water-resistant shell as well as Dragontrail-based glass should keep the smartphone working through most forms of casual abuse. We also don't mind having preloaded Amazon Appstore and media apps, although the frugal 2GB microSD card in the box won't leave much room for any downloading. We'd at least keep the Shockwave on the short list when the $50 price and long-lasting design will leave ample funds for just about everything else.



  Show full PR text   ALCATEL ONE TOUCH and U.S. Cellular Launch ONE TOUCH Shockwave™   ONE TOUCH Shockwave™ meets demands of active lifestyles with durability and social media
  IRVINE, Calif., Oct. 23, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- ALCATEL ONE TOUCH today announced the availability of the ONE TOUCH Shockwave™, the perfect device for consumers seeking a durable smartphone that provides dependable connectivity to social networking and easy access to multimedia. With built-in durability features including shock resistant casing, super tough Dragontrail™ tempered glass and water resistant housing, the device provides protection without the added bulk of a case. The phone is currently available through U.S. Cellular online and in stores starting October 23 for $49.99 with a smartphone compatible plan.
  "Today's on-the-go customer doesn't want to compromise looks and performance for durability," said Reza Sadr, Carrier Sales Director at ALCATEL ONE TOUCH. "The ONE TOUCH Shockwave™ provides a tough exterior in a low profile case and provides quick-access tools for social media, productivity and entertainment."
  The ONE TOUCH Shockwave™ is part of the unique ALCATEL ONE TOUCH phones designed to provide customers with simple, different and smarter mobile lifestyle products.
  The ONE TOUCH Shockwave™ comes equipped with productivity apps, advanced email, texting and IM as well as popular social networking and music apps. It features an integrated Traffic Manager that monitors data and calling usage, warning the user when they are approaching their monthly limits. The ONE TOUCH Shockwave™ operates on the Android 2.3 platform, is Wi-Fi enabled and has an 800MHz processor, 3.5" HVGA capacitive touchscreen display, and a 3.2 megapixel camera. The phone's anti-slip finishes and materials are scratch and ding resistant, while the sealed housing design and rubber port covers resist dirt and water intrusion.
 
