


I laughed when the rumors started back in 2012: "Valve is building a PC-based game console for living rooms." Sure it is, I thought. Imagine my shock when "Steam Machines" turned out to be real. The project promised a bizarre, revolutionary controller, a Linux-based operating system designed specifically to play PC games and in-home game streaming for titles that required Windows to run properly. The proposal was unbelievable, but it's finally here; it's real. As of today, I have an Alienware Steam Machine nestled in my entertainment center that delivers on almost everything those original rumors promised. Let's talk about that.



Hardware
If the Alienware Steam Machine looks familiar, it's probably because it has the exact same chassis as another PC built for the living room: the Alienware Alpha -- the unofficial Steam Machine Dell launched without Valve's support late last year. Dell classifies these PCs as different products, but they're mostly separated by their operating systems: Windows 10, for the Alpha and SteamOS for the Alienware Steam Machine. Today we're looking at the latter, Valve-sanctioned Steam Machine, but both rigs have a great chassis: It's compact, subtle and fits right in with everything else in your entertainment center.

Visually speaking, the Alienware Steam Machine is a simple thing: a glossy black square with a matte black top and a few simple LEDs -- one behind the power button and another highlighting a triangle-shaped bisection of the chassis corner. A Steam logo glows out from this triangle-shaped cut, marking the only design tweak that separates the Alienware Alpha from the Valve-sanctioned Steam Machine.

Want connections? You got 'em. The Steam Machine has two USB ports on the front, two more in the rear, HDMI output, optical audio out and an Ethernet port. Just like with the Alpha, there are two other connectors here, as well: an HDMI input for piping a cable box through the Steam Machine interface (no, it won't capture video or stream your other consoles to Twitch) and a fifth USB port hidden under a panel on the rig's undercarriage. Don't get too excited: That extra USB slot is already spoken for. The console ships with the Steam Controller's dongle pre-installed in the secret compartment (sit tight, we'll be talking about that very soon).


In general, Steam Machines are a difficult thing to define. Too often, we describe it as a "game console" for PC gaming, but it's more complicated than that. A Steam Machine isn't just a simple piece of hardware designed to play games on a TV; it's an ecosystem of disparate parts that come together to create a versatile platform you can use to play games on your TV.

Put simply, a Steam Machine is made up of three main components: a gaming PC, Valve's Linux-based SteamOS and the paradigm-defying Steam Controller.


The Alienware Steam Machine earns its name by the simple virtue of having all of this in one package. It presents itself as a consumer game console -- which is the idea -- but as we move forward, don't lose sight of that bigger picture. This is a normal, powerful gaming PC loaded up with a special version of Linux and controlled with a bizarre gamepad. It's not a game console, but that's what's amazing about it: It feels, acts and performs almost exactly like one.

The console masquerade
Truth be told, I didn't expect a lot from the Alienware Steam Machine when I first turned it on. To me, it was just a collection of things I'd seen before. SteamOS' TV-friendly interface has existed for years as the desktop app's "Big Picture" mode. Almost every version of the Steam Controller I touched over the years felt like an awkward prototype. Not even the hardware was new to me -- the Alpha came close to mimicking the feel of a game console, but the illusion was incomplete. I couldn't imagine it all coming together into one cohesive whole, but it does. I almost can't believe it.

The Alienware Steam Machine is everything that Windows-based PC "game consoles" aren't. It's easy to set up, easy to use, extremely reliable and practically idiot-proof. Let me invoke the Alienware Alpha one more time to illustrate this: When I booted up Dell's original media-center gaming PC for the first time, it presented me with a "grab your mouse and keyboard" Windows 8 setup screen. It was awful. The new machine? It showed me a simple outline of Valve's Steam Controller, asked me to press a single button and then effortlessly led me through signing EULAs, adjusting TV settings, setting up the internet and logging into Steam. It was easy.

The recently redesigned Big Picture mode that makes up the SteamOS interface is a huge improvement over Steam's previous TV-scaled layout. The core elements of the menu are presented front and center in large buttons: Store, Library and Community, all of which can be selected using the gamepad's joystick. Diving into any of them brings up a list of deeper options on the screen's left side, while a dynamic layout of games and content is plastered on the right.


From there, everything is extremely self-explanatory. The Library menu, for instance, shows your games as wide billboards on the right with options like "recent," "installed" and "favorites" on the left. Pop in into any of those menus, and a filter menu will peek out from the right side of the screen, enticing you to search or sort your library with various attributes: controller, supported, installed locally, etc. When you settle on a game, the menu morphs again, moving the title's banner to the upper-left corner of the screen and underlining it with more options. These allow you to play or manage your game (another sub menu that offers controller configuration, launch options, and so on). There's also a list of community content for the title (screenshots, artwork, videos, live broadcasts, etc.).

This feels like a console experience because it is a console experience -- it never betrays itself as a Linux desktop PC rigged to run in Steam's Big Picture mode. Pop-up windows and errors don't leave me wanting for a mouse and keyboard. Like a game console, it just works -- without troubleshooting. For the most part, the interface "just works" too.

SteamOS' Big Picture mode may be the best version of the TV interface Valve's made to date, but there are definitely a few areas that still need work. I specifically had problems with the Store. Steam's online marketplace is enormous, fun to browse and fairly well-organized, but on SteamOS, it's also incomplete. Valve says there are over 6,000 games available to purchase on Steam, about 1,500 of which are compatible with Linux and the Alienware Steam Machine. Too bad the SteamOS store makes finding them a chore.


Right now, SteamOS only lets users browse curated lists of featured and recently released games. These limited lists are organized by "top sellers," "recently updated" and "popular new releases," but they only make up a tiny fragment of the available library. Users can browse content by tag, but there are hundreds of tags to choose from. The menu has no advanced options for listing all titles by release date, price or user review average. This leaves SteamOS with an inferior content search system compared to the service's desktop and web interfaces, and can make finding new, non-featured content a frustrating experience.To be fair, SteamOS gets a little better almost every day -- literally. As of this writing, it's received 17 updates in 25 days, each one killing a game-crashing glitch, adding new features to the user interface or otherwise improving the Steam Controller in some way. In fact, these updates directly addressed some of this review's original complaints. A month ago, I had to add several SteamOS compatible games through the console's built-in web browser because they wouldn't show up in the native interface's store. Now they all do. The website's storefront still has the better search tool, but with each update Valve is closing the gap.SteamOS feels very close to a real console menu, but its interface is definitely still a work in progress. For the most part, the illusion of it being a game console never breaks, but if it does, you'll have Linux to contend with. A few weeks into testing, I somehow messed up the Alienware's boot record and had to load a partition restore in Grub to fix it. It wasn't straightforward, and that's a bummer -- but at least we know Valve is taking the platform's faults seriously and actively trying to make it better.

A console controller for PC games
I may have had my doubts about Valve's plan to build a PC platform for the living room, but the company's Steam Controller had my attention from day one. Valve had designed a prototype gamepad that eschewed every convention we've come to expect from modern game controllers. It didn't have analog sticks; it had clickable touchpads that promised to replace a PC gamer's mouse. Instead of face buttons, it had a large, high-resolution touchscreen. Valve even put extra buttons on the back of the gamepad's grip. It was new. It was weird. It was exciting -- but it was a little too bold.

Valve spent the next two years trying to make the Steam Controller feel a little less alien. Today, it's a balanced combination of innovation and familiarity: a single analog stick, four face buttons, standard shoulder and trigger toggles, two rear-facing grip buttons and two big haptic touchpads. It's probably the biggest deviation in traditional gamepad design since Sony introduced the DualShock Analog Controller in 1997, and I love it.



