
  Alienware may have just upgraded its Aurora gaming rig, but that's not to keep the company from giving more diminutive form factors some love. Just this evening, the subsidiary of Dell announced the X51, a slim gaming PC that's designed to orient itself either vertically or horizontally on the desktop -- complete with an Alienware logo that properly rotates depending on positioning. The system includes both Core i3 and i5 options, and features a slot-loading optical drive with an option for Blu-ray. While it's no shocker, the X51 can be upgraded to 8GB of RAM and a full 1TB of storage. Further, the case accommodates a single, full size NVIDIA GeForce GT 545 graphics card, (with the GTX 555 available as an upgrade), and features an external power supply that's available in 240W or 330W versions. Users can also expect HDMI 1.4, on-board WiFi, USB 3.0 and digital 7.1 surround sound. As a nifty trick, the computer's accent colors can be conveniently modified with the Alienware Command Center software. Touting immediate availability, customers can place orders for the X51 right away, with configurations starting as low as $699. For the complete set of specs that make up this Mini-ITX gamer, just follow the break.





Alienware X51 Product Specifications:  Intel Core i3 Dual Core (standard) and Intel Core i5 and i7 Quad Core Processor Options  Intel H61 Express Chipset Architecture  Mini-ITX Motherboard  Powerful NVIDIA Graphics Card Options    1GB GDDR5 NVIDIA GeForce GT 545 (Standard)   1GB GDDR5 NVIDIA GeForce GTX 555    Configure with up to 8GB of DDR3 Memory (4GB Standard); 2x 240-Pin DDR3 SDRAM Slots  Fast 7,200RPM 1TB Hard Drive  Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium  Slot-Loading Dual Layer DVD Burner (Standard) or optional Blu-ray Disc Reader  Internal High-Definition 7.1 Performance Audio with Waves MAXX Audio Software  Integrated 10/100/1000Mbps Gigabit Ethernet NIC and Integrated 802.11 a/b/g/n Wi-Fi Wireless LAN (standard)  USB 2.0 (6x); USB 3.0 (2x); Microphone In; Headphone/Speaker Out; HDMI 1.4 Output; RJ-45 Gigabit Ethernet; Front, Rear and Center Speaker Ports; SPDIF Digital Output (TOSLINK); SPDIF Digital Output (Coax)  Alienware 240 Watt Power Supply (Standard) or optional 330 Watt Power Supply  Dual-orientation tower system dimensions: h: 13.5" (343mm) x w: 3.74" (95mm) x d: 12.52" (318mm)  Starting Weight: 12.1 lbs. (5.49 Kg.)  Show full PR text  Dell's Alienware X51 Desktop Brings Immersive HD Gaming Within Reach  Powerful, High-Resolution Gaming Performance in a Small Form Factor Sophisticated Desktop Design That Fits in Nearly Any Living Space New Alienware Service Offerings Tailored Specifically for the Needs of Gamers Tweet This: Dell unveils the Alienware X51 gaming desktop – an immersive, big game experience now within reach. http://dell.to/y03Ln7 #Alienware  ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Alienware, Dell's high-performance, PC gaming brand, invites customers to join in the ultimate gaming experience with the Alienware X51, its smallest gaming desktop ever with outsized performance capabilities. The latest in Dell's PC gaming portfolio, the X51 is designed to deliver an exhilarating 1080p high definitioni and 3D gamingii experience of today's top-tier game titles while the new, smaller chassis design offers the flexibility to turn nearly any living space, from the living room to the dorm room, into an entertainment and gaming mecca. The Alienware X51 gives customers the freedom to focus on the game with the performance expected in an Alienware gaming PC and a thoughtful design for post-purchase upgrades, and the latest in performance technology. The versatile design of the X51 enables customers to achieve high performance computing in virtually any living space with a dual-orientation chassis supporting 7.1 surround-sound audio and an optional Blu-Ray disc drive. "The Alienware X51 allows us to bring the exciting nature of high-definition, immersive gaming within reach of more gamers than ever before," said Arthur Lewis, vice-president, Alienware and Product Management for Consumer, Small and Medium Business. "With the X51, we've expanded our gaming desktop offering to cater to all gamers in addition to our core enthusiast and competitive gamers. Now everyone can enjoy the latest games on a sleek, powerful, compact and customizable system. The X51 desktop delivers an incredible feature set for its size and price."  High Performance Gaming and Sophisticated Design  Alienware X51 features powerful 2nd generation Intel Core i processors, NVIDIA GeForce GT or optional GTX class graphics cards for intense gaming performance, Wireless-N technology for easy Internet access, HDMI 1.4 for connecting to 3D TVs and watching 3D Blu-ray moviesii, two SuperSpeed USB 3.0 ports for fast data transfer, High-Definition 7.1 Performance Audio and GDDR5 graphics memory - the most advanced graphics memory offering available. At its entry-level configuration with a Core i3 processor, 4GB memoryiii, 1GB NVIDIA GeForce GT 545 graphicsiii, and a 1TB 7,200rpm hard driveiv, the raw power of the X51 yields an average 34 frames per second in Battlefield 3 at high settings and a resolution of 1080pv, starting at $699.  The Alienware X51's intelligently designed chassis blends function and style. The desktop's sleek matte black finish with dark chrome accents and three customizable lighting zones, controlled by AlienFX® software, create a distinguished appearance. The gaming desktop's thoughtful design with an ultra-quiet dual orientation chassis allows for a horizontal or vertical set-up, allowing flexibility in the X51's footprint without sacrificing performance. The intuitive internal layout with a mini-ITX motherboard allows customers to perform their own hard drive, graphics card and memory upgrades quickly and easily, giving them peace of mind for the system's longevity.  Complete Control and Support  All Alienware laptops and desktops come with Alienware Command Center, which provides intuitive, user-friendly access to exclusive applications and controls, including AlienFXTM lighting effects and the AlienFusion power management system. AlienAdrenaline, a new module for the Alienware X51, enables gamers to create unique profiles that launch a series of customizable events when activated, such as opening specific programs, changing AlienFX themes, opening key web links and more. Updates and new releases download directly into Command Center, creating a constantly evolving tool for users to modify and personalize their system.  Alienware Gaming Services Specifically for Gamers  The newly available Alienware Gaming Services enable gamers' lifestyles by providing services, which support the latest games on the market and come with a "No Fix, No Fee" policyvi. Services offered include New Game Setup, Game Performance Optimization, Game Customization and Personalization, and In Game Troubleshooting. These services can be found on Dell's Solution Station web portal.  Product Leadership  Alienware is recognized throughout the industry and with customers alike for performance, functionality and design. The Alienware M17x gaming laptop with Intel Sandy Bridge processors recently won "Best Gaming Laptop" of 2011 from PC Magazine, with the Alienware M11x laptop coming in as runner-up. As new technology is released, Alienware will continually offer the latest in PC gaming hardware, partnering with other industry leaders to deliver an optimized gaming experience.  Alienware X51 Product Specifications:  Intel Core i3 Dual Core (standard) and Intel Core i5 and i7 Quad Core Processor Options Intel H61 Express Chipset Architecture Mini-ITX Motherboard Powerful NVIDIA Graphics Card Options 1GB GDDR5 NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 545iii (Standard) 1GB GDDR5 NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 555iii Configure with up to 8GB of DDR3 Memoryiii (4GB Standard); 2x 240-Pin DDR3 SDRAM Slots Fast 7,200RPM 1TB Hard Driveiv Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium Slot-Loading Dual Layer DVD Burner (Standard) or optional Blu-ray Disc Reader Internal High-Definition 7.1 Performance Audio with Waves MAXX Audio Software Integrated 10/100/1000Mbps Gigabit Ethernet NIC and Integrated 802.11 a/b/g/n Wi-Fi Wireless LAN (standard) USB 2.0 (6x); USB 3.0 (2x); Microphone In; Headphone/Speaker Out; HDMI 1.4 Output; RJ-45 Gigabit Ethernet; Front, Rear and Center Speaker Ports; SPDIF Digital Output (TOSLINK); SPDIF Digital Output (Coax) Alienware 240 Watt Power Supply (Standard) or optional 330 Watt Power Supply Dual-orientation tower system dimensions: h: 13.5" (343mm) x w: 3.74" (95mm) x d: 12.52" (318mm) Starting Weight: 12.1 lbs. (5.49 Kg.) Availability and Pricing:  Alienware X51 is available now on Dell.com and Alienware.com with a starting price of $699. Alienware Gaming Services is available in the U.S. and Canada at this time.
 