
 
Too Anti-Apple to buy into AirPlay? We feel you, and so does Altec Lansing. Here at CES, the outfit has just unveiled its latest speaker solution, the inMotion Air. Rather than catering specifically to iDevice users, this one's universal in nature -- hook a bundled adapter into your PC, and you can stream tunes to this here speaker from up to 300 feet away. There's also support for Bluetooth streaming, an internal battery that'll keep the good times rollin' for seven straight hours and a line-out connector in case you'd like to hook up a more robust set of drivers. The whole thing weighs just over a pound, and you'll even find a handle on the back for easy toting. It'll ship next month in slate black and gunmetal grey, with a retail price set at $199.95.





Show full PR textTHE NEXT GENERATION OF THE HOME STEREO HAS ARRIVED: THE ALTEC LANSING INMOTION AIR IS THE ANSWER TO UNIVERSAL AUDIO FREEDOM WITH NO COMPROMISEMILFORD, PA – January 5, 2011 – Today, audio innovator Altec Lansing releases the inMotion Air, the universal solution for users who desire true wireless freedom for home audio, but will not compromise sound quality. From any room in the house or from a variety of devices, the inMotion Air delivers audio autonomy providing room-filling sound up to 100 yards (300 feet) away with unrivaled clarity. "Users want access to their music at all times, whether it's from their computer libraries, mobile phones or portable players. The inMotion Air delivers freedom from the confines of wires so that the benefits of rich, crystal clear sound can be shared anywhere," said Steve Schlangen, Altec Lansing product manager. "Our heritage as an audio innovator enabled us to engineer a new wireless audio experience with an immersive soundstage, so whether consumers are connecting across the house from their computer or across the room from their iPhone, their music is always within reach."Life's Playlist, UnboundThe robust sound from the inMotion Air will appeal to users looking for a more sophisticated solution for liberating their music libraries. Unlike any other wireless audio system at this affordable price point, users will get the party moving with distinctive sound definition and distortion free audio, even at room-filling volume levels. As the night progresses from lounging poolside to entertaining in the living room, the inMotion Air keeps the music going and enables the party to flow from room to room. When connected to a computer via the included wireless adaptor, the inMotion Air achieves an astounding range of 100 yards, that's the equivalent of an entire football field, to stream playlists, internet radio or other audio content. Whether setting the mood or rocking out, the inMotion Air lets loose the full potential of everyday devices. Users of the iPhone, iPad, Droid and other stereo Bluetooth enabled devices can enjoy their music anywhere for up to seven hours of rich audio ecstasy with the included rechargeable Lithium-ion battery. Designed to be an accessory to an active social lifestyle, syncing to the inMotion Air is fast and simple for the user, as well as friends and family with compatible devices. Users can control extensive audio libraries with the remote control, with included support for iTunes and Windows Media Center. When connected to a Bluetooth enabled portable device, streaming and controlling content is a breeze.Wireless Audio Evolved When creating the inMotion Air, the engineers at Altec Lansing were aware that the sound quality of Bluetooth audio was typically described as "tinny" and left something to be desired. To counteract this, apt-X sound codec technology has been integrated into the inMotion Air. Apt-X is a unique codec that reproduces robust sound that's true-to-life, providing CD quality audio, regardless of file compression encoding. Additionally, Waves' Maxx® audio algorithms are used to further enhance the performance for the best possible audio experience never before heard from a wireless portable audio device in this price range. The inMotion Air computer adaptor features a bypass / line-out connection for speakers, so the adaptor unit never has to be unplugged from the computer. To make the inMotion Air more in-sync with a mobile lifestyle, the Bluetooth class 1 utilized in this system cuts down on interference to other devices such as Wi-Fi networks and cordless phones. Additionally, whether the user is looking to double the output or bring the party to multiple rooms simultaneously, two units can be linked to the same transmitter to provide truly immersive audio. Weighing in at just over a pound, the inMotion Air's sleek industrial design features top-mounted controls, soft-texture finish and an ergonomic handle in the back for easy carrying. The included remote gives the user easy control of their iTunes or Windows Media Center library from across the room. To fit any décor, the inMotion Air will be available in two colors, a modern slate black and riveting gunmetal.Availability and PricingThe Altec Lansing inMotion Air will be available in February at Radio Shack and www.alteclansing.com. MSRP is $199.95.
 