
 

Altec Lansing just debuted a pair of new portable speaker docks for the iPhone and iPod dubbed the iMT630 Classic (which we saw at IFA) and Sport. What separates the two? The Classic comes in black, while the sport has options for teal and red (ooo... fancy). That's it. Otherwise they're the same units with a pull out connector and a compartment on the back that holds and conceals the remote when the stand is flipped up. Both docks also feature a rechargeable battery and the ability to interact with Altec's apps, like Alarm Rock and Music Mood. Both are shipping now for $150 but, before you go, check out the gallery below and the PR after the break, won't you?





 		Show full PR text  The New inMotion iMT630 Provides High Quality Sound and High Impact Style for iPhone and iPod Users 		SAN DIEGO, Sept. 14, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Today, audio innovator Altec Lansing introduced the new inMotion® iMT630 Classic and Sport speaker systems for iPhone and iPod. The inMotion iMT630 Classic and Sport speakers are ultra-portable audio solutions for consumers who want to accessorize their active lifestyle while enjoying great sound quality. With a rechargeable battery, the iMT630 travels easily, whether it's from room to room or to the beach for a family vacation. From looking good to sounding good, the iMT630 never misses a beat, standing out and delivering amazing audio quality wherever life takes it. 		"Consumer electronics are an extension of our own unique taste, and the inMotion iMT630 syncs the listener's personality to his or her lifestyle. It is the perfect marriage of form and function, whether it remains stationary as part of a room's decor or moves with the party to keep the fun going," said Steve Schlangen, Altec Lansing Senior Product Manager. "By incorporating our engineering audio excellence into a thoughtful portable design, the iMT630 becomes more than a dock for your iPhone or iPod; it becomes a personal accessory to life." 		Despite its small footprint, the iMT630 pumps out clear and accurate sound even at maximum volume. Whether relaxing at home or playing outside, users can enjoy precision audio clarity and crisp bass delivered through dual 2-inch drivers for a full stereo experience. Proving that style does not have to be sacrificed for performance, the iMT630 features fluid aesthetics with rounded corners and is available in three distinct colors to please any personal preference: the inMotion iMT630 Classic comes in timeless black while the inMotion iMT630 Sport packs a colorful punch in red or teal. 		Seamlessly adapting to a user's active lifestyle, the compact and portable iMT630 easily moves from room to room with the user. The rechargeable Lithium Ion battery allows users to enjoy their music away from the outlet for nearly seven hours. The included wireless remote can control the music from across the room and has its own magnetic storage space, so it never gets misplaced. Consumers can also access their music through the onboard controls. Whether listening to music with the family or entertaining the neighbors on the patio, the iMT630 lets others indulge in their favorite music by connecting their device via the auxiliary input jack. 		App Enhancement: 		Users can enhance their experience with the iMT630 by utilizing Altec Lansing's iOS apps, including the Music Mood App and the Alarm Rock App. With Music Mood's Graphic Equalizer (EQ), users can customize their sound for a more enjoyable listening experience. From basic and preset options to a more advanced seven-band graphic EQ, customized sound can be saved and accessed at the user's discretion. Also included within the Music Mood App is the Ambient Sound library which allows users to relax to a number of serene sounds, including a crackling fireplace, a calming river stream, a relaxing beach or a mountain breeze. 		The Alarm Rock App acts as a full-featured digital alarm clock complete with time display and an oversized snooze button. Users can choose to wake or sleep to their favorite audio files and songs, while enjoying a fully customizable interface to match even the most eclectic tastes. 		Availability and Pricing 		Altec Lansing's iMT630 is available now at www.alteclansing.com, Best Buy and select consumer electronics retailers for $149.95 MSRP. 		The iMT630 is compatible with iPod touch (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th generation), iPod classic, iPod nano (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th generation), iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 3G and iPhone. 		The Music Mood and Alarm Rock Apps are available for free from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore/. 		About Altec Lansing 		For more than 70 years, Altec Lansing has been shaping the history of sound delivery by producing exceptional speakers with legendary acoustics and catering to the consumer who won't compromise sound quality. The company boasts a unique history of innovation that includes the introduction of the first "talkie" film speakers, the first set of desktop computer speakers, and the first iPod docking station. Altec Lansing continues to be the first choice for music enthusiasts and audiophiles alike. Altec Lansing is a global company with offices in San Diego, CA, Milford, PA, Southlake, TX, London, Amsterdam, Sydney, Shenzhen, and Hong Kong.
 