
 If we're being honest, many of you probably won't care too much about the latest update to Amazon MP3 for Android. Why? Well, the big new feature is Ford SYNC support, and we're pretty sure that a majority of cars on the road aren't packing the in-dash infotainment system yet. But, it is still quite a popular feature in new Ford vehicles and there's definitely a healthy number of drivers out there eager to put their Amazon music collection just a voice command away while they toil away in rush hour traffic. Version 2.8 of the app also includes the requisite bug fixes and a tweaked store that displays more search results. But we know all you really care about is the ability to tell your car to "play Usher" without feeling judged. Time to celebrate.



   Show full PR text   Amazon Cloud Player – Now in Your Car  Enjoy your entire music library on the go – no CDs, no wires, no local storage needed

   Access to Amazon Cloud Player in Ford SYNC AppLink-equipped vehicles is the latest in a series of customer benefits exclusive to the Amazon ecosystem of digital content and is available on the 2013 Ford Fiesta, Mustang, Focus, E-Series, C-MAX Hybrid, Expedition, Fusion, F-150 and Super Duty models

   SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 13, 2013-- (NASDAQ: AMZN)-Now it's getting even easier to enjoy music in your car-starting today, Amazon Cloud Player is available in Ford SYNC Applink-equipped vehicles. Ford owners can now wirelessly connect the Amazon MP3 app on their Android smartphone to the SYNC connectivity system to access and enjoy their entire Cloud Player music library in their car using simple voice commands or the audio controls. Ford Applink-equipped vehicles include the 2013 Ford Fiesta, Mustang, Focus, E-Series, C-MAX Hybrid, Expedition, Fusion, F-150 and Super Duty models. For more information, customers can visit Amazon.com/cloudplayerinford.

   Customers will love the integration of Amazon Cloud Player and SYNC Applink because they will be able to:

   Access their music playlists with the convenience of using voice recognition or dashboard controls  Play music stored in Cloud Player or play back music stored on their mobile phone  Enjoy eligible music in high-quality 256kbps audio  Get rid of CDs, wires, and other ways they used to connect and listen to their music in the car  Free up local storage space on their phones by storing and accessing music in the cloud  "We want customers to be able enjoy their entire music library wherever they want, from whatever device they choose. And we know that cars and music go hand-in-hand. That's why we're excited to bring Cloud Player to the car," said Steve Boom, Vice President of Digital Music for Amazon.

   There are already millions of customers using Amazon Cloud Player to download, manage and stream their music in the cloud and on Kindle Fire, Android devices, iPhone, iPod Touch, Mac, PC, Sonos, Roku and Samsung TVs. Now with the availability in Ford SYNC Applink-equipped cars, Amazon Cloud Player continues to offer the broadest selection of playback solutions of any major cloud music service.

   The integration of Amazon Cloud Player and Ford vehicles is the latest in a series of new digital music features that Amazon has launched in recent months. Earlier this year, Amazon announced AutoRip, giving customers free MP3 versions of eligible CDs they purchase from Amazon, including past purchases dating back to 1998 - automatically added to their Cloud Player libraries. In December of last year, Amazon launched Cloud Player for Roku and Samsung, following the August launch of Cloud Player on Sonos home entertainment systems, and June launches of Cloud Player for iPhone and iPod touch. In July of last year, Amazon added new scan and match technology that enables customers to import music into Amazon Cloud Player by scanning their iTunes and Windows Media Player libraries and matching eligible songs on their computers to Amazon's music catalog. The Amazon MP3 Store also recently expanded its catalog to offer more than 22 million songs and everyday low prices on best-selling albums, many starting at $5.

 
