

Earlier this year, Amazon reached a deal with Viacom to keep many of the media company's shows on Prime Instant Video, even scoring some exclusive content along the way. Now it's time for Amazon's other streaming service, Lovefilm, to benefit from a similar agreement. As you'd expect, Lovefilm's UK subscribers will now be able to enjoy a variety of content from Viacom networks, including shows on MTV, Comedy Central and Nickelodeon. And fret not if you don't enjoy shows like Jersey Shore -- at the very least you'll have the likes of SpongeBob and Go Diego Go! to keep the kiddos busy while you catch up on Man v. Food.



Show full PR textAMAZON'S LOVEFiLM ENHANCES REALITY TV, COMEDY AND CHILDREN'S OFFERING WITH NEWVIACOM INTERNATIONAL MEDIA NETWORKS DEAL
LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, today announced the arrival of hundreds of hours of popular reality TV series, comedy and children's entertainment on the LOVEFiLM Instant streaming service following a deal with worldwide entertainment leader Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN).

The wide selection of new shows will allow members of LOVEFiLM Instant in the UK to experience some of the greatest entertainment from across VIMN's exciting broadcast portfolio – which includes MTV, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. and Comedy Central.

Reality TV fans can now consume entire seasons of hit series The Hills, Teen Mom and Jersey Shore, as well the British smash-hit spin-off Geordie Shore. Ashton Kutcher's celebrity prank show Punk'd is also available to stream.Also available from today –– is a whole host of quality children's entertainment, with popular series now available including Daytime Entertainment Emmy® Award-winners Dora The Explorer and Blue's Clues, BAFTA Award®-winner SpongeBob SquarePants and a raft of other well-known characters such as Team Umizoomi, Bubble Guppies and Go Diego Go!

Chris Bird, Director of Content Strategy at LOVEFiLM, said:"We're thrilled to announce the arrival of hundreds of great shows from prestigious broadcasters such as MTV, Comedy Central and Nickelodeon. These new additions to our already extensive selection of entertainment will offer our members – kids and adults alike – more variety than ever before."

David Lynn, Executive Vice President and Managing Director of VIMN UK, said:"This is a great way for our audience to access some of VIMN's most well-known content, across any device. This partnership will create a fantastic gateway through which fans can view their favourite VIMN shows."


