
 
 Amazon and NBCUniversal Cable & New Media Distribution today announced a deal that will expand the mega-retailer's streaming selection by hundreds of episodes, including the likes of Parks and Recreation, Parenthood, Friday Night Lights, Heroes and Battlestar Galactica. Prime users will be able to check out older seasons of those shows on their computers, iPads, Xbox 360s, PlayStation 3s and, of course, Kindle Fires. Non-Prime subscribers can also try out Prime Instant Video's 22,000 movies and TV shows for one month, gratis. More information and lots of excited quotes about the deal can be found after the break.



  Show full PR text    Amazon Announces Expanded Prime Instant Video Agreement with NBCUniversal Cable & New Media Distribution
  Amazon.com, Inc. today announced an expanded content licensing agreement with NBCUniversal Cable & New Media Distribution, adding hundreds of popular and award-winning TV episodes to Prime Instant Video, including prior seasons of Parks and Recreation, Parenthood, Friday Night Lights, Heroes, Battlestar Galactica and more. Prime Instant Video now features more than 22,000 movies and TV episodes for Prime members to stream on Kindle Fire or any of the hundreds of compatible Amazon Instant Video devices including iPad, Roku, Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3. Customers who are not yet Prime members can sign-up at www.amazon.com/primevideos or can enjoy a free one month trial right out of the box with Kindle Fire. To start watching Prime Instant Video, visit www.amazon.com/primevideos.
  "We are excited to be working with NBCUniversal to add their award-winning lineup of TV shows such as Parks and Recreation and Friday Night Lights to Prime Instant Video," said Brad Beale, Director of Digital Video Content Acquisition for Amazon. "We continue to invest heavily in our content selection for Prime members, and have now reached over 22,000 movies and TV episodes available instantly with unlimited streaming."
  "We are thrilled to have several of our iconic programs available to subscribers of Amazon Prime, a service focused on the best possible consumer experience," said Frances Manfredi, President, Cable & New Media Distribution for NBCUniversal. "We look forward to further expanding NBCU's content offering available to Prime subscribers in the near future."
  To start watching Prime Instant Video now, visit www.amazon.com/primevideos. Customers who are not Prime members can enjoy a free one month trial of Prime. For a list of compatible Amazon Instant Video devices, visit here.
  
