
 
What do you do when the web's 500-pound Googorilla decides to muscle in on your action? Amazon's answer, apparently, is to work with said primate. Instead of making pouty faces about Google eBooks, the Kindle purveyor has unwrapped a new version of its Kindle for the Web browser-based reader and is rolling it into Google's Chrome Web Store. Up until now, this web offering only ever permitted the consumption of book samples in its short beta existence, but that's a limitation that Amazon is lifting with its new software, promising to "enable users to read full books in the browser and [enable] any Website to become a bookstore offering Kindle books." And hey, since it's on the web, you shouldn't have any trouble accessing it on Chrome OS, either! Coming to a Web Store near you early next year.
      

 

Show full PR textEvery Website Can Now Be a BookstoreKindle for the Web enables customers to read full text of Kindle books in their web browser - no download or installation requiredWebsites are invited to participate in decentralized e-book salesKindle for the Web is Chrome OS launch partnerSEATTLE, Dec 07, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE) --(NASDAQ: AMZN) - Two months ago, Amazon launched Kindle for the Web, making it possible to read free first chapters of Kindle books through web browsers. Today, Amazon announced that Kindle for the Web will expand to enable anyone with access to a web browser to buy and read full Kindle books - no download or installation required. For the first time ever, bookstores, other retailers, authors, bloggers and other website owners will be able to offer Kindle books from their own sites, let their readers start enjoying the full text of these books instantly, and earn referral fees through the Amazon Associates Program for sales made through their sites. Website owners can embed the Kindle for the Web widget in a matter of seconds and start offering Kindle books. The update to Kindle for the Web was demonstrated on-stage at a Google Chrome event today and will support Chrome OS devices, including the new Chrome OS Notebook, as well as the Chrome browser and other web browsers."Kindle for the Web makes it possible for bookstores, authors, retailers, bloggers or other website owners to offer Kindle books on their websites and earn affiliate fees for doing so," said Russ Grandinetti, Vice President, Kindle Content. "Anyone with access to a web browser can discover the seamless and consistent experience that comes with Kindle books. Kindle books can be read on the $139 third-generation Kindle device with new high-contrast Pearl e-Ink, on iPads, iPod touches, iPhones, Macs, PCs, BlackBerrys and Android-based devices. And now, anywhere you have a web browser. Your reading library, last page read, bookmarks, notes, and highlights are always available to you no matter where you bought your Kindle books or how you choose to read them."Kindle for the Web joins Amazon's wide selection of free reading apps for iPad, iPod touch, iPhone, Mac, PC, BlackBerry and Android-based devices that let customers read and sync their reading library, bookmarks, notes, and highlights with the device or platform of their choice.The Kindle Store offers the largest selection of books people want to read, including 101 of 111 New York Times Bestsellers and New Releases from $9.99. Millions of older, out-of-copyright, pre-1923 books are also available to read. Kindle books offer readers many additional unique advantages, including:Buy Once, Read Everywhere apps let you sync and read your books, last page read, bookmarks, notes and highlights across Kindle devices and the most popular devices and platformsAmazon's Worry-Free Archive automatically backs up your books and highlights online in your Kindle library where they can be re-downloaded wirelessly for free, anytime on any Kindle device or appAmazon.com customer reviews, personalized recommendations and editorial reviewsInstant 1-click buying using your Amazon account informationKindle for the Web was demoed on-stage today at Google's Chrome event, where audience members saw the speed and fluidity of Kindle for the Web operating on Chrome OS. Kindle for the Web will support Chrome OS devices, including the all-new Chrome OS Notebook announced today. Kindle for the Web takes advantage of HTML5 to give users a rich application experience. Kindle for the Web will be available in the coming months. More information about Kindle for the Web is available at www.amazon.com/kindlefortheweb.
 