
 
 Along with letting us know it had pleasantly updated its Cloud Player with 256 Kbps matched files, Amazon also briefly mentioned that Sonos compatibility would be coming sometime "soon." Well, it turns out you won't have to wait much longer to blast those jams on your HiFi wireless speakers, as the online retailer's announced its Cloud Player can now be used with any Sonos system. Naturally, the experience will be enhanced by using one of Amazon's apps, including those on iOS and, of course, its own Kindle Fire -- though you're not limited to these, as there are plenty more ways to stream content. Sound good? You can give it a try yourself now, or check out the meaty presser after the break if you're interested in perusing over the official notes.



  Show full PR text   Amazon Cloud Player Now Available on Sonos Wireless HiFi System   "Your Music, Everywhere" – Cloud Player customers can enjoy their music across the broadest selection of devices – including Kindle Fire, Android devices, iPhone, iPod Touch, Mac, PC, and now, Sonos wireless HiFi systems   SEATTLE – Aug. 9, 2012 – (NASDAQ: AMZN): Amazon.com, Inc., today announced that Amazon Cloud Player is now available on the Sonos Wireless HiFi System, allowing Amazon Cloud Player customers to listen to their music library throughout their home wirelessly. Amazon Cloud Player enables customers to securely store music in the cloud and play it on any Kindle Fire, Android device, iPhone, iPod Touch, Mac and PC, and now in any room via Sonos. For more information about Amazon Cloud Player on Sonos, visit: www.amazon.com/cloudplayerforsonos   "Our goal is to enable customers to enjoy all their music, wherever they are, and on any device. Launching on Sonos today is an important part of that strategy, as our customers have been asking us to add Sonos to the list of compatible Cloud Player devices ever since we first launched Cloud Player," said Steve Boom, vice president of Digital Music for Amazon. "We will continue to add support for more devices and platforms later this year."   There are already millions of customers using Amazon Cloud Player to download, manage and stream their music in the cloud and on Kindle Fire, Android devices, iPhone, iPod Touch, Mac and PCs. Now with availability on Sonos, Amazon Cloud Player continues to offer a broad selection of cloud playback solutions.   "We're excited to work with Amazon to offer Amazon Cloud Player customers the ability to enjoy their entire cloud music collection in any room of their home – delivered with great Sonos HiFi sound," said John MacFarlane, Chief Executive Officer, Sonos, Inc. "This new service seamlessly furthers our mission to provide modern music lovers the ability to listen to all the music on earth, wirelessly, throughout their home."  About Amazon Cloud Player  Cloud Player is a service that enables customers to securely store their personal music in the cloud and play it on a wide range of devices. Amazon Cloud Player is automatically integrated into Kindle Fire, so when a customer turns on their device, they can enjoy all the benefits of Cloud Player right out of the box. Customers can visit www.amazon.com/cloudplayer or download the app on iOS or Android.   Amazon Cloud Player eliminates the need to download files before playing them, with scan and match technology and all Amazon MP3's, even ones customers have purchased in the past, are always storied for free in Cloud Player. All Amazon MP3 purchases and up to 250 imported songs can be stored for free.   About Amazon MP3  The Amazon MP3 Store offers customers more than 20 million songs worldwide and hundreds of thousands of albums with everyday low prices on bestselling albums. All Amazon MP3s are DRM-free, and work on virtually any device that plays MP3s, including Kindle Fire, Android phones and tablets, iPhones, iPads, and iPods, and Macs and PCs.   ABOUT SONOS, INC.  Founded in 2002, Sonos is the leading manufacturer of wireless music systems. With Sonos you can stream all the music on earth, wirelessly, in every room and control it with your Android® smartphone or tablet, iOS device, Mac and PC. In addition to playing your personal digital music collection, The Sonos Wireless HiFi System gives you access to millions of songs and thousands of radio stations by partnering with Amazon Cloud Player, and more. The award-winning system is available at more than 11,000 retailers in over 65 countries worldwide; or direct from Sonos at www.sonos.com. Sonos is a privately-held company, headquartered in Santa Barbara, CA with offices in Cambridge, MA, Hilversum, Netherlands, Beijing and Shenzhen, China, and Penang, Malaysia.

 
