
 
 Amazon has rolled out its Cloud Player to Apple's smaller screens, with both the iPhone and iPod able to play the full catalogue of music stored in your Cloud Drive. This time, it's a dedicated app, although it may mean re-purposing the music library you've already built up from Apple's own collection. You can't buy tracks from within the app just yet, but at least your iTunes-bought AAC tracks are transferable. There's unlimited storage available for anyone willing to pay up for a storage plans and for those less willing to pay, Amazon's willing to offer up 5GB of storage gratis. Hit up the source to download, then upload, then listen.



  Show full PR text   Amazon Cloud Player App Now Available for iPhone & iPod touch
   SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--(NASDAQ:AMZN) – Amazon.com, Inc. today announced its Amazon Cloud Player App for iPhone and iPod touch is now available on the App Store. The app allows customers to stream or download music stored in Cloud Player to their iPhone or iPod touch, play music that is already stored on their device, and manage or create playlists.

   "Customers tell us that they want access to all of their music, wherever they are, and on all of the devices they use"

   "Customers tell us that they want access to all of their music, wherever they are, and on all of the devices they use," said Steve Boom, Vice President of Digital Music for Amazon. "By bringing Cloud Player to iPhone and iPod touch, we now have the most widely compatible cloud playback solution available, giving our customers the ability to buy once and enjoy their music everywhere."

   Customers using the Amazon Cloud Player App can stream, download, and manage their music in the cloud, eliminating the need to download files before playing them. With this new app, customers have full access to their Cloud Player music libraries and also can seamlessly add playlists that are currently on their iPhone or iPod touch.

   All Amazon customers automatically start with 5 GB of free storage to begin uploading their digital music library to Cloud Player, and for a limited time, those who purchase any storage plan will receive unlimited space for MP3 and AAC (.m4a) music files at no additional cost.

   The Amazon Cloud Player App is available for free from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore.

 
