
 


	It's been a busy week for the Kindle Fire. First came news that Amazon would be bringing Facebook, Hulu and "several thousand" other apps to its forthcoming tablet, and now, we've got confirmation that hundreds of magazines and newspapers are on their way, as well. Yesterday, the company announced that more than 400 "full-color" titles will be available on the Kindle Fire Newsstand, including Us Weekly, The New Yorker and Reader's Digest, among others. Users who subscriber before March 1st, meanwhile, will be able to access a full 17 Condé Nast titles for free, as part of a three-month offer. Amazon is also promising plenty of interactive editions with built-in video and audio, which you'll be able to check out for yourself next week, when the Fire begins shipping. For more details, check out the full press release after the break.


 

 		Show full PR text  Kindle Fire Newsstand to Offer Over 400 Full-Color Magazines and Newspapers 		Condé Nast will give all Kindle Fire owners an exclusive free three-month trial of 17 top magazines including Vanity Fair, GQ and Glamour 		SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov. 11, 2011-- Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) today announced that the Kindle Fire Newsstand will offer over 400 full-color magazines and newspapers. Kindle Fire customers who subscribe before March 1, 2012 will also receive an exclusive free three-month trial of 17 Condé Nast magazines, including Vanity Fair, GQ, WIRED and Glamour. Kindle Fire, which ships next week, is a new class of Kindle that brings the same ease-of-use and deep integration of content that helped Kindle re-invent reading to magazines, movies, TV shows, music, apps, games, books and more. Magazines and newspapers look beautiful on Kindle Fire's 7" vibrant multi-touch color touch-screen that delivers 1024 X 600 pixel resolution at 169 ppi and 16 million colors in high resolution. Kindle Fire Newsstand customers will be able to enjoy their favorite magazines in rich, glossy, full-color from publishers such as Condé Nast, Meredith, and Hearst. Interactive editions with built-in video and audio are also available for many magazines such as Better Homes & Gardens, Allure and Self. To learn more about the Kindle Fire Newsstand, visit http://www.amazon.com/kindlefirenewsstand. 		"We think Kindle Fire customers will love the beautiful, intuitive reading experience we've built for their favorite magazines such as Us Weekly, The New Yorker, and Reader's Digest," said Russ Grandinetti, Vice President, Kindle Content. "The response from publishers has been overwhelmingly positive and they are excited to make their magazines and newspapers available on Kindle Fire, and we're adding new titles all the time." 		"We're excited to work with Amazon to give Kindle Fire owners access to our magazines digitally," said John Loughlin, EVP/GM, Hearst Magazines. "Kindle Fire's beautiful touch-screen creates a great experience for readers, who will be able to enjoy magazines like Cosmopolitan and Esquire in a full-color, glossy format." 		"We are very pleased to be working with Amazon and getting our content to an even wider audience," said Monica Ray, Executive Vice President, Consumer Marketing, Condé Nast. "Their Newsstand will provide the kind of access and ease-of-use consumers value and demand." 		"Meredith has worked with Amazon to create Kindle Fire optimized interactive apps, so readers can enjoy videos, how-to diagrams and more while reading magazines like Better Homes & Gardens and Parents," said Liz Schimel, Chief Digital Officer, Meredith. "We think readers will love the experience of discovering our magazines in this new way on Kindle Fire's beautiful full-color touch-screen." 		Kindle Fire offers more than 18 million movies, TV shows, songs, books, magazines, apps and games, as well as free storage in the Amazon Cloud, Whispersync for books and movies, a 14.6 ounce design that's easy to hold with one hand, vibrant color touch screen, a powerful dual-core processor and Amazon Silk – Amazon's new revolutionary web browser that accelerates the power of the mobile device by using the computing speed and power of the Amazon Web Services Cloud – all for only $199. Customers also enjoy a free month of Amazon Prime giving them access to Prime Instant Video with 13,000 movies and TV shows available for unlimited streaming and the new Kindle Owners' Lending Library where Kindle owners can now choose from thousands of books to borrow for free including more than 100 current and former New York Times Bestsellers – as frequently as a book a month, with no due dates. 		Customers in the U.S. can pre-order Kindle Fire at http://www.amazon.com/kindlefire and it ships November 15. For high resolution images and video of the all-new Kindle Fire, visit http://www.amazon.com/pr/kindle.
 