
Looking for more videos to feed that new Kindle Fire HDX? You'll be glad to hear that Amazon has just added a slew of them to Prime Instant Video through an expanded deal with MGM. The agreement gives subscribers access to the TV series Vikings as well as a handful of better-known movies, including Fargo, Hotel Rwanda and Platoon. While the pact doesn't represent one of Amazon's bigger coups, it's hard to object to getting more streaming content at no extra cost.



Show full PR textAmazon and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Announce Expanded Content Licensing Agreement for Prime Instant Video
Deal includes Vikings, the #1 new cable series of the year in the U.S. along with popular MGM films for Prime members to stream instantly
SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 22, 2013-- (NASDAQ: AMZN)-Amazon.com today announced an expanded content licensing agreement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM), making the epic series Vikings available on Prime Instant Video. Amazon's video streaming subscription customers in the UK and Germany have already been enjoying the hit drama series since it exclusively came to LOVEFiLM – Amazon's European film and TV series subscription service-in May. Vikings premiered on HISTORY in the U.S. and was the #1 new cable series in 2013.
Today's announcement also brings with it a number of great MGM films, including Oscar-winning titles like Fargo, Platoon and Annie Hall, along with fan favorites like Hotel Rwanda and Hoosiers for Prime members to instantly stream on hundreds of compatible devices anytime, anywhere.
"We're excited that Prime Instant Video is now the video subscription home of Vikings, a series we know our customers love in both the U.S. and abroad," said Brad Beale, Director of Digital Video Content Acquisition for Amazon. "Adding a collection of great MGM films, along with Vikings, is an example of how we're continuously working to offer our Prime members some of the best content available anywhere."
"MGM is thrilled to further our relationship with Amazon by offering the epic series Vikings, as well as titles from MGM's library with Amazon Prime members," said John Bryan, President, Domestic Television Distribution, MGM. "We are always looking for opportunities to bring our content to new audiences in innovative ways, which is exactly what this partnership delivers."
Prime Instant Video is the exclusive online subscription home for PBS series Downton Abbey, the CBS summer blockbuster series Under the Dome, with each episode added just four days after initial broadcast, and other hit TV series including Justified, Falling Skies, Grimm, Suits and Covert Affairs. Prime Instant Video also offers an exclusive collection of kids shows from Nick Jr. that customers won't find anywhere else including favorites like Dora the Explorer, Go, Diego, Go!, Blue's Clues, and The Backyardigans. Debuting this fall, Amazon's first original series Alpha House and Betas can be found exclusively on Prime Instant Video as well.

