
 

Good news: now you can pick up an Amazon Kindle 3G for the same price as the Kindle WiFi. Naturally, there's a catch here: ads, ads, ads -- but you've gotten pretty good at tuning those things out anyway, right? The online retail giant announced today the availability of the Kindle 3G with Special Offers, priced at $139 (down from $189 for the ad-free version) -- best of all, that price includes the 3G subscription, which won't cost you a thing, if you're willing to wade through "money saving offers" and some adtastic screensavers. The new option joins the already announced ad-support WiFi model, which will run you $114 and replaces the $164 non-AT&T-sponsored 3G version. Press after the break.

Update: As Ahecht pointed out in comments, this new, cheaper Kindle is actually a replacement for the older ad-supported 3G model.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   AT&T to Sponsor Kindle 3G 			SEATTLE, Jul 13, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- 			NASDAQ:AMZN--With Kindle 3G, there's no wireless set up, and no paying for or hunting for Wi-Fi hotspots. Kindle 3G's always-on global wireless connectivity means that wherever you are - at the beach, on the train, or stuck on the tarmac - no problem, you can download books and periodicals in less than 60 seconds and start reading instantly. Amazon pays for Kindle's 3G wireless connectivity, which means the convenience of 3G comes with no monthly fees, data plans, or annual contracts. Today, Amazon.com announced that AT&T has agreed to sponsor Kindle 3G with Special Offers and that it is now available at a new price of $139. Kindle 3G with Special Offers is the same as the $189 Kindle 3G, plus money-saving special offers and sponsored screensavers. 			"Kindle 3G is more convenient - customers never have to hunt for or pay for a Wi-Fi hotspot - they simply download and read books anytime, anywhere. Kindle 3G customers read 20 percent more books, and take advantage of twice as many special offers," said Jeff Bezos, Founder and CEO, Amazon.com. "A big thank you to AT&T for helping to make the new $139 price possible." 			"Kindle 3G is by far the fastest-growing connected device on the AT&T network. We consistently hear from customers how much they enjoy the freedom of not being tied to a Wi-Fi hotspot and instead being able to download and read new books anytime, anywhere on AT&T's fast, reliable network," said Ralph de la Vega, President and CEO, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "We are excited to sponsor Amazon's best Kindle - Kindle 3G with Special Offers - at the new lower price of only $139." 			Kindle 3G includes all the same features that helped make the third-generation Kindle the #1 bestselling e-reader in the world: 			Free 3G wireless, no annual contracts, no monthly fees			Global 3G coverage means books in under 60 seconds in over 100 countries and territories			Paper-like Pearl electronic ink display, no glare even in bright sunlight			Lightweight body for hours of comfortable reading with one hand			Kindle Store with over 950,000 books - largest selection of the most popular books			Seamless integration with free "Buy Once, Read Everywhere" Kindle apps for iPad, iPod touch, iPhone, Android, PC, Mac, BlackBerry and Windows Phone 			Learn more at www.amazon.com/kindle. 
 