
It may have taken a while, but Amazon has finally delivered on its promise to bring a Cloud Player app for the Mac faithful. Ever since the offline music management suite debuted for the PC in May, the small cross section of Amazon MP3 hoarders and OS X users have been impatiently waiting for Bezos and co. to fill their promise. Just like its Windows-based brethren, this version can watch for newly ripped CDs or purchases made through iTunes and add them to your Amazon library. AutoRip CDs you've purchased will also automatically show up in you digital music collection. You can download the app now at amazon.com/getcloudplayer.



Show full PR textAmazon Cloud Player Desktop App Now Available for MacA Simple, Smart, Fast Way to Enjoy Your Entire Music Library from Your Desktop – Online or Offline

SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 29, 2013-- (NASDAQ:AMZN)- Following the successful release of Amazon Cloud Player for PC earlier this year, Amazon.com, Inc. today announced the availability of Amazon Cloud Player for Mac. The new app provides Mac users with a seamless way to manage their entire music library – whether saved on their computer or in the cloud – and shop from the Amazon MP3 Store with a catalog of more than 25 million songs.

Amazon Cloud Player for Mac features include:

One-place for all your music: Play your Amazon and iTunes music all from one place, even when offline.A music library that is always up-to-date: Cloud Player automatically detects and adds new music to your library even if you bought it from iTunes or ripped a CD. The app does all the work for you.An integrated MP3 Store: You can shop from the Amazon MP3 catalog of more than 25 million songs and discover new music with personalized recommendations, all without having to leave the app.AutoRip: Buy an AutoRip CD or vinyl record from Amazon and a free MP3 version of the album will be added to your Cloud Player for Mac library.Built for speed: Forget bloated players with extra features you don't need or use. Cloud Player for Mac is lean, mean and made for your music. It'll get you from launch to play in seconds.Music management made simple: Download your MP3 purchases automatically or with one click. Export your music to other music players. Create and manage playlists using simple drag-and-drop.Instant search & play: Find music easily and quickly. Type anywhere to search for an artist, album or song and play directly from the search results.Rich artist content: See artist photos, bios, tweets, and gorgeous, large album art.Anywhere access: Music purchased using Amazon Cloud Player for Mac is securely backed up in the cloud for free and made instantly available on any Kindle Fire, Android phone or tablet, iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Samsung TV, Roku, Sonos, PC or web browser."Amazon Cloud Player offers customers the easiest way to enjoy their music across all their devices," said Steve Boom, Vice President of Digital Music for Amazon. "Our customers have told us they love our PC desktop app, and we are excited to bring the same great experience to our Mac customers."

Amazon Cloud Player for Mac is available today for free at amazon.com/getcloudplayer.


