
 Roughly half a year after the launch of its Cloud Player for iOS, Amazon today announced that it has 'optimized' its MP3 store for Apple's mobile browser. Now iPhone / iPad / iPod touch owners can quickly buy music from the service via the mobile version of Safari. Purchased tracks will save to the Cloud Player and then can be downloaded to those devices, as well as the Kindle Fire, Android devices and Sonos systems. Those looking to pick up Yo La Tengo's new record for $5 can direct their handset to the source link below.



  Show full PR text   Amazon MP3 Store Now Optimized for iPhone and iPod touch: Amazon's 22-Million Song Catalog Available to iPhone and iPod touch Users for the First Time
  mazon.com, Inc. today announced the launch of the Amazon MP3 store optimized specifically for iPhone and iPod touch. For the first time ever, iPhone and iPod touch users can discover and buy digital music from Amazon's 22-million song catalog using the Safari browser. Customers also have access to favorite Amazon features like personalized recommendations, best-seller lists and Amazon customer ratings. Music purchases are automatically saved to customers' Cloud Player libraries and can be downloaded or played instantly from any iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, Kindle Fire, Android phone or tablet, Roku, Sonos home entertainment system, or any web browser, giving customers the freedom to enjoy more music, from more devices than any other major cloud music service.
  "Since the launch of the Amazon Cloud Player app for iPhone and iPod touch, a top request from customers has been the ability to buy music from Amazon right from their devices. For the first time ever, iOS users have a way do that – now they can access Amazon's huge catalog of music, features like personalized recommendations, deals like albums for $5, songs for $0.69, and they can buy their music once and use it everywhere," said Steve Boom, Vice President of Amazon Music.
  Features of the Amazon MP3 store on the mobile web browser include:
  The Amazon MP3 mobile website for iPhone and iPod touches is built on HTML5, which means customers can make purchases directly from the Amazon MP3 mobile website at www.amazon.com/mp3 on their iPhones and iPod touches  Selection of over 22 million songs and over two million albums at everyday low prices  Access to everyday deals like $5 albums, $0.69 songs, and free songs from artists on the rise  Individualized recommendations based on purchase history  Immediate availability and seamless playback of purchases in the Amazon Cloud Player app  Free storage of all Amazon MP3 purchases in Amazon Cloud Player
  Customers can begin shopping the Amazon MP3 store from their iPhone and iPod touch web browsers today at http://www.amazon.com/mp3.
 
