
 iPad owners have had access since early August, and at long last, iPod touch and iPhone users can say "Us too." The second major reason to crack open the App Store today has just surfaced, with Amazon confirming that its Instant Video app is now available for two of Apple's more bantam iOS products. Much like the iPad version, this one provides access to over 30,000 titles  from Prime Instant Video available to Prime members for no extra cost, while the roaming public at large can tap into some 140,000 titles at various price points. To watch movies or TV episodes from Amazon Instant Video on iPhone and iPod touch, customers can simply search for the content they've already rented or purchased from Amazon Instant Video, and the company's also throwing in "Your Watchlist" and "Your Video Library" features, too.
 Per usual, the app itself is free to download, and there's a link to the App Store over there in the source section. Oh, and for those wondering about AirPlay support? Unfortunately, it remains audio-only. We just tested the new build using a 3rd-generation iPad as well as an iPhone 4S to an Apple TV, and while the app happily passed audio from a film to our television, the video remained on the device itself. This, of course, is a particular bummer given that there's no Amazon Instant Video app for Apple TV.


  Show full PR text    Amazon Instant Video App Now Available for iPhone and iPod touch

   "Buy Once, Enjoy Everywhere" – Amazon Instant Video and Prime Instant Video Customers Can Now Enjoy Movies & TV Episodes on iPhone and iPod touch

   SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec. 13, 2012-- (NASDAQ:AMZN) – Amazon.com, Inc. today introduced the Amazon Instant Video App, enabling customers to stream or download Amazon Instant Video movies and TV episodes from their video library directly on their iPhone or iPod touch. The app also makes more than 30,000 titles from Prime Instant Video available to Prime members such as hit TV shows like American Horror Story, Downton Abbey and Fringe, as well as popular movies such as Hugo, Thor and Goodfellas, to stream instantly on their iPhone or iPod touch at no additional cost. Amazon announced the Amazon Instant Video app for iPad earlier this year. With today's launch, Amazon Instant Video is now available across iOS mobile devices.

   "Our customers tell us they want the convenience of being able to watch all of their movies and TV episodes, wherever they are," said Anthony Bay, Amazon.com Vice President for Video. "Today we're excited to extend our 'buy once, enjoy everywhere' approach to iPhone and iPod touch users, giving customers the chance to enjoy more than 140,000 titles from Amazon Instant Video and more than 30,000 titles from Prime Instant Video anytime, anywhere."

   To watch movies or TV episodes from Amazon Instant Video on iPhone and iPod touch, customers can simply search for the content they've already rented or purchased from Amazon Instant Video-including the latest hit movies like The Dark Knight Rises, Brave and The Amazing Spiderman and the latest episodes from TV series like The Walking Dead, Sons of Anarchy and The Vampire Diaries.

   The Amazon Instant Video App for iPhone and iPod touch offers features including:

   "Your Watchlist" feature that lets customers make a list of all the movies and TV episodes they want to watch in the future, regardless of whether they own the video or not, making it easy to keep track of specific videos for later viewing.  "Your Video Library" feature that gives iPhone and iPod touch customers access to purchases and rentals from Amazon Instant Video on the web.

   The Amazon Instant Video App for iPhone and iPod touch is available for free from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch or at http://www.itunes.com/appstore.

   For more information, visit http://amazon.com/instantvideo/iphone.

 
