
 


	It was a pretty busy day for the Disney-ABC Television Group yesterday, as the company announced a new licensing deal with Amazon, while renewing its pre-existing agreement with Netflix. The Amazon deal will allow Amazon Prime members to access all prior seasons of Grey's Anatomy, every episode of Lost, and all previous seasons of The Secret Life of the American Teenager, among other series. Amazon expects to add a total of some 13,000 titles to Prime Instant Video by "early next year," and just in time for the holiday season (as well as the release of the Kindle Fire). The renewal of Netflix's deal, meanwhile, ensures that the company will continue to offer episodes of shows like Private Practice, Brothers and Sisters, and Ugly Betty, as well as new additions, including Switched at Birth, Kick Buttowski and Alias. Basically, though, it's just more of the same. But at a time when Netflix is losing customers in the wake of its price hike and Qwikster debacle, maybe stability isn't such a bad thing. Surf past the break for a pair of dueling PRs.
 

 		Show full PR text  Amazon Adds More Titles to Prime Instant Video with a New Digital Video Licensing Agreement with Disney-ABC Television Group -- Giving Prime Members Even More Video Content for Their New Kindle Fire 		Amazon.com today announced a new licensing agreement with Disney-ABC Television Group that will allow Amazon Prime members to instantly stream a broad selection of library content from ABC Studios, Disney Channel, ABC Family and Marvel. The agreement was brokered by Disney-ABC Domestic Television with Amazon. 		Popular Disney-ABC Television Group offerings for Prime members will include: 		Prior seasons of current ABC hit series "Grey's Anatomy"		All episodes of recent ABC favorite "Lost"		Prior seasons of Disney Channel's popular animated series "Phineas & Ferb"		Prior seasons of ABC Family's groundbreaking series "The Secret Life of the American Teenager," including the most recently aired episodes from summer 2011		Prior seasons of Marvel's animated shows "Spider-Man," "X-Men Evolution," "Thor & Loki: Blood Brothers" and "Iron Man: Extremis"		All episodes of ABC Family's "Greek"		All episodes of "Felicity" from ABC Studios 		Amazon Prime members can watch these TV shows on over 300 different devices, including the recently announced Kindle Fire-the Kindle for movies, TV shows, music, magazines, apps, books, games, and more. Kindle Fire customers enjoy a free month of Amazon Prime right out of the box. 		"We are excited to add some of the very best content available from Disney-ABC to Prime instant video," said Brad Beale, director of video content acquisition for Amazon. "This includes every episode of past seasons from the ABC hits Lost and Grey's Anatomy, fan favorites like Felicity and Greek, the popular Disney Channel show Phineas & Ferb and great animated series from Marvel. We're working hard to add even more selection for Kindle Fire customers and Prime members leading up to the holidays, and expect to have nearly 13,000 titles available in Prime instant video by early next year." 		Show full PR text  Netflix and Disney-ABC Television Group Announce Extension of Existing Licensing Agreement to Stream TV Shows 		BEVERLY HILLS and BURBANK, Calif., Oct. 31, 2011 -- /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ: NFLX) and Disney-ABC Television Group today announced that they recently entered into an extension of their previous existing licensing agreement. The extension allows Netflix to continue to stream hundreds of library episodes from ABC Studios, Disney Channel and ABC Family over the Internet. As part of the deal, Netflix is also adding new content to its lineup of Disney-ABC series and TV movies. 		The agreement adds to the growing selection of content that can be streamed from Netflix in the United States. Episodes from new seasons of current Disney-ABC series will be made available to Netflix 30-days after the last episode of each season airs. 		Among the series and TV movies extended as part of the deal include: 		Prior season episodes of ABC current hit series "Grey's Anatomy," "Desperate Housewives," and "Private Practice"		All episodes of recent ABC favorites "Lost," "Brothers & Sisters," and "Ugly Betty"		Prior season episodes of critically-acclaimed "Army Wives" from ABC Studios		Popular series from ABC Family including "The Secret Life of the American Teenager," "Melissa & Joey," and "Make It or Break It"		A wide range of content from Disney Channel including series "Phineas and Ferb," " Good Luck Charlie," "The Suite Life on Deck," and "Hannah Montana"		New content from Disney-ABC that will be added to the service include: 		ABC Family's smash hit series "Switched at Birth"		Prior season episodes of Disney Channel's animated series "Kick Buttowski"		All episodes of the ABC thriller "Alias"		"Disney and ABC have been and continue to be an innovative and supportive partner for Netflix. The diverse but always excellent programming from the different channels and networks are favorites of our members and we are thrilled to broaden the scope and extend the terms or our relationship," said Ted Sarandos, chief content officer, Netflix.
 