
 Looks like releasing its first in-house-built mobile game for Android (and other platforms) wasn't quite enough for the online retail giant. Amazon announced earlier that its Cloud Drive Photos application is now available on Android for both handset and tablets, giving users of Google's OS a cloud-based hub to use for uploading, saving, sharing and viewing pictures -- of course this also includes the retailer's kind handout of 5G of free storage, though folks could easily upgrade to 20GB for a $10 per-year fee. The Cloud Drive Photos app is up for download now, so hit that Google Play link below if you're looking for yet another place to keep all those awesome shots you snap with your device.



  Show full PR text   Amazon Cloud Drive Photos App Now Available on Android Phones and Tablets
    Amazon Cloud Drive customers can now save and enjoy free storage of thousands of photos anywhere from their Android phones and tablets

   Never worry about having stranded or lost photos again – Cloud Drive easily and securely stores customers' photos in the Amazon Cloud

   SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov. 1, 2012-- (NASDAQ:AMZN) – Amazon.com, Inc. today announced the launch of Cloud Drive Photos for Android app, making it even easier to upload, store, share and enjoy photos from Android phones and tablets. Android phone and tablet users can download the free Cloud Drive Photos for Android app to take advantage of Cloud Drive's 5 GB of free storage, and have thousands of their photos at their fingertips in the Amazon Cloud. Users can purchase additional storage for as little as $10 a year for 20 GB. The Cloud Drive Photos for Android app is available in the Amazon Appstore or from Google Play, and you can learn more about the app at www.amazon.com/androidclouddrive.

   "Customers rely on their mobile devices more and more to capture the memories that matter to them," said Russell Dicker, Director of Cloud Drive. They are taking photos at birthday parties, soccer games, and kids' recitals every day on their Android phones and tablets. The Cloud Drive Photos for Android app makes it simple to save these memories into Cloud Drive and have them automatically available on your Kindle Fire or Android Phone or Tablet."

   It's easy to save your photos from your Android device to Cloud Drive. Simply press and hold on a photo album on your Android phone, and select "Upload to Cloud Drive" to save existing photos from your device to the Cloud. Amazon Cloud Drive uses the same reliable and fast data storage infrastructure used by Amazon to run its own global network of web sites.

   Android Cloud Drive features include:

   All Your Photos, Wherever You Go: Save your entire photo collection in Cloud Drive and your photos will be available to enjoy on your Kindle Fire, Android Phones and tablets, or with any web browser.  Share Photos Through Your Favorite Apps: You can select photos directly from your Cloud Drive and share them through Facebook, email and many other apps.  Save to the Cloud: It's simple to save photos to your Cloud Drive – simply press and hold on a photo or album and select "Upload to Cloud Drive" to save directly to the Amazon Cloud from your device.  Beautiful Photo Display: Your photos are displayed in a horizontal mosaic or vertical grid view, optimized for the screen size of your Android device.  Cloud Drive is already integrated into Kindle Fire HD, making it seamless to upload, store and enjoy your entire photo library. With Kindle Fire HD's high-resolution screen, photos come alive in stunning high-definition, and the mosaic view arranges personal photos beautifully. Customers can also use their Kindle Fire to view their favorite photos on their TV using HDMI out, which enables you to connect an HDMI cable from your Kindle Fire to any device that has an HDMI port.

   To learn more about Amazon Cloud Drive, visit www.amazon.com/clouddrive.

 
