
 If Amazon's recent foray into British period drama leaves you cold, its Prime Instant Video service now has something grittier on tap: The FX Network's Justified. Thanks to a new deal with Sony Pictures Television, you can download the western-style crime series for no additional cost if you're a subscriber on the $79 yearly service. It was up for grabs at $1.99 a pop on Instant Video before, where Amazon said it was one of its most popular buys, and now Prime subscribers can grab episodes from seasons one through three. Season four will arrive after its current run on FX concludes, though individual episodes of the latter are available on Instant right after they air, if you're willing to pay $1.99. Amazon also added all seven seasons of Sony's The Shield to Prime Instant, so if you're looking to go on a crime spree, check the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Amazon's Prime Instant Video Named the Exclusive Online Subscription Home of FX Series Justified
   Fan-favorite series The Shield will also join the Prime Instant Video catalog for Amazon Prime members to instantly stream at no additional cost

   Amazon recently announced that PBS favorite series Downton Abbey and the anticipated summer series Under the Dome from CBS will soon be available exclusively on Prime Instant Video

  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 26, 2013-- (NASDAQ:AMZN) – Amazon.com, Inc. today announced a content licensing agreement with Sony Pictures Television, making Prime Instant Video the exclusive online subscription home to the FX Network western crime drama Justified. The award-winning and gritty series has been one of the most watched shows on Amazon Instant Video, where customers can purchase and download episodes for $1.99 each, and will now be available to Prime members at no additional cost. In addition, Prime Instant Video will add the critically-acclaimed inner-city Los Angeles crime drama The Shield to its catalog.

   "Justified and The Shield are two fan-favorites on Amazon," said Brad Beale, Director of Digital Video Content Acquisition for Amazon. "We're consistently looking for ways to make Prime even better – and one of the ways we're doing that is adding shows like these that we know customers love. Prime members have tens of thousands of episodes of their favorite series like Downton Abbey, Falling Skies, and now Justified and The Shield, to enjoy on hundreds of devices, at no additional cost."

   "We have a great relationship with Amazon and we're excited to give fans more opportunities to view these two great dramas," said John Weiser, President of US Distribution for Sony Pictures Television. "We know Amazon's Prime Instant Video service is the ideal platform for viewers to see their favorite episodes of these critically acclaimed series and to also open the show up to new audiences who we know will quickly get hooked on them."

   Earlier this month, Amazon and CBS announced an extension of their non-exclusive licensing agreement, including the subscription debuts of The Amazing Race and Undercover Boss, as well as a deal that will make Prime Instant Video the exclusive subscription home for the anticipated series Under the Dome this summer. Amazon also recently announced that Prime Instant Video will soon become the exclusive online subscription home for PBS hit Downton Abbey. Prime Instant Video offers more than 37,000 movies and TV episodes for Amazon Prime members to stream, commercial free, at no additional cost on Kindle Fire, Kindle Fire HD, iPad, iPhone, iPod touch, Roku, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Wii and Wii U, among other devices. To sign up for Amazon Prime, visit www.amazon.com/primeinstantvideo.

   About Amazon Instant Video

   Amazon Instant Video is a digital video streaming and download service that offers Amazon customers the ability to rent, purchase or subscribe to a huge catalog of videos. Customers can choose from more than 150,000 titles to purchase or rent and content ranges from new release movies to classic favorites, major television shows, entire seasons, or even day after air TV. Prime Instant Video is Amazon's video subscription offer-it includes more than 37,000 movies and TV episodes selected from the full assortment available at Amazon Instant Video. This subscription offer allows US Prime customers to stream as many titles from Prime Instant Video as they like, at no additional cost.

   About Prime

   Amazon Prime is an annual membership program for $79 a year that offers customers unlimited Free Two-Day Shipping on millions of items including books, home and garden products, electronics, video games, clothing, and much more. Amazon Prime members also get access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes and access to hundreds of thousands of books to borrow for free, as frequently as a book a month, with no due dates from a Kindle device. Customers who receive free Prime shipping benefits through our Amazon Student or Amazon Mom programs can upgrade to an annual paid membership to receive Amazon Prime's digital benefits.

 
