
 
Consider all the things you've bought from Amazon, all the things you wanted to, but couldn't afford to buy from Amazon, all the wildly popular fashions and fads that have gone through that online store's brief, but torrid history ... each of those has now been overshadowed by the mighty sales of the third-generation Kindle. Jeff Bezos and team have today announced that their latest and greatest Kindle has become their bestselling product of all time, thanks in no small part to an aggressive price that's been "low enough that people don't have to choose," as Jeff puts it, between an e-reader and a tablet -- they've just gone and bought both, apparently. Alas, we're still no closer to knowing the exact figure of Kindle sales, but who really cares at this point, the thing's looking like a runaway success.
      

 

Show full PR textThird-Generation Kindle Now the Bestselling Product of All Time on Amazon WorldwideIn just five months, new Kindle replaces 'Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows' as best-selling product in Amazon's historySEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--(NASDAQ: AMZN)-Amazon.com today announced that the third-generation Kindle is now the bestselling product in Amazon's history, eclipsing "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Book 7)." The company also announced that on its peak day, Nov. 29, customers ordered more than 13.7 million items worldwide across all product categories, which is a record-breaking 158 items per second."We're grateful to the millions of customers who have made the all-new Kindle the bestselling product in the history of Amazon -- surpassing Harry Potter 7," said Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com founder and CEO. "We're seeing that many of the people who are buying Kindles also own an LCD tablet. Customers report using their LCD tablets for games, movies, and web browsing and their Kindles for reading sessions. They report preferring Kindle for reading because it weighs less, eliminates battery anxiety with its month-long battery life, and has the advanced paper-like Pearl e-ink display that reduces eye-strain, doesn't interfere with sleep patterns at bedtime, and works outside in direct sunlight, an important consideration especially for vacation reading. Kindle's $139 price point is a key factor -- it's low enough that people don't have to choose."Amazon Worldwide 2010 Holiday Facts (includes www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, www.amazon.cn, and www.amazon.it)On Christmas Day, more people turned on new Kindles for the first time, downloaded more Kindle Buy Once, Read Everywhere apps, and purchased more Kindle books than on any other day in history.On the peak day this season, Amazon's worldwide fulfillment network shipped over 9 million units across all product categories.Amazon shipped to 178 countries.One of Amazon's most remote shipments contained the "Tinker Bell and the Great Fairy Rescue," "Toy Story" DVDs, "Chicken Soup for the Dog Lover's Soul," NHL 11, Halo Reach and Call of Duty: Black Ops and was delivered to the hamlet of Grise Fiord, north of the Arctic Circle in Canada.Amazon shipped over 350,000 units to APO/FPO addresses.Amazon.com 2010 Holiday Facts (www.amazon.com only):Kindle (Wi-Fi) and Kindle 3G were the best-selling products on Amazon.com this holiday season."The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" was the most purchased Kindle book on Christmas Day."The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" was the most gifted Kindle book on Christmas Day.Of Amazon's top 500 most popular Kindle books, "The Dork Diaries" saw the greatest gain in popularity on Christmas Day.There were millions of Price Checks from Black Friday through the FREE Super-Saver Shipping cut-off date (for delivery before Christmas).During the holiday season, the biggest mobile shopping days for iPad, iPhone and Android users was Sunday, however the biggest mobile shopping day for BlackBerry users was Friday.The last One-Day Prime order that was delivered in time for Christmas, was placed on Dec. 23 at 6:48 p.m. PST and shipped to Billerica, Mass., for delivery on Dec. 24. The item was a Nautica Men's NST Chronograph Bracelet Watch.The last Local Express Delivery order that was delivered in time for Christmas was placed by a Prime member and went to Woodinville, Wash. It was an Apple Mac Mini that was ordered at 1:41 p.m. on Christmas Eve and delivered at 8:04 p.m. that evening.Amazon customers purchased enough snow/tire chains to outfit the entire population of three of America's top ski cities: Aspen, Breckenridge and Sun Valley.For the holiday time period alone, Amazon customers bought enough copies of "Eclipse" for Edward Cullen to watch the movie 1,000 times a day for all 109 years of his life.Amazon customers purchased so many pairs of jeans that if you folded each pair and stacked them on top of each other, the height would be the equivalent of Mt. Everest.Amazon customers purchased enough Kyjen Hide-a-Squirrels to hide one toy squirrel everyday for the next 100 years.Amazon customers purchased more Philips Norelco shavers this holiday season than the average beard hairs on a man's face.
 