
 
 In this post-DVD world, it can be tough to really enjoy a film without having a director talk on top of it. AMC's looking to fill in the void of contextual information left as many of us have moved from physical to streaming media, with the launch of Yeah! today at SXSW, an online streaming movie service featuring curated supplementary features for classic movies like Superman, Reservoir Dogs, Clerks and A Nightmare on Elm Street. The offering includes interviews with folks like Wes Craven and Richard Donner, facts about the films and quizzes -- there's 400 to 500 new pieces of content per film, according to AMC, which you can access "without obscuring the movie." Yeah! is available now in the source link below -- movies will run you $5 for a 48-hour rental. An iPad version of the service is hitting this summer.



 Update: We've added an interview with AMC Network's Lisa Judson, general manager of Yeah! You'll find it embedded below.

 
 Zach Honig contributed to this report.
  Show full PR text   YEAH! Launches As First Streaming Movie Site To Curate Original Content Around Iconic Films
  AMC Networks, which owns and operates AMC, IFC, Sundance  Channel, WE tv and IFC Films, announces the launch of YEAH! www.YEAHTV .com, the first  streaming movie service that is an entirely new way to watch movies online. Each YEAH! film  is enhanced with interactive features including 400-500 individual pieces of original content  curated from in-depth research. The new bonus content is displayed on-screen seamlessly  without obscuring the movie, offering fans a choice of unique extras to engage with such as:
  Intimate, never-before-seen, exclusive interviews with filmmakers and stars – with just a  click the movie pauses and the interview plays  Little-known facts about characters and scenes minute-by-minute throughout each film  Quizzes that test how well you really know your favorite movies
  YEAH! launches today during the South by Southwest Conference and Festival with films  immediately available for rent online at www.YEAHTV.com. A YEAH! iPad app will be  introduced this summer.
  YEAH! features iconic genre films -- including sci-fi, horror and action-adventure. By renting  films on YEAH! you'll:
  Hear Richard Donner describe how Marlon Brando wanted his Superman character  "Jor-El" to look like a bagel  Watch Juliette Lewis and Tom Sizemore disagree on how his nose was broken while  filming Natural Born Killers  Learn from Michael Madsen how Quentin Tarantino and Lawrence Tierney nearly came  to blows on the set of Reservoir Dogs  Find out real-life events that inspired Wes Craven to create A Nightmare on Elm Street  And discover so much more about the films you love to watch... and then watch again
  "YEAH! is the ultimate movie viewing experience," said Lisa Judson, General Manager of  YEAH! "The films on YEAH! are curated by a team of Emmy Award winning producers who are  true movie fans. Two months of in-depth research goes into every film curation to create an  entirely new way for fans to enjoy their favorite movies."
 
