
 

Looks like AMD is finally ready to spill the (official) beans on that 1.65GHz E-450 Fusion APU we heard about at Computex, today announcing refreshed chips for its Fusion E and C-series APUs. The updated "Zacate" and "Ontario" APUs sport DDR3-1333 and HDMI 1.4a support, snaring bragging rights to faster memory and 3D output for 3D-enabled televisions. The new chips also promise an increased resting battery life -- up to 10.5 hours for the E-Series, and a staggering 12 hours on the C-Series. Although it didn't name any specific manufacturers, AMD says that machines rocking the new APUs are available starting today. Hit the break for the full PR.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AMD Boosts Its AMD Fusion APUs for Notebooks, Ultrathins, All-in-Ones		and Desktops 		SUNNYVALE, Calif. - Aug. 22, 2011 - Today, AMD (NYSE: AMD) updated its award- winning C- and E-Series Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) for ultrathin and value notebooks, netbooks, all-in-ones and desktop PCs with top of the line features. The updated APUs deliver:		 				Enhanced HD graphics capabilities  				Performance boosts with enhanced memory  				DisplayPort ++ for connecting to any HDMI or DisplayPort-enabled monitor or TV  				12 hours of resting battery life on a single charge for the mobile platform – a nearly four hour increase over previous platforms  			Notebooks, netbooks, small form factor and all-in-one desktops based on these new APUs are available from leading manufacturers starting today. 			"Today's PC users want stunning HD graphics and accelerated performance with all-day battery life and that's what AMD Fusion APUs deliver," said Chris Cloran, vice president and general manager, Client Division, AMD. "With these new APUs, we're bringing premium features to entry-level products that let users get a richer computing experience." 			AMD has shipped more than 12 million APUs, and sold more than five million of the popular C- and E-Series APUs in Q2 2011 alone. The updated AMD C- and E-Series APUs meet the needs of consumers who want fast and Brilliant HD streaming video, sharp photos, life-like gaming through powerful DirectX®11-capable discrete-level graphics and a parallel processing engine, as well as all-day battery life. Additionally, the updated E-Series APUs feature:  				DDR3 1333 support for enhanced memory bandwidth and faster performance and video playback.  				HDMI 1.4a connections allow for viewing 3D pictures and home video on 3D- enabled TVs and displays.   			For mobile users, the new AMD Fusion C-Series and E-Series APUs deliver even longer battery life than before - with up to 10.5 hours of resting battery life on the E-Series and 12 hours on the C-Series - enabling users to work or play longer without searching for an outlet. 			Products from leading PC manufacturers based on these new APUs are available starting today and can be identified by the VISION Technology from AMD or HD Internet stickers. 
 