
 

Speed. It's of paramount importance in evaluating any computer system, and the engine that gives your PC its get up and go is its CPU. The folks at AMD wanted to show off just how awesome (and fast) their new Bulldozer-based FX chips can be, and set a Guinness World Record for the "Highest Frequency of a Computer Processor" while they were at it. To get the record, a team of "elite overclocking specialists" cranked up the juice on an 8-core desktop CPU until hitting a speed of 8.429GHz -- handily surpassing the previous mark of 8.308GHz. So, AMD's got the fastest silicon in the west and it's chipping away at Intel's processor predominance. What say you, Chipzilla?
      

 

  		Show full PR text    AMD Showcases World's Fastest CPU		– AMD FX CPU inducted into Guinness Book of World Records – 		SUNNYVALE, Calif. - Sept. 13, 2011 - A longtime favorite of performance enthusiasts and overclockers around the world, AMD (NYSE: AMD) today announced it has achieved the Guinness World Record for the "Highest Frequency of a Computer Processor," by overclocking the upcoming 8-core AMD FX desktop processor. 		"The record-breaking processor speed that resides in the AMD FX CPU clearly demonstrates performance gains for the new AMD 'Bulldozer' multi-core architecture, which will provide x86 computing power for this CPU and future AMD Accelerated Processing Units," said Chris Cloran, corporate vice president and general manager, Client Group at AMD. "Along with world-record frequencies, the AMD FX processor will enable an unrivaled enthusiast PC experience for the money – extreme multi-display gaming, mega-tasking and HD content creation." 		The AMD FX CPU, set to launch in the fourth quarter of 2011, achieved a top speed of 8.429 GHz, - surpassing the previous record of 8.308 GHz. The record was set Aug. 31, 2011, in Austin, Texas, by "Team AMD FX," a group comprised of elite overclocking specialists working alongside top AMD technologists, who will also be named in the Guinness World Records. 		"We applaud AMD for their entry into Guinness World Records® for achieving the Highest Frequency of a Computer Processor," said Freddie Hoff, adjudicator for Guinness World Records, who is presenting the award today at the AMD Fusion Zone, a technology showcase in San Francisco, Calif. "We congratulate everyone involved in this record-breaking achievement." 		The record marks another accomplishment in the storied history of the FX brand, which represents amazing, unrestrained PC experiences that users can see and feel. All FX branded products, including the upcoming AMD FX CPU, will offer completely unlocked processor clock multipliers for easier PC enthusiast overclocking, and include exclusive AMD software through the AMD VISION Engine to fine-tune system performance. For FX branded processors, AMD has removed all the stops to enable a fully unlocked experience, giving overclockers and PC enthusiasts complete customization and flexibility. 		Supporting Resources 		Read a recap of the action and see photos of "Team AMD FX" breaking the previous world record. 		Check out the computer hardware performance database at HWBot.org [http://hwbot.org/benchmark/cpu_frequency] 		Follow AMD on Twitter at @AMD_Unprocessed for the latest AMD FX CPU updates. 		Note: AMD's product warranty does not cover damages caused by overclocking. Extreme overclocking with liquid helium and liquid nitrogen should only be attempted by professional overclockers.
 