
 
Shocking as this might sound, there are no only a few games in which iPhone and Android users can go at each other in live multiplayer mode. Exploiting this vast void is Social Gaming Network, whose Skies of Glory aerial dogfighting title has been ported to Android (2.0 and above) while retaining the ability to communicate with iOS devices over WiFi, 3G or Bluetooth connections. Frankly, we can't think of a better game to get the cross-platform multiplayer movement going: fAndroids and iPhoneys gunning each other down while talking smack to themselves should prove therapeutic for both parties. On a more serious note, given the tireless growth that both platforms are showing, this kind of thing should hopefully tend toward being the rule rather than the exception.

Update: Our readers have sagely reminded us that Raging Thunder 2 and Homerun Battle 3D have done the cross-platform dance already. The more the merrier, we say.
      

 

Show full PR textSocial Gaming Network Launches First Cross-platform Mobile Game to Enable Live iPhone-to-Android Gameplay over 3G, WIFI and BluetoothPopular Multiplayer Game "Skies of Glory" Now Available on Android PlatformPALO ALTO, Calif. – (July 16, 2010) – SGN, the leader in cutting-edge social mobile gaming, today announced the launch of the first multi-platform mobile game allowing iPhone and Android users to compete live against one another. First launched on iPhone in December 2009, SGN's hit aerial combat game "Skies of Glory" is now available on Android-based mobile phones above 2.0, including the EVO, Nexus and Droid. Android-toting gamers can not only join the action, but can play against their iPhone-carrying friends. In multiplayer game mode, an Android-based player can spot, engage and shoot down an iOS-based player. "Skies of Glory" for Android was developed in collaboration with Revo Solutions Games, SGN's development partner on the original iPhone game.SGN's entry into the Android Market follows a meteoric rise in platform adoption. According to Gartner Research, Android represented 26.6% of all North American smartphone sales in Q1 2010 -- a year-over-year increase of more than 500%."Mobile phones are unquestionably the gaming platform of the future. Smartphones are becoming accessible to all, and we are really excited to offer a true multi-platform, multiplayer social mobile gaming experience through 'Skies of Glory,' said SGN CEO Randy Breen. "As more and more people connect with family and friends through gaming, we continue to facilitate that connection regardless of users' device or platform preferences." Recognizing both platforms' potential, SGN and Revo Solutions Games created an Open Platform Multiplayer Framework to support a variety of platforms and a wide range of connection capabilities, from EDGE to 3G to WiFi, maximizing gamers' ability to connect.For Android-based gamers, "Skies of Glory" features the same intense, stunning gameplay enjoyed by iPhone and iPod touch players. Set in World War II, the game features authentic planes from the era competing in multiplayer dogfights over stunning terrains, including mountain ranges, deserts, islands and oceans.
 