
   Google has taken the stage in Hong Kong to make the next version of Android OS, nicknamed Ice Cream Sandwich, a thing of reality. Better known as Android 4.0, the update offers a massive redesign to the user interface and adds a plethora of new features. Some of the highlights include an NFC-enabled feature called Android Beam, offline search in Gmail, new lock screen features and a fancy unlocking method called "Face Unlock," which uses facial recognition to ensure strangers can't use your phone without permission. Ice Cream Sandwich also includes enhancements in almost every native app within Android itself. The SDK is already available for Android 4.0, and the update itself will make its first public appearance on the Samsung Galaxy Nexus, also unveiled tonight. After the break, we'll cover all of the nitty gritty details, along with some excellent screenshots below. So come along, why won't you? 


 
          
 
 
 Here's some of the enhancements found in Ice Cream Sandwich:  Option to use virtual buttons in the UI, instead of taking up capacitive touch buttons  Widgets are in a new tab, listed in a similar list to apps  Folders are much easier to create, with a drag-and-drop style similar to iOS  A customizable launcher  New phone app with visual voicemail functionality that lets you speed up or slow down voicemail messages  Pinch-to-zoom functionality in the calendar  Gmail has offline search, a two-line preview, and new action bar at the bottom  Swipe left or right to switch between Gmail conversations  Integrated screenshot capture by holding power and volume down buttons  Improved error correction on the keyboard  Ability to access apps directly from lock screen (similar to HTC Sense 3.x)  Improved copy and paste  Better voice integration  Face Unlock, a facial recognition service  New tabbed web browser, allowing up to 16 tabs  Browser now automatically syncs your Chrome bookmarks  Modern "Roboto" font  Data Usage section in settings lets you set warnings when you reach a certain amount of use and disabling data when you go over your limit  Ability to kill off apps that are using data in the background  Camera app: zero shutter lag, time lapse settings, zoom while recording  Built-in photo editor  New gallery layout, organized by location and person  Refreshed people app with social network integration, status updates and hi-res images  Android Beam, a NFC feature that lets you exchange websites, contact info, directions, YouTube, etc.  Don't like some of those preloaded carrier apps? Disable 'em. Android Engineer Dan Morrill mentions that, among other new features, any app can be disabled, and while it will still take up space in ROM, it won't be snatching any of your precious resources or clock cycles again if you don't want it to.
 