
 Rovio teased a certain film-inspired Angry Birds picture a long, long last week, and as expected, it's another new game -- Angry Birds Star Wars. Our furious feathered friends are assuming the likenesses of characters from the epic saga, with the trusty Red Bird taking on Luke Skywalker's role. It wouldn't be the Rebel Alliance without a dark side to fight, which is where the Pigs fit into the storyline; even the music and levels for gravity-based play will hark back to the film franchise. In addition to the software, details of related merchandise have also been uncovered, including table games, toys and costumes. The game is out on November 8th for iOS, Android, Windows Phone, Kindle Fire and computers, and if it follows the original storyline, we wonder how Red Bird's going to feel about his porcine family history.



 
  Show full PR text    ANGRY BIRDS & STAR WARS JOIN FORCES  08.10.2012

   NEW YORK – (October 8, 2012) –Rovio Entertainment and Lucasfilm Ltd. announced today a new blockbuster entertainment franchise collaboration; Angry Birds Star Wars. Launching worldwide on November 8, the unique partnership will combine all the fun of the classic Angry Birds and Angry Birds Space with the characters, stories and settings of the epic space fantasy, Star Wars.

   From the deserts of Tatooine to the depths of the Death Star – the game and merchandise will feature the Angry Birds characters starring as the iconic heroes of the beloved Saga.

   "This is the best Angry Birds game we've ever done. It's the best parts of Angry Birds with all new cutting-edge gameplay set in in a galaxy far, far away," said Peter Vesterbacka, the Mighty Eagle and CMO of Rovio. "As a big Star Wars fan myself, I'm really excited about this new universe. The Force is definitely strong with this one."

   In addition to the game, this fall will also see the unveiling of a massive retail launch for Angry Birds Star Wars. Merchandise ranging from Halloween costumes and apparel to action figures and collectible plush toys will be available at select retailers, starting October 28.

   "Both Star Wars and Angry Birds share the instant and irresistible appeal of hands-on fun," said Colum Slevin, Vice President, Head of Studio Operations for Lucasfilm Ltd. "People seem to instinctively know what to do when handed a lightsaber or a bird in a slingshot, so this is a natural combination."

   In the coming weeks, fans can expect additional new videos, characters, and much more exciting content to be revealed.

   The game will be available on iOS, Android, Amazon Kindle Fire, Mac, PC, Windows Phone and Windows 8.

   For more information about Angry Birds Star Wars, visit www.angrybirds.com/starwars and watch the teaser trailer at www.youtube.com/user/RovioMobile.

 
