
  Rovio described the upcoming Angry Birds Space as its biggest launch since the original game, but has been coy about platform details until now, as Samsung has revealed it's launching on the Galaxy Note. We're not sure how the phablet's 5-inch (or possible 10.1-inch) display comes into play, but the extra area can't hurt. Other than the "Houston... we have a slingshot" tagline there's not many other details revealed, but if you're (still) obsessed with taking down those pigs once and for all then press play on the teaser video above.
      

 

  Show full PR text  The Angry Birds are going into Space! Rovio and Samsung collaborate on their greatest adventure February 28, 2012    BARCELONA, Spain – February 28, 2012 – Samsung Electronics and Rovio today announced collaboration for upcoming Angry Birds Space game launch.  The leader in smart mobile devices and the leader in mobile gaming have partnered to launch the latest title in the world's most successful mobile game franchise. As a part of strategic partnership, Samsung and Rovio will cooperate to promote Samsung's smart mobile devices and Rovio's upcoming new game.  The Angry Birds are preparing a rescue mission to boldly go where no bird has gone before, with low gravity environments and brand-new never-before-seen worlds. Working with Samsung and its internationally renowned range of GALAXY smartphones and tablets, Rovio is bringing exclusive content and a fantastic new adventure to fans.  Samsung GALAXY Note provides a better gameplay experience, especially when it comes to playing Angry Birds on-the-go with a vivid and expansive 5.3" HD Super AMOLED screen and a mighty 1.4GHz dual-core processor ensuring incredibly fast and smooth game play.  Samsung and Rovio have previously collaborated on a number of projects, delivering the best mobile gaming experience. Continuing this great partnership, Samsung, the official launch partner of Angry Birds Space, and Rovio will bring exclusive content and many more surprises to Angry Birds and Samsung GALAXY device lovers.  Younghee Lee, Senior Vice President of Mobile Marketing at Samsung Electronics, said: "We are thrilled to join the launch of new Angry Bird Space game as an official mobile partner. The Angry Birds games are among the most popular content that most smartphone users enjoy everyday. Samsung GALAXY Note provides best fit mobile gaming experience through its crystal clear and large enough screen, superior graphic performance and fast processor."  Ville Heijari, VP of Franchise Development at Rovio, said: "Angry Birds Space is probably the biggest product launch for Rovio so far, and we are excited to partner with Samsung for the blast off. Angry Birds Space is a perfect companion for the great new smartphones from Samsung, and Samsung GALAXY Note will show off the game's rich detail and intricate gameplay to the fullest."  To see more about the why the Angry Birds are going intergalactic, visit the Samsung stand in Hall 8 at the Mobile World Congress 2012.   About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of US$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company operates two separate organizations to coordinate its nine independent business units: Digital Media & Communications, comprising Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, and Digital Imaging; and Device Solutions, consisting of Memory, System LSI and LCD. Recognized for its industry-leading performance across a range of economic, environmental and social criteria, Samsung Electronics was named the world's most sustainable technology company in the 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.  About Rovio  Rovio is an entertainment media company, and the creator of the globally successful Angry Birds franchise. Rovio was founded in 2003 as a mobile game development studio, and the company has developed several award-winning titles for various mobile platforms. In 2009, Rovio released Angry Birds, a casual puzzle game for touchscreen smartphones that became a worldwide phenomenon from 2010 onwards. The Angry Birds games have enjoyed continuing worldwide chart success, and the franchise has since expanded to a variety of new business areas. Rovio is rapidly expanding its activities in broadcast media, merchandising, publishing and services. Rovio's headquarters are located in Finland. For more information, please visit www.rovio.com.
 