
  Rejoice, casual gamers -- Angry Birds Space has landed! Rovio's latest game -- which we recently took for a spin on Samsung's Galaxy Note LTE at SXSW -- frees itself from the earth's gravitational pull to explore the final frontier. We've gathered download links to all the major platforms below for your epic birds vs. pigs entertainment. Aren't space physics fun?  iTunes (iPhone)  iTunes (iPad)  Mac App Store  Rovio (Windows)  Google Play (Android)  Amazon (Android)  Nook (Android)Update: Video and PR after the break.
      

 

   Show full PR text  Angry Birds Space Now Available  Angry Birds Space marks the first integrated product launch for Rovio Entertainment  March 22, 2012 – Rovio Entertainment today announced the launch of Angry Birds Space, available now for iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Android devices, as well as the Mac and PC, with PC retail copies to follow shortly. Angry Birds Space marks the first integrated entertainment launch for Rovio, with merchandise, animation and books available in retail at the same time as the game.  From floating through space in zero gravity, to using the gravity of nearby planets to set up spectacular trick shots, Angry Birds Space takes the gameplay that fans already know and love to a totally new level. With brand new birds, brand new superpowers, and a whole galaxy to explore, the sky is no longer the limit!  "This is Rovio at its finest, and we are more than excited to bring Angry Birds Space to all our fans worldwide," said Mikael Hed, CEO of Rovio. "This launch marks a huge step for us as a company, and our whole team and partners have really pulled together to bring out a fantastic array of exciting products and experiences. We hope that our fans will find all things Angry Birds Space as delightful as the Rovio family does."  Angry Birds Space features 60 interstellar levels, with regular free updates in the pipeline. Even more content is available through in-app purchase, starting first with the iOS version. Included in the game are many hidden goodies, secret levels and cool space content. Gameplay has been thoroughly optimized for all platforms, including full Retina display support on the new iPad.  To celebrate the launch of Angry Birds Space, Rovio and partners hosted a series of launch events for fans of the game in Beijing, Helsinki, Hong Kong, Seattle and Tokyo. Today, Earth is officially the epicenter of fun in our galaxy!  Angry Birds Space is available for $0.99 from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch, and Angry Birds Space HD is available for $2.99 from the App Store on iPad. Both are also available at www.itunes.com/appstore.  Angry Birds Space for the Mac is available for $4.99 from the Mac App Store.  Angry Birds Space is available for Android devices for free with advertising. Ad-free versions of Angry Birds Space will also be available on Android for $0.99, and an HD version for Android tablets for $2.99.
 