




AOC's latest may not have the IPS viewing angles of recent tablet offerings or high-end monitors, but this portable 16-inch screen connects -- and powers itself -- through just one USB port. Priced at $139, the AOC e1649fwu also includes a fold-up stand and can be propped up in both portrait and landscape. The 16:9 TFT screen packs 1366x768 resolution, and AOC promises that it won't immediately suck all the life out of your laptop, though we'll hold our judgement until we can get our hands on one. It could be a very canny addition to your portable office arsenal; it weighs in at a spritely 2.3lbs (just under over 1kg) and the 1.4 inch thickness means it may squeeze into some (admittedly more capacious) lappie bags. You'll finally be able to look like you mean business while pluggin' away in your own private corner at Starbucks after this launches next month.




 		Show full PR text  AOC Unveils 16-inch Portable USB Monitor, The Must-Have Laptop Accessory 		Fremont, Calif. – September 20, 2011– AOC, the worldwide leader in monitor display technology, announces the sleek and portable USB Monitor, the ultimate laptop accessory. The lightweight monitor features a convenient built-in USB port that receives both power and signal via a single USB cable for plug-and-play connection. 		The monitor does not require a power cord or VGA cable, and is ideal for dual- and multi-monitor setups. Along with functioning as an extended display, the accessory can also be used for on-the-go presentations. The AOC USB Monitor will be available at major retail chains nationwide in October 2011. The 16-inch model (e1649fwu) will have an MSRP of $139. "The USB Monitor showcases AOC's dedication to expanding its display offerings and using the latest technologies to come out with innovative and user friendly products," said Robert Velez, Marketing Manager of AOC. "The USB Monitor is ideal for business presentations, photo frame applications, multiple monitor displays and as a companion monitor for laptop and netbook users who want more out of their computer." 		With the launch of the USB Monitor, AOC continues its commitment to providing the latest in digital display technologies and innovative styling. The 16-inch e1649fwu model also offers impressive image quality with 50,000,00:1 Dynamic Contrast Ratio, 5ms response time and 1366 x 786 resolution. A handy built-in Smart Stand pivots out when needed and stores flush against the back of the monitor when not in use. The foldable stand supports both portrait and landscape display. 		Because the monitor does not require a power cord or VGA cable, it permits maximum portability while still allowing the display of multiple applications like instant messenger, movie player, gaming and digital picture frame apps. The e1649fwu has a clean and modern aesthetic that is complemented by a black piano-polish finish on the bezel, while a hard glass screen offers superior protection. 		One laptop can support multiple USB Monitor connections to create a multi-monitor setup. The USB Monitor is also compatible with desktop PCs. Every AOC monitor is manufactured to meet the most stringent green standards. Along with being mercury free, the packaging for the eco-friendly USB Monitor is made from recycled materials. In addition, AOC's industry-leading LED display technology allows for a powerful and crystal clear display while minimizing power consumption. 		• Panel Type: LED		• Widescreen 16:09		• Screen Size: 15.6"w		• Viewable Image Size: 395 mm		• Brightness (typical): 250cd		• Contrast ratio (typical): 50,000,000:1		• Response Time: 5ms		• Max. Resolution: 1366x768 @60Hz		• Input Signal: 1 USB		• HDCP Compatible: No		• Special Features: USB Powered 		About AOC		AOC is the world's largest manufacturer of LCD/LED monitors and HDTVs. With more than 60 years of design and manufacturing experience, AOC has earned a reputation for selling user-friendly, technologically advanced monitors, TVs and multi-functional displays. Every aspect of AOC's global business focuses on the development of products that fit seamlessly into consumers' digital lifestyle. For more information, please visit us.aoc.com.
 