
 

Gun accessories for your Wiimote or Move wands are old hat but, we can't help but be at least a little intrigued by this rifle-like dock for the iPhone. The appBlaster is an accessory from apptoyz designed specifically for use with the company's Alien Attack iOS game. Slide in your iDevice and fire up the AR shooter and you'll be treated to a bit of Piper-vision, exposing the invisible aliens in our midst. Pull the triggers and two capacitive pads touch the screen to fire at the invaders that only you can see. The appBlaster is available for pre-order now at RED5 for £19.99 (about $32) and will official hit shelves on July 7. Check out the PR after the break.
      

 

   		Show full PR text  The ultimate phone becomes the ultimate toy 		- RED5.co.uk launches the appBlaster, an augmented reality iGaming toy - 		London, UK – 8am GMT, June 23, 2011 – RED5.co.uk, the ultimate gadget shop, today launches a world exclusive iPhone and iPod touch toy, the appBlaster from apptoyz. Designed to work with the augmented reality (AR) app, Alien Attack, the blaster demolishes aliens invisible to the naked eye. The appBlaster is exclusively available on pre-order today at www.RED5.co.uk for dispatch on 7 July, for £19.99 and will be for sale at the RED5 concession at Selfridges, Oxford Street from 6 July. 		The appBlaster* gives iPhone and iPod touch users a new AR gaming experience. The augmented reality feature of the game means that the alien invasion will be coming straight at you from the surrounding area, so whether you're on the bus, in the office or at home, there's no place to hide! 		The appBlaster doesn't require any batteries as it sports trigger-to-touch-screen technology to fire the in-game shooter. The triggers operate two pads that touch the screen and shoot the in-game blaster, allowing the user to use both the primary and secondary shooting functions. To make the experience more realistic, the appBlaster can be cocked and reloaded using the iPhone's or iPod touch's motion sensitivity. 		Simply download the free app, apptoyz Alien Attack, from the iTunes App Store, lock and load your iPhone or iPod touch to the top of the blaster, and using the unique trigger-to-touch-screen technology, shoot the advancing aliens from all corners of the room. The full version of the free Alien Attack app will launch on 6 July. It can be found after launch by searching Alien Attack on the iTunes App Store. Further apptoyz game apps will be released on the App Store later in the summer. 		* appBlaster was known as AppGun in developmental stages. 		Compatible with iPhone 3GS, 4, and iPod touch 4th generation. 		About RED5 		The first RED5 store opened its doors in 2005 and the company currently has 15 standalone physical shops as well as established concessions at Hamleys and Selfridges. The website www.red5.co.uk followed in 2006, as a result of rapidly growing customer demand. With a priority on quality and originality, the RED5 buying team search far and wide to bring the coolest and most innovative gifts and gadgets to customers, before the rest of the market. Although RED5 may appear to be a new kid on the block, in reality it is anything but, founders Jonathan Elvidge and Joth Baron, were both part of the team behind The Gadget Shop, the original high street gadget retailer.
 