
 
 It's gone through quite a few minor revisions as of late, but Apple has today taken the wraps off a fairly big redesign of not just iTunes for OS X and Windows, but iOS devices as well. The latter will be making its debut with iOS 6 on the 19th, and you can expect a simpler interface in all incarnations -- "dramatically simpler," according to Apple's Eddie Cue -- with a carousel up top paired with a flattened grid of icons below. The desktop version also sports a new mini player, which now boasts search functionality while staying decidedly minimalistic, and a new "Up Next" feature lets you cue up songs and see what's coming at a glance. Those UI changes naturally extend to the store component as well, and Apple is also promising improved performance throughout. No firm release date for the desktop version just yet, but Apple says we can expect it sometime in "late October."

 Check out our liveblog for the latest from Apple's event.



  Show full PR text   Apple Unveils New iTunes
   Featuring Dramatically Simplified Design & Seamless iCloud Integration

   SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Apple® today announced the new iTunes® for Mac® and PC featuring a completely redesigned player, seamless integration with iCloud®, and a stunning new look for the world's most popular online music, apps, TV and movie stores. The new iTunes is coming in October and will feature a dramatically simpler and cleaner interface that keeps your favorite iTunes content at the forefront. With iCloud integration, your music, movie and TV purchases made on any of your iOS devices or computers is conveniently displayed in your iTunes library on your Mac or PC, available anytime you want them. The redesigned iTunes Store®, App Store℠ and iBookstore℠ have been rethought to make buying your favorite content on your iPhone®, iPad®, iPod touch®, Mac or PC simpler than ever.

   "The new iTunes works seamlessly with iCloud, always keeping your entire library at your fingertips, and we're adding great new features that make listening to your music more fun."  "We created iTunes because we love music and we're going back to our roots with an incredibly clean design that keeps your music at the forefront," said Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of Internet Software and Services. "The new iTunes works seamlessly with iCloud, always keeping your entire library at your fingertips, and we're adding great new features that make listening to your music more fun."

   The redesigned iTunes features a full-window interface on your Mac or PC that's simpler and cleaner, always keeping your favorite content in front of you. The new library view makes it easier to view your music, TV shows and movies, allowing you to click on the category of content you want to browse and that's all you will see. The expandable album view allows you to see track listings for an individual album, while letting you continue to browse your music library. The new search feature searches across your entire iTunes library, including music, movies and TV shows. The re-imagined MiniPlayer makes it easy to control your music with a small tool bar, you can skip to the next song or search for something new to play-all without having to open your library. Up Next is a fun new way to see what songs are coming up and queue songs or albums you want to hear next.

   With iCloud, all of your iTunes purchases are in the cloud and can be accessed from your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, PC or Apple TV®. The new iTunes features seamless integration with iCloud, which automatically puts all of your purchases into your library on your Mac or PC, regardless of which device you used to make the purchase. iCloud also remembers where you are in your favorite movies or TV shows no matter which device you're viewing on.

   The redesigned iTunes Store, App Store and iBookstore feature a clean design that makes shopping easier and more fun. Featured content is showcased right at the top and easy-to-browse shelves serve up popular music, movies and TV show choices. You also have a preview history that shows you all of the music, movies and TV shows you've sampled. iCloud keeps your preview history across all of your devices. Additionally, users can preview 90 second clips of songs while continuing to browse the store.

   The new iTunes will be available in October as a free download at www.itunes.com.

   The iTunes Store is the world's most popular online music, app, TV and movie store with a catalog of over 26 million songs, over 700,000 apps, over 190,000 TV episodes and over 45,000 films. The iTunes Store is the best way for iOS, Mac and PC users to legally discover, purchase and download music and video online. iTunes is the world's most popular media player for Mac and PC.

   Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.

 
