
Apple just set a new all-time record for iPhone launch sales: it reports selling nine million total iPhone 5s and 5c units this weekend, well over the 5 million of the iPhone 5 launch last year. While the company isn't breaking down sales by individual models, it notes that the initial iPhone 5s supply has already sold out. The company also mentioned that more than 200 million devices are already running iOS 7. That's the fastest software upgrade in history, according to Apple. While it's difficult to put the sales and download figures into context without directly comparable numbers from rivals, it's clear that the new devices are off to a strong start. Check out Apple's self-congratulatory release after the break.



Show full PR textFirst Weekend iPhone Sales Top Nine Million, Sets New Record
CUPERTINO, Calif., Sep 23, 2013 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Apple(R) today announced it has sold a record-breaking nine million new iPhone(R) 5s and iPhone 5c models, just three days after the launch of the new iPhones on September 20. In addition, more than 200 million iOS devices are now running the completely redesigned iOS 7, making it the fastest software upgrade in history. Both iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c are available in the US, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK. Demand for iPhone 5s has exceeded the initial supply, and many online orders are scheduled to be shipped in the coming weeks.
"This is our best iPhone launch yet--more than nine million new iPhones sold--a new record for first weekend sales," said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO. "The demand for the new iPhones has been incredible, and while we've sold out of our initial supply of iPhone 5s, stores continue to receive new iPhone shipments regularly. We appreciate everyone's patience and are working hard to build enough new iPhones for everyone."
iPhone 5s redefines the best smartphone experience in the world with amazing new features all packed into a remarkable thin and light design, including the Apple-designed A7 64-bit chip, all-new 8 megapixel iSight(R) camera with True Tone flash and introducing Touch ID(TM), an innovative way to simply and securely unlock your phone with just the touch of a finger. iPhone 5c features an all-new design, packed with features users know and love like the beautiful 4-inch Retina(R) display, blazing fast performance of the A6 chip, and the 8 megapixel iSight camera--all while delivering great battery life.(1) iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c both offer more LTE bands(2) than any other smartphone in the world and include all-new FaceTime(R) HD cameras.
iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c feature iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone, featuring a stunning new user interface, completely redesigned with an elegant color palette, distinct, functional layers and subtle motion that make it feel more alive. iOS 7 has hundreds of great new features, including Control Center, Notification Center, improved Multitasking, AirDrop(R), enhanced Photos, Safari(R), Siri(R) and introduces iTunes Radio(SM), a free Internet radio service based on the music you listen to on iTunes(R).(3) Over 11 million unique listeners have already tuned in to iTunes Radio since launch with the most listened to song being "Hold On, We're Going Home" by Drake.
Every customer who buys an iPhone 5s or iPhone 5c at an Apple retail store will be offered free Personal Setup service, helping them customize their iPhone by setting up email, showing them new apps from the App Store(SM) and more, so they'll be up and running with their new iPhone before they leave the store. Customers can learn more about iOS 7 and their new device through new free workshops at all Apple retail stores worldwide. In the US, the new iPhones are available through AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless, select Best Buy, RadioShack, Target and Walmart stores and Apple Authorized Resellers.
Pricing & Availability
iPhone 5s comes in gold, silver or space gray, and is available in the US for a suggested retail price of $199 (US) for the 16GB model and $299 (US) for the 32GB model and $399 (US) for the 64GB model.a' iPhone 5c comes in blue, green, pink, yellow and white and is available in the US for a suggested retail price of $99 (US) for the 16GB model and $199 (US) for the 32GB model.a' iPhone 5s cases are available in beige, black, blue, brown, yellow and (RED) for a suggested retail price of $39 (US) through the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores and select Authorized Apple Resellers. iPhone 5c cases are available in blue, green, pink, yellow, black and white for a suggested retail price of $29 (US) through the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores and select Authorized Apple Resellers. iPhone 4s is also available for free (US) with a two-year contract.a'
(1) Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors. Actual results vary.
(2) LTE is available through select carriers. Network speeds are dependent on carrier networks, check with your carrier for details.
(3) iTunes Radio is available with iOS 7 in the US.
a' For qualified customers.

