
When last we got a new iPod touch, the fourth-generation from 2010, it was so thin relative to other devices of that era we said it looked like "a toothpick." Its 7.2mm thinness was unparalleled -- at the time. But now, just two years later, the iPhone 5 is less than a half-millimeter thicker, and that is of course packing a lot more wizardry inside. Suddenly, that toothpick is looking a little portly, which means it's time for the touch to lose a little weight.


Enter the fifth-generation iPod touch, the 2012 model that has slimmed down to a mere 6.1mm in thickness. It's also about 10 percent lighter -- despite being grafted with a new 4-inch Retina display. Not only is it bigger and thinner, but it's far faster and has hugely improved cameras on both the front and rear. The perfect PMP package for $299? Click on through to find out.




Hardware
The fourth-generation iPod touch had a curved chrome back that looked absolutely lovely coming out of the box. Roughly 30 seconds later that mirrored look would evaporate, replaced by a scratched-up patina that no amount of careful handling could prevent. But, its shape felt good in the hand, with its size and weight both seeming minimal compared to nearly every other device on the market -- two ingredients for a top-notch device.

The fifth generation improves on that in every regard. As mentioned above, it now measures 6.1mm thick, while its width and height clock in at 4.86 by 2.31 inches (123.4 x 58.6mm). Compared to the fourth-generation touch, which measured 111 x 58.9 x 7.2mm, the new iPod is considerably thinner, fractionally narrower and massively taller. It's also noticeably lighter, at 3.1 ounces (88 grams) compared to 3.56 ounces (101 grams) for the outgoing model. Storage capacities are now 32 or 64GB, priced at $299 and $399, respectively.


We chose the special edition (Product) Red to evaluate and as soon as it came out of the box we were confident we made the right call. It's beautiful.Gone is the mirrored back, replaced by a matte aluminum shell available in your choice of six anodized colors. We chose the special edition (Product) Red to evaluate and as soon as it came out of the box we were confident we made the right call. It's beautiful. The crimson hue sets up a nice contrast to the white bezel around the glass on the front, as well as the white plastic that forms the rim of the 3.5mm headphone jack, which still lives on the bottom, but has moved to the left to match the placement on the iPhone 5.



