
  If you've ever downloaded an app from iTunes then congratulations, you are a part of history. Just a few minutes ago Apple notched its 25 billionth download, thanking all involved for getting there, and of course (like it did for 10 billion, and 1 billion), gifting the lucky individual who crossed the line with another $10k gift card. Not sure what you would buy with $10,000 in App Store bucks? That's ok, since you probably don't have it, but don't forget -- our official Engadget and Distro apps are free, and will love you back all the same. Remember way back in 2008 when all this was fresh and new? Relive the iPhone SDK press conference via our liveblog right here.Update: According to Apple's official presser, that 25 billionth app download was made by a user in Qingdao, China. The game? Disney's Where's My Water? Free -- a fitting honor given Mr. Jobs former role on that company's board.[Thanks, Sam]
      

 

  Show full PR text  Apple's App Store Downloads Top 25 Billion  CUPERTINO, California-March 5, 2012-Apple® today announced that more than 25 billion apps have been downloaded from its revolutionary App Store™ by the users of the more than 315 million iPhone®, iPad® and iPod touch® devices worldwide. The 25 billionth app downloaded, Where's My Water? Free, was downloaded by Chunli Fu of Qingdao, China. As the winner of the App Store Countdown to 25 Billion Apps, Chunli Fu will receive a $10,000 iTunes® Gift Card.  "We'd like to thank our customers and developers for helping us achieve this historic milestone of 25 billion apps downloaded," said Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of Internet Software and Services. "When we launched the App Store less than four years ago, we never imagined that mobile apps would become the phenomenon they have, or that developers would create such an incredible selection of apps for iOS users."  The revolutionary App Store offers more than 550,000 apps to iPhone, iPad and iPod touch users in 123 countries around the world, with more than 170,000 native iPad apps available. App Store customers can choose from an incredible range of apps in 21 categories, including Newsstand, games, business, news, sports, health & fitness and travel. The App Store has paid out more than four billion dollars to developers.  Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.
 