
 Turns out the rumors weren't too far off. After fighting for ages to get the iPhone 3G to Chinese shores, citizens of the aforementioned nation will soon be able to pick up one of Apple's latest (the iPhone 4, if you're keeping count) without reverting to importers and KIRF shops. Starting on September 25th, the iPhone 4 will be available across China in retail locations as well as China Unicom shops, with off-contract pricing set for CNY4,999 (16GB model) and CNY5,999 (32GB model) -- that's around $743 and $892 in greenbacks, respectively. Those looking for subsidization options will need to do some digging once China Unicom starts talking numbers. But hey, at least this one has WiFi!
      

 

Show full PR textiPhone 4 Available in China on September 25New Apple Retail Stores Opening in Shanghai & BeijingCUPERTINO, California-September 19, 2010-Apple® today announced that iPhone® 4 will be available to customers in China beginning Saturday, September 25 at 8:00 a.m. at Apple Retail Stores including the new Apple Store® Hong Kong Plaza in Shanghai and the new Apple Store Xidan Joy City in Beijing opening on the same day. iPhone 4 will also be available on Saturday at China Unicom retail stores for qualified buyers with a new two year contract.iPhone 4 features FaceTime®, which makes the dream of video calling a reality, and Apple's stunning new Retina™ display, the highest resolution display ever built into a phone, resulting in super crisp text, images and video. iPhone 4 also features a 5 megapixel camera with LED flash, HD video recording, Apple's A4 processor, a 3-axis gyro and up to 40 percent longer talk time-in a beautiful all-new design of glass and stainless steel that is the thinnest smartphone in the world. iPhone 4 comes with iOS 4, the newest version of the world's most advanced mobile operating system, which includes over 100 new features. The revolutionary App Store℠ provides access to more than 250,000 apps including the new iMovie® app built just for iPhone 4.Customers who buy their iPhone 4 at an Apple Retail Store will receive free Personal Setup service, helping them customize their new iPhone by setting up their email, loading their favorite apps from the App Store, and other tips to get up and running before they leave the store. In addition, Apple Retail Stores will host special workshops throughout the day to help customers learn more about iPhone 4. Every Apple Retail Store is staffed by a highly trained team of passionate employees who deliver innovative services like these, plus free technical support at the Genius Bar®.Pricing & AvailabilityiPhone 4 will be sold in China through Apple's retail stores for a suggested retail price of CNY4,999 for the 16GB model and CNY5,999 for 32GB model without a contract. At China Unicom stores, iPhone 4 will be available for qualified buyers with a new two year contract, sold separately. For pricing and tariff information please visit www.10010.com. The new Apple Store Hong Kong Plaza is located at 282 Huaihai Zhong Road, Shanghai. The new Apple Store Xidan Joy City is located in the Joy City shopping center at 131 North Xidan Avenue, Beijing. For more information please visit www.apple.com.cn.
 