
 
At his keynote yesterday, Steve Jobs very proudly touted the "wonderful" A4 processor, saying it was "designed by our own team" and, additionally, "is so good." That chip is the muscle inside the iPad and the new iPhone 4, but now we're finding that others are using it too... a little more quietly. We knew that Intrinsity was the company behind the (previously dubbed) Cortex A8 chip, and that Intrinsity worked with Samsung to develop and manufacture it. Now we're finding that Samsung is keeping a little of that sweet, sweet silicon for itself. The Samsung Wave uses a processor called the S5PC110A01, which UBM TechInsights has verified shares the same 1GHz A8 core as Apple's A4. No, Bada may not be showing quite the potential of iOS 4, and something tells us the new iPhone will be a bit more popular than the Wave, but it's safe to say these two handsets have definitely fallen from the same ARM family tree.
      

 

Show full PR textUBM TechInsights Verifies That the Samsung Wave S8500 Features the Same ARM Core as the Apple iPadOTTAWA, Ontario, June 8 /PRNewswire/ -- UBM TechInsights today announced an important discovery in the application processors of two popular consumer electronics devices. UBM TechInsights analysis has revealed that the just-released Samsung Wave S8500 features the same 1 GHz ARM CORTEX A8 core as that found in the very popular Apple iPad.(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20100608/SF16849)(Photo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20100608/SF16849)"By investigating the Samsung S5PC110A01 application processor and comparing it to the A4 application processor found in the Apple iPad using our specialized lab techniques, we were able to confirm that not only is Samsung the manufacturer of both application processors, but both application processors feature the same 1 GHz ARM CORTEX A8 core manufactured using a 45-nanometer low-power fabrication process," said Young Choi, Senior Manager of the Technical Intelligence Group. "With this find, we begin to see how Samsung is successfully asserting itself as the leader in the wireless and mobile applications processor market."With the recent surge in sales of the iPad, speculation that the next generation Apple iPhone will also feature the same A4 processor as that of the iPad, and the belief that the soon-to-be released Android OS-enabled Samsung Galaxy S Smartphone will also use the S5PC110A01, sales of Samsung manufactured processors is expected to reach very high-levels. With these key sockets in place Samsung will easily maintain its position as the market leader in application processors that it originally attained in 2009.UBM TechInsights used the best and latest technical expertise and analysis tools, in combination with years of experience in all aspects of the IP / Technology Lifecycle, to make our determination of the similar ARM cores in the Samsung S5PC110A01 and the Apple A4. Information about UBM TechInsights research on the Apple A4 processor can be found at ubmtechinsights.com. For more information about available research on the Samsung S5PC110A01, please mailto:sleclaire@ubmtechinsights.com.About UBM TechInsightsUBM TechInsights is the preeminent firm for the provision of sophisticated information and advice to technology companies. We assist in the management of their technology and intellectual property portfolios, ensuring the reduction of risk and maximizing return on investment. Our leadership position is founded upon our commitment to the utmost integrity, and sustained by the ongoing investment and acquisition of the knowledge and capabilities necessary to meet our clients' evolving needs. When companies need assistance in managing their most complex technology or IP challenges, they turn to UBM TechInsights for assured results. For more information about UBM TechInsights, go to www.ubmtechinsights.com.SOURCE UBM TechInsights
 