
 Even though there were no insanely long lines to rave about this time, Apple's now showing some big numbers merely three days after its iPhone 5 launch in China. According to the short press release fresh out of the oven, Cupertino's Chinese division has so far managed to sell over two million iPhone 5s through various channels (notably with online reservation for Apple's in-store purchases, as already implemented in Hong Kong), thus "setting a new record with the best first weekend sales ever in China," said CEO Tim Cook. To put that into context, the iPhone 5's original opening weekend sales topped five million in nine countries, which is again solid proof that "China is a very important market" for Apple. Or maybe the Mayan calendar really made an impression among Chinese consumers.



  Show full PR text   iPhone 5 First Weekend Sales in China Top Two Million
   BEIJING-December 17, 2012-Apple® today announced it has sold over two million of its new iPhone® 5 in China, just three days after its launch on December 14. iPhone 5 will be available in more than 100 countries by the end of December, making it the fastest iPhone rollout ever.

   "Customer response to iPhone 5 in China has been incredible, setting a new record with the best first weekend sales ever in China," said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO. "China is a very important market for us and customers there cannot wait to get their hands on Apple products."

   iPhone 5 is the thinnest and lightest iPhone ever, completely redesigned to feature a stunning new 4-inch Retina® display; an Apple-designed A6 chip for blazing fast performance; and ultrafast wireless technology*-all while delivering even better battery life.** iPhone 5 comes with iOS 6, the world's most advanced mobile operating system with over 200 new features including: Shared Photo Streams, all-new Maps app, Passbook® organization and even more Siri® features and languages including Mandarin.

   *Network speeds are dependent on carrier networks, check with your carrier for details.  **Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors. Actual results vary.

   Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.

 
