
  What's in a name? Or, more importantly, what's in a digit? Would that which we call an iPad by any number less than 2 be less sweet? That's the question Apple posed for us indirectly when it unveiled the new iPad and relegated its future slates (and, presumably, phones) to a numeral-free future. And that new slate? It's much the same as the old one, with a slightly more chipper processor at its (quad) core and support for both Verizon and AT&T's fancy new LTE networks.  But there's one bigger change here, one that will ripple across the industry as each manufacturer struggles to keep up in this ever-accelerating market. That feature is the iPad's new 2048 x 1536 Retina display. It's the best display ever featured on a tablet, probably the best display ever on a mobile device, but is that enough to keep this tablet ahead of the pack? Believe it or not, the answer is yes.



 Hardware  Ever held an iPad 2? If so, suffice to say this new iPad is a wee bit thicker and a teensy bit heavier. You now have our full blessing to skip down to the display section below, which is what you're probably truly interested in reading about.

 If you didn't know any better you'd think it were completely solid. For those looking for the full-on review effect, the new iPad is still a slinky thing. Sure, its 9.4mm thickness won't win it any awards (especially since that's .6mm thicker than the iPad 2), nor will its 652g (1.4-pound) heft (51g / .11 pounds more than before), but it feels neither big nor heavy. It instead feels substantial. Dense. It's carved from a hunk of aluminum and there's a cavity in there where the (now bigger) battery and other internals reside, but if you didn't know any better you'd think it were completely solid. There's none of the flex or the give found in cheaper slates. That solidity certainly helps explain the premium feel, but buyers will have to decide whether that feel is worth the extra space in their messenger bags, or the extra strain placed on shoulder straps. The chassis is hewn from the same matte aluminum as most of Apple's other devices, with a gentle curve on the edges tapering down to a flat back punctuated by a glossy black Apple logo. The shape of that taper is slightly different than before, a bit more rounded on account of that extra girth, but you'll be hard-pressed to notice without a side-by-side comparison. Looking at the back you'll still find the speaker in its same lower-left position, still a rather unfortunate placement. Most of the sound is therefore directed away from where you want it, namely in your ears, and we can't say as we noticed any improvement in the overall aural quality compared to this tablet's predecessor. Next to that is the dock port, still the full-sized 40-pin variety and not the slinky, next-gen connector that we've been hearing is in the works, so your accessories live on for at least one more generation of tablets. Move up to the side and you'll find the same volume rocker and mute / rotation lock as before, situated in the same place, too. Kitty-corner to that is the wide and flat power button, separated from the 3.5mm headphone jack over on the other side by the same expanse of black plastic seen on the iPad 2, making room in the metal chassis for the antennas to do their thing. WiFi-only models get by without this polycarbonate indiscretion.

  Swing around to the other top corner and you'll find the door behind which rests the SIM. LTE does need a SIM, even on Verizon, and there are new iPad versions supporting LTE on both AT&T and Verizon. (Rogers, Bell and Telus in Canada, too, though Telstra LTE in Australia is sadly not compatible.) There are different devices here, one for AT&T and another for Verizon, but either offer comprehensive non-LTE wireless connectivity options, including MTS / HSPA / HSPA+ / DC-HSDPA (850, 900, 1900, 2100 MHz) and GSM / EDGE (850, 900, 1800, 1900 MHz). That means even if you aren't in LTE-land you can expect up to 42Mbps download speeds, which is much faster than the iPad 2. The WiFi-only models naturally lose all that, but all varieties offer 802.11a/b/g/n connectivity along with Bluetooth 4.0. Even the WiFi-only model can make use of the new voice dictation feature here, which adds a microphone button down next to the keyboard. In our testing it's impressively accurate, capturing even odd words like "Schenectady" without pause. It only works when you have an active network connection and, sadly, its no Siri, which is still not available. The new iPad will not find you directions to body hiding spots nor tell you the weather. The one final detail on the back is the slightly enlarged portal behind which the new five megapixel camera assembly peers through. It's rimmed by a bit of polished metal as on the iPad 2, so things don't look noticeably different from the outside, but as ever it's what's on the inside that counts -- and indeed you'll have to look a little deeper in this review to see how that new sensor. The biggest change of all, however, is right there on the front, though tragically for those who like to make appearances the black (or white) glass facade looks exactly the same as it did before. Turn it on, though, and everything changes.

 Display  If you're disappointed Apple didn't do more with the new iPad, that's probably because you haven't seen the new Retina display yet. If you're disappointed Apple didn't do more with the new iPad, that's probably because you haven't seen the new Retina display for yourself yet. Take more than a passing glance and you'll be a believer. Of course, a cynic would say that it's really Samsung who's been doing all the hard work here, as this is (for now, at least) a panel sourced from that company, which should be a strong indicator that Apple's strongest competition on the Android side won't be far behind in launching its own high-res wunderslate. The biggest talking point is, of course, the truly bonkers resolution. 2048 x 1536 means four times the pixels of the previous iPads and, indeed, a full million more than your average 1080p TV. On the 9.7-inch display this works out to a pixel density of 264ppi. That's considerably lower than the 326ppi the iPhone 4S manages and, indeed, below the magic 300ppi barrier Apple had earlier specified for the "Retina" moniker. But, as you're expected to hold the new iPad further from your face than your phone, the perceived pixel density is said to be comparable.

  Really, though, the numbers will be quickly forgotten once you get a look at this thing. If you've previously made the leap from a lower-resolution iPhone to one packing a Retina display you have some idea of what to expect here, but the increased scale really makes the difference shine. 



 For example, viewing photos on an iPhone was never particularly pleasant to begin with. It always felt too cramped -- okay for a quick "hey, check this out" kind of experience, but not something you'd want to do for long stretches. Looking at photos on the iPad, however, has always been a very satisfying thing, and with the new iPad it's even more so. Not only are things rendered to a higher definition, they're also presented with greater accuracy. Yes, there are a lot of hyperbolic adjectives up there in the preceding paragraphs, but that's simply because this is a genuinely nice display. It raises the bar, and that's a good thing. We can't wait to see how the competition responds. Of course, to make the best use of this new display you'll need new apps that have been up-sampled to take full advantage, and thankfully there are plenty. All of the stock iOS apps have been retooled already, while many big third-party players like Amazon's Kindle app and Evernote have already been upped as well, and the difference is noticeable. 1080p content looks considerably better than on the iPad 2, as you would expect, but even 720p content shows a noticeable improvement. That shouldn't necessarily be a surprise, though, since the old tablet couldn't even manage that resolution. Performance and battery life  Adding four times the pixels means a lot more work for the CPU and GPU, and the trusty 'ol A5 processor just wasn't up to the task. So, Apple did a little... augmentation, creating the A5X. This processor keeps the same dual-core CPU as the iPad 2 but pairs it with a new quad-core graphics component. The result? Predictably the same when it comes to the CPU-taxing Geekbench, which gave us exactly (nearly) the same score. The web-based SunSpider benchmark was the same. We averaged a low 2,100ms score on the iPad 2 and the new iPad averaged at 2,111ms.

     Geekbench  Results (higher is better)      Apple iPad (2012)    720      Apple iPad 2    721      Apple iPad    442      Apple iPhone 4S    623      Apple iPhone 4    375    So, don't be expecting a revolutionary change when it comes to day-to-day usage, but really we still find the iPad 2 to be far more snappy and responsive than just about anything else on the market. So too, then, is the new iPad. This is the first iPad to offer 4G LTE wireless, and so we were naturally quite eager to load up Speed Test and see what it could do. We received a Verizon model to test and it did not fail to impress, delivering download speeds consistently in the 22 - 25Mbps down range. Uploads, meanwhile, hovered between 16 and 19Mbps with 50 - 70ms pings. That is, needless to say, quite healthy. We also had the opportunity to test an Orange model in the UK and saw speeds averaging 3.5Mbps down and just north of .5Mbps up. That too is respectable but will likely leave you pining for the day the cooling rays of LTE to show up in your hood, especially since the iPad can be used as a wireless hotspot for no extra cost.

    Tablet  Battery Life    Apple iPad (2012)  9:52 (HSPA) / 9:37 (LTE)     Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7   12:01     Apple iPad 2   10:26     ASUS Eee Pad Transformer Prime   10:17     Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1   9:55     Apple iPad   9:33     Pantech Element   9:00     Motorola Xoom 2   8:57     HP TouchPad   8:33     Lenovo IdeaPad K1   8:20     Motorola Xoom   8:20     T-Mobile G-Slate   8:18     Acer Iconia Tab A200   8:16     Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus   8:09     Lenovo ThinkPad Tablet   8:00     Archos 101   7:20     Archos 80 G9   7:06     RIM BlackBerry PlayBook   7:01     Acer Iconia Tab A500   6:55     T-Mobile Springboard (Huawei MediaPad)   6:34     Toshiba Thrive   6:25     Samsung Galaxy Tab   6:09     Motorola Xyboard 8.2   5:25     Velocity Micro Cruz T408   5:10     Acer Iconia Tab A100   4:54   We had high expectations for battery life, despite those substantial improvements to both the built-in radios and display. The new pack inside the iPad is rated at a massive 42.5 watt-hours. That's nearly double the size of the 25 watt-hour pack found in the iPad 2. The reason for the boost is to make sure there are plenty of electrons to shovel into the LTE antenna and the new A5X processor, both of which are presumably quite hungry. Apple rates the new iPad at 10 hours of casual surfing on WiFi or nine hours if you're doing it using cellular data and our own video rundown test gave a similar rundown time. At 50 percent brightness, our European model on HSPA pushed out just under 10 hours of constant playback, with 3G and WiFi on. That's barely half an hour behind its predecessor, despite this year's hardware improvements. Our Verizon LTE model, meanwhile, came in just 15 minutes shorter, again with LTE and WiFi firing. It's worth noting, though, that all that juice not only takes a long time to drain but it takes time to charge, too. We've found the new iPad takes much longer to refill on the charging stand than the iPad 2. No surprise, given the nearly 100 percent increase in battery capacity.

 Cameras  We called the cameras on the iPad 2 "pretty bad" and, well, they are. Thankfully Apple has finally raised the game on the rear shooter for the new iPad, but it's unfortunately left the front-facing VGA FaceTime camera alone. If you're sick of looking murky when FaceTiming with loved ones from a dimly lit room, we're sorry to say it might be time to finally invest in that extra lamp. 



  Obviously, the company's time and effort was spent focusing on the lens poking out the back, but in some ways that, too, is a bit of a let-down. It's a 5-megapixel unit consisting of the same five-element, f/2.4 lens and stabilization processing wizardry found in the iPhone 4S. But, curiously, the bigger iPad takes a step down to a more lowly 5-megapixel sensor.
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

