
 
 So, what did you do over the weekend? If you're Apple, your answer likely involves a lot of bragging about the three million iPads you managed to move. That number, it's worth pointing out, includes both new models: the revamped fourth generation and the newly smallerized iPad mini. That may go a ways toward explaining how the company doubled the 1.5 million mark for its WiFi-only third generation iPad during that device's first weekend, by Apple's own count. According to company head Tim Cook, Apple "practically sold out of iPad minis" and is "working hard to build more quickly." Apple's got more nice words for itself in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    Apple Sells Three Million iPads in Three Days
  Apple(R) today announced it has sold three million iPads in just three days since the launch of its new iPad(R) mini and fourth generation iPad--double the previous first weekend milestone of 1.5 million Wi-Fi only models sold for the third generation iPad in March. The Wi-Fi + Cellular versions of both iPad mini and fourth generation iPad will ship in a few weeks in the US and in many more countries later this year.
  "Customers around the world love the new iPad mini and fourth generation iPad," said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO. "We set a new launch weekend record and practically sold out of iPad minis. We're working hard to build more quickly to meet the incredible demand."
  The new iPad mini features a stunning 7.9-inch Multi-Touch(TM) display, FaceTime(R) HD and iSight(R) cameras, ultrafast wireless performance* and an incredible 10 hours of battery life**. The new fourth generation iPad features a gorgeous 9.7-inch Retina(TM) display, new Apple-designed A6X chip, FaceTime HD camera and ultrafast wireless performance.
  Both iPad mini and the new fourth generation iPad with Retina display are available in 34 countries including the US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea and the UK, and will be available in many more countries later this year, including mainland China. Demand for iPad mini exceeded the initial supply and while many of the pre-orders have been shipped to customers, some are scheduled to be shipped later this month.
  Pricing & Availability
  iPad mini with Wi-Fi comes in either white & silver or black & slate, and is available in the US for a suggested retail price of $329 (US) for the 16GB model, $429 (US) for the 32GB model and $529 (US) for the 64GB model. Fourth generation iPad with Wi-Fi models are available in black or white for a suggested retail price of $499 (US) for the 16GB model, $599 (US) for the 32GB model and $699 (US) for the 64GB model. Both iPad mini and fourth generation iPad are available from the Apple Online Store ( www.apple.com ), Apple's retail stores and select Apple Authorized Resellers.
  iPad mini with Wi-Fi + Cellular and fourth generation iPad with Wi-Fi + Cellular will be available in the US on AT&T, Sprint and Verizon in a few weeks. iPad mini with Wi-Fi + Cellular will be offered for a suggested retail price of $459 (US) for the 16GB model, $559 (US) for the 32GB model and $659 (US) for the 64GB model. Fourth generation iPad with Wi-Fi + Cellular for AT&T, Sprint and Verizon will be offered for a suggested retail price of $629 (US) for the 16GB model, $729 (US) for the 32GB model and $829 (US) for the 64GB model. Additionally, iPad 2 is available at $399 (US) for the 16GB Wi-Fi model and just $529 (US) for the 16GB Wi-Fi + 3G model where they are sold now.
  
