
 Apple teased that it had "a little more to show" us prior to today's San Francisco event, but it's clear now that the phrasing was humble at best. Not only has the much-anticipated, rumored and leaked 7.9-inch iPad mini been officially revealed, but so has a smattering of new and refreshed offerings across its range of gizmos. The standard iPad is seeing its fastest refresh yet (about six months) to a Lighting port and A6X-packing fourth-generation model, and the iMac has ditched its optical drive to go Air-thin in its Ivy Bridge-driven seventh-generation. Mobile power users should be especially be pleased, too, as a 13-inch variant of the MacBook Pro with a 2,560 x 1,600 Retina Display is now a reality. Lest we forgot that the iBooks app and iBooks Author have both been updated -- right on cue with that book-like iPad Mini. Hop past the break for a full listing of all the news and all of our on-scene coverage that came out of today's event.



 iPad 
  Apple iPad sales topped 100 million two weeks ago  Apple announces 4th generation iPad packing an A6X CPU, Lightning connector and FaceTime HD camera  Apple announces 7.9-inch iPad mini with a 1,024 x 768 display, A5 CPU and optional LTE for $329  Apple introduces new Smart Cover for iPad mini  The iPad mini vs. the competition: fight!  Apple iPad mini hands-on!  iPad mini coming to Verizon, AT&T and Sprint in mid-November starting at $459  iPad Mini vs. the new (and newer) iPad: what's different?  New Apple iPad mini, 4th-generation iPad reach the FCC Mac 
  Apple announces 13-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display: 2,560 x 1,600 resolution, Thunderbolt and HDMI starting at $1,699  Mac Mini updated in two new flavors, at $599 for i5 dual-core and $999 for i7 quad-core server model  Apple unveils next-generation iMac with slimmer design and Ivy Bridge, starting at $1,299  Apple introduces 'Fusion Drive' as a build-to-order option for the new iMac  Apple 13-inch Retina MacBook Pro hands-on!  Apple iMac (2012) hands-on! iOS 
  Apple: 200 million devices already upgraded to iOS   Apple unveils new version of iBooks with continuous scrolling, iBooks Author also updated Also on Engadget and everything else 
  Engadget's pre-iPad mini event live broadcast from San Jose  Apple's iPad mini liveblog!  Engadget's post-iPad mini event live broadcast from San Jose  Apple's iPad mini event video now available for replay
