

Today Apple announced that it has redesigned its iWork suite of applications, complete with a new user interface and 64-bit compatibility. The company's Eddy Cue took to the stage to "uncover" a number of changes to the productivity apps, including an all-new design on mobile and a total re-write of the desktop versions. There's now also full file compatibility across devices and platforms, plus the ability to collaborate with others on Pages, Keynote and Numbers using iWork for iCloud. As is the case with the new iLife, iWork will be available free of charge with any new purchase of an iOS device or a Mac.





Show full PR textApple Introduces Next Generation iWork and iLife Apps for OS X and iOS
iWork and iLife Now Free With Every New Mac and iOS Device

SAN FRANCISCO-October 22, 2013-Apple® today announced its groundbreaking iWork® productivity apps, Pages®, Numbers® and Keynote® and award-winning iLife® creativity apps, iPhoto®, iMovie® and GarageBand® have been completely redesigned to take full advantage of OS X® Mavericks and iOS 7. All apps have been updated to 64-bit, are integrated with iCloud®, and are loaded with hundreds of new features that let you do more than ever across your Apple devices. Apple today also announced that both iWork and iLife are now free with the purchase of every new Mac® or iOS device.

"This is the biggest day for apps in Apple's history," said Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of Internet Software and Services. "These new versions deliver seamless experiences across devices that you can't find anywhere else and are packed with great features like iMovie Theater, Drummer and a new unified file format for iWork documents across all your devices."

An all new iWork for Mac and iOS makes creating, editing and sharing documents easier than ever. iWork introduces a new, unified file format, delivering perfect document fidelity across Mac, iOS and iCloud, and the iWork for iCloud beta now includes support for real-time collaboration. Now you can create your document on iPad®, edit it on your Mac and collaborate with friends in iWork for iCloud, even if they're on a PC. A brand new UI makes iWork even simpler to use, yet provides all of the powerful tools you need to create amazing documents, spreadsheets and presentations.

iPhoto for Mac and iOS are now 64-bit, making browsing and editing faster and smoother than ever. Inspired by iOS 7, iPhoto for iOS sports a clean, new design that's simpler and more beautiful than ever. New tools and effects let you create more dramatic images in both color and black and white. Now you can also share your favorite images as custom slideshows that you can pause, rewind and fast forward using gestures, or order them as professional-quality prints, including panoramas, and as gorgeous hard cover books that you create using Multi-Touch™.

iMovie for Mac and iOS have been redesigned to make it easier than ever to browse your video library and instantly share your favorite moments. iMovie for Mac includes simplified editing tools that let you quickly improve the look of your movie, add fun effects, and speed up or slow down your video. iMovie for iOS brings desktop-class moviemaking to your iPhone® and iPad, so you can create split screen and picture-in-picture effects or advanced audio edits in just a few taps. And with iMovie Theater, you can watch your shared clips, movies, and trailers on all your Apple devices, even your Apple TV®.*

GarageBand for Mac has received its biggest update ever with a fresh new look, all new Sound Library, and amazing new features, like Drummer and Smart Controls, giving you everything you need to easily make a great-sounding song. GarageBand for iOS has been updated to match the look and feel of iOS 7 and taps the power of 64-bit to bring musicians a full recording studio with up to 32 tracks. With iOS 7 Inter-App Audio you can record third-party music apps right into GarageBand, and AirDrop® allows you to wirelessly share your song projects with other iOS users so you can work on songs together. iCloud helps keep your song projects up to date across your devices, and users can start a song on iOS and pick up where they left off using GarageBand for Mac.

Pricing & AvailabilityiWork and iLife for Mac come free with every new Mac purchase. Existing users running Mavericks can update their apps for free from the Mac App Store℠. iWork and iLife for iOS are available for free from the App Store℠ for any new device running iOS 7, and are also available as free updates for existing users. GarageBand for Mac and iOS are free for all OS X Mavericks and iOS 7 users. Additional GarageBand instruments and sounds are available for a one-time in-app purchase of $4.99 for each platform.

*iMovie Theater requires iCloud to keep your shared content up to date across all your devices.

Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.


