

 If you've got Apple's new LTE-capable iPhone 5, you're going to need some LTE markets. Fortunately, Apple had a huge, global list of carriers that are going to work with Apple's latest. In the US, AT&T, Sprint and Verizon will all support true 4G connectivity, while Canada's Rogers, Telus and Bell will also get the hook-up. In Europe, the newly established EE and Deutsch Telekom will gain LTE, while in Asia, KDDI, Softbank, KT, SK Telecom and SmartTone will all be provided for.

 Update: Apple's detailed all the technical specs of its new radio in the US, but we're looking at what's arguably the first LTE world phone -- unless there's a second model to do the rounds in Asia and Europe. It's the first device to run on the LTE networks of all the major carriers, although unfortunately there no AWS (1700MHz) HSPA+ for T-Mobile customers. Take a look at the more coverage link to get knee-deep in frequencies -- there's plenty of HSPA to go around.





  Show full PR text    AT&T To Offer iPhone 5 On The Nation's Largest 4G Network On Sept. 21    Pre-Order on Sept. 14, Flexible Data Plan Options Available

   DALLAS, Sept. 12, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- AT&T* today announced it will offer iPhone 5 beginning Friday, Sept. 21. Customers will be able to pre-order iPhone 5 online beginning Friday, Sept. 14 at www.att.com/iphone. iPhone 5 will be available for a suggested retail price of $199.99 for the 16GB model, $299.99 for the 32GB model, and $399.99 for the 64GB model. Only AT&T offers the nation's largest 4G network, along with a variety of shared and individual data plans.

   iPhone 5 is the thinnest and lightest iPhone ever, completely redesigned to feature a stunning new 4-inch Retina display; an Apple-designed A6 chip for blazing fast performance; and ultrafast wireless technology-all while delivering even better battery life. iPhone 5 comes with iOS 6, the world's most advanced mobile operating system with over 200 new features including: the all new Maps app with Apple-designed cartography and turn-by-turn navigation; Facebook integration; Passbook organization and even more Siri features and languages.

   "We are thrilled to offer iPhone 5 on the nation's largest 4G network. We've worked with Apple since the original in 2007 and this is hands-down their best phone yet," said Ralph de la Vega, president & CEO, AT&T Mobility. "We offer customers the flexibility to keep the iPhone data plans they already have or choose any of our individual or new Mobile Share plans. We're proud that more customers choose AT&T for iPhone than any other U.S. carrier and look forward to making iPhone 5 the newest addition to our lineup."

   New and qualifying existing customers can choose a shared or individual data plan. Details on rate plan options can be found at www.att.com/iphone. AT&T's newest Mobile Share data plans are ideal for data-centric users or families who want to share data among multiple smartphones, tablets and more. With AT&T Mobile Share, the more you share, the more you save. And all Mobile Share plans include tethering-or mobile hot spot-capability.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering 275 million people. Built on top of this widespread 4G network, blazing-fast 4G LTE is available in more than 60 markets today and planned in more than 100 by the end of this year.

   For more information on iPhone 5, please visit: www.apple.com/iphone.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1nc5Q)

 
