
 The rumored iPad mini didn't rear its mythical seven-inch screen today at Yerba Buena, but no matter, as the iPhone 5 brought a potent smack of thunder Lightning. A few mere hours ago, the oft-leaked smartphone was officially been revealed by Apple, along with the next-generation iPod Nano, a redesigned iPod Touch packed with a Retina display and iOS 6 in its final form -- and those were just the main announcements. Of course, scrolling through Engadget's homepage might not be ideal if you're looking to sift through the day's news from Cupertino's favorite tech company in one fell swoop -- and that's why we've rounded it all up here, in one convenient spot. You can re-live the event at our archived liveblog here, otherwise you'll find a full listing of the news from it after the jump.



 iPhone 
  iPhone 5 officially announced with 4-inch display, A6 CPU and LTE for $199 on September 21st   Apple announces worldwide carriers for iPhone 5: Sprint, AT&T and Verizon will support LTE in the US   Apple details iPhone 5's new camera: 8MP, 'same as iPhone 4S but thinner'   Apple: A6 chip in iPhone 5 has 2x CPU power, 2x graphics performance, yet consumes less energy   Apple details new iPhone 5 dock connector: It's called Lightning and it's 80 percent smaller   iPhone 5 vs. iPhone 4S: what's changed?   Apple discounts iPhone 4S to $99 in the wake of the   iPhone 5, iPhone 4 is now free on contract    iPhone 5 hands-on!   iPhone 5 confirmed to use nano-SIM, current SIMs not compatible  iPod 
  Apple outs refreshed iPod nano: 2.5-inch screen with multitouch, Bluetooth, 38 percent thinner   Apple announces fifth-generation iPod touch: 4-inch screen, 6.1mm thick, Siri included   iPod shuffle updated with much needed new hues  5th-generation   iPod touch hands-on!   7th-generation iPod nano hands-on!  Apps and iOS 
  7 million upgrades to Mountain Lion sold so far, the fastest-selling version of OS X yet   Apple: 700k apps available in App Store, 250k for iPad, 100 apps per user   iOS 6 gets official debut on the iPhone 5: Maps, Passbook, iCloud Tabs and more   iOS 6 coming to iPhone 4S, 4, 3GS, new iPad, iPad 2 and iPod Touch on September 19th   Apple announces redesigned iTunes for Mac, Windows and iOS devices  Everything else 
  Apple counts 400 million iOS devices sold as of June  Apple's signature earbuds rebranded for iPhone 5 as 'EarPods'   Apple EarPods hands-on   Apple's Phil Schiller explains new 'Lightning' port, doesn't think much of NFC and wireless charging   iOS 6 GM seed now available for developers   Apple's iPhone 5 keynote event now live for online viewing  Also on Engadget 
  Editorial: Engadget on Apple's iPhone 5 event   Just one hour to go until Apple's launch event, here's the scene in San Francisco   Engadget's iPhone 5 pre-event broadcast: live from San Francisco!  Apple's iPhone 5 event wrap-up live broadcast! 
