
 

Apple keeps coming with the news from its "Let's talk iPhone" event, and the latest is a price drop for its diminutive PMP, the nano. From now on, you'll be forking over $129 for an 8GB version and $149 for twice the tunage space. Additionally, Cupertino's tossing in big icons -- as opposed to the grid of 4 that was the only option previously -- 16 new clocks (Mickey Mouse included!) to go with all those fabulous watch accessories, and workout tracking abilities right out of the box so you no longer need a Nike+ shoe dongle to see how many calories you've burned. Not bad for a little guy, eh? Full PR after the break.

Update: Thanks to the folks over at 9to5 Mac, we now know that owners of 2010 nanos will get the software update with the new features too.






 		Show full PR text  Apple Brings Great New Features & More Affordable Pricing to iPod touch & iPod nano 		CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Apple® today announced great new features and more affordable pricing for both iPod touch® and iPod nano®. iPod touch will be available in new black and white models starting at just $199, including Apple's new iOS 5 and iCloud® services. The new iPod nano is available today starting at just $129 and features a redesigned user interface, 16 new digital clock faces and improved built-in fitness features. 		"iPod has revolutionized the way we listen to music and with over 320 million sold is the world's most popular music player," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing. "iPod touch, now available in both black and white, is the best selling iPod ever, and with iOS 5 and iCloud it is better than ever." 		The new iPod touch includes iOS 5, the world's most advanced mobile operating system, which includes over 200 new features including iMessage™, Game Center, Notifications and Wi-Fi Syncing to iTunes®. iMessage brings the functionality of iPhone® messaging to your iPod touch, so you can easily send text messages, photos, videos and contact information to an individual or group on other iOS 5 devices. It also allows you to easily maintain one conversation across all your iOS devices-for free-with notifications, read receipts and typing indication.* Game Center enhancements include the ability to add photos to your profile, purchase new games from within the Game Center app, and even easier ways to find friends and new games. 		iPod touch also works with iCloud, Apple's breakthrough set of free cloud services, including iTunes in the Cloud, Photo Stream and Documents in the Cloud, that work seamlessly with your iPhone, iPad®, iPod touch, Mac® or PC to automatically and wirelessly store your content and push it to your devices. When content changes on one device, all your other devices are updated automatically and wirelessly. 		iPod nano now features larger icons for even easier navigation of its intuitive Multi-Touch™ user interface, and you can choose from 16 new digital clock faces, ranging from classic analog looks to your favorite Disney characters including Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse. iPod nano now tracks your runs and walks right out of the box with no accessory required, making it even easier to get your fitness program up and running. iPod nano can track the time, pace and distance of your run, the calories you burn, and the number of steps you walk. iPod nano encourages you with motivational real-time voice feedback during your run, available in seven languages, while listening to your favorite music or FM radio station. You can also easily upload workouts to the Nike+ website to set goals, track your progress and challenge friends. The ultra portable iPod nano is available in seven colors including silver, graphite, blue, green, orange, pink and (PRODUCT) RED. 		With the App Store™ on iPod touch, users have access to the world's largest and best collection of over 500,000 apps, including over 100,000 game and entertainment titles. Customers also have the iTunes Store® at their fingertips, giving them instant access to the world's largest catalog of over 20 million songs, 85,000 TV shows and 14,000 movies to purchase and download directly to their iPod touch. 		iPod is the world's most popular family of music players. Apple's holiday lineup includes iPod shuffle® for just $49; iPod nano with Multi-Touch starting at just $129; iPod touch available in black or white, including iOS 5 and iCloud, starting at just $199; and iPod classic® in a 160GB model for $249. 		Pricing & Availability 		iPod nano is available today for a suggested price of $129 (US) for the 8GB model and $149 (US) for the 16GB model. Both models are available in silver, graphite, blue, green, orange and pink through the Apple Store® (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores and Apple Authorized Resellers. The 8GB and 16GB iPod nano (PRODUCT) RED is available through the Apple Store (www.apple.com) and Apple's retail stores. iPod nano requires a Mac with a USB 2.0 port, Mac OS® X v10.5.8 or later and iTunes 10 or later; or a Windows PC with a USB 2.0 port and Windows Vista or Windows XP Home or Professional (Service Pack 3) or later and iTunes 10 or later. 		iPod touch with iOS 5 and iCloud will be available October 12 in black and white for a suggested price of $199 (US) for the 8GB model, $299 (US) for the 32GB model and $399 (US) for the 64GB model through the Apple Store (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores and Apple Authorized Resellers. iPod touch requires a Mac with a USB 2.0 port, Mac OS X v10.5.8 or later and iTunes 10 or later; or a Windows PC with a USB 2.0 port and Windows Vista or Windows XP Home or Professional (Service Pack 3) or later and iTunes 10.5 or later. iOS 5 will also be available as a free software update for iPod touch (third and fourth generations) customers allowing them to experience the amazing new features including iMessage, Game Center, Notifications and Wi-Fi Syncing to iTunes. 		*iMessage requires Wi-Fi. 		Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced iPad 2 which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices. 		NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple's PR website (www.apple.com/pr), or call Apple's Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042. 		© 2011 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Mac OS, Macintosh, iPod touch, iPod nano, iCloud, iMessage, iTunes, iPhone, iPad, Multi-Touch, App Store, iTunes Store, iPod shuffle, iPod classic and Apple Store are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners. 		Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=50017267&lang=en
 