
 

Lookie here -- an iPad app just got miniaturized. It's not too often we see the progress work in reverse, but one of Apple's flagship iPad programs has just been converted for use on the iPhone and iPod touch. It doesn't seem as if too much is changing -- outside of the shrunken display options, of course. You can still plug your electric guitar into either of Apple's more bantam iOS devices in order to record through classic amps and stompbox effects, or record your voice or any acoustic sound using the built-in microphone. The app enables users to record and mix up to eight tracks and then share the finished product with friends or send it to your Mac to keep working on it in GarageBand (the "real one") or Logic Pro. It'll run new users $4.99, but if you already purchased the iPad build, it's a free update to get the new ports. Oh, and if you're curious, the app now runs on iPad, iPad 2, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and iPod touch (third and fourth generation). Tap the iTunes link below to snag your own copy.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  GarageBand Now Available for iPhone and iPod touch Users 		CUPERTINO, California-November 1, 2011-Apple® today announced that GarageBand®, its breakthrough music creation app, is now available for iPhone® and iPod touch® users. Introduced earlier this year on iPad®, GarageBand uses Apple's revolutionary Multi-Touch™ interface to make it easy for anyone to create and record their own songs, even if they've never played an instrument before. 		"GarageBand on iPad has been a big hit and we think customers will love using it on their iPhone or iPod touch," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing. "The innovative Multi-Touch interface combined with Smart Instruments makes it easy to create great sounding music, even if you've never studied music or played an instrument before." 		GarageBand features a collection of fun Touch Instruments that sound great and make it easy for beginners or experienced musicians to play and record keyboards, guitars, drums and basses in a wide variety of styles. Smart Instruments now allow you to choose from an extensive new library of custom chords so you can play and strum along with your favorite songs. 		You can plug your electric guitar into iPad, iPhone or iPod touch to play and record through classic amps and stompbox effects, or record your voice or any acoustic sound using the built-in microphone. GarageBand allows you to record and mix up to eight tracks and then share your finished song with friends or send it to your Mac® to keep working on it in GarageBand or Logic® Pro. 		Pricing & Availability		GarageBand 1.1 for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch is available on the App Store™ for $4.99 (US) to new users, or as a free update for existing GarageBand for iPad customers. GarageBand is a universal app that runs on iPad, iPad 2, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and iPod touch (3rd & 4th generation).
 