
 

Apple's just announced a brand new, re-designed iPod shuffle. The button is back, and this model's got up to a 15 hour battery life, is available in five colors, and will run you $49. If you're in the mood, you can pre-order today, and it'll ship next week. Full press release is below.



 


Check out our full coverage here!
      

Show full PR textWorld's Smallest iPod for Just $49SAN FRANCISCO-September 1, 2010-Apple® today announced the new redesigned iPod shuffle® which features both clickable "ring" buttons and Apple's innovative VoiceOver technology, enabling users to easily navigate their music and playlists without ever looking at their iPod shuffle. The new wearable iPod shuffle has an all-aluminum enclosure with a built-in clip and comes in five brilliant colors-silver, blue, green, orange and pink. With nearly 50 percent more battery life, the new iPod shuffle features over 15 hours of music playback on a single battery charge* and offers 2GB of storage for just $49."We're making the iPod shuffle even better by combining clickable buttons and VoiceOver technology, so users can find and enjoy their music without ever looking at their iPod shuffle," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "With its all-aluminum enclosure and built-in clip the new iPod shuffle is a great workout companion, and at just $49 it's a great entry-level iPod that almost everyone can afford."iPod shuffle is based on Apple's incredibly popular shuffle feature, which randomly selects songs from a user's music library. The clickable buttons make the new iPod shuffle even easier to use. Press the center button to play and pause, press the outer buttons to skip forward and back or adjust the volume up and down. The new VoiceOver button on top of iPod shuffle allows users to hear the name of the currently playing song and to switch between songs, playlists or Genius Mixes. VoiceOver speaks 25 different languages and even alerts users when their battery needs charging.The new iPod shuffle now supports Genius Mixes, the popular iTunes® feature that automatically creates mixes from songs in a user's music library that go great together. Genius Mixes provide the perfect way to rediscover music users already have, but may not have listened to recently. iPod® is the world's most popular family of digital music players with over a quarter billion sold. Apple's new holiday lineup includes a brand new iPod shuffle for just $49; the remarkable new iPod nano® with Multi-Touch™ starting at $149; the incredible new iPod touch with Retina™ display, Apple's A4 chip, FaceTime®, HD video recording and Game Center starting at just $229; and iPod classic® in a 160GB model for $249.Pricing & AvailabilityThe fourth generation iPod shuffle will be available next week for a suggested price of $49 (US) for a 2GB model in silver, blue, green, orange and pink through the Apple Store® (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores and Apple Authorized Resellers. iPod shuffle comes with Apple Earphones and the iPod shuffle USB cable. iPod shuffle requires a Mac® with a USB 2.0 port, Mac OS® X v10.5.8 or later and iTunes 10 or later; or a Windows PC with a USB 2.0 port and Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP Home or Professional (Service Pack 3) or later.*Battery life and number of charge cycles vary by use and settings. See www.apple.com/batteries for more information. Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.
 