
 You've waited long enough, haven't you? The low-cost PMP leader has kept the mantra alive with its GamePad, which is now shipping to those interested for £129.99. Put simply, it's a widescreen gaming handheld that runs Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean), replete with a 1.6GHz dual-core processor and Mali 400mp quad-core GPU. There's a 1,024 x 600 resolution touchpanel, physical control buttons and analog sticks, and the whole thing checks in at just 0.3-inches thick. Unfortunately, there's no word on battery life, but even the optimist in us can't predict a number that'd be worthy of boasting about. Hit up the source link to make plans for purchase, or click past the break for the full presser.

 Update: Anandtech reports the device will come within range of US gaming thumbs early next year, though there's no dollar price to go with that information.



 
  Show full PR text    ARCHOS GamePad Now Available

   The first true Android games console, the ARCHOS GamePad combines powerful tablet hardware with revolutionary gaming software

   London, UK – December 6th, 2012 - ARCHOS, an award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, announces the retail availability of the highly anticipated GamePad, a new type of tablet that combines gaming controls with AndroidTM for a full tablet and gaming experience in one. Gamers will not only have access to all their favourite games, they will also have access to email, Internet, apps and more through one device. A thin and light Android 4.1 Jelly Bean device, the Gamepad also features full access to Google PlayTM and Google Mobile Services and is available for £129.99 starting from 6th of December from the ARCHOS online store.

   "Android device users spend more than 9 hours a month gaming on their devices and yet are not completely satisfied with the touch-screen experience," says Henri Crohas, Founder and CEO of ARCHOS. "We feel this area of gaming is proven and will continue to grow. With the introduction of the GamePad we are uniquely positioned to feed the demand of gamers who want a better gaming experience on a tablet."

   The GamePad features a 16 million color, seven inch, five point capacitive, 1024 x 600 pixel screen, physical control buttons and analogue sticks. The Google certified tablet has full access to Google PlayTM for the tens of thousands of games available and runs a 1.6 GHz dual-core processor combined with a Mali 400mp quad-core GPU.

   By combining the GamePad's 14 physical buttons and dual analog thumb-sticks with the revolutionary ARCHOS game mapping tool (exclusive to ARCHOS), the GamePad brings the physical aspect back to the gaming experience. In addition, at only 10 mm (0.3 inch) thin and with a weight of 330g (0.7 lbs), the ARCHOS GamePad is the perfect on-the-go gaming console.

   REVOLUTIONARY MAPPING TOOLHow  Thanks to the revolutionary ARCHOS mapping tool, even back catalog games that weren't made for physical controls can work with the physical controls of the ARCHOS GamePad; 'map' any on-screen virtual control to the physical controls of the GamePad for hundreds of games within the tool or use its drag-and-drop interface to 'map' any game in seconds.  Check out our YouTube video showing how easy it is to use: http://youtu.be/rgsJ7gUK1cA  The mapping profile for each game is automatically saved so whenever that game is launched in the future, the ARCHOS game mapping tool will automatically load the corresponding mapping profile.

   FEATURES & SPECS  Operating System: Google Certified Android 4.1 Jelly Bean  Smooth Gaming Experience with 3D Graphics: Quad-core Mali 400 MP GPU paired with a 1.6GHz Dual-core CPU.

   Memory: 8GB of internal memory with microSD slot or up to 64GB of additional space.  Mini-HDMI: Use the mini-HDMI port to connect the GamePad to your TV for a big screen viewing experience.

   Google PlayTM: 700,000 apps and games and includes DRM support for downloading books, magazines, music, movies and TV shows.

   ARCHOS Media Center applications: tailor made apps for video and music that include metadata scraping, auto-subtitles and of course, the best format and codec support around including 1080p video decoding.

   For more information about GamePad visit www.ARCHOS.com.

   ATTENTION DEVELOPERS  Developers interested in getting their current and upcoming games mapped for the ARCHOS GamePad can contact GamePad@archos.com.

   ABOUT ARCHOS  ARCHOS, pioneer in the portable audio and video player market, and now specializing in Android Tablets, has repeatedly revolutionised the market for consumer electronics since 1988. Today, ARCHOS offers Android Tablets, Tablet PCs and MP3/MP4 players. In 2000, ARCHOS launched the Jukebox 6000, the first MP3 player combined with a hard disk. Then in 2003 ARCHOS introduced the first portable multimedia players with TV recording. In 2006 Wi-Fi is implemented and then touch screens in 2007. In 2008, ARCHOS launched the first generation Internet Tablets, and then the first ever Android powered tablets in 2009. ARCHOS has offices in the United States, Europe and Asia. ARCHOS is quoted on Compartment B of Eurolist, Euronext Paris, ISIN CodeFR0000182479. Website: www.archos.com.

 
