
   We know you've already added the Fisher Price DVR to the list of gadgets that may withstand the physical trauma your kid's about to put it through. But how does an ICS-equipped, 7-inch slate with parental controls sound? Dubbed Child Pad, this sticky finger-friendly tab isn't just flaunting the fact it's tasting Android's freshest treat before most of you, it's doing so with a rather modest 1GHz CPU and 1GB of RAM. In theory, that should be enough to handle your little one's multitouch doings. Speaking of, Archos is pairing up the $130 machine with access to the AppLibs Kids App Store, which offers a portfolio of over 10,000 games, books and apps. Unfortunately, there's no word on what kind of ports or internal storage the Child Pad's packing. The good news is Archos isn't saying you need to be in first grade to use it, so feel free to grab one for yourself (or your kid) when it hits shelves at the end of the month.
 

  Show full PR text  ARCHOS Announces the Child Pad, a 7" ICS Kid-Friendly Tablet  The new Child Pad will provide kid's a safe, fun, full tablet experience at $129  Denver, CO – March 01, 2012 – ARCHOS, an award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, announced today a themed 7" Android™ tablet for children, called the Child Pad. The 7'' Child Pad features a compact light weight design, the latest Android version, 4.0 "Ice Cream Sandwich", a 1GHz processor and 1GB of RAM. The Child Pad will be available at the end of March for $129 SRP.  "As a pioneer in the portable audio and Android™ tablet market we realize the importance of providing a tablet that can offer hours of entertainment for all ages, especially kids", says Henri Crohas, Founder and CEO. "ARCHOS strives to offer great tablets with only the best of features at affordable prices and we expect this tablet to bring a smile to the faces of kids and parents' everywhere."  Key Features & Benefits Kid friendly features of the Child Pad include access to the Kids App Store powered by AppsLib which is filtered down to 14-friendly categories and 10,000 apps including games, entertainment, communication, multimedia, books, comics, sports and more.  In addition, ARCHOS has created a kid-friendly user interface with colored icons, home screen folders with direct access to games, entertainment, learning and puzzles and the top 28 kids' apps pre-loaded including Angry Birds, Pig Rush and Flight Frenzy.  ARCHOS has also designed the Child Pad to comply with both CIPA and COPPA regulations, ensuring a safe tablet environment for kids and peace of mind for parents. The parental controls and safe web browsing is powered by Editions Profil, whose "Mobile Parental Filter" is ranked as the most efficient parental control software in worldwide benchmarks.  Availability & Price The Child Pad will be available in stores starting the end of March with the recommended retail price of $129.
 