
 MetroPCS purports to bring the wireless to all, but it hasn't had the right showcase to fulfill that promise... until now. The carrier announced today that its arsenal of handsets is on the way to one of the biggest online retailers in the world. A quick perusal of the PR below reveals no handset exclusions, so it's safe to say that Amazon will offer every handset from the mobile provider's armory. We know that cash Santa stuffed in your stocking's burning a hole in your pocket, and right now seems like a good time to head on over to Bezos' favorite site to get your hands on one of those LTE devices we've introduced you to.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		DALLAS, Dec. 27, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) announced that a selection of its handsets are available on Amazon.com. Consumers can browse and purchase a handset from MetroPCS' portfolio of feature phones, smartphones, Android and 4GLTE devices. 		(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20100714/DA34639LOGO-b) 		"We are committed to offering our customers affordable handsets along with exceptional service and delivering both at an incredible value," said Tom Keys, president and COO of MetroPCS. "Making our phones available on Amazon.com is just one way that we're providing consumers with a convenient purchase option that will allow them to have it all with MetroPCS' services." 		After purchasing a handset on Amazon.com, customers will be able to activate service by logging on to www.metropcs.com, visiting a MetroPCS retail location or by simply dialing *228 from their mobile device. 		For more information, please visit:		Details on rate plans and service features: www.metropcs.com/plans		MetroPCS Terms and Conditions of Service: www.metropcs.com/privacy/terms.aspx		Press resources: www.metropcs.com/presscenter		Follow MetroPCS on Twitter: www.twitter.com/metropcs		Become a fan of MetroPCS on Facebook: www.facebook.com/metropcs		View MetroPCS' latest videos: www.YouTube.com/metropcs 		About MetroPCS Communications, Inc. 		Dallas-based MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) is a provider of no annual contract, unlimited wireless communications service for a flat-rate. MetroPCS is the fifth largest facilities-based wireless carrier in the United States based on number of subscribers served. With Metro USA(SM), MetroPCS customers can use their service in areas throughout the United States covering a population of over 280 million people. As of September 30, 2011, MetroPCS had over 9.1 million subscribers. For more information please visit www.metropcs.com.
 