


Following an illustrious tradition of celebrity technology hires, which have included Lady GaGa and Alicia Keys, Ashton Kutcher is apparently now a product engineer for Lenovo, which times in well with the company's new tablet. Kutcher has shown a fair bit of interest in tech over the years, and has invested in some companies you might have heard of. He's also got over 15 million Twitter followers, which is bound to help the PC and smart device maker's social media marketing -- not forgetting that he's been more than vaguely linked to another tablet producer in the recent past. This time around, both parties seem to be in on the joke ("low-power processor architecture, of course!"). We've added the video below: Ashton's intro starts at 1:19 and you'll find the very necessary press release there too. We're presuming Kobe was otherwise engaged.



Show full PR textLenovo Names Ashton Kutcher Its Newest Product Engineer
PC Plus Leader and Tech Investor Create Trailblazing Partnership

LOS ANGELES – October 29, 2013: Multimode computing leader Lenovo(HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced a new partnership with Ashton Kutcher at the livestream launch event of the new Yoga Tablet, held at the Youtube Space LA. In his new role as a Lenovo product engineer, Kutcher will work with the company's engineering teams around the world to develop and market the Yoga line of tablets by providing input and decision-making into design, specifications, software and usage scenarios.

"This partnership with Lenovo brings together my love of technology and design that makes your life better. I can't wait to dig in and help Lenovo develop future mobile computing products, starting with the Yoga Tablet," said Ashton Kutcher. "Lenovo is all about innovation and strong leadership. Entrepreneurship is part of their DNA, and I couldn't ask for a better fit."Kutcher currently stars in the CBS comedy, Two and a Half Men, which airs worldwide. He has also gained significant recognition for his technology investments over the past several years and is a co-founder of A-Grade Investments, which has provided venture capital and collaboration for multiple tech companies including Airbnb, Fab, Foursquare, Spotify, Path and Uber."Ashton Kutcher's authentic, creative appetite for technology and keen consumer insight combined with our innovation engine make this a very natural and powerful partnership," said David Roman, chief marketing officer, Lenovo. "This partnership goes beyond traditional bounds by deeply integrating him into our organization as a product engineer as we look at developing the next wave of products. As we continue to push into new PC Plus product areas and lead in multimode computing, Ashton will help us break new ground by challenging assumptions, bringing new perspective and contributing his technical expertise to Yoga Tablet and other devices."

The new multimode Yoga Tablet gives people a better way to get the most out of their tablet experience with up to 18 hours of battery life1 and with its three unique modes: hold, tilt and stand. Recognizing that one size doesn't fit all, Lenovo created the three modes to solve the common challenges that tablet users face. The Yoga Tablet's cylindrical handle breaks the mold on "sea of sameness" tablet design, allowing users to more easily hold the tablet to read and browse the Internet, deploy the stand to sit it upright on a surface to watch movies and tilt the tablet down on a surface for a better viewing angle for touchscreen typing and reading.



