
 
Keepin' it varied, are we ASUS? Just a few months after we peeked a pair of WirelessHD-equipped laptops at ASUS' Computex booth, in flies this -- news that the company has aligned with Amimon and joined the WHDI Consortium to boot. It's hard to say if the introduction of the WiCast EW2000 is in direct response to HP's Wireless TV Connect, but it sure looks mighty similar in practice. The two-piece set connects to a PC via USB (it's USB powered, too) and to an HDTV via HDMI. Once you're setup, you can stream 1080p video (including Blu-ray and DRM'd material) straight to your tele with under a millisecond of lag, and better still, you could connect it to an HDMI-equipped set-top box or game console for cordless machine-to-device magic. Mum's the word on price, but there's a delightful promo video ready to get you amped up about it just past the break.

Update: ASUS pinged us to say that it'll ship on September 15th for $199.99. Start saving!
      

 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textASUS Selects AMIMON for its WiCast Wireless PC to TV Product Line and Joins WHDI ConsortiumNow Consumers Can Watch All Their PC Connect Easily on Their HDTV via AMIMON's No-Latency Wireless HDTV LinkSanta Clara, Calif. & Taipei, Taiwan – August 31 2010 – AMIMON, the market leader in wireless HDTV semiconductor solutions announced today it has been selected by ASUS for its upcoming WiCast EW2000 PC to TV connectivity kit. The WiCast is based on AMIMON's WHDI™ (Wireless Home Digital Interface™) technology it enables users to wirelessly connect their PC (desktop, notebook or netbook) to their TVs. The AMIMON based wireless PC to TV connectivity products from ASUS will be available in September this year. Additionally, ASUS has also announced that it will join the WHDI consortium as an adopter.The AMIMON based ASUS WiCast adapters will enable a simple and easy connection between any PC and TV. The adapters will come as set (HD video transmitter and receiver) in a compact consumer friendly design, and will interface to the PC and TV via HDMI. Adding to the ease-of-use, the adapters are powered by the PC's USB ports making them highly portable for use with notebooks and netbooks.With the AMIMON based ASUS wireless PC to TV products consumers can view the entire content of their desktop, notebook or netbook screen on their TV. Content such as Internet video, flash media, digital photos and PC games can all be viewed and experienced on the TV with a convenient wireless connection. AMIMON's technology has no noticeable latency (less than one millisecond) enabling consumers to enjoy full interactive PC applications on their TV, including gaming. In addition to PCs, the WiCast can connect to any source device with an HDMI port such as set-top-boxes (STBs) and gaming consoles to enable a wireless connection from devices with HDMI ports."ASUS is the first to offer consumers wireless PC to TV products based on AMIMON's WHDI technology. Several other PC to TV connectivity products will be launched later this year, including notebooks and tablet PCs with embedded WHDI modules" said David Shefler, vice president of sales and business development for AMIMON. "WHDI, with its high quality, low latency and low power consumption, is the only solution that will enable all portable computing, gaming and HD source devices to wirelessly connect to TVs.""AMIMON's WHDI is an ideal technology for wireless PC to TV connectivity; it offers a high-quality, robust link enabling wireless HD video and graphics with practically zero latency giving PC users seamless interaction," said James Lai, director of product marketing at ASUS. "Joining the WHDI consortium will enable us to develop WHDI standard based products like PCs embedded with WHDI that interface directly to WHDI TVs." The ASUS WiCast products will feature AMIMON's second generation chipset, AMN2120/2220, enabling robust, high-quality wireless 1080p 60Hz in the 5GHz unlicensed band. The HD wireless video technology from AMIMON is the basis of the WHDI standard.The AMIMON based modules inside the ASUS wireless PC to TV products are developed by Quanta Microsystems, Inc. (QMI). Additionally, the AMIMON technology implements HDCP revision 2.0 enabling wireless viewing on the TV of all PC content including Blu-Ray movies and DRM protected content.ASUS is the latest major CE manufacturer to join the WHDI consortium. They add to the growing membership of the WHDI organization its membership consist of the top CE companies from around the world, including companies such as: AMIMON, Haier, Hitachi, LG Electronics, Maxim, Mitsubishi, Motorola, Samsung, Sharp, Sony and Toshiba.
 