
 Back when ASUS first introduced that unorthodox FonePad to the masses at MWC, the Taiwanese company said the 7-inch device would be arriving in the European market at some point in March. Fast forward to today -- a couple of weeks late, no less -- and ASUS has announced that those in the United Kingdom can now start making pre-orders, with the Jelly Bean-loaded phone / tablet hybrid expected to ship on April 26th. Just as we'd heard in Barcelona, the FonePad's set to come with a £179.99 price tag, which, in return, gives folks a decent 1,280 x 800 IPS screen, an Atom Z2420 1.2GHz chip with 1GB of RAM, 16GB of built-in storage and a 4,270mAh battery -- plus, of course, the HSPA+ radio to boot. Online stores like Carphone Warehouse and Amazon are all set to take your money, just make sure you also buy some jeans with big pockets, because you'll certainly need a pair if you plan to use the PadFone FonePad to make calls in grandiose fashion.


  Show full PR text   ASUS Announces 7-inch Fonepad Pricing and Availability
   Pre-order Today, On Sale 26th April

   London, United Kingdom, (12th April, 2013) - ASUS today announced the Fonepad will be available for pre-order on Friday 12th April and go on sale as of 26th April from Carphone Warehouse, Amazon and Sainsbury's for an SRP of £179.99. For more information on tariffs, please contact your preferred retailer. The Fonepad is a competitively priced handheld device, with 3G voice and mobile data for all the features of a smartphone, with the versatility of a 7-inch tablet. Powered by a new Intel® Atom™ Z2420 processor with Android 4.1, Fonepad features a vibrant HD display with IPS technology for wide viewing angles and outstanding clarity.

   "It is ideal to have a larger screen with entertainment, social media and other online activities now playing an increasingly important part in our mobile lifestyles," said Jonney Shih, ASUS Chairman. "The incorporation of 3G mobile data with full telephony support, makes the Fonepad the perfect combination of a tablet and phone in one single device."

   "Extending our long history of collaboration, including most recently on the Ultrabook™ and Intel-based tablets, we are very excited to be partnering with ASUS again," said Hermann Eul, Intel® vice president and co-general manager of the Mobile and Communications Group. "Intel's new Atom™ Z2420 processor delivers the power, performance and flexibility required to accommodate a range of devices and market needs. We think the ASUS Fonepad is a very innovative device in an emerging category of 3G tablets with telephony features."

   Beautiful metallic design with Intel® Atom™ performance

   ASUS Fonepad is ideal for people who value both the voice communication features of a smartphone and the entertainment opportunities afforded by a tablet, but prefer the convenience of carrying just one device. Fonepad is a sleek and compact tablet with a metallic design that can be held comfortably in one hand, thanks to its light 340g weight and slim 10.4mm profile. Powered by the latest Intel® Atom™ Z2420 processor with full Android compatibility, Fonepad features a perfect balance of performance and energy efficiency, with hardware-accelerated 1080p Full HD video decoding and up to nine hours of battery life.

   The 7-inch screen features 10-point multi-touch, and a crisp 1280 x 800 HD resolution for crisp, readable web page text and incredibly detailed photos. IPS technology ensures vibrant color with 178-degree wide viewing angles, and images that are clear and bright, even outdoors.

    Built-in 3G for mobile data and voice calls

   Built-in 3G with HSPA+ mobile data means ASUS Fonepad is an always-connected mobile device for seamless web browsing, fast downloads from Google Play Store, and smooth streaming of audio and video. Thanks to its full 3G telephony support, Fonepad can also be used for voice calls using the built-in noise-cancelling digital microphone or a Bluetooth headset. With just one mobile data plan to pay for, running costs are also much lower than those of a separate smartphone and 3G tablet.

   Fonepad in the UK is available with 16GB, and has an SD card slot for up to 32GB of additional storage. All models feature a front 1.2-megapixel camera for easy video chat and ASUS SonicMaster audio technology with MaxxAudio 3 processing by Waves ensures clear, well-rounded sound quality.

   Exclusive ASUS apps and accessories for greater productivity

   ASUS Fonepad comes with a number of exclusive ASUS productivity apps: Floating App for easy management of running apps and multi-tasking; SuperNote lite for handwritten notes and drawing; and WebStorage Office Online for Microsoft Office-compatible document editing on the move. Fonepad users also get 5GB of free lifetime ASUS WebStorage for syncing and sharing data with other devices.

   Two new optional accessories are also available for Fonepad. Available in four snazzy colors, VersaSleeve 7 is a wraparound cover with a folding design that both protects Fonepad, and props up the screen in two different positions for typing and watching video. Turn Case is a lightweight hardshell case for Fonepad that features a soft interior that keeps the screen clean and a built-in stand that puts the screen at the perfect angle for watching video.

 
