
   Yes, another one. Less than four months after announcing the original T201 Transformer Prime aASUS is adding uno más to the collection. And don't be fooled by the name: though the company is rebranding its tablet line "Transformer Pads," the newly announced Infinity Series looks a lot like something we've already seen. Essentially, this is the TF700T announced at CES, with a dual-core Qualcomm MSM 8960 Snapdragon S4 CPU and an optional LTE radio. Now, before you gasp that ASUS has ditched NVIDIA, hear this: there will still be a Tegra 3 option, but that's just the WiFi-only version; the 3G / 4G versions will pack the S4 chip.  Additionally, there will be a lower-end 16GB option (the TF700T was only available in 32GB and 64GB flavors). Otherwise, the specs are the same, including dual 8MP / 2MP cameras, 1GB of RAM, HDMI and a 10.1-inch, 1920 x 1200, Super IPS+ Gorilla Glass display. This time around, it has Gorilla Glass 2, but that's a mild spec bump indeed.  Unlike the original Prime, which shipped with Honeycomb but updated to Ice Cream Sandwich shortly after going on sale, the Infinity Pad will run Android 4.0 out of the box. It also comes with 8GB of free lifetime ASUS WebStorage and is rated for 10 hours of battery life (16 with that signature keyboard dock, sold separately). No word yet on pricing or availability. In any case, though, we wouldn't be surprised if ASUS gave birth to another tablet between now and then.




  Show full PR text   ASUS PadFone and upcoming Transformer Pad Lineup unveiled at Mobile World Congress 2012  ASUS Chairman Jonney Shih introduces the latest ASUS mobile devices and discusses his vision of ubiquitous cloud computing   Mobile World Congress, Barcelona, Spain (27 February, 2012) – At today's "Incredibly Mobile Endless Possibilities" ASUS press event, Chairman Jonney Shih unveiled the revolutionary PadFone and upcoming Transformer Pad lineup. "The time has finally arrived when every screen in your lives could transcend into a portal with real time access into your digital world," said Mr. Shih as he introduced the ASUS PadFone which transforms into a three-in-one combination of a smartphone, a tablet and a notebook when accessorized with the PadFone Station and PadFone Station Dock.   The ASUS PadFone is an incredible 4.3" smartphone featuring a Super AMOLEDqHD display, the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 dual core processor and an ultra-sharp 8-megapixel digital camera with Fuji image processor all wrapped in an exquisite design that is optimized for Google's Android 4.0 operating system. When placed inside the optional PadFone Station, it transforms into a 10.1" tablet with 5 times the battery capacity. The PadFone offers unmatched versatility via ASUS' proprietary Dynamic Display technology which allows seamless transition between the PadFone and PadFone Station display screens. In addition, the PadFone Station offers an optional keyboard dock that essentially turns the PadFone into an ultraportable computing device. The PadFone also comes with the option of a PadFone Stylus Headset which is a Bluetooth stylus pen that transforms into a headset for picking up calls easily.   ASUS is redefining the future of mobile computing devices and is excited to announce the new and innovative ASUS Transformer Pad lineup. Offering three distinct models to fit the unique needs of mobile media consumers, ASUS believes in providing consumers with choices. The ASUS Transformer Pad lineup includes the ASUS Transformer Pad Prime and upcoming ASUS Transformer Pad Infinity series and ASUS Transformer Pad 300 series.   The Transformer Pad Infinity Series is poised to be the go-to tablet for HD mobile entertainment as it features an impressive 1920x1200 Full HD Super IPS+ display and ASUS SonicMaster technology. The 4G LTE* model comes armed with the powerful Qualcomm MSM 8960 Snapdragon S4 Krait Dual-core 1.5Gh processor and is capable of download and upload speeds of up to 100Mbps and 50Mbps respectively. The WiFi model features the NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 quad-core processor for incredible application and gaming performance. The Transformer Pad Infinity has a 2MP front camera for HD video conferencing along with an 8MP rear camera with a large F2.2 aperture, 5-element lens and LED flash for stunning high quality images or HD video capture.   The Transformer Pad 300 Series makes for an ideal mobile web surfing and gaming platform with its NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 quad-core processor and high quality 10.1" 1280x800 IPS display with either 4G LTE* or WiFi options. It features a 1.2MP front camera for video conferencing and an 8MP rear camera with a large F2.2 aperture, 5-element lens allows for high quality images along with HD video recording. The Transformer Pad 300 Series has battery life of up to 10 hours*, and that is extended up to 15 hours* with the optional keyboard dock. 
 