
Almost exactly two years ago, Motorola's Android-in-Webtop-OS solution was kicked off the stage by ASUS' PadFone, the world's first phone that could fully power a tablet module from its own OS. The original concept took a while to materialize, but since then the company has kept up with a surprisingly rapid product cycle. It was only five months from the first PadFone to the PadFone 2; and now seven months later, ASUS is offering the PadFone Infinity: a non-surprising full HD update for both the phone and the tablet module. The phone itself also benefits from a newer 1.7GHz quad-core Snapdragon 600 SoC, as well as a new brushed-aluminum body. So, does this upgraded package have what it takes to kill the "glass is half empty" mentality? Or would consumers still rather have two separate devices? Read on to find out.



Hardware
Let's start off with the phone. Like many of the latest Android flagships, the PadFone Infinity comes with a 5-inch, 1080p display and a quad-core chip. In terms of resolution, viewing angle and color gamut, the newer screen is a significant upgrade from the predecessor's 4.7-inch, 720p panel; though the screens from both generations belong to Sharp's LTPS line (not to be confused with the newer IGZO line, which is currently less efficient at this panel size). Unsurprisingly, the Infinity comes with a bigger built-in battery -- 2,400mAh, which is a nice bump from the old 2,140mAh cell. The main camera uses the same Sony 13-megapixel IMX091 sensor as the PadFone 2, but its lens has been upgraded from f/2.4 to a brighter f/2.0. On the other side of the phone, the old 1.2-megapixel front-facing camera has been replaced by a 2-megapixel, f/2.0 module (it's an OmniVision OV2722 sensor, if you care), but the backlit capacitive soft keys below the screen are here to stay.

The Infinity utilizes a brand-new design that takes advantage of an aerospace-grade, twice-anodized aluminum alloy construction. Instead of the signature Zen-ripple etching on the old polycarbonate cover, the almost fully metallic Infinity features a vertical brush pattern across its back -- one that is ever so slightly curved when viewed from either the top or bottom, making the thickness vary from 8.9mm in the middle to about 6mm at the edges.





