
 
 The ASUS line of Vivo devices is growing today with another Windows 8 tablet, the ASUS VivoTab Smart tablet. The Smart packs an Intel Atom Z2760 dual-core processor, powering the same 10.1-inch, 1366 x 768 resolution IPS display found in its brethren. And that 10.1-inch screen can handle five of your fingers tapping all over it all at once, should you need to. Protecting that screen is a brand new "TransSleeve" keyboard, which does triple duty as a cover, keyboard and stand, "all rolled into one." It's quite like the Microsoft Surface Type Cover, albeit with full-on physical keys and a touchpad for mousing around. An 8-megapixel camera sits out back while a 2-megapixel faces the user, and there's NFC functionality built in as well. ASUS isn't giving out a price or release window for the VivoTab Smart just yet, but we'll be sure to keep an eye out for the newest Vivo entry on the show floor as CES 2013 kicks off this week.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text    ASUS Transforms Innovation into Style at 2013 International CES

   -- ASUS presents the latest PC technologies featuring the uniquely styled TAICHI™, Transformer  AiO, Qube with Google TV, ProArt Series Monitor and the VivoTab™ Smart Tablet--

   Las Vegas, NV (January 7th, 2013) - ASUS, a market leader in personal computer products, is  displaying several of its latest offerings at the 2013 International CES event in Las Vegas today.  Innovation is at the heart of ASUS design and this is especially true of its latest computing  products. A few highlights of the show include the following products:

   ASUS TAICHI™ - dual screens for an Ultrabook and a Multi-Touch Tablet in one  The ASUS TAICHI™ is a slim and stylish ultraportable with an astonishing key feature - both  11.6" and 13.3" models have a brilliant double-sided LED-backlit IPS/FHD display. With a touch  screen on the outside of the lid, the TAICHI™ opens up a whole host of new mobile possibilities  as it plays the role of both Ultrabook™ and Tablet.The TAICHI™also delivers uncompromised  mobile performance, with 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processors, fast SSD storage and dual-  band 802.11n Wi-Fi.

   With the lid open, the TAICHI™ is just like any Ultrabook™ computer, and comes complete with  a full-size QWERTY backlit keyboard and track pad. With the lid closed, however, the TAICHI™  instantly becomes a multi-touch tablet computer with stylus support, bringing a degree of  flexibility that has never before been experienced on an Ultrabook™. Better still, while they  provide access to the same hardware, the two screens are completely independent of each  other and can also be used simultaneously, which means the TAICHI™ can be shared with two  users for a host of innovative new applications.

   ASUS Transformer AiO - desktop PC and handheld tablet combined  Part tablet, part All-in-One PC, the Transformer AiO is an innovative device that can seamlessly  switch between both, and features dual operating systems giving users the option of switching  between Windows 8 and Android 4.1 depending on the situation.

   The Transformer AiO features Windows 8 and an extended 18.4", 10-point touch LED-backlit  IPS display, 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processor technology, and has a compact, versatile  design with height and tilt adjustments. It also features ASUS SonicMaster technologyto deliver  crystal-clear sound through its integrated speakers.

   The 18.4-inch Full HD displayis easily removed from its base station to become a wireless  display that extends the range of the PC and allows users to continue with their work around  the home. Transformer AiO also features an NVIDIA® Tegra® quad-core processor for self-  contained use as an Android tablet, and switches seamlessly between Windows 8 and Android  4.1 Jelly Bean at the press of a button.

   ASUS Transformer Book TX300CA- the world's first convertible Ultrabook™  The ASUS Transformer Book TX300CA is one of the world's first convertible Ultrabooks™ -  allowing users to instantly switch between an Ultrabook™ and a tablet by simply detaching  the screen. It is aimed at users who prefer the portability of a multi-touch tablet computer for  leisure, but still want access to a more familiarUltrabook design for productivity use.

   The Transformer Book TX300CA delivers performance and an excellent user experience  thanks to the latest Intel® Core™ i7 processor* with HD4000 graphics, along with SSD and  HDD storage, 4GB DDR3 dual channel RAM, Bluetooth 4.0 and USB 3.0. It also features  ASUS SonicMaster technology to deliver crystal-clear sound with deep rich bass through its  integrated speakers. The Transformer Book sportsdual cameras, with a HD front-facing camera  and a 5MP rear-facing camera* making it perfect for both photo-taking and video chats.

   This lightweight ultraportable is available with a 13" Full HD (1920x1080) IPS display with multi-  touch capabilities. This can be detached from the full-size QWERTY keyboard* to create a  highly portable tablet to give the best of both mobile worlds.

   ASUS VivoTab™ Smart Tablet featuring Windows 8  The ASUS VivoTab™ Smart Tablet features an Intel® Atom™ Z2760 dual-core processor for  fast and responsive performance, while still providing up to 9.5 hours battery life on a single  charge. Just 9.7mm thin and 580g light, ASUS VivoTab™ Smart has a 10.1-inch LED-backlit  display with a crisp 1366 x 768 HD resolution. IPS display technology delivers 178-degree  wide viewing angles and ensures clear and bright images, even when seen from the side.  VivoTab™ Smart also features 5-point multi-touch for fluid fingertip control with Windows 8.  The TranSleeve Keyboard is an innovative accessory that is a cover, keyboard, and stand all  rolled into one. It not only aids in the typing experience, but protects the tablet as well.

   ASUS VivoTab™ Smart features a high quality 8-megapixel rear camera with auto-focus, five-  element lens and 1080p Full HD video recording, while the front 2-megapixel camera is perfect  for face-to-face HD video chats. VivoTab™ Smart also features renowned ASUS SonicMaster  audio technology for incredible sound quality and a built-in NFC sensor, enabling the device to  easily sync with other NFC-enabled devices.

   Qube with Google TV - Bring the world of entertainment to your TV  Instantly add Google TV to your HDTV with the ASUS Qube. Qube with Google TV offers both  motion control and voice search that integrates Google Play, Chrome™, YouTube™in one  compact device. With access to over 100,000 movies and TV shows* from Netflix and Amazon  Instant Video, plus numerous apps, videos and games from Google Play, ASUS Qubewith  Google TV is the perfect media content device.

   ASUS has developed the unique Qube interface, which displays functions via a rotating on-  screen cube shape. The advanced remote control supports motion sensing for gaming and  other applications. Customers can also control Qube with Google TV from their Android  smartphones and tablets using the Mobile Remote app, available through Google Play. ASUS  includes 50GB of WebStorage cloud space with every Qube with Google TV.

   For customers who need a professional-grade monitor to enhance their work, the LED-backlit  PA249Q ProArt delivers uncompromising color precision, pre-calibrated at the factory to ∆E  <5, the highest accuracy of any screen in its segment. It includes a 16:10 1920 x 1200 IPS panel  for superior image quality and viewing angles, with 100% Adobe RGB color reproduction and  customizable color adjustment options. Users can modify red, green, blue, cyan, magenta,  and yellow hue levels independently, a highly sought-after feature in graphics design. ASUS  QuickFit Virtual Scale displays images and documents in their native size on-screen for "what  you see is what you get" accuracy. A five-way navigation key provides easier control of display  parameters, and customer comfort is enhanced by tilt, swivel, pivot, and height adjustments.  The PA249Q includes four USB 3.0 ports to enable connectivity with multiple devices at up to  ten times the speed of USB 2.0.  ###  *Specifications may vary without prior notice. Options, pricing and availability dependent upon  region. For more details about the products mentioned in this press release, please visit http://  press.asus.com .

   About ASUS

   ASUS is a worldwide top-three consumer notebook vendor and maker of the world's best-  selling, most award-winning, motherboards. A leading enterprise in the new digital era, ASUS  designs and manufactures products that perfectly meet the needs of today's digital home  and office, with a broad portfolio that includes motherboards, graphics cards, optical drives,  displays, desktop and all-in-one PCs, notebooks, netbooks, servers, multimedia devices,  wireless solutions, networking devices, tablets and smartphones. Driven by innovation

   and committed to quality, ASUS won 3,886 awards in 2011 and is widely credited with  revolutionizing the PC industry with its Eee PC™. ASUS has more than 11,000 employees  around the globe with a world-class R&D team of 3,100 engineers. Company revenue for 2011  was approximately US$11.9 billion.

 
