
 
 We'd wager that "inspired by sundials" isn't a phrase you expected to hear at this year's IFA, but there it is, in the press release for a pair of new monitors from ASUS. The Designo MX239H and MX279H have edge-to-edge screens, largely free of worrisome bezels and slim profiles at 14.5- and 17.5 millimeters, respectively. The displays are matte IPS, which offer up a 178-degree viewing angle, according to the company. And the stands -- they've got "sundial" written all over them. Peep the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    ASUS Introduces AiCloud and a Range of New Innovations at IFA
  ASUS, a global leader in the new digital era, today announces a number of new products that are designed to work together to enrich users' digital lives with the latest technologies. ASUS AiCloud combines a cutting-edge 802.11ac Wi-Fi router with easy-to-use services that allow anyone to create their own personal cloud storage; while two new Design MX monitors deliver incredible visuals in a stunningly slim and elegant design.
  Business users can deliver crystal-clear presentations with the compact B1 Portable LED Projector designed to maximize ease-of-use and mobility. In addition, the Zen-inspired ASUS SDRW-08D3S-U External DVD Writer makes a perfect companion for the ZENBOOK™.
  ASUS AiCloud – make an incredible connection  ASUS AiCloud brings the convenience of cloud-based storage to everyone with a combination of easy to use technology and services, as well as indefinite storage and increased privacy. Smart Access lets users keep all their data on their home network or online storage facility easily accessible from anything from a smartphone to a PC, as long as they have an internet connection. It allows any networked computer to be incorporated into a private personal cloud for selective file sharing over the internet, using any compatible Windows, Mac and Linux device. Files can be easily shared through a simple web link.
  Cloud Disk gives users access to an always-on data and media library by connecting a USB storage drive to an ASUS router like the RT-AC66U to act as a cloud services hub. This gives users their own media server on everything from Android or iOS-based smartphones or tablets to notebooks and no longer need to store space-hungry music and movie collections locally.   ASUS Smart Sync makes it easy to synchronise data on local storage devices with an ASUS WebStorage account. Synchronisation is automatic and takes place in real time to ensure that files are always up to date.
  ASUS Designo MX279H and MX239H Monitors  With their attractive looks and edge-to-edge bezel-free screens, the new Designo 27" MX279H and 23" MX239H displays make a stylish addition to any desktop and the ultra-slim design with integral sundial-inspired stand occupy the minimum amount of space. The matte anti-glare IPS panel with LED backlighting ensures a wide 178° viewing angle with outstanding colour reproduction, while the slim profile that's just 14.5mm thick on the MX239H and 17.5mm on the larger MX279H.   Dual HDMI inputs provide flexible connectivity options. ASUS SonicMaster technology, co-developed with Bang & Olufsen ICEpower® audio, delivers incredible audio fidelity too, which means the Designo MX279H and MX239H are displays that have redefined beauty by sounding every bit as good as they look.
  ASUS B1 Portable LED Projector  The B1 Portable LED Projector delivers bright, clear presentations in a compact package. It features a mercury-free, 500 ANSI lumens-rated LED light source with an ultra-short throw 51" projection within 1 meter. It comes with instant on/off capabilities cuts down on startup and shutdown times.
  The B1 features plug-and-play capabilities via its built-in SD card reader and speaker with SonicMaster Audio Technology; while the PC-Free Office Viewer and Multimedia Playback supports MS Office, PDF, and multimedia file formats, enabling users to view these through onscreen projections. In addition, an optional wireless dongle enables helps do away with wired connections with laptops and PCs.
  ASUS SDRW-08D3S-U External DVD Writer  Featuring a Zen-inspired design, the ASUS SDRW-08D3S-U external 8X DVD writer is the ideal companion for the ZENBOOK. Drag and Burn enables users to burn discs in just three steps; while ATP technology ensures superior disc quality. There's also 256-bit encryption for added data security.  Its AV Function also allows users to enjoy multimedia content on smart TVs and tablets; while multiple OS support ensures compatibility with both Windows and Mac.
  
