
Hungry for more ASUS IFA debuts? The company trucked out the two newest additions to its MeMO Pad tablet line, the 8 and 10, both budget devices set to arrive before the holidays. What all that actually means in terms of pricing and availability, however, the company's not quite ready to say -- though we assume that, at the very least, they'll come in under flagship slates of similar size. Thankfully, however, ASUS did let us spend some time with both products.


The 8-inch device isn't the highest-end mini-tablet we've seen (that might be the new Nexus 7), but the company's done a good job building a solid-feeling slate. The front of the MeMO Pad 8 is extremely glossy -- it's fine in normal indoor lighting, but when we took the tablet up on the roof to check out the panoramic view of Berlin, it was a bit more problematic. Continuing our tour, above the 1,280 x 800 display you'll find a 1.2-megapixel front-facing camera, and in the bottom bezel there's a shiny silver ASUS logo.





On the white version, the back cover is as glossy as the front; we quite preferred the matte backing on the red variant, which was also on display. Around back, you'll find a 5-megapixel camera and a speaker grille that runs the length of the device. There's a headphone jack, mic and micro-USB slot at top, with the power button and volume rocker on the right and a microSD slot on the left, which you'll need to expand the 8GB of on-board storage. Inside is a 1.6GHz quad-core processor and a battery that should give you upwards of nine hours of life on a charge. We'll reserve judgement on the 8 until we actually see a price, but all in all, it's a nice-looking slate -- and one that's easily to hold in one hand.

Of course that last part can't quite be said about the MeMO Pad 10, which is basically a watered-down version of the MeMO Pad FHD 10 announced at Computex. A number of specs carry over from the 8-inch version we just handled, including the 1,280 x 800 screen resolution and 1.6GHz quad-core processor. Interestingly, too, while the front-facing camera is still 1.2-megapixels, the rear has been downgraded to two. Still, it's mostly an improvement over the original, with 16GB of built-in storage and slightly longer battery life (up to 9.5 hours, says ASUS).

The power button and a microphone sit up top with the volume rocker and micro-USB slot on the right side and microSD and headphone jack on the left. You'll also find two small speaker grilles on opposite sides of the back, which get surprisingly loud. Both devices are due out before the end of the year but for now, enjoy the hands-on photos and video.

Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!
#fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-952451{display:none;} .cke_show_borders #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-952451, #postcontentcontainer #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-952451{width:620px;height:439px;display:block;}try{document.getElementById("fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-952451").style.display="none";}catch(e){}
Alexis Santos contributed to this report.
Show full PR textASUS Announces MeMO Pad 8 and MeMO Pad 10 TabletsAffordable Android tablets feature vibrant IPS displays with 1280 x 800 resolution, powerful quad-core processors and microSD card slots for expandable storage
Berlin, Germany (4th September, 2013) - ASUS today announced two new affordable Android tablets, the MeMO Pad 8 and MeMO Pad 10, with an 8-inch and 10-inch screen, respectively. Both tablets feature a 1280 x 800 resolution, a quad-core processor and microSD card storage.
Designed for easy one-handed use, ASUS MeMO PadTM 8 measures just 127mm from side to side and weighs only 350g, yet packs an 8-inch display that gives 30% more screen space than a 7-inch tablet. ASUS MeMO PadTM 10 is equally portable, at just 522g.
Vibrant IPS displays and ASUS SonicMaster-enhanced soundASUS MeMO Pad 8 (ME180A) and MeMO Pad 10 (ME102A) both feature an LED-backlit display with a 1280 x 800 resolution and IPS (In-Plane Switching) technology for a bright and vibrant image, with wide viewing angles and great daylight visibility. High-quality dual speakers with ASUS SonicMaster audio technology give great sound quality, too.
MeMO Pad 8 also features a rear 5-megapixel camera that captures great quality photos, while MeMO Pad 10 features a 2-megapixel rear camera. Both models also capture 720p HD video and have a 1.2-megapixel front camera for video chat.
Powered by 1.6GHz quad-core processors for a perfect balance of multi-tasking performance and energy efficiency, MeMO Pad 8 has up to nine hours battery life with HD video playback and MeMO Pad 10 up to 9.5 hours. MeMO Pad 8 has 8GB of onboard storage, while MeMO Pad 10 has 8GB or 16GB. Both models also feature a microSDXC card slot.
Stylish and practical TriCover protectionASUS MeMO Pad 8 and MeMO Pad 10 also have an optional protective TriCover case made from durable synthetic materials that protects both the tablet back and screen. Available in three colors, TriCover has a folding cover that props up the screen at a comfortable angle for on-screen typing and watching video.
AVAILABILITY & PRICINGPlease contact your local ASUS representative for further information.￼


