
For those of you who expected ASUS to only announce Ultrabooks here at Computex, the following news might seem a little out of left field. The company just unveiled the G10, a desktop with a portable battery that doubles as a built-in UPS (uninterrupted power source) -- a product for those who refuse to take any chances on data safety. On the inside, you've got your choice of Haswell processors, along with NVIDIA GeForce GTX650 graphics, 8GB of RAM, and a 1TB HDD paired with a 128GB SSD. Taking a quick tour of the hardware, you'll find a 16-in-1 memory card reader, a DVD burner, six USB 3.0 ports, four USB 2.0 connections, HDMI-out, DVI-D and VGA. It's slated for a Q3 or Q4 launch, we're told, but we still don't have a price or precise on-sale date. Naturally, we'll update this post as we learn more on that front but for now, enjoy the hands-on shots below and the demo video after the break.




Richard Lai and Zach Honig contributed to this report.
Show full PR textASUS Announces New PCs with Latest 4th Generation Intel Core processors
Designed for high-performance productivity and entertainment, G10 and M51 desktops, and ET2702 and ET2311 All-in-Ones, all include exclusive ASUS features
2013/06/01ASUS today announced four new desktop PCs with the latest 4th generation Intel® Core™ processors for high-performance productivity and entertainment. The G10 and M51 are stylish, floor-standing PCs; while the ET2311 and ET2702 are slimline All-in-One PCs with 23-inch and 27-inch widescreen displays, respectively. All four models also feature powerful NVIDIA® and AMD discrete 3D graphics, with ASUS SonicMaster audio technology for incredible sound quality.
ASUS G10 & M51 desktop PCs
The ASUS G10 and ASUS M51 are designed for fuss-fee operation with flexible support for mobile devices. Both models feature the ASUS Smart Cooling System with automatic fan speed control for optimum cooling and reduced noise, and ASUS Power Pack, a removable UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) that also acts as a portable battery pack for recharging smartphones and tablets. Both models also include the ASUS Universal Storage Module (USM) hot-swap drive bay with an industry-standard interface for optional cartridge-based hard drives.
Both the G10 and M51 are housed in floor-standing tower cases with all-new designs. The G10 has clean, chiseled lines with a brushed metal finish and indicator LEDs that reflect the state of attached external USB storage devices, while the M51 has a matte finish with a textured fascia that resists fingerprints. The M51 also features an ASUS Wireless Charger tray for wireless recharging of smartphones and tablets that support the Qi inductive power standard.
ASUS ET2702 & ET2311 All-in-One PCs
Designed to handle the entertainment and productivity needs of the most demanding users, the ASUS ET2702 All-in-One PC features a 27-inch widescreen display with an ultra-high 2560 x 1440 resolution and optional 10-point multi-touch. With almost twice the pixel density of a same-size Full HD display, text and images are rendered in exquisite, pin-sharp, detail. IPS display technology brings movies, games and photographs to vibrant life, and images stay bright and clear even when seen from the side, thanks to 178-degree wide viewing angles.
The ET2702 also features optional Intel® Thunderbolt™ ports and an exclusive Device Share mode for increased flexibility in households with more than one Windows-based PC. With a notebook connected with an HDMI and USB cable, ET2702 becomes a sophisticated desktop dock, giving the notebook full access to its display, speakers and USB peripherals. Intel® Thunderbolt™ ports are also optionally available for use with next-generation peripherals and storage devices.
With a stylish, space-saving design, the ET2311 All-in-One PC is perfect for home users who want a compact and powerful PC with a larger screen than a notebook, and professional users who lack the space for a traditional desktop PC. The ET2311 features a 23-inch widescreen display with a Full HD (1920 x 1080) resolution and optional five-point multi-touch. IPS display technology gives vibrant images and accurate color, with 178-degree wide viewing angles for easy shared enjoyment of movies, games and photographs.
Exclusive ASUS technology
The ASUS G10, M51, ET2702 and ET2311 PCs all feature USB ports with ASUS Ai Charger technology for rapid recharging of smartphones and tablets. All models also feature enhanced audio from ASUS SonicMaster technology and the same professional tools heard on the world's most popular music, movies and video games, thanks to MaxxAudio® Master by Waves, recipient of a Technical GRAMMY® award. The ET2702 and ET2311 are also optionally available with a desktop subwoofer for extended bass performance.
All four new PCs also come with exclusive bundled ASUS applications, including ASUS Launcher for faster launching of frequently used apps, MusicMaker for music composition and Video Easy for professional video-editing results in record time. 32GB of ASUS WebStorage is also included free for three years for easy cloud-based syncing and sharing of files.
ASUS desktops - leading in satisfaction with reliability
ASUS computers reflect a tradition of the finest quality, innovation and longevity. Based on the PCWorld USA 2012 reader survey of tech satisfaction, reliability, and service, users ranked ASUS as a leading choice for desktop PCs, citing high satisfaction with their value, connectivity, ease of use and reliability. The survey also found ASUS desktop PCs were one of the most likely to be recommended to others.

