
 

ASUS' Transformer Book hybrid may have just graduated from our review testing, but the company already has a new product to tempt you. The Zenbook Infinity will be the "world's first Ultrabook with a lid made form Corning Gorilla Glass 3" and will be revealed in full at Taipei's Computex 2013 in a few weeks. It'll measure in at just 15.5mm thick, which a full 14 percent thinner than previous Zenbooks. Next-generation Gorilla Glass will cover the outer lid and the keyboard surround, although you can expect to see that familiar concentric circle pattern beneath the protection. ASUS says the Ultrabook will launch Q3 2013, but expect to see the full specs before then.


 
Show full PR text ASUS Zenbook Infinity - the World's First Ultrabook with a Lid made from Corning Gorilla Glass 3 - to Debut at Computex
Incredible performance and outstanding durability in an ultra-slim and elegant designLondon, United Kingdom (20th May, 2013) - ASUS today announced that the new Zenbook Infinity Ultrabook™ will debut at Computex 2013. Zenbook Infinity features a beautiful new design that fuses glass and aluminium for a wonderfully slim profile with outstanding resilience. Thinner than the previous model, Zenbook Infinity makes innovative use of new Corning® Gorilla® Glass 3 with Native Damage Resistance™ on the lid and keyboard surround for sleek and durable style.Slim, stylish and scratch-resistantASUS Zenbook Infinity raises the bar for notebook design with a seemingly impossible combination of elegance and durability. With a maximum thickness of just 15.5mm, Zenbook Infinity is an incredible 14% thinner than the previous generation Zenbook. By incorporating Corning Gorilla Glass 3 with Native Damage Resistance (NDR) on the outer lid and keyboard surround, Zenbook Infinity attains a dazzling first for notebook design - a sheer, high-gloss, finish that's highly resistant to scuff marks and scratches.New Corning Gorilla Glass 3 has the same durability and thinness as Gorilla Glass 2, but uses Corning's proprietary NDR glass composition for superior scratch resistance, reduced scratch visibility and improved toughness. Corning Gorilla Glass 3 with NDR has three times the scratch resistance of Gorilla Glass 2, and gives a 40% reduction in the number of highly visible scratches with a 40% improvement in retained strength if a deep scratch does occur.Zenbook Infinity features the pattern of fine concentric circles that's an ASUS Zenbook hallmark, but gains a beautifully clean and smooth exterior that's more resistant to the harsh realities of mobile life than notebooks that use more traditional materials.


