
 We were beginning to think the ASUS Transformer AiO was just a figment of a summer daydream after hearing nothing of it since our chance look many months ago. As it turns out, we were right about the furtive FCC filing last December, and with all that paperwork in order, we've now been granted a formal introduction. The Transformer AiO (all-in-one) is very true to its name, as like the Autobots, it has two completely different configurations. In desktop mode, you're looking at a Windows 8 machine running on a Core i3 / i5 / i7, with a 2GB NVIDIA GeForce GT730M GPU, between 4 and 8GB of RAM, and up to a 2TB SATA HDD. It also has a DVD-RW optical drive (can you believe it?), a card reader, a bunch of ports and even a TV Tuner should you want one. Being a Windows 8 rig, it's not surprising that the 18.4-inch, 1,920 x 1,080 IPS display has ten-point multitouch, but it gets even more interesting when you free that screen from its desktop restraints.

 Popping it from the dock means you're now looking at a monster tablet with its own internal specs: a quad-core Tegra 3, 2 gigs of RAM and 32GB of flash storage. If you're in the mood to continue peering at Redmond's squares, it'll work as a remote terminal for the "PC Station." But, if you've got a sweet tooth, you can switch the slate to Android mode and knock around in 4.1 Jelly Bean. The Transformer AiO (P1801) is expected to be available in North America early second quarter at $1,299 for the basic model, which doesn't sound all that extortionate given the versatility of the desktop-come-tablet. Head to the source link for the full spec sheet, or check out the video below if you'd like a visual tour.




 
  Show full PR text   ASUS Launches the Transformer AiO
   The world's first all-in-one that is a powerful desktop PC capable of running Windows® 8 or Android 4.1 in desktop or tablet mode.

  Fremont, CA (March 7, 2013) - ASUS today announced the all-new Transformer AiO. The incredibly innovative ASUS Transformer AiO provides users the mobility of a tablet with the performance of a powerful desktop PC, all in an elegant design that is just as flexible on your desktop as it is in the home. Combining stunning design and the imagination of ASUS, the Transformer AiO features a desktop PC Station with 3rd generation Intel® Core™ desktop processor technology for outstanding Windows® 8 performance, and a detachable 18.4-inch multi-touch display containing NVIDIA's® Tegra® 3 quad-core for an optimum Android 4.1 user experience. The innovation does stop as the tablet is also capable of running Windows® 8 in Remote Desktop mode. No All-in-One PC has ever offered this type of flexibility, innovation or design, and it is only available from ASUS. 

  Advanced Technology and Options
   ASUS Transformer AiO is a powerful all-in-one PC capable of handling a wide range of demanding Windows® 8 productivity and entertainment applications. Designed for desktop use, its PC Station is powered by a 3rd generation Intel® Core™ desktop processor with NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 730M graphics for outstanding performance. ASUS 

   The Transformer AiO features comprehensive connectivity options, including four USB 3.0 ports – with speeds up to ten times faster than USB 2.0 – for plenty of peripheral possibilities and an HDMI out port so you can attach a monitor for extended display options including the capability to use the PC Station in Windows 8 mode while the tablet operates separately in Android 4.1 mode. 

   Its 18.4-inch LED-backlit display features 1080p HD resolution with 10-point multi-touch and IPS technology for bright, vibrant images with 178-degree wide viewing angles for shared enjoyment with coworkers, friends or family. 

   ASUS Transformer AiO also features dual-band Wi-Fi for high-performance wireless networking with compatible routers. ASUS SonicMaster audio technology delivers incredible sound so watching the latest TV show or movie, gaming, or enjoying a new album will always be an immersive audio experience.  

  Windows® 8 and Android tablet combined
   When detached from the PC Station, ASUS Transformer AiO's tablet can be used in two different ways. First, wireless Remote Desktop technology on the PC Station allows complete multi-touch control over Windows® 8 in tablet mode for easy access to the world's largest collection of productivity and entertainment software.

   Alternatively, the 18.4-inch IPS display can also be used as a standalone tablet with Android 4.1, thanks to its built-in NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 quad-core processor. ASUS Transformer AiO switches seamlessly between operating systems at the press of a button and offers up to five hours of battery life*. The display also features a convenient carrying handle and a folding stand for comfortable tabletop use when away from the PC Station. 

  AVAILABILITY & PRICING
   ASUS Transformer AiO will be available early Q2 2013 in North America with pricing starting at $1299. 

      SPECIFICATIONS *
      Processor
       PC Station: 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ i5-3350P 

     Tablet: NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 quad-core 

      Operating system
       PC Station: Windows 8 (64-bit)

     Tablet: Android 4.1 Jelly Bean

      Display
       18.4-inch (1920 x 1080) LED-backlit with IPS technology 

     10-point capacitive multi-touch

      Graphics
       PC Station: NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 730M (2GB)

      Camera
       1-megapixel front-facing

      Memory &    storage
       PC Station: 8GB DDR3 (1600Mhz) RAM

     1TB SATA hard drive

     SuperMulti DVD Drive

     Tablet: 2GB DDR3 RAM with 32GB onboard storage

      Connectivity
       PC Station: 802.11a/b/g/n dual-band Wi-Fi, Gigabit Ethernet

     4x USB 3.0 ports, 1x USB 2.0 port

     HDMI-out

     3.5mm headphone & 3.5mm mic sockets

     3-in-1 memory card slot

     Bluetooth 4.0

     Tablet: 802.11a/b/g/n dual-band Wi-Fi 

     1x Mini-USB 2.0 port

     3.5mm headphone / mic socket

     microSD card slot

     Docking port 

     Bluetooth 3.0 + EDR

      Battery
       Tablet: 38Whr Li-ion for up to 5 hours use*

      Size
       Tablet: 11.57 x 18.34 x 0.70'

     PC Station: 10.51 x 18.34 x 6.37"

     Combined: 14.8 x 18.34 x 6.37"

      Weight
       PC Station: 9.03lbs

     Tablet: 5.3lbs

      *Specifications, content and product availability are all subject to change without notice and may differ from country to country. Specifications and pricing listed are for the planed North American sku and may differ at launch. Actual performance may vary depending on applications, usage, environment and other factors. 
 
