
 
 AT&T just packed a one-two punch of holiday tablet news, announcing that it's going to serve as the exclusive US carrier for both ASUS's VivoTab RT and Samsung ATIV Smart PC, both of which were originally unveiled this summer. The ASUS offers up a quad-core processor, LTE and a 10.1-inch IPS display in a thin and light form factor. The somewhat beefy Samsung, on the other hand, has an 11.6 inch HD PLS display, 1.5GHZ processor and 64GB of storage. Not much on specifics on availability at this point, beyond the fact that both will be hitting AT&T's site and stores "in time for the holidays."



  Show full PR text    AT&T Debuts Windows 8 Tablets Available for Holiday Shopping Season
  AT&T* today announced a set of new tablets designed for Windows 8; giving customers the convenience of a tablet with productivity of a PC. For the 2012 holiday shopping season, AT&T will be the only U.S. carrier to offer these new tablets from ASUS and Samsung to their customers.
  ASUS VivoTab™ RT
  ASUS VivoTab™ RT, the first quad-core Windows RT 4G LTE tablet, is an ultra-thin and light tablet designed as the ideal mobile entertainment, productivity and gaming platform with stand-out battery life. The VivoTab™ RT features a 10.1" multi-touch Super IPS display with ASUS TruVivid technology that offers a remarkably vivid and brilliant viewing experience of photos, books, videos, games, applications and more. The VivoTab™ RT is equipped with 32 GB of storage and NVIDIA's next-generation quad-core Tegra® 3 TE processor. This 4G LTE capable tablet offers enhanced productivity tools for work or home and comes with Microsoft Office Home and Student 2013 RT Preview Edition.
  Samsung ATIV Smart PC
  Samsung ATIV Smart PC offers customers the blend of PC capability with the convenient tablet form factor. With a detachable keyboard-docking system users easily switch between a clamshell notebook PC and a tablet PC. The powerful ATIV Smart PC allows users can work or stay entertained while on the go with the 11.6" HD PLS display, Intel Clover Trail 1.5 GHz dual core processor and 64GB internal storage memory. ATIV Smart PC comes installed with Windows 8, and preloaded with a trial version of Microsoft Office 2013 for productivity apps, including Microsoft Word, Excel & PowerPoint.
  "AT&T is a leader in connected devices, and we are thrilled the Windows 8 tablets will be available on the nation's largest 4G network," said Chris Penrose, senior vice president, AT&T Emerging Devices. "With Windows 8, both tablets give customers an optimized touch interface, instant live tile updates and PC capabilities. For as low as $10 per month, customers can connect their Windows 8 4G LTE tablets with AT&T's new Mobile Share plans."
  AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering 275 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas.** With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.
  Customers purchasing Windows 8 tablets from AT&T have more options in choosing the plan that's right for them and their mobile devices. With new AT&T Mobile Share plans, new and existing customers can share a single bucket of data across smartphones, tablets, and other compatible devices. AT&T Mobile Share allows customers to build a plan to fit their devices and usage. Customers can select one of the new shared data plans or choose one of AT&T's existing individual or family plans.
  Both Windows 8 tablets will be available in AT&T company-owned retail stores and online at www.wireless.att.com in time for the holidays.
  
