
 Boost and Verizon shouldn't have all the fun, right? The latest kid to do a cannonball into the low-cost prepaid pool is wearing a blue-and-orange swimsuit, as AT&T will be ready to start up $50 unlimited GoPhone plans June 26th. The new prepaid selection sheds $10 off its previous limitless talk and text offering, while tossing in web access for Quick Messaging Phones. In order to be fully competitive in the pay-as-you-go realm, the aforementioned plan will allow the same texting privileges across our borders; you'll be able to SMS or IM your buddies in Mexico, Canada, and 100 other countries. The unfortunate (albeit unsurprising) part is that heading the smartphone route will come at an additional monthly cost, ranging from $5 to $25. Even though it seems Big Blue is a little tardy for the party, a wireless giant is never late -- it arrives exactly when it means to. Full press release after the break.
      

 

   		Show full PR text   Prepaid Calling Just Got Better: Nationwide Unlimited Talk, Text & Web Plan Now Available for $50 		AT&T Customers Can Save More Than 20% With No Long-term Commitment Starting June 26 		Dallas, Texas, June 21, 2011 		Key Facts 		-Consumers can sign up for an unlimited talk, text and web nationwide GoPhone® plan for $50 per month starting on June 26 with AT&T* -- a savings of more than 20%. 		-Plan includes unlimited text and instant messaging to Mexico, Canada and 100 additional countries. 		-Customers can apply this new GoPhone plan to quick messaging phones such the Pantech P7040p, available for purchase on the same day for $59.99. 		-Available to new and existing GoPhone customers with a feature phone. 		Customer Benefits 		AT&T GoPhone customers can now take advantage of a new unlimited talk, text and web nationwide plan for $50 per month. Unlimited text and instant messaging to Mexico, Canada and 100 other countries are also included at no additional cost. 		GoPhone service can be purchased at AT&T company-owned retail stores, online at att.com/gophone and thousands of authorized retailers nationwide. Smartphone customers can choose unlimited talk and text for $50 and select one of three data package options from $5 to $25. 		Earlier this month, AT&T announced the new Pantech P7040p, a stylish quick messaging phone, would also be available on June 26 in company-owned retail stores for $59.99. With a full keyboard, the Pantech P7040p is ideal for maximizing the value of this new plan. 		Quotes 		"As summer approaches, consumers want a plan that provides even more value as they connect with their loved ones in the U.S and abroad," said Judy Cavalieri, vice president, Voice and Prepaid Products, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "GoPhone provides customers a unique opportunity to experience the dependability and availability of AT&T's national wireless network with no long term commitment."
 