
  It's been over a year since we saw AT&T first demo a U-verse connected tablet app with second screen companion features it called "ComplemenTV" and last week it officially launched for the iPad. AT&T U-verse for iPad can act as a remote control for any the company's DVRs in the home, as well as pull in extra info about the content that's playing. If you're away from home, it can still pull up guide data, program the DVR, or play a selection of VOD shows just like the U-verse's other mobile apps. what it doesn't have however, unlike many other pay-TV tablet apps out there, is live TV streaming of any kind. Of course, it is a free add-on, so check after the break for a quick video demo or hit iTunes to download it yourself.
      

 

   Show full PR text  AT&T Launches Enhanced U-verse App for iPad  AT&T announced today its AT&T U-verse for iPad App, which makes it easy for users to connect their iPad to their TV for an even better viewing experience, is available on the App Store.  Recent studies indicate that the majority of tablet owners use their device simultaneously while watching TV, and with this app users can link their iPad to their choice of any U-verse TV receiver and access several great new features like:  Extra content and information about the TV show you're watching, including series overview, episode synopsis, photos, cast and crew information, related TV shows and more. A full-featured, intuitive U-verse remote control with channel, guide, DVR, interactive app and on-demand controls, eliminating the need for extra (or lost) remotes throughout the home. Advanced search functionality to help you find the content you want. Recommendations on what to watch with ratings and reviews. Ability to share information about what you are watching with friends on Facebook. And while you're on the go, you can:  Watch hit TV shows and movies over any Wi-Fi connection. Choose from a library of popular content based on your U-verse TV package, including shows and movies from STARZ, ENCORE, TBS, TNT, truTV, Cartoon Network and Adult Swim, with more choices added on an ongoing basis. Access the U-verse programming guide and DVR scheduling, similar to the functionality available on the U-verse app for iPhone and iPod touch. You can view a video demo of the app here.  "Today, we are taking our best in class TV experience to a whole new level by joining two very powerful platforms: your TV and iPad," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T Mobility. "With our new app, AT&T U-verse customers have access to incredible functionality to make the TV experience much richer, from superior search and control functionality, to fresh content that tells you more about what you're watching, to the ability to share what you're watching with your friends through social networks. And, when they leave the home, our customers can take the U-verse experience with them."  Using the U-verse IP platform and in-home U-verse Wi-Fi network, customers can link the app to any U-verse TV receiver in their home. Using a simple one-time set up process for each U-verse receiver, customers just tune to channel 9301 and go through intuitive steps to name their U-verse receivers using a default name like "living room" or "bedroom," or create a personalized name, to enable the functionality and features.  AT&T U-verse TV was the fastest growing TV service in the country in 2011** and is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider. AT&T U-verse TV ranked "Highest in Residential Television Service Satisfaction in the North Central, South and West Regions," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2011 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction StudiesSM.  The AT&T U-verse for iPad App is available for free from the App Store on iPad or at www.itunes.com/appstore.  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.  ** Claim based on comparison of major TV providers' percentage growth in subscriber counts and national market share data over the last 11 quarters combined.  About AT&T AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile broadband and emerging 4G capabilities, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T |DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising.  Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT.  Geographic and service restrictions apply to AT&T U-verse. Call or go to www.att.com/uverse to see if you qualify.  AT&T U-verse TV: Residential customers only. Prices, programming and offers subject to change without notice. A one-time TV Service Activation Fee of $36 applies. U-verse App for iPad: Access to select content requires compatible device, qualifying U-verse TV plan, and WiFi connection and/or cellular data connection. Available content may vary by device and/or U-verse TV subscription and is subject to change. Data charges may apply. AT&T U-verse High Speed Internet service is required to connect a qualifying tablet to an AT&T U-verse receiver. Wireless Receiver: A one-time fee of $49, and monthly recurring fee of $7, per wireless receiver applies; power outlet and connection of receiver to TV required; Limit 2 per household; Go to att.com/freedom for details. Technical restrictions apply; may not be available to all customers. U-verse App for Smartphone: Access to select content requires compatible device, qualifying U-verse TV plan, and WiFi connection and/or cellular data connection. Available content may vary by device and/or U-verse TV subscription and is subject to change.  AT&T U-verse received the highest numerical score among television service providers in the North Central, South and West regions in the proprietary J.D. Power and Associates 2011 Residential Television Service Satisfaction StudySM. Study based on 23,880 total responses from measuring 12 providers in the North Central region (IL, IN, MI, OH, WI), 13 providers in the South (AL, AR, FL, GA, KS, KY, LA, MS, MO, NC, OK, SC, TN, TX), and 10 providers in the West (AZ, CA, CO, ID, IA, MN, MT, NE, NV, NM, ND, OR, SD, UT, WA, WY) and measures consumer satisfaction with television service. Proprietary study results are based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in Nov. 2010, Jan. 2011, April 2011 and July 2011. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com.  © 2012 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. Mobile broadband not available in all areas. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies.
 