
 
We're just two days away from the launch of the first 3D channel in the US, and U-verse will be ready. The third broadcaster to announce it will carry ESPN 3D after DirecTV and Comcast, it is the first to charge an additional fee for the privilege. $10 per month adds the "3D Technology Package" to your U-verse viewing options -- similar to Comcast and different from DirecTV's approach, it works with all the boxes but will require users to manually switch to 3D mode on their TVs -- which at the moment will consist only of ESPN 3D, although the company promises its goal is to offer a "wide range" of 3D content just like its current HD lineup (which it also charges an extra $10 to access.) Have U-verse but haven't shelled out for a 3DTV, glasses, and this new channel? There's still the Multiview app to look forward to, with four ESPN channels on screen at once and coverage in up to six different languages you won't miss a single flop or injured star player during the entire tournament, we promise.
      

 

Show full PR textAT&T U-verse TV Launches ESPN 3D Channel for 2010 FIFA World Cup(TM)Fans Can Watch 25 Matches in Thrilling 3D with Launch of First 3D TV Channel on U-verse TVDALLAS, June 9 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- AT&T U-verse® TV customers, put on your 3D glasses.In time for the 2010 FIFA World Cup™, AT&T* and ESPN today announced the addition of ESPN 3D to the U-verse TV channel lineup. AT&T U-verse TV customers will be able to enjoy the industry's first 3D sports television network that will deliver 25 2010 FIFA World Cup™ matches and nearly 100 live sporting events in the next year.The first ESPN 3D 2010 FIFA World Cup™ match will air on June 11, featuring South Africa vs. Mexico. Other events to be delivered in 3D include the 2010 State Farm Home Run Derby, X Games 16, Winter X Games 15, college basketball and football games and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game."Because of our advanced IP technology, AT&T U-verse customers can be confident that they'll have access to the latest TV innovations - whether it's your favorite content across your devices, interactive apps, or 3DTV," said Dan York, president of content, AT&T. "With ESPN 3D, U-verse TV customers can experience the highly anticipated 2010 FIFA World Cup™ for the first time ever in exciting 3D, and we're looking forward to delivering more ESPN 3D coverage throughout the year.""ESPN and U-verse TV are pleased to bring fans nearly 100 exciting, ground-breaking 3D sports events in the next year," said David C. Preschlack, executive vice president, affiliate sales and marketing, Disney & ESPN Networks Group. "From the first match of the 2010 FIFA World Cup to college sports, the NBA and more, U-verse customers will be able to see it all in dynamic 3D on ESPN 3D."3D programming is supported on all customers' existing U-verse DVRs and receivers, without any additional set up or U-verse equipment upgrades. Customers will also need a 3D-ready TV set and 3D glasses.The ESPN 3D channel is available on channel 1610 to U-verse TV HD customers (with the U100 package or above) who subscribe to the 3-D Technology Package for $10 a month. Customers can call 1-800-ATT-2020 or visit an AT&T retail location to add the 3-D Technology Package in time for the opening 2010 FIFA World Cup™ match on June 11.In addition to 3D coverage, AT&T and ESPN are also offering U-verse TV customers an innovative 2010 FIFA World Cup™ app which includes a Multiview that lets you watch up to four ESPN channels at one time and also brings athlete bios, groupings and the latest team standings straight from South Africa to your U-verse TV screen. The app is available to every U-verse TV customer at no extra charge on channel 618 and 1618. AT&T and ESPN are also delivering live coverage to mobile phones with AT&T Mobile TV and MobiTV, and coverage of all matches and exclusive bonus content is available for AT&T High Speed Internet customers.AT&T U-verse offers many features that help fans wanting to catch every exciting FIFA World Cup™ moment. AT&T U-verse Total Home DVR lets you record up to four shows at once and play them back on any connected TV in the house. If you're not at home for a match, U-verse TV customers can record ESPN 3D coverage with their U-verse DVR and play it back in 3D at any time. U-verse TV also offers an extensive HD channel lineup with more than 130 HD channels. And with fast channel change and picture-in-picture browse, you can channel surf between FIFA World Cup™ matches without the delay experienced on other digital TV services and preview matches on other channels.AT&T U-verse TV is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider, making AT&T U-verse one of the most dynamic and feature-rich services available today. AT&T U-verse TV ranked "Highest in Residential Television Service Satisfaction in the South and West Regions Two Years in a Row," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2008 and 2009 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction Studies(SM). For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit www.att.com/u-verse.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest 3G network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. In 2010, AT&T again ranked among the 50 Most Admired Companies by FORTUNE® magazine.Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATTNews. Find us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ATT to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at www.Facebook.com/ATTSmallBiz to discover more about our small business services.© 2010 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.AT&T U-verse services are provided by AT&T local telephone companies. Geographic and service restrictions apply to AT&T U-verse. Call or go to www.uverse.att.com to see if you qualify. Customizing options require AT&T U-verse High Speed Internet Service. Wireless phone with Internet access required and standard data charges may apply. Full Total Home DVR functionality requires a receiver for each additional TV at $7 per month each. HD Service. A monthly $10 HD Technology Fee applies for access to HD service. Subscription to an AT&T U-verse programming package and an HDTV required. HD channel availability varies by package selected. HD Premium Tier available for an additional $5 per month. Multiview: Channels/content available for viewing in Multiview are based on TV package and additional programming purchased. 3D: Requires 3DTV and 3D glasses.
 