
 
It'll be a little while before AT&T's LTE rollout is in full swing -- but if you're the kind of individual that enjoys some margin of future-proofing, you'll want to take a close look at the just-announced USBConnect Adrenaline modem for AT&T, an LG-sourced unit that becomes the carrier's very first device to tout LTE upgradeability in 2011. In the meantime, you get HSPA, a microSD slot with support for up to 32GB, and GPS; it runs $49.99 on contract. Next up, Sierra Wireless' USBConnect Shockwave is AT&T's first HSPA+ modem, meaning it'll work nicely on AT&T's upcoming HSPA+ upgrade -- an upgrade that'll have a more immediate impact in some areas than LTE will; this one goes for a nice, fat zilch on contract. Finally, the Huawei USBConnect 900 is AT&T's first Huawei device (notice a lot of firsts here?), and it'll be "compatible" with AT&T's prepaid DataConnect Pass plans of $15, $30, and $50 for 100MB, 300MB and 1GB, respectively. Look for the Adrenaline and 900 in stores on October 17; the Shockwave hasn't been dated just yet. Follow the break for AT&T's full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textAT&T Introduces Its First LTE and HSPA+ LaptopConnect Devices Company to also make available its first LaptopConnect Device that supports a pre-paid data plan optionCustomer BenefitsWith the introduction of the AT&T USBConnect Shockwave and Adrenaline, AT&T is introducing two devices that will not only operate on AT&T's HSPA mobile broadband network today, but also the company's upgraded network in the future. The Adrenaline will be AT&T's first LTE-upgradeable device and the Shockwave the first HSPA+-capable device from the company."With the planned deployment of HSPA+ technology later this year, combined with the continued rollout of expanded backhaul, AT&T will have increased our 3G download or upload speeds multiple times in five years," said Michael Woodward, vice president, Mobile Phone Portfolio, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "We have purposefully planned our path to LTE to create a wireless network where the transition from 3G does not give customers wireless whiplash."AT&T has the nation's fastest mobile broadband network. And with plans to make it even faster, the upgrades when complete are expected to be two to three times faster than most other 3G networks.The AT&T USBConnect Adrenaline from LG will be AT&T's first LTE-upgradeable device. While it can take advantage of the nation's fastest mobile broadband network today, a simple software upgrade via AT&T Communication Manager or AT&T Global Network Client will be all that is required to enable it to work on the LTE network when available. Featuring a sleek casing and smooth finish, Adrenaline is equipped with an internal antenna, plug and play functionality and multiple OS support that will keep users connected and on-the-go. Adrenaline also features built-in GPS for enterprise applications, a multi-color LED status indicator and a MicroSD memory card slot supporting cards up to 32 GB of storage. Like all of AT&T's LaptopConnect devices, the device can be used to access Wi-Fi hotspots, including access to AT&T's more than 23,000 hotspots, a benefit of a corresponding DataConnect and/or DataConnect Pass plan.Built ready to run on AT&T's planned HSPA+ network upgrade, the AT&T USBConnect Shockwave from Sierra Wireless is the first LaptopConnect device from AT&T to do so. AT&T expects to upgrade to this next evolution of 3G network technology by the end of 2010.In addition to allowing cutting edge speeds, the Shockwave will get users off to a quick start, installing in about 60 seconds, and the Shockwave will be available at a cutting-edge price – free with a two-year contract, data plan and mail-in-rebate.For customers who want the flexibility of a LaptopConnect device without a contract, the AT&T USBConnect 900 from Huawei is compatible with the AT&T DataConnect Pass pre-paid service – the pay-as-you-need it data service that does not require a long-term contract.Pricing and Availability* AT&T USBConnect Shockwave – Free after a two-year service agreement, minimum data plan and mail-in-rebate* AT&T USBConnect Adrenaline – $49.99 after a two-year service agreement, minimum data plan and mail-in-rebate* AT&T USBConnect 900 – $79.99 without a contract. Users select one of AT&T's DataConnect Pass options to access mobile broadband data.AT&T DataConnect Pass Options:* DataConnect Day Pass (100 MB) - $15* DataConnect Week Pass (300 MB) - $30* DataConnect Month Pass (1GB) - $50(1) Limited 4G availability planned in select markets beginning 2011.(2) AT&T DataConnect Pass. Can only be used on AT&T's wireless network and cannot be used on another carrier's network, either domestic or international. Requires laptop or netbook with an embedded modem or external USB modem capable of working on AT&T's wireless network; internet access to sign-up; and a new SIM card. AT&T DataConnect Pass supports data usage only, and does not support SMS, MMS, or voice calls. Actual speed and coverage may vary. Time begins expiring immediately upon purchase/activation of PIN for the initial session, whether or not you are using the service. Once your time expires or you consume the allotted data, whichever occurs first, your data access will cease. DataConnect Pass session fees are non-refundable. Not Compatible with Apple Mac. For complete terms and conditions see Session Based Wireless Data Services Agreement at www.att.com/wirelesslegal.(3) AT&T Wi-Fi Service. Access includes AT&T Wi-Fi Basic. A Wi-Fi enabled device required. Other restrictions apply. See www.attwifi.com for details and locations.(4) Shockwave software installs in about 60 seconds on Windows 7 PC under normal circumstances.(5) Prices above for the Shockwave and Adrenaline require a 2-year service agreement and a DataConnect Plan. DataConnect Plan is not unlimited and substantial charges may be incurred if included allowance is exceeded.(6) Mobile Broadband/3G coverage not available in all areas.(7) Limited-time offer. Other conditions & restrictions apply. See contract & rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber must live & have a mailing addr. within AT&T's owned wireless network coverage area. Up to $36 activ. fee applies. Equipment price & avail may vary by mrk & may not be available from independent retailers. Early Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days, but up to $35 restocking fee may apply to equipment returns; thereafter up to $175. Some agents impose add'l fees. Offnet Usage: If your mins of data use on other carrier's networks ("offnet usage") during any month exceeds your offnet usage allowance, AT&T may at its option terminate your svc, deny your contd use of other carriers' coverage, or change your plan to one imposing usage charges for offnet usage. Your data offnet usage allowance is the lesser of 24 MB or 20% of the KB incl'd with your plan). Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment.(8) Price before AT&T Promotion Card & with 2-year contract is $99.99 for Shockwave and $149.99 for Adrenaline. Allow 60 days for fulfillment. Card may be used only in the U.S. is valid for 120 days after issuance date but is not redeemable for cash & cannot be used for cash withdrawal at ATMs or automated gasoline pumps. Card request must be postmarked by Dec. 6 & you must be a customer for 30 consecutive days to receive card. See terms at store or at att.com/wirelessrebate. Offer expires Nov. 6, 2010.Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking StatementsInformation set forth in this news release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T |DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. In 2010, AT&T again ranked among the 50 Most Admired Companies by FORTUNE® magazine.Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATTNews. Find us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ATT to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at www.Facebook.com/ATTSmallBiz to discover more about our small business services.About HuaweiHuawei is a leader in providing next generation telecommunications networks, and now serves over one billion users worldwide. The company is committed to providing innovative and customized products, services and solutions to create long-term value and growth potential for its customers.Huawei Device provides a wide range of products, including mobile broadband devices, handsets, convergence devices, and video solutions. Huawei Device is dedicated to being a trusted partner for operators, helping them meet their subscribers' diversified needs by providing a rich variety of network terminals. Through the end of 2009, Huawei Device products have been chosen by more than 470 operators around the world. Huawei Device is a strategic partner of a number of the world's top operators.About LG Electronics Mobile Communications CompanyLG Electronics Mobile Communications Company is a leading global mobile communication and information company. LG creates handsets that provide an optimized mobile experience to customers around the world with its cutting-edge technology and innovative handset design capabilities. Increasingly, LG is pursuing convergence technology and mobile computing products. LG will continue to take leadership in the mobile communication environment with stylish designs and smart technology. For more information, please visit www.lgmobilephones.com.About LG Electronics, Inc.LG Electronics, Inc. (KSE: 066570.KS) is a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile communications and home appliances, employing more than 80,000 people working in more than 115 operations including 84 subsidiaries around the world. With 2009 global sales of USD43.4 billion, LG is comprised of five business units –- Home Entertainment, Mobile Communications, Home Appliance, Air Conditioning and Business Solutions. LG is the world's leading producer of flat panel TVs, audio and video products, mobile handsets, air conditioners and washing machines. LG has signed a long-term agreement to become both a Global Partner and a Technology Partner of Formula One™. As part of this top-level association, LG acquires exclusive designations and marketing rights as the official consumer electronics, mobile phone and data processor of this global sporting event. For more information, please visit www.lgusa.com.About Sierra WirelessSierra Wireless (Nasdaq: SWIR – TSX: SW) offers industry-leading mobile computing and machine-to-machine (M2M) communications products and solutions that connect people, devices, and applications over cellular networks. Wireless service providers, equipment manufacturers, enterprises and government organizations around the world depend on us for reliable wireless technology. We offer 2G, 3G and 4G wireless modems, routers and gateways as well as a comprehensive suite of software, tools, and services that ensure our customers can successfully bring wireless applications to market. For more information about Sierra Wireless, visit www.sierrawireless.com.© 2010 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. Mobile broadband not available in all areas. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.
 