
 
 If you were waiting for confirmation as to when you might be able to get your hands on the HTC One X in the US, circle May the 6th on your calendar. AT&T has just confirmed that this is when the flagship handset will launch, at a price of $199 (with a two year commitment.) It's the dual-core LTE version, of course, and is also the first phone to launch with Ice Cream Sandwich on the network. If you want a slice, pre-orders will be open from April 22nd, or head on down to the source link for more info.

 Update: Looks like it'll go for just $149.99 if you pre-order from Radio Shack between May 6th and 12th. Proof's in the shot just after the break.

 [Thanks, Marko]





 
  Show full PR text  HTC One X Available Exclusively From AT&T Beginning May 6 For $199.99  4G LTE Entertainment Superphone features Amazing Camera and Beats Audio Experience, Runs on Android 4.0 and HTC Sense 4  DALLAS and BELLEVUE, Wash., April 18, 2012 /PRNewswire/ --  Key Facts  The first smartphone from AT&T* to launch with the latest version of the Android operating system (4.0), the HTC One X, will be available from AT&T beginning May 6 for $199.99. HTC One X is AT&T's first smartphone with Beats by Dr. Dre™ Audio built-in to the hardware and software. HTC One X is the first smartphone from AT&T to offer HTC Sense™4 to deliver an amazing camera with improvements to the lens, sensor and software, an authentic sound experience with Beats by Dr. Dre Audio, and long-lasting battery performance to accommodate heavy mobile use. Pre-orders for HTC One X will begin April 22. Customers can visit any company-owned retail store or http://www.att.com/onex for more information.  An all-around workhorse with unique customer benefits, the HTC One X is the flagship of HTC's One line of smartphones. Combined with the nation's largest 4G network, with 4G LTE backed by AT&T's HSPA+ network, the One X becomes the complete package for Android users.  AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering nearly 250 million people. As 4G LTE expands, AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you're on a much slower 3G network.  Sound at its Finest  HTC One X is the first device from AT&T with HTC's authentic sound experience featuring Beats by Dr. Dre Audio integration, offering rich, full sounds with professional-grade sound engineering to play the music how the artist intended. Beats Audio provides a distortion-free sound at higher volume and rich bass at all levels whether you are watching movies, playing games or streaming music. HTC One X is custom tuned for the best audio performance when used with Beats by Dr. Dre accessories,** including the Beatbox (AT&T exclusive), Wireless HD Stereo Bluetooth Headphones, Beats™ Solo™ HD Headphones, and UR Beats™ In-ear Headphones.  With built-in software on the HTC One X, customers can connect it to a computer and HTC's Sync Manager software automatically installs to your computer and once connected, makes it easy to move music and playlists to your phone from your music library.  Entertainment Everywhere  Consumers' ability to incorporate their smartphones into every aspect of their lives continues with the HTC One X. Watching TV shows or movies will be even more enjoyable on its 4.7-inch 720p HD screen with sharp images that appear detailed and visible from every angle – even angled up to 80 degrees. HTC Watch gives you access to thousands of Hollywood blockbusters and offers companion content to find out more about the film. You can begin watching the movie moments after it starts downloading and wirelessly share the content on any HD TV using HTC's wireless HDMI Media Link HD adapter.**  The laminated cover glass and touch layer significantly reduce light reflection for superior sharpness and clarity, and is protected with Corning® Gorilla® Glass. HTC One X is made with a beautifully crafted polycarbonate unibody design that showcases its clean lines and seamless construction.  Superior Camera  For many consumers, their smartphone doubles as their camera. HTC One X's 8MP HD camera features ImageSense and rivals traditional digital cameras with improvements to every part of the camera including the lens, sensor and software, while integrating HTC's new ImageChip to make quality picture taking a breeze.  Fumbling with the menu and settings on your smartphone is frustrating when the perfect shot is right in front of you. Within seconds, you can launch the camera from the lock screen and the camera quickly autofocuses and zeros in on your subject. Zero shutter lag also lets you take continuous shots simply by holding the shutter button. HTC One X takes beautiful photos under low-light, no-light, and back-light conditions. The Video Pic feature allows the capture of still pictures while recording video in HD as well as the ability to capture a still image from previously recorded video.  The HTC One X's next-generation 1.5 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon™ S4 dual-core processor allows customers to run heavy duty tasks such as creating and editing homemade videos smoothly without any lag, while the 1,800 mAh embedded battery, and software enhancements that improve battery performance by 50-100 percent over previous HTC phones, offers hours of uninterrupted entertainment time.  HTC Sense 4  HTC One X will be one of the first devices in the U.S. with the simple and intuitive HTC Sense 4 user experience. It helps make the Beats Audio experience possible while listening to any audio component and features camera enhancements including a quick launch feature for the camera on the HTC One X – dramatically cutting down the time needed to move from the lock screen to snapping a picture.  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc. **Accessories sold separately.  Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.  Limited-time offer. HTC One X requires a new 2-yr wireless agreement with voice (min $39.99/mo) and min monthly data plan ($20/mo). Subject to Wireless Customer Agrmt. Credit approval req'd. Activ fee $36/line. Geographic, usage and other terms, conditions and restrictions apply, and may result in svc termination. Coverage and svcs not avail everywhere. Taxes and other charges apply. Data (att.com/dataplans): If usage exceeds your monthly data allowance, you will automatically be charged overage for additional data provided. Early Termination Fee (att.com/equipmentETF): After 30 days, ETF up to $325. Restocking fee up to $35. Other Monthly Charges/line may include a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge (up to $1.25), a gross receipts surcharge, federal and state universal svc charges, fees and charges for other gov't assessments. These are not taxes or gov't req'd charges. Visit a store or att.com/wireless to learn m
 