
 
We were pretty sure Acer's Iconia Tab would be riding Big Red -- you know, given the LTE modem and Verizon apps on board -- but it looks like the company will also support America's GSM juggernaut with a "4G" radio of some sort. AT&T just announced that the Acer Iconia Tab A501 will bring the 10.1-inch Honeycomb form factor and dual-core 1GHz Tegra 250 processor to its network sometime in Q2, giving the carrier a Android rival to Sprint's HTC EVO View 4G, T-Mobile's LG G-Slate, and of course Verizon's Motorola Xoom. How many Benjamins will it take to bring one home? Now that, my friends, is the question. You can join us in failing to find the answer in a press release below.
      

 

Show full PR textAT&T Network to Support Acer's High Performance, Android-powered 4G Tablet10.1-inch, HD Ready, Android 3.0 4G Device Launching in Q2 2011DALLAS, March 22, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- AT&T* today announced plans to support Acer's first 4G tablet, the Acer Iconia Tab A501, on the nation's fastest mobile broadband network beginning this summer. The 10 inch Acer Iconia Tab A501 will feature the Android 3.0 operating system with Android Marketplace, and an NVIDIA Tegra 250 1GHz dual core processor with integrated graphics for the fastest HD gaming, web and multimedia experience.Designed for both consumers and small business customers, the tablet will also sport a high-resolution display with a wide viewing angle to view super sharp video and other multimedia content. It will come equipped with a 5 megapixel rear-facing camera, a high definition front-facing camera for video chat, and an HDMI port for playing 1080p video on a high definition big screen TV."Consumers are seeking cutting-edge mobile computing devices and we look forward to giving them another great choice with the Acer Iconia Tab A501," said David Haight, vice president of business development, AT&T Emerging Devices. "This tablet is packed with features that will enable HD gaming and exceptional video playback. It offers a first-class on-the-go entertainment experience.""We are pleased to collaborate with AT&T on mobile solutions that allow consumers to remain connected and entertained in any environment," said Sumit Agnihotry, vice president of product marketing, Acer America. "The Acer Iconia Tab A501 combined with AT&T's wireless service enables consumers to enjoy their favorite movies, games, blogs and social networking sites on the go."Distribution and pricing will be announced at launch, expected in the second quarter.For more information on AT&T, please visit www.att.com.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.Mobile broadband coverage not available in all areas.
 