
 
Well, it looks like AT&T has a few surprises of its own today -- it's just announced that U-verse Mobile will be heading to Windows Phone 7 this fall and -- get this -- you don't even have to be a U-verse customer to use it. Non-customers will have to shell out $9.99 a month to get their mobile TV fix, however, while current U-verse users will be able to take advantage of the service for free -- it's also available nationwide, a first for a U-verse service. In other U-verse news, AT&T has also now confirmed earlier reports that you will be able to use your Xbox 360 as a U-verse receiver, although you'll obviously have to be a U-verse customer for that. New U-verse customers will be able to order a $99 Xbox kit that includes installation (but not the actual Xbox 360) starting October 15th, while existing customers will apparently have to buy the kit and shell out an additional $55 for installation. Head on past the break for the full press release and a quick video of the Windows Phone 7 app.
 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textAT&T Extends TV Watching to More Devices With Launch of U-verse TV on Xbox 360AT&T To Also Make Popular U-verse Mobile App Available Nationwide, Starting with Windows Phone 7 Devices in Time for the HolidaysDALLAS, Oct. 11 /PRNewswire/ -- The country's fastest growing and top-rated TV service is coming to more devices nationwide. Using the power of its AT&T U-verse® IPTV platform, AT&T* is quickly making content and features available across more screens and devices, and today announced two innovative ways to watch hit TV shows.AT&T and Microsoft today announced the Oct. 15 launch of U-verse TV on Xbox 360 for U-verse customers, which lets you enjoy the U-verse TV experience on your existing Xbox 360 device, replacing the need for an extra receiver in your home. AT&T is the first TV provider in the U.S. to offer live TV service through an Xbox 360.AT&T also announced the upcoming launch of U-verse Mobile for Windows Phone 7 devices. Beginning in November, the popular U-verse Mobile app will be preloaded so that any AT&T wireless customer with a Windows Phone 7 device - whether or not they are a U-verse TV customer - can download and watch hit TV shows while they're on the go. This is the first time an AT&T U-verse service will be available nationwide."Now you can get our award-winning U-verse services on your big screen TV, online, on your mobile phone, and integrated with your Xbox 360," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "Our IPTV strategy is putting AT&T at the forefront by delivering U-verse content where you want it. And now we're extending the U-verse experience to more AT&T smartphone customers with the upcoming launch of U-verse Mobile on Windows Phone 7 devices.""AT&T has a legacy of innovation and teamed up with Microsoft to build a differentiated all-IP TV offering to enable the future of TV services for their customers," said Andreas Mueller-Schubert, General Manager of the Media Platforms Business, Microsoft Corp. "We're excited to extend that relationship today through new initiatives that make TV anywhere a possibility, delivering rich entertainment experiences for consumers across multiple screens, inside and outside the home."Using your Xbox 360 as a U-verse receiver, you can receive chat and game invitations from friends through Xbox Live while watching live TV and switch seamlessly from game to TV mode without switching video inputs on your TV screen. You will enjoy virtually the same U-verse TV experience and features available today, including the ability to watch live TV, manage and play back DVR recordings and access interactive apps, your program guide, the On Demand library and more. U-verse TV on Xbox 360 also allows customers to avoid an extra box on their entertainment center and the need to pay a monthly rental fee for an additional receiver.New customers can order the $99 Xbox kit at 1-800-ATT-2020 when they subscribe to U-verse, and a U-verse technician will load U-verse software on their Xbox 360 during their service installation.In November, any AT&T Windows Phone 7 owner will be able to access U-verse Mobile, a popular app that lets you download and watch hit TV shows on your smartphone. You can browse or search a library of downloadable shows, and select which series or specific episode you want to download over Wi-Fi.For all AT&T U-verse TV customers, U-verse Mobile also lets you manage your DVR recordings; customers with qualifying TV plans get the download and watch capability included at no extra charge. AT&T Windows Phone 7 users without a qualifying U-verse TV plan will be able to subscribe to download and watch with U-verse Mobile for $9.99 per month. The ability to download and watch hit TV shows with U-verse Mobile is the first national U-verse offering available for AT&T customers, and is another example of how AT&T is delivering more content to more customers in more places.U-verse TV on Xbox 360 and U-verse Mobile are just a few of the latest ways that AT&T is mobilizing everything that's important to customers - their favorite content, apps, entertainment and social networks. AT&T today delivers the nation's fastest mobile broadband network as well as the nation's largest Wi-Fi network. AT&T U-verse TV, which uses the Microsoft Mediaroom platform, is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider, making AT&T U-verse one of the most dynamic and feature-rich services available today. AT&T U-verse TV ranked "Highest in Customer Satisfaction in the North Central, South and West Regions," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2010 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction Studies(SM). For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit AT&T U-verse.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. In 2010, AT&T again ranked among the 50 Most Admired Companies by FORTUNE® magazine. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at the AT&T Web Site. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at AT&T Newsroom, and as part of an RSS feed at AT&T RSS Feed. Or follow our news on Twitter @ATT. Find us on Facebook at the AT&T Facebook to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at AT&T Small Business Facebook to discover more about our small business services.© 2010 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. Mobile broadband not available in all areas. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.Geographic and service restrictions apply to AT&T U-verse. Call or go to www.att.com/u-verse to see if you qualify. AT&T U-verse services are provided by AT&T local telephone companies. Xbox: Purchase of $99 Xbox kit required. For existing U-verse TV members, additional $55 installation charge will apply. Requires subscription to U-verse TV with at least one standard receiver, U-verse High Speed Internet, and Xbox Live. Xbox 360 must be purchased separately and must have hard drive. U-verse Mobile: Download and watch capability available for select shows and requires select smart phones, Wi-Fi connection, and qualifying U-verse TV plan or, following launch in November, a monthly subscription fee. Downloaded shows are available for viewing for limited time periods. Ability to browse the TV guide and manage DVR available to all U-verse TV customers. Standard data charges may apply. Wi-Fi: Largest based on company branded and operated hotspots. Access includes AT&T Wi-Fi Basic. A Wi-Fi enabled device required. Other restrictions apply. See www.attwifi.com for details and locationsAT&T U-verse received the highest numerical score among television service providers in the North Central, South and West regions in the proprietary J.D. Power and Associates 2010 Residential Television Service Satisfaction Study(SM). Study based on 28,489 total responses from measuring 12 providers in the North Central region (IL, IN, MI, OH, WI), 13 providers in the South (AL, AR, FL, GA, KS, KY, LA, MS, MO, NC, OK, SC, TN, TX), and 10 providers in the West (AZ, CA, CO, ID, IA, MN, MT, NE, NV, NM, ND, OR, SD, UT, WA, WY) and measures consumer satisfaction with television service. Proprietary study results are based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in Nov. 2009 and Jan. 2010, April 2010 and July 2010. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.comSOURCE AT&T Inc.
 