
 

Looks like AT&T is on track to hit that year-end 15 market LTE goal, after all. John Stephens, the operator's CFO / SVP, just went public with plans to officially launch that 700MHz service in New York City sometime this month, according to a statement made at the UBS 39th Annual Global Media and Communications Conference. The network's currently undergoing testing in the Big Apple, as we reported in our Nitro HD hands-on and review, but the time seems nigh for eager subs to partake of the blazing radio waves. There's certainly no lack of handset options either, with the HTC Vivid, Samsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket and the aforementioned LG phone all poised to lead you into "true" 4G territory. Now, if only the carrier would give us a solid date. We'll keep you updated as further details roll in, but in the meantime, check out the official presser after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		December 07, 2011 09:07 AM Eastern Time AT&T Expects Record Smartphone Sales in 4Q		UBS Media & Communications Conference 2011 		DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--John Stephens, AT&T Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, today announced that AT&T* is on track to break its single-quarter record for smartphone sales. 		Speaking at the UBS 39th Annual Global Media and Communications Conference in New York, Stephens said that AT&T sold about 6 million smartphones in the first two months of the fourth quarter. Because December is traditionally one of the strongest sales months, AT&T now expects to break the previous single-quarter smartphone record of 6.1 million. 		AT&T's strong smartphone sales in part reflect a higher number of handset upgrades from customers who were waiting for the launch of a new iPhone. AT&T previously announced that it activated more than 1 million iPhone 4S' in the first five days the device was available. AT&T said iPhone 4S sales remain strong. Only on AT&T's network can iPhone 4S users download three times faster and talk and surf at the same time. 		Stephens also said today that AT&T will turn up additional 4G LTE markets, including New York City, this month, and expects to cover 70 million people with its LTE network by year-end 2011, consistent with its previously announced plans. 		The webcast of Stephens' presentation will be available for replay on the AT&T Investor Relations website until Dec. 30, 2011. 		*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
 