
 

Spring is usually the time we see AT&T refresh the features on its U-Verse Total Home DVR and the latest update gives users the ability to pause and rewind live TV no matter which TV they're watching. Previously, this was only available if you were watching on a TV connected to a DVR, but now users can control playback from any room even if the DVR is somewhere else. According to the press release it's only up and running in a couple of cities (Grand Rapids, MI and Mobile, AL) right now, but should roll out everywhere over the next few months. Check after the break for the press release with more details or on the UverseUsers.com forum thread about the Phase 3 rollout.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AT&T Upgrades U-verse Total Home DVR to Control Live TV on Any TV in the Home 		New DVR Enhancements Rolling Out To U-verse TV Customers in Mobile, Ala., and Grand Rapids, Mich., Following in All Other U-verse Markets Over the Next Few Months 		Dallas, Texas, May 17, 2011 		AT&T* continues to expand the ways U-verse TV customers can control and watch their TV shows. AT&T today announced the launch of new AT&T U-verse® TV Total Home DVR features which give U-verse customers the ability to pause and rewind live TV on any U-verse receiver in the home. 		Most DVRs today control only the TV they're connected to, and other multi-room DVRs only allow you to record and play back shows on other TVs. However, with AT&T U-verse Total Home DVR's latest enhancements, customers can control, record and play back shows on non-DVR TVs and pause or rewind live TV shows from any room in their home, even when the DVR is connected to a different TV. The new features are currently available in Mobile, Ala., and Grand Rapids, Mich., and are rolling out on a market-by-market basis to all U-verse TV customers over the next few months. 		"We're taking our award-winning Total Home DVR service one step further to bring customers an even better DVR experience," said Jeff Weber, vice president of video services, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "Whether it's the number of shows you can record at once, how you program your DVR, or the ability to watch your favorite shows on any TV, online or away from home - we're delivering a better DVR experience, and these new Total Home DVR features are just the latest example." 		AT&T was the first provider to introduce the ability to watch recorded shows from a single DVR on any connected TV in the home when it launched AT&T U-verse Total Home DVR in 2008. U-verse Total Home DVR lets you record up to four shows at once on a single DVR, record and play back your shows in any room, schedule and manage recordings from any room in your home, and more. 		These latest enhancements are examples of how AT&T U-verse is mobilizing the DVR experience. Customers can manage recordings on any connected TV in the home and across devices with U-verse Mobile and U-verse Online. With U-verse Mobile, customers can schedule and manage DVR recordings, browse the U-verse TV program guide, view program descriptions, and, on qualifying smartphones, download and watch many hit TV shows, and even stream some shows. 		U-verse Online is AT&T's entertainment website which lets you watch more than 100,000 titles of TV shows, movies and video clips on your PC, and gives U-verse TV customers the flexibility to schedule and manage DVR recordings. If you're away from home and want to see which of your recordings are also available to watch on U-verse Online, you can select "My U-verse DVR" to see the episodes and movies that are available to watch instantly on the site. 		AT&T U-verse TV is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider, making AT&T U-verse one of the most dynamic and feature-rich services available today. Now AT&T U-verse TV ranks "Highest in Customer Satisfaction in the North Central, South and West Regions," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2010 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction StudiesSM. For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit www.att.com/u-verse. 		*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
 