
 

Well hello gorgeous -- both of you! AT&T's starting to catch the LTE fever, as the carrier's announced that its first two devices with the true 4G will be ready to grab as of this upcoming Sunday. First we have the Samsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket: the long-rumored device can be yours for $250 with a two-year commitment and will offer a 4.5-inch Super AMOLED Plus display, Android 2.3.5, 1.5GHz dual-core CPU, 8MP rear camera with a 2MP front-facing cam and 16GB of internal storage space. Next up is the HTC Vivid (Holiday), which will be offered in both black and white for $200 and appears to match the specs leaked to us a couple months ago: it uses a 4.5-inch qHD (960 x 540) display, 1.2GHz CPU, 8MP rear camera with f/2.2 28mm wide angle lens and 1080p HD video recording. What about the "4G" branding? Contrary to the carrier's HSPA+ devices, neither device will have LTE or 4G as part of their official name. Both phones will be reverse compatible with AT&T's HSPA+ network, in case you're not using the phone in an LTE-capable area; speaking of which, AT&T also announced that the November 6th launch will also bring four additional markets live, including Boston, Washington DC, Baltimore and Athens GA. Data plans for AT&T's LTE smartphones will remain the same, with $15 getting you 200MB per month, 2GB going for $25 and 4GB with mobile hotspot connectivity for $45. Check below for a press gallery and the full press release.





   		Show full PR text  First LTE Smartphones for AT&T Customers Available Nationwide Nov. 6 		HTC Vivid and Samsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket, Both Android Smartphones, Will Run on AT&T's 4G LTE Network		Dallas, Texas, October 31, 2011 		Starting next week, more AT&T customers will be able to enjoy fast 4G LTE (Long Term Evolution) speeds on new devices – including the first AT&T 4G LTE smartphones – in even more markets. 		Key Facts 		AT&T* introduced two new Android™ smartphones, the first to be AT&T 4G LTE-capable.		HTC Vivid™ and Samsung Galaxy S™ II Skyrocket™ will arrive in AT&T company-owned stores and online Nov. 6.		AT&T 4G LTE service will launch Nov. 6 in Boston, Washington, D.C., Baltimore, and Athens, Ga.		AT&T offers the only smartphones able to utilize both LTE and HSPA+ 4G speeds, for a consistently fast connection in and out of LTE areas.		The Nov. 6 launches expand AT&T's 4G LTE network to 9 markets, including Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston and San Antonio, and it plans to reach 15 markets and 70 million Americans by year-end 2011.		AT&T exceeds commitment to offer 20 4G devices in 2011, addition of LTE smartphones on Nov. 6 brings 4G total to 22.		AT&T far exceeds commitment to deliver 12 Android devices in 2011; new LTE smartphones bring total to 21.		HTC Vivid 		Realize the full power of LTE on the HTC Vivid with fast web browsing, powered by a dual core 1.2 GHz processor and a brilliant 4.5-inch qHD display. Music and Android Market apps download and are ready in a snap, or photos and video are a breeze to upload after using the exceptional camera for low-light photos and full widescreen HD video. 		HTC Vivid features the acclaimed HTC Sense user experience, which includes a customizable active lockscreen that transforms the display into a real-time window to your most important information and content, such as social updates, photos, weather or stock updates that are viewed by simply waking up the display. Sharper graphics, vibrant animations and new widgets make HTC Sense better than ever and, by continuing to focus on the details, HTC provides a more cinematic and immersive multimedia experience with stunning imagery and audible weather effects. 		4.5-inch qHD display (540x960 pixels)		1.2 GHz dual-core processor		Enhanced 8-megapixel camera with f2.2 28mm wide angle lens for low light photos		1080p HD video recording at 60 frames per second, slow motion playback and on-device trimmer to optimize social media uploads and memory space		16 GB of on-board memory, microSD expandable to an additional 32 GB		The HTC Vivid will arrive in AT&T company-owned retail stores and online Nov. 6 for $199.99 with a two-year commitment. Customers can learn more at www.att.com/speed. 		Samsung Galaxy S™ II Skyrocket™ 		Lightning fast reflexes powered by a 1.5 GHz dual core processor and AT&T 4G LTE speeds make the Galaxy S II Skyrocket faster for Web browsing and all your favorite apps. A SuperAMOLED Plus display spanning 4.5-inches is the brightest, most colorful screen on the market. 		4.5-inch SuperAMOLED Plus display(800x480 pixels)		Android Gingerbread (2.3.5)		1.5 GHz dual-core processor		8-megapixel rear-facing camera with LED flash, with 2-megapixel front-facing camera		1080p HD video recording		16 GB of on-board memory, microSD expandable to an additional 32 GB		The Samsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket will arrive in AT&T company-owned retail stores and online Nov. 6 for $249.99 with a two-year commitment. Customers can learn more at www.att.com/speed. 		LTE Data Plans 		Customers can choose from tiered data plans starting as low as $15 per month. Existing smartphone customers do not have to make changes to their data plan. All plans include access to AT&T's national Wi-Fi network of more than 29,000 hotspots. 		DataPlus provides 200 megabytes (MB) of data for just $15 per month. An additional 200 MB of data usage is $15.		DataPro provides 2 gigabytes (GB) of data for $25 per month. An additional 1 GB of data is $10. Customers who want to use their device as a mobile hotspot can sign up for DataPro 4GB for $45 a month, which lets you tether or share your data connection across multiple devices.		Customers can view all smartphone data plans at www.att.com/dataplans. 		LTE Deployments 		AT&T continues to expand its 4G LTE footprint. The four markets launching Nov. 6 join Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, and San Antonio, which were launched in September. AT&T is the only U.S. carrier providing 4G service using both HSPA+ and LTE. HSPA+, when combined with enhanced backhaul, provides customers with 4G speeds, meaning customers get a faster and more consistent 4G experience, even when outside of an AT&T LTE area. Customers of other carriers that have transitioned to 4G LTE without further speed upgrades to their existing networks are likely to see a jarring drop-off in speeds when they move out of LTE coverage. 		Quotes 		"The two LTE-powered superphones will be our 20th and 21st Android devices in 2011, adding to an outstanding year of Android success," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "We've far exceeded our commitment to offer 12 new Android devices this year –now including our first 4G LTE smartphones. We're delivering an incredible amount of innovation to our customers, which is a huge reason why more than half our post-paid subscribers are using a smartphone." 		"We are thrilled to continue growing our relationship with AT&T and excited for the HTC Vivid to be one of the first LTE devices on AT&T for the holiday season," said Jason Mackenzie, president of global sales and marketing, HTC. "The HTC Vivid combines an exceptional display in a premium device that delivers a powerful smartphone to our customers through AT&T's fast LTE and HSPA+ 4G networks." 		"AT&T's LTE network allows for quicker access, smoother streaming and faster web experiences, especially when using the powerful Samsung Galaxy S II Skyrocket," said Todd Pendleton, chief marketing officer, Samsung Telecommunications America. "Pairing the Galaxy S II Skyrocket with AT&T's LTE speeds, creates the ultimate smartphone experience." 		1 Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.
 