
  AT&T's 4G LTE isn't the new kid on the wireless block anymore, but that's not to say the network's leapfrogged its growing pains. With almost two years to go before it reaches that end-of-year 2013 expansion target, the carrier's flipping the switch on an additional eleven markets across the US, as well as completing coverage in New York City. With a phased rollout in place that's set to begin next month and terminate at some undisclosed point in early summer, subscribers in Cleveland, Akron and Canton, Ohio; Naples, Florida; Bloomington, Lafayette and Muncie, Indiana; Baton Rouge and New Orleans, Louisiana; St. Louis, Missouri; Bryan-College Station, Texas and Staten Island will get to benefit from those 700MHz waves. Check out the official presser below for the finer details.
      

 

  Show full PR text  AT&T 4G LTE Coming Soon to Cleveland  More customers can look forward to ultra-fast mobile Internet on the latest LTE devices  CLEVELAND, March 12, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- AT&T* plans to roll out 4G LTE in Cleveland soon, bringing customers the latest generation of wireless network technology and faster mobile Internet speeds.  Cleveland customers will see several benefits from AT&T 4G LTE, including:  Faster speeds. LTE technology is capable of delivering mobile Internet speeds up to 10 times faster than 3G. Customers will be able to stream, download, upload and game faster than ever before. Cool new devices. AT&T offers several LTE-compatible devices, including new AT&T 4G LTE smartphones and tablets, such as the Samsung Galaxy Note™, HTC One X, and Pantech Element™ tablet. Faster response time. LTE technology offers lower latency, or the processing time it takes to move data through a network, such as how long it takes to start downloading a webpage or file once you've sent the request. Lower latency helps to improve services like mobile gaming, two-way video calling and telemedicine. More efficient use of spectrum. Wireless spectrum is a finite resource, and LTE uses spectrum more efficiently than other technologies, creating more space to carry data traffic and services and to deliver a better network experience.  "AT&T customers in Cleveland can look forward to even faster mobile Internet speeds very soon, on our leading lineup of smartphones and devices," said Larry Evans, vice president and general manager, AT&T Ohio and western Pennsylvania. "We're excited to bring Cleveland all that 4G LTE has to offer. Our teams will be working hard across the city toward our upcoming launch."  AT&T's 4G Network  In addition to Cleveland, AT&T 4G LTE is also coming to Akron and Canton, Ohio; Naples, Fla.; Bloomington, Lafayette and Muncie, Ind.; Baton Rouge and New Orleans, La.; St. Louis, Mo; Bryan-College Station, Texas; and Staten Island in New York City. These launches are scheduled for April, May and into the early summer.  AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering nearly 250 million people. Even as 4G LTE expands, AT&T customers are able to enjoy widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G speeds on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you're on a much slower 3G network.  Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. Deployment ongoing. 4G LTE device and data plan required. Up to 10x claim compares 4G LTE download speeds to industry average 3G download speeds. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. 4G speeds not available everywhere. Learn more at att.com/network.  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
 