
 

In the first of what we expect to be many announcements related to Windows Phone Mango devices, AT&T stepped up to the plate this morning by unveiling three new "4G" handsets that use the latest version of Microsoft's OS: the HTC Titan, Samsung Focus S and Focus Flash. We already know quite a bit about the Titan, but details on Sammy's selections are slim for now -- images aren't even available for either phone, though it's likely we've seen at least one of them before. In addition, the carrier's also planning to update its entire existing lineup with Windows Phone 7.5.

As for the fall lineup, there doesn't seem to be a slacker in the bunch. The Focus S will have a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED Plus display, 1.4GHz CPU and an 8 megapixel rear camera that accompanies a 1.3 megapixel front-facing cam for video chat. Also bearing Mango is the Samsung Focus Flash, considered the lower-end offering by Sammy, which still brandishes a 3.7-inch Super AMOLED screen -- no Plus involved on this one -- as well as a 1.4GHz CPU and 5 megapixel rear shooter and front-facing camera that for now has no specified resolution. Each of the phones are expected to arrive in the fourth quarter, and the existing lineup should be on the receiving end of the update sometime "this fall." This is just the beginning of the impending flood, so we can't wait to see what else is around the corner.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   AT&T Expands Windows Phone Leadership Plans to Introduce Three New 4G Windows Phones in Fourth Quarter and Update all Existing Windows Phones 		Dallas, Texas, September 12, 2011		ShareThis  		Key Facts 		AT&T*, the U.S. leader in Windows® Phones, announced plans to add new Windows Phones running Windows Phone 7.5, code-named "Mango", and update its current portfolio.		New 4G Windows Phones in the fourth quarter include products from HTC and Samsung.		AT&T sells more Windows Phones than any other carrier.		AT&T will be among the first carriers to start updating existing phones and all Windows Phones already sold by AT&T will receive the Windows Phone 7.5 update this fall.		The Leader in Windows Phones 		Outselling all other carriers, AT&T is the clear leader in Windows Phones. Offering the broadest portfolio of Windows Phones today, AT&T will build upon that success with three new 4G devices, two from Samsung and one from HTC. In addition AT&T will be among the first carriers to deliver the Mango update to existing Windows Phone 7 customers this fall. 		Samsung Focus S 		The Samsung Focus™ S builds on the success of the award-winning and highest selling Windows Phone in the U.S., the Samsung Focus™. Featuring a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED Plus display, 1.4GHz processor, 4G-capable speeds and a thin profile at 8.55 millimeters. It includes front facing 1.3-megapixel and a rear facing 8-megapixel cameras. The Samsung Focus S will find its way into a lot of pockets this fall. 		HTC TITAN 		Debuting as the largest screen in AT&T's smartphone portfolio at 4.7 inches, HTC TITAN™ fits comfortably in the palm of your hand. Watch video from AT&T U-Verse Mobile or play Xbox LIVE® games on the largest screen yet for a Windows Phone. Running a 1.5 GHz processor and an 8-megapixel camera with dual LED flash, HTC TITAN will feed the senses. 		Samsung Focus Flash 		Designed to hit the market packed with value, Samsung Focus™ Flash's 3.7-inch Super AMOLED screen will both fit in pockets and be light on pocketbooks with the full power of Windows Phone 7.5 inside. As fast and lightweight as it is compact, it runs a 1.4 GHz processor and a 5-megapixel camera plus front facing camera. 		Mango Update 		AT&T will be among the first to offer the Windows Phone Mango update to its leading portfolio of Windows Phones this fall. Current Windows Phones from AT&T include: 		HTC HD7S™		HTC Surround™		LG Quantum™		Samsung Focus™		With its unique user interface complete with colorful Live Tiles, the next version of Windows Phone, code-named Mango, puts people front and center making it easier to connect and share with friends, family and colleagues so important moments are never missed. 		Windows Phone has modern communication built in. Only Windows Phone has a People Hub with one touch access to Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter, all built right in. You can group your friends, pin them to your Start screen to get live updates and easily text, email and IM them all at once. Windows Phone even has Facebook Chat, Messenger, check-ins and photo tagging all built-in so you can stay connected without missing a moment. 		Windows Phone has the apps you need but takes them a step further. Pin your apps to your Start screen for live updates at a glance. And only Windows Phone connects apps to your searches making them easier to discover and use. 		Windows Phone brings you the Internet beyond the browser. It delivers a fast, beautiful web experience with Internet Explorer 9 and hardware acceleration – but it doesn't stop there. Local Scout provides suggestions and prioritized local search results on restaurants, shopping and things to do so you can live like a local no matter where you are.
 