
 
Who says CTIA is going to be overshadowed by news that actually broke prior to the event starting? Okay, so it's entirely possible that the AT&T / T-Mobile buzz will be impossible to ignore here in Orlando, but that's not stopping Ma Bell from rolling out two new (er, rebadged) handsets for those looking for iPhone alternatives. First up is the LG Thrill 4G (available in the "coming months"), an unpriced 4.3-inch superphone that features a glasses-free 3D display, dual 5-megapixel stereoscopic camera, 16GB of preloaded memory (8GB onboard, 8GB microSD card), access to Google's Android Market and a special 3D marketplace coined LG 3D Space. The camera's capable to snagging video clips at 1080p when shooting 2D, or 720p when opting for 3D. You'll also get a dual-core 1GHz processor, HDMI output, DLNA streaming support and pretty much anything else you'd expect to find in a run-of-the-mill Optimus 3D -- you know, considering this is that very phone, albeit with an AT&T logo on it. 

Moving on, there's the HTC HD7S, which is essentially an AT&Tified version of the HD7 that has been on T-Mobile USA for quite some time now. In other words, you'll get a 4.3-inch WVGA Super LCD, 1GHz CPU, 5-megapixel camera, Windows Phone 7 (with copy and paste functionality baked right in) and a preloaded U-Verse Mobile application that enables "qualifying AT&T U-verse customers to download and watch TV shows" so long as they pony up an extra $9.99 per month. AT&T claims that its version of the HD7 will be the first in the US with an "improved Super LCD display," but as with the Thrill 4G above, no specific pricing is mentioned. That said, it should be popping up online and in retail locations "within the coming weeks," so you shouldn't have to wait too terribly long for those details to emerge.
      

 

Show full PR textAT&T Takes Smartphone Customers Into a New DimensionPair of 4.3-inch Smartphones For Best-in-Class Portfolio Include the LG Thrill 4G With Glasses-free 3D Experience, in Addition to the HTC HD7S, an Exciting Addition to the Windows Phone PortfolioDALLAS, March 21, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --Key Facts* AT&T* announced two new leading-edge smartphones, the LG Thrill 4G and the HTC HD7S, will be added to the industry's best portfolio of mobile phones.* The LG Thrill 4G is the first U.S. smartphone that will feature a "glasses-free" 4.3-inch stereoscopic 3D display plus 4G speed capability on the nation's fastest mobile broadband network.* Beyond its 3D screen, the LG Thrill 4G features a dual-core, 1 GHz processor, and a 5-megapixel dual-camera that allows you to shoot and share high definition videos and images in 3D.* The HTC HD7S adds to the best portfolio of Windows Phones with its 4.3-inch, WVGA, super LCD display, 1 GHz processor and 5-megapixel camera with dual-LED flash.LG Thrill 4GThe LG Thrill 4G will be exclusive to AT&T customers and reach AT&T stores in the coming months. Running the first dual-core, dual-channel 1 GHz processor in the U.S. and based on the Android 2.2 platform, LG Thrill 4G will be among the first to deliver a glasses-free 3D experience to U.S. customers and will allow users to shoot 3D video and 3D stills with the dual 5-megapixel stereoscopic camera. In addition to apps and games from Android Market, LG Thrill 4G will offer 3D content via the "LG 3D Space," which houses 3D games, video clips and images for quick, convenient access.Preloaded with 16 GB of memory (8 GB onboard plus an 8 GB MicroSD card), the LG Thrill 4G will record 3D video at 720p resolution and 2D at 1080p quality. The smartphone will be able to play video back in high definition through the HDMI-out port on the device or stream content wirelessly through DLNA technology.HTC HD7SThe HTC HD7S will be the largest screen on a Windows Phone from AT&T and will include the latest version of Windows Phone software that offers many new benefits including the ability to copy and paste text. A powerful 1 GHz processor will power the unique Windows Phone experience and any of the more than 10,000 applications available for download or purchase from Windows Marketplace. In addition, with the preloaded U-verse® Mobile application, qualifying AT&T U-verse customers can download and watch hit TV shows on their Windows Phone. Non-U-verse customers can subscribe to U-verse Mobile for $9.99 a month and choose from a broad selection of programming to watch on their Windows Phone. This new AT&T smartphone will be the first HD7 model from HTC in the U.S. with an improved super LCD high resolution display. The HTC HD7S will be available in company-owned AT&T retail locations and online at www.wireless.att.com in the coming weeks.
 