
 
 While we've already stared down the specifications, AT&T's announced that it will bring Motorola's big and skinny slab to the US later this month, while Bell will do the honors in Canada "this summer." Priced at $99, the Atrix HD will tie together LTE connectivity with a 4.5-inch 720p display, available in both Modern White and Titanium colors. Better still, it's all arriving later this week, on July 15. If you're thinking about becoming an early adopter then you'll want to move quickly, as a free Vehicle Dock will ship with each one for a "limited time", designed to work perfectly with the included Smart Actions. Finally, this is the first phone to feature Motorola's "circle widget" on the home screen, designed to take owners directly to their AT&T account info, displaying data usage, battery status and more. Check after the break for a quick video walkthrough from AT&T plus a press release with all of the specs and details. 




 
  Show full PR text    Jul 10, 2012 09:56 ET Motorola ATRIX HD For AT&T Is Slimmer, Stronger And Smarter Than Ever Before
  Runs Android 4.0, Created by Motorola and Available Exclusively from AT&T for $99.99 Beginning July 15 in Modern White and Titanium
   DALLAS, July 10, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Beginning July 15, the Motorola ATRIX™ HD arrives in all AT&T* channels for $99.99** with a two-year agreement.

   The newest addition to the popular Motorola ATRIX family, this smartphone is remarkably thin at 8.4 millimeters but doesn't compromise strength since it is made KEVLAR® strong for incredible stability in any situation. The Motorola ATRIX HD also has a high-tech, invisible nano-coating that acts as a splash guard – not only on the outer shell, but on the electrical circuit boards inside, too. To see more of the ATRIX HD's features in action, check out this video.

   Motorola ATRIX HD comes pre-loaded with SMARTACTIONS™, a free app from Motorola that suggests ways to automatically change your phone's settings throughout the day to make your life easier. For instance, when you place the Motorola ATRIX HD in the Vehicle Navigation Dock accessory and enable Drive Smart, it will set your phone to vehicle mode, read your text messages aloud, auto-reply to incoming calls and texts as well as provide turn-by-turn navigation. You can also set rules for when your battery gets low by enacting the Battery Extender, which can help your battery last longer by turning off GPS, disabling background sync or other features you select.

   To raise awareness of responsible driving, for a limited time, customers who purchase a Motorola ATRIX HD at participating locations will receive a Vehicle Dock at no additional charge.

   The vibrant 4.5-inch HD ColorBoost™ display is the highest resolution smartphone display on the market supporting a wide range of more vibrant colors for greater detail and sharper, clearer images. The ATRIX HD also features an 8-megapixel rear-facing camera with 1080p HD video recording capabilities at 30 frames per second and zero shutter lag. It also has a front-facing 720p HD camera.

   "Our customers look to their smartphones to provide new, compelling experiences and the Motorola ATRIX HD does just that," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president – Devices, AT&T Mobility. "With features that automatically customize over time to be contextually aware of the user's daily routine and preferences, ATRIX HD is a great example of smartphones getting smarter."

   "Motorola ATRIX HD was designed for people who get excited about new technology, but want it to make their life easier, feed their need for entertainment and make a statement," said Mark Shockley, senior vice president, Go-to-Market, Motorola Mobility. "This next evolution of the ATRIX family delivers a slimmer, stronger, smarter, Android-powered device at a great price."

   Running on Android™ 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich, the ATRIX HD is the first phone equipped with Motorola's Circle Widget on the home screen, which connects directly with your AT&T account and displays data usage since your last bill***. Plus, it gives you "at-a-glance" access to the time, notifications, weather and battery meter. You can also access more than 600,000 apps and games on Google Play™, as well as millions of books and songs and thousands of movies and TV shows.

   And to help in your work life, the Motorola ATRIX HD is ideal for business use and comes with advanced security features including password protection and inactivity timeouts, VPN, government-grade data encryption on both the device and SD card, and the ability to wipe the phone and SD card in the event your phone is lost or stolen. With apps like Quickoffice, customers are able to create and edit documents and stay connected to their work on-the-go.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering more than 260 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you're on a much slower 3G network.

   For more information, customers can visit http://www.att.com/motorolaatrixhd.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.  **Requires eligible voice and data plans.  ***Data usage is approximated. Actual billed data usage may vary due to network delays or other technical limitations.

   Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.

   Limited-time offer. Motorola ATRIX HD requires a new 2-yr wireless agreement with voice (min $39.99/mo) and min monthly data plan ($20/mo). Subject to Wireless Customer Agrmt. Credit approval req'd. Activ fee $36/line. Geographic, usage and other terms, conditions and restrictions apply, and may result in svc termination. Coverage and svcs not avail everywhere. Taxes and other charges apply. Data (att.com/dataplans): If usage exceeds your monthly data allowance, you will automatically be charged overage for additional data provided. Early Termination Fee (att.com/equipmentETF): After 30 days, ETF up to $325. Restocking fee up to $35. Other Monthly Charges/line may include a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge (up to $1.25), a gross receipts surcharge, federal and state universal svc charges, fees and charges for other gov't assessments. These are not taxes or gov't req'd charges. Visit a store or att.com/wireless to learn more about wireless devices and services from AT&T. Downloadable content may be subject to additional charges.

   About AT&T  AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile broadband and emerging 4G capabilities, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T |DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world.

   Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT.

   © 2012 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. Mobile broadband not available in all areas. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.

   About Motorola Mobility  Motorola Mobility, owned by Google, fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility

   Certain features, services and applications are network dependent and may not be available in all areas; additional terms, conditions and/or charges may apply. Contact your service provider for details. All features, functionality and other product specifications are subject to change without notice or obligation. AT&T Mobile Hotspot requires qualified rate plan.

   MOTOROLA and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC. Android and Google Play are trademarks of Google Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2012 Motorola Mobility, Inc. All rights reserved.

   SOURCE AT&T Inc.

   Show full PR text   Slimmer. Stronger. Smarter: Motorola Mobility Canada and Bell announce MOTOROLA ATRIX™ HD LTE
  The Ultimate Fusion of Beauty and Brains, in HD
   July 10, 2012

   TORONTO - July 10, 2012 – You've got style and smarts, and expect nothing less from your smartphone. Motorola Mobility Canada Ltd. and Bell today announce the MOTOROLA ATRIX™ HD LTE superphone. Available exclusively to Bell Mobility customers this summer, the exciting Motorola ATRIX HD LTE has head-turning looks and the brains to get you through your busy day.

   You expect brilliance and ATRIX HD LTE brings it. The 4.5-inch ColourBoost™ display is the highest resolution smartphone display on the market supporting a wide range of more vibrant colours. More pixels mean greater detail and crisper, clearer images that look true to life – whether you're viewing exclusive Bell Mobile TV content or movies downloaded from Google Play™. And because you need enough power to fuel everything you demand of your smartphone, ATRIX HD LTE is powered by a 1.5 GHz dual-core processor compatible with Bell's world-leading 4G LTE network.

   Remarkably thin while not sacrificing strength, ATRIX HD LTE takes innovation one step further. Its svelte 8.4mm frame is made strong with DuPont™ Kevlar® fiber, a scratch-resistant Corning® Gorilla® Glass display and a high-tech, invisible nano-coating that acts as a splash guard and shields against the unexpected splash.

   Strong and smart, ATRIX HD LTE has SMARTACTIONSTM, a fully integrated, free application that intelligently automates everyday tasks and suggests ways to personalize your smartphone. Based on selections you make, SMARTACTIONS optimizes your phone's performance by silencing the device during meetings (but lets VIP calls through), extending battery life when it is low, announcing incoming texts and calls as well as auto-replying when you are driving so you can focus on the road. That's smart. Very smart.

   "Motorola ATRIX HD LTE offers a smarter smartphone experience," says David Petrou, sales director, Motorola Mobility Canada. "It delivers shortcuts and convenience with SMARTACTIONS – even extending your battery life so you're never out of power when it matters most."

   If that isn't enough to convince you, Motorola ATRIX HD LTE has more than a few other features to boast about:

   Latest version of Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich  A front-facing camera for Google+ Hangouts video chats  A rear-facing 8 megapixel camera to capture every single moment. Plus, those photos can automatically be uploaded to a private album on Google+TM so you don't have to worry about accidentally deleting images  Captures video in 1080p HD at 30 frames per second, which means you get super smooth playback  Features Mirror Mode when connected with an HDMI cable (sold separately) to view images, files and movies on a larger screen  WiFi Direct for easy transfer of files directly between two devices (without needing a wireless access point)  Access to over 600,000 apps and games on Google Play, as well as millions of books and thousands of movies and TV shows  Availability

   Motorola ATRIX HD LTE will be available exclusively to Bell Mobility customers this summer. For more information, please visit motorola.ca/ATRIXHD or Bell.ca/MotoATRIXHDLTE.

   About Motorola Mobility  Motorola Mobility, owned by Google, fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility.

 
