
 Just last week, the US Department of Justice indicated its desire to dismiss the lawsuit it filed to stop the union of AT&T and T-Mobile because of Ma Bell's withdrawal of the merger's FCC application. It looks like that's given the telco plenty more issues to ponder, so now it's asking Judge Huvelle to postpone further antitrust court proceedings until January 18. The folks at AT&T need the extra time to "evaluate all options" and "revise our current transaction to achieve the necessary regulatory approvals" for the merger. Because the DoJ has signed off on AT&T's petition, it seems likely the court will go along with the plan -- as opposed to killing the deal via a case dismissal at the hearing currently scheduled later this week. We'll have to wait and see if the Judge Huvelle grants the request, but if she does, this much is certain: Ma Bell's lawyers will be doing more work than merrymaking over the holidays.

Update: It looks like Christmas came early for AT&T&T, as the New York Times reports that Judge Huvelle has granted the stay.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AT&T UPDATES STATUS OF T-MOBILE USA MERGER 		DALLAS, December, 12, 2011 – AT&T today issued the following statement regarding the status of its merger with T-Mobile USA: 		"AT&T and Deutsche Telekom advised Judge Huvelle this morning that they wish to stay any further Court proceedings until January 18, 2012, to allow the two companies time to evaluate all options. The U.S. Department of Justice joined in the filing. 		"AT&T is committed to working with Deutsche Telekom to find a solution that is in the best interests of our respective customers, shareholders and employees. We are actively considering whether and how to revise our current transaction to achieve the necessary regulatory approvals so that we can deliver the capacity enhancements and improved customer service that can only be derived from combining our two companies' wireless assets." 		About AT&T 		AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile broadband and emerging 4G capabilities, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse^® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising.   		Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT.
 