
 
 AT&T launched an iPad app earlier this year and it's recently been updated with a few new features for subscribers to the service bringing it closer to the vision of the ComplenTV app we saw demonstrated at CES. Now, it can link directly to your U-Verse TV box to pull in up to the minute companion content for any sports events might be watching like scores, reviews of previous games and schedules, or share what you're watching to Twitter and Facebook. Also available for all iOS devices is an expanded lineup of video on-demand content including HBO®, Cinemax®, Starz, Encore, Movieplex and Music Choice videos. Also recently added for the iPhone and iPod touch is a full remote control with DVR and guide controls, just like the iPad app already had. There's more details on the free apps in the press release after the break, or in their descriptions on iTunes.



  Show full PR text    AT&T Brings More Second-Screen Features, Content to U-verse Customers on iPhone, iPad & iPod Touch, and Online
   Dallas, Texas, July 09, 2012

   The remote control is no longer the main device sitting next to you on the couch. Your iPhone or iPad is quickly becoming an integral part of TV watching, and AT&T* U-verse® TV customers now have access to several new features and content that bring their TV and wireless experiences together, including:

   An expanded lineup of on demand premium and TV content available through the U-verse App for iPhone and iPod touch and AT&T U-verse App for iPad at no extra charge, including HBO®, Cinemax®, HBO, STARZ, ENCORE, MOVIEPLEX and Music Choice videos.

   The ability to now link your iPad to your U-verse TV receiver with the AT&T U-verse App to access up to the minute sports companion content and scores from various leagues for today's games, a review of yesterday's games, and to see who is playing tomorrow.

   The ability to now share information about what you are watching with friends on Facebook, and now, on Twitter through the AT&T U-verse App for iPad.

   The ability to use your iPhone or iPod touch to control your U-verse TV with a full-featured, intuitive U-verse remote control with channel, guide, DVR, interactive app and on-demand controls, now available on the U-verse App for iPhone and iPod touch. The capability is already available today with the AT&T U-verse App for iPad.

   AT&T also continues to add more content on U-verse.com, with live feeds from FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network. The networks are now available for U-verse TV customers, who already receive the service at home, when they log-in to the site.

   "The second-screen complements and enhances TV by letting viewers explore and have a deeper experience with the content they care about, on the device they use most." said Jeff Weber, President of Content and Advertising Sales, AT&T Home Solutions. "With our U-verse apps, you can pull up more info about shows, share about what you're watching, and whether you're in or outside the home, you can access compelling content. And it's included as part of your U-verse TV packages."

   The U-verse App is available for free from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore. The AT&T U-verse App is available for free from the App Store on iPad or at www.itunes.com/appstore.

   AT&T U-verse TV was the fastest growing TV service in the country in 2011** and is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider. And AT&T U-verse TV ranked "Highest in Residential Television Service Satisfaction in the North Central, South and West Regions," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2011 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction StudiesSM.

   For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit www.att.com/u-verse.

 
