
 Of the four big US carriers, AT&T's always been a solid go-to for variety across its wireless product portfolio. And today, the operator's welcoming a gaggle of Android devices from Samsung to bolster its 4G LTE offerings. Headlining this galactic quartet is the Galaxy Note II, the company's 5.5-inch phablet sequel which, though previously announced, has yet to receive a solid ship date. Also sharing that spotlight is an actual tablet, the Galaxy Tab 2 10.1, and two new smartphones: the Galaxy Express and Galaxy Rugby Pro. While that latter handset is a mere update to the rugged, water-, shock- and dust-proof OG Rugby Smart, the Express is a fresh 4.5-inch ICS device that reps a dual-core 1.5GHz CPU and considerable 2,000mAh battery. All are said to be arriving within the "coming months" which, in non-PR garble, should translate to a pre-holiday release. Check out the official presser after the break.



  Show full PR text   AT&T Continues To Build 4G LTE Android Portfolio With The Addition Of Three Smartphones And One Tablet From Samsung
   DALLAS, Sept. 28, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- AT&T* and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (Samsung Mobile)1 announced three new 4G LTE Android™ smartphones– Galaxy Express™, Galaxy Rugby Pro™ and the Galaxy Note® II – and one new 4G LTE Android tablet, Galaxy Tab® 2 (10.1), available in the coming months.

   Samsung Galaxy Express  First-time smartphone users will find their perfect match with the Samsung Galaxy Express, a 4G LTE smartphone that combines high performance features at a great price. Galaxy Express runs Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) and sports a clear and bright 4.5-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus screen. The 1.5 GHz dual-core processor and 2000 mAh battery helps users stay productive throughout the day; while the 5-megapixel rear facing camera lets you capture and share images easily through text messages, email and social networks.

   Samsung Galaxy Rugby Pro  An ideal mix of brains and brawn, the Samsung Galaxy Rugby Pro gives customers with active lifestyles access to a 4G LTE smartphone that can handle whatever life throws at it. The Rugby Pro is built to military specifications (810g specifications) and is waterproof**, shock resistant and dust proof. It features a 4-inch WVGA Super AMOLED display and a 5-megapixel rear facing camera that lets you record HD video in 720p. Business customers can rest assured that in addition to being protected from every day wear and tear, Rugby Pro also comes with full device encryption and EAS corporate email support. The device will have access to Enhanced Push-to-Talk functionality upon launch of the service.

   Samsung Galaxy Note II  Announced earlier this month, Samsung Galaxy Note II continues to expand the popular category created by the Galaxy Note with improved battery life, a thinner and narrower design and enhancements to the S Pen™. Arriving later this year running Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean), Galaxy Note II with 4G LTE combines the productivity of a tablet with the convenience of a smartphone and the S Pen features you need to unleash your creativity in a single device. With a 5.5-inch HD Super AMOLED™ display and 1.6 GHz quad-core Exynos™ processor with integrated graphics processing unit (GPU), the Galaxy Note II provides PC-like processing power and advanced features like Popup Video, new Gallery views and great gaming performance in a truly pocketable device.

   Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1"  This 4G LTE Android 4.0 tablet delivers entertainment and productivity to fit your whole life. Galaxy Tab 2 10.1" offers a 10.1-inch display and premium entertainment options including Media Hub, Smart Remote and AllShare® Play. Features like on-device encryption and VPN access ensure your tablet is secure for business use. The 7000 mAh battery allows you to stay connected throughout the day.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network***, covering 275 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.

   All of these devices will be available from AT&T in the coming months.

   Samsung, Express, Note, Rugby Pro, Super AMOLED, Exynos, S Pen, and AllShare are trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.

   1 Samsung Mobile is the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States, based upon reported shipments, according to Strategy Analytics, North America Handset Vendor Marketshare, Q2 2012. Samsung Electronics Company is the No. 1 smartphone provider worldwide, based upon reported shipments, according to Strategy Analytics Global Smartphone Vendor Market Share by Region: Q2 2012.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   **Waterproof against incidental exposure to water when all ports (incl. USB and earphone ports) are tightly closed. NOT designed or intended for in water use. Submersible up to 1 meter for up to 30 minutes. Waterproof based on IP57 rating.

   ***4G speeds not available everywhere. Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.

 
