




	In one announcement, AT&T has nearly doubled its LTE coverage by officially flipping the switch on eleven new markets. The list of cities includes New York City metro, San Francisco / Oakland / San Jose, Los Angeles, Phoenix, San Diego, Raleigh and Austin. We've seen the service flicker on and off in most of these cities as real-life tests were conducted, and the high-speed connection's also been available in certain parts of New York, but it's great to see these become official. AT&T also declared that LTE expansion should be complete by the end of 2013, though we expect most major cities to be hit far earlier. Check out the full press release for more details.
 

 		Show full PR text  AT&T ROLLS OUT 4G LTE TO CUSTOMERS IN 11 MORE MARKETS 		AT&T 4G LTE Now Available in 26 Markets Including NYC Metro, San Francisco, Los Angeles 		AT&T's Blazing Fast 4G Speeds, Device Lineup, Apps Will Make for Best Customer Mobile Broadband Experience 		SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 5, 2012 - AT&T* customers are now enjoying blazing fast 4G LTE (Long Term Evolution) speeds in 11 more markets, including New York City metro area, San Francisco and Los Angeles. This addition makes AT&T 4G LTE available in a total of 26 markets to 74 million consumers. John Stankey, President and Chief Executive Officer-AT&T Business Solutions, provided an update at Citi's 22nd Annual Global Entertainment, Media and Telecommunications Conference in San Francisco. 		New markets where AT&T 4G LTE is now available are: New York City metro area, Austin, Chapel Hill, Los Angeles, Oakland, Orlando, Phoenix, Raleigh, San Diego, San Francisco and San Jose. 		The expansion adds to 15 AT&T 4G LTE markets launched in 2011: Athens, Ga.; Atlanta; Baltimore; Boston; Charlotte; Chicago; Dallas-Fort Worth; Houston; Indianapolis; Kansas City; Las Vegas; Oklahoma City; San Antonio; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and Washington, D.C. 		"We're building a 4G LTE network that's blazing fast, and we offer dual layers of 4G technologies to provide customers with a more consistent speed experience," said Stankey. "Our network, together with our unsurpassed 4G device portfolio and innovative applications, will give our customers an industry-leading mobile broadband experience." 		AT&T is the only U.S. carrier providing 4G using both HSPA+ and LTE technologies. HSPA+, when combined with enhanced backhaul, provides customers with access to 4G speeds - meaning AT&T customers get a faster and more consistent 4G experience on their compatible devices, even when outside of a 4G LTE area. Customers of other carriers that have transitioned to 4G LTE without further speed upgrades to their existing networks are likely to see a jarring drop-off in speeds when they move out of LTE coverage. 		Another benefit of AT&T's network strategy is that only AT&T's network lets your iPhone 4S download three times faster. 		AT&T's mobile broadband service currently covers 284 million people and more than 90 percent of the population, including the top 100 U.S. markets. 		AT&T expects its 4G LTE deployment to be largely complete by the end of 2013.
 