
 It's been a long time coming. Seriously. AT&T first teased us with Digital Life way back in February of last year. Now the home security and automation platform is finally ready for prime time. Starting today customers in the 15 launch markets (Atlanta, Dallas, Chicago, Houston, LA, Miami, SF, Seattle, Austin, Philly, Riverside, St. Louis, Denver, Boulder and the New York/New Jersey metro area) can put in their orders, provided they live in a single-family, detached house. There will be two packages to choose from: Simple Security and Smart Security. The former is a pretty standard alarm system with sensors, an HSPA-based base station and a 24-hour backup battery, for $30 a month and a one-time installation fee of $150. Smart Security is where the real fun happens, though. The basic version starts at $40 a month, with a $250 installation fee, and includes your choice of three additional features including a motion sensor, carbon monoxide sensor, glass break sensor, smoke sensor or a takeover kit. From there you can add on additional packages, like energy management or a camera system, for between $5 and $10 a month, plus the cost of installation. Those costs can quickly add up too. Those two add-ons alone could push the price of installation as high as $650.
 To go along with the launch AT&T is also releasing its remote control app, which will be available on iOS, Android, Windows Phone 8 and, "eventually," BlackBerry. Through the app you can lock doors, adjust your thermostat, turn on and off lights or appliances and check your security cameras. The most powerful feature, though, is the ability to create programs that can automate tasks, send alerts and trigger events based on data from the sensors. For example, if the glass break sensor on the kitchen window is tripped, the system can be set to turn on the lights in the room and start recording a video. Eventually, AT&T even sees the ability to integrate with the location services on a cellphone for additional automation options. If you're hankering for more details, check out the PR after the break.





  Show full PR text   AT&T DIGITAL LIFE LAUNCHES IN FIRST 15 U.S. MARKETS
   Consumers Can Now Enjoy Security and Convenience of a Home Management and Automation System with the Flexibility to Meet Their Unique Needs

   DALLAS, April 26, 2013 – Secure your home, check in on your kids or pets, adjust the temperature, let your housesitter in the front door, or check to see if you closed your garage door, from almost anywhere all on the go. Available today for the first time in 15 markets, AT&T Digital Life SM makes customers' lives easier by simplifying the management of their home. Digital Life offers customers security, convenience, privacy and peace of mind, in a customizable and easy-to-use experience from any mobile device or PC.AT&T* today announced the first commercial launch markets for AT&T Digital Life: Atlanta, Austin, Texas, Boulder, Colo., Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, Philadelphia, Riverside, Calif., San Francisco, Seattle, St. Louis and select areas of the New York and New Jersey metropolitan area. AT&T plans to introduce Digital Life in up to 50 markets by the end of 2013.

   The foundation of AT&T Digital Life is complete home security with 24/7 professional monitoring.

   Through AT&T-owned and operated, U.S.-based monitoring centers, professionals will respond to emergencies and alert police and fire authorities. Customers can choose which alerts they want to receive and how.

   "We know how important security is to our customers, and this was our top priority when we set out to build Digital Life," said Kevin Petersen, senior vice president, AT&T Digital Life. "People rely on their mobile devices more than ever, so Digital Life offers an easy and convenient way to secure their homes, protect their families and simplify their lives from virtually anywhere." Remote, Privacy Protected Access

   AT&T Digital Life is an all-digital, fully integrated, wireless home management system, giving customers flexibility to manage their home from their smartphone, tablet or PC. Customers can purchase Digital Life regardless of their wireless or wireline broadband provider. The Digital Life application is available on most web browsers and apps are available for iOS, Android smartphones and Windows Phones.

   To ensure customers' privacy is protected, Digital Life has a secure log in system each time the app is opened from any Internet-connected device.

   Easy to Use

   In addition to security, Digital Life offers a robust suite of automation services that can be customized to meet their needs. An exceptionally user-friendly application was designed to be as simple as possible, making it easier than ever to manage your home. The AT&T Digital Life application gives customers control over cameras, door locks, lights, thermostats, small appliances and more by setting alerts or programs to manage your home. It's all integrated into one simple system.

   Customization

   AT&T Digital Life provides total flexibility so you get exactly what you want. You can build a system with the features you want, and you can add features or make changes easily as your needs evolve. Unlike competitors, AT&T Digital Life is a major home security and automation system that can be ordered completely online, in an AT&T store, over the phone, or with an in-home sales consultant. Pricing is competitive and transparent, making it easy for customers to understand and purchase solutions to meet their needs.

   Customers can choose from two base plans: Simple Security, which is our basic home security package; or Smart Security which includes enhanced security features and the option to add home automation.

   Simple Security - Includes 24/7 home monitoring, 24-hour battery backup, a wireless keypad, keychain remote, recessed sensors and an indoor siren for $29.99 a month plus $149.99 for equipment and installation.

   Smart Security - Includes the benefits of Simple Security plus a choice of three of the following features: motion sensor, carbon monoxide sensor, glass break sensor, smoke sensor or takeover kit. Smart Security begins at $39.99 a month plus $249.99 for equipment and installation.

   Customers who select Smart Security can add these automation packages:

   Camera Package - View live video from inside and outside of the home for an additional $9.99 a month plus equipment and installation.

   Energy Package - Control appliances, lighting and thermostats for convenience and energy efficiency for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation.

   Door Package - Allow a pet sitter or repairman into your home remotely with automated door locks, or check to see whether your garage door is open or closed for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation.

   Water Detection Package - Detect water leaks before damage occurs for an additional $4.99 a month plus equipment and installation.

   Water Control Package - Detect leaks and shut off water at the main water source for an additional $9.99 a month plus equipment and installation.

   "AT&T's Digital Life service is fully featured with one of the market's best selection of pre-packaged bundles and connected devices. With straightforward and competitive prices, the AT&T value proposition will leave the company in a good position to capture market share in the growing connected home market," said Larry Hettick, Contributing Analyst, Consumer Services, Current Analysis.

   "We're bringing you security and convenience features that can be easily integrated into your life, making things simpler for you and your family", said Petersen. "We conducted extensive research, listened to our customers and worked hard to build a single integrated solution with an unmatched set of assets all built around our customer's needs."

   Experience AT&T Digital Life

   Digital Life offers a simple purchasing process with several options. Digital Life will be sold and demonstrated in 450 company owned retail stores in the 15 markets. You can also learn and buy at att.com/digitallife, call 855-288-2727 or schedule an appointment with an in-home sales consultant.

   To learn more about Digital Life availability, visit www.att.com/digitallife.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

 
