
 The largest GSM carrier in the country is popular amongst travelers because you can use nearly all of its phones anywhere in the world. Messaging whilst abroad, however, has always been an expensive headache since the best option on AT&T was a bundle of 50 SMS / MMS messages for $10. That's a quaint number, to say the least, considering many of us can burn through that many messages in an hour. Beginning today, two more options are available for the more text-savvy roamers: you can get a package of 200 for $30, or 500 for $50. This number only reflects the number of messages you send, which means those received are counted against your US bucket of texts (if you're on a pay-per-use messaging plan, they'll cost 20 cents). Given the company's recent history of streamlining, we applaud the additional choices global jetsetters now have. Enjoy the presser after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  International Travelers Take Off With New Messaging Packages Delivering More Value, More Choice 		Dallas, Texas, September 20, 2011 		Want to share the family picture from in front of Big Ben? Or a video message from the top of the Eiffel Tower? Go ahead and hit "send." With the addition of two new global messaging packages, international travelers now have more freedom and flexibility to use messaging abroad just like they do at home. 		Available beginning today, AT&T's* new global messaging packages** allow travelers to share their experience using text, picture, video and instant messaging for one, low monthly rate from more than 100 countries. The new packages include: 		Global Messaging 200 - send 200 messages for $30/month		Global Messaging 500 - send 500 messages for $50/month 		With the new packages, customers benefit from significant savings compared to international roaming pay-per-use messaging rates, which cost travelers $.50 per message sent for text and instant messages, and $1.30 per message sent for picture and video messages. In contrast, with the Global Messaging 200 package, customers just pay $.15 per message sent. 		"When our customers travel abroad, we want to deliver a wireless experience that's affordable and customized to fit their needs," said Mark Collins, senior vice president, Data and Voice Products, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "Our Global Messaging 200 package lets travelers send a text, photo or video message for only $.15 a message – a great value and one we're excited to add to our international lineup." 		The new additions reflect the increasing popularity of using mobile messaging to communicate from overseas. In a recent AT&T survey among international travelers, nearly two-thirds of respondents (65 percent) said they text from abroad, while nearly half (47 percent) stay in touch using picture and video messages. 		As a global leader connecting travelers all around the world, AT&T remains the only major U.S. wireless carrier to offer low-cost international messaging packages when traveling in more than 100 countries – a complement to the broadest lineup of international-compatible phones, and the new global data plans announced earlier this year. 		Customers may add one of the new packages to their current calling plan beginning today. For more information on other AT&T international services, including discount packages for voice, data and international long distance services, as well as travel tips, visit www.att.com/global.    
 