
 
Looking to get an Android device on AT&T? Then you're soon going to have a few more options to consider -- the carrier has just announced three new Android-based phones from Motorola. Those include the touchscreen-only Bravo (not to be confused with the HTC Bravo), and the QWERTY-equipped Flipout and Flipside, all of which will ship with Android 2.1 and the latest version of MOTOBLUR. Of the three, the Bravo is the highest-end, with it packing a 3.7-inch 854 x 480 display, an 800MHz TI OMAP 3610 processor, a 3-megapixel camera, and DLNA support for media streaming. The Flipout and Flipside, on the other hand, each pack a 720MHz TI OMPA 3410 processor, the same 3-megapixel camera, and a 2.8-inch QVGA and 3.1-inch HVGA screen, respectively. Somewhat notably, the Flipside also boasts a surprisingly large trackpad, which AT&T says will let you navigate with one hand while keeping your fingers off the screen (though it does, in fact, have a touchscreen). Look for the Flipout to be available first on October 17th for $79.99 on a two-year contract, while the Flipside and Bravo should be each available before the holiday season for $99.99 and $129.99, respectively. 

P.S. - We just heard from a trusted source that the Bravo and the previously-leaked Kobe are, in fact, one and the same. Nice to close that thread, then. 




Show full PR textAT&T Expands Android Portfolio With Three New Motorola SmartphonesMotorola BRAVO™, FLIPOUT™ and FLIPSIDE™ Smartphones Powered by Android Coming Soon to the Nation's Fastest Mobile Broadband NetworkDALLAS, Oct. 5 /PRNewswire/ --Key Facts* AT&T* today announced it is significantly expanding its portfolio of Android devices by introducing three new smartphones powered by Android™, the Motorola BRAVO, FLIPOUT and FLIPSIDE, from Motorola, Inc. (NYSE: MOT).* All three smartphones pack the power of the Android 2.1 platform and the latest version of MOTOBLUR, Motorola's exclusive smartphone experience. * MOTOROLA FLIPOUT™ will be available for $79.99 with a two service agreement and 2 year smartphone data plan beginning October 17 in AT&T stores, online and in business channels. (No rebate required)* MOTOROLA BRAVO™ will be available for $129.99 with a two service agreement and 2 year smartphone data plan in AT&T stores, online and in business channels by this holiday period. (No rebate required)* MOTOROLA FLIPSIDE™ will be available for $99.99 with a two service agreement and 2 year smartphone data plan in AT&T stores, online and in business channels by this holiday period. (No rebate required) In a move that further strengthens its industry-leading smartphone line-up, AT&T today introduced three new Android-based smartphones from Motorola. The powerful new devices give AT&T customers even more choice when selecting a mobile computing device to use on the nation's fastest mobile broadband network. AT&T will have eight Android devices available to customers once these smartphones arrive in stores.All three new smartphones feature Wi-Fi® connectivity, and qualifying AT&T customers receive access to the entire AT&T national Wi-Fi network included as part of their data plan. AT&T's has the nation's largest Wi-Fi network with more than 23,000 U.S. hotspots.MOTOROLA FLIPOUT™MOTOROLA FLIPOUT delivers an enhanced user experience, with a stylishly square, affordable and innovative pivot design. FLIPOUT whips open to reveal a full keyboard below its touch screen with a dedicated fifth row for numbers. Users can customize the color to match their mood with Dark Sapphire and Saffron battery covers included in the box for personalization. Additional colors will be available for purchase in AT&T stores and online. Get all the MOTOROLA FLIPOUT™ details at http://att.com/flipout.MOTOROLA BRAVO™BRAVO offers the power of Android, an 800 MHz processor and a large screen all in a compact design. The device features a 3.7-inch full WVGA touch screen experience, enhanced Web-browsing and entertainment while on the go. With a 3-megapixel camera with digital zoom and auto focus, customers can catch memorable moments to share with one-touch social media uploads to Facebook®, MySpace, Picasa™ and PhotoBucket®. Motorola BRAVO is a Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA®) enabled device, so customers can stream, store and share entertainment with multiple devices around the home-including PCs, TVs and other mobile devices using an existing home Wi-Fi network. Get all the MOTOROLA BRAVO™ details at http://att.com/bravo.MOTOROLA FLIPSIDE™MOTOROLA FLIPSIDE enables users to seamlessly manage their work and personal life. With a full slide-out QWERTY keypad, FLIPSIDE's 3.1"-inch high-res HVGA display supports pinch to zoom gesturing, while the laptop-like track pad provides an alternative way to navigate with one hand while keeping your fingers off the screen. Users can stay connected to work with full push corporate e-mail, support for Microsoft® Exchange, unified inbox and enhanced features for IT compliance like remote wipe and password enforcement. Get all the MOTOROLA FLIPSIDE™ details at http://att.com/flipside.Enhanced MOTOBLURMOTOBLUR is Motorola's exclusive experience that syncs contacts, posts, messages, photos and much more - from your favorite social media sites, work and personal e-mail, and last.fm - and automatically delivers them to the home screen. MOTOBLUR can locate or remotely wipe lost or stolen devices, MOTOBLUR can also automatically restore a user's contacts, log-in information, home screen customizations and e-mail with one username and password.The new and enhanced MOTOBLUR functionality and features include:* Filter social networking and Messages widgets – filter by social networking account, by contact(s) or by contact group to only see the information you want.* Screen customization – move and resize preloaded widgets on up to seven home screens* Battery Manager – manage battery consumption by operating in one of three performance modes* Personal and Corporate e-mail – pushed directly to the device* Improved social networking functionality – Retweet, like Facebook comments and moreQuotes"We want nothing less than the best smartphone line-up on the nation's fastest mobile broadband network," said Michael Woodward, vice president, Mobile Phone Portfolio, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "These diverse new Android devices from Motorola add diversity to our Android platform and provide more options for our customers.""Motorola is committed to offering consumers phones that work best for their lifestyle. These three new devices each have a new unique take on the typical smartphone," said Alain Mutricy, senior vice president, portfolio and device product management, Motorola Mobility, Inc. "Plus, the latest enhancements to MOTOBLUR not only allow users to easily stay connected with their networks but better filter so they can focus on the people and information that means the most to them."1Prices listed above require a 2-year service agreement and smartphone data plan.2Mobile Broadband/3G coverage not available in all areas.3Limited-time offer. Other conditions & restrictions apply. See contract & rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber must live & have a mailing addr. within AT&T's owned wireless network coverage area. Up to $36 activ. fee applies. Equipment price & avail may vary by mrk & may not be available from independent retailers. Early Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days, but up to $35 restocking fee may apply to equipment returns; thereafter up to $325. Some agents impose add'l fees. Smartphone Data Plan Requirement: Smartphones require a DataPlus (200MB) or DataPro (2GB) plan. If you exceed your initial data allowance, you will automatically be charged an additional $10 for each additional 1GB provided on DataPro or an additional $15 for each additional 200MB provided on DataPlus. All data allowances, including overages, must be used in the billing period in which the allowance is provided or they will be forfeited. For more details on Data Plans, go to att.com/dataplans Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment.4Largest Wi-Fi based on company branded and operated hotspots. Access includes AT&T Wi-Fi Basic. Wi-Fi enabled device and qualifying data plan required. Other restrictions apply. See attwifi.com for details and locations.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. In 2010, AT&T again ranked among the 50 Most Admired Companies by FORTUNE® magazine. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATTNews. Find us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ATT to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at www.Facebook.com/ATTSmallBiz to discover more about our small business services.© 2010 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. Mobile broadband not available in all areas. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.
 