
 
 Sure, it's late to the Samsung Galaxy S III announcement party, but we suppose AT&T is letting the other carriers duke it out for the attention first before coming out with its own revelation. Now that it has the platform all to itself, AT&T has officially made its intentions known. The Snapdragon S4-powered device will offer three color options and will be available for pre-order on June 6th starting at $200 for a 16GB model (shipping dates and retail availability have not been announced yet). What's the third hue choice, alongside the white and blue? Red. That's right: seeking ways to customize the Galaxy S III as a means of differentiating itself from the other four Galaxy S III devices, AT&T will be proudly selling its new flagship smartphone in glorious red.

 There's a bit of disappointing news to go with the good, however -- at least, if you're a fan of more storage. AT&T will sell only the 16GB model, and anyone seeking a total of 32GB will need to go with a $39 16GB microSD card. Aside from this, everything else appears to be exactly the same as the rest of the pack, which is encouraging news for anyone who wishes US carriers would shift to a state of existence as dumb pipes.



  Show full PR text   AT&T Customers Will Be Able To Preorder The Samsung Galaxy S III for $199.99 Starting June 6    Pebble Blue and Marble White Versions to be Followed by Exclusive Red Version Later This Summer

   DALLAS, June 4, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- AT&T* customers will be able to get their hands on the highly anticipated Samsung Galaxy S® III in the coming weeks with preorders beginning June 6 in company-owned stores and online at www.wireless.att.com. Only AT&T's version of the 4G LTE-powered Galaxy S III will be able to take advantage of the nation's largest 4G network.

   AT&T customers will also have exclusive access to a red version of the Galaxy S III this summer, for red, white and blue color choices. The smartphone will be available for $199.99** for the 16 GB model after a two-year service agreement, and AT&T stores will also feature a 16 GB MicroSD card at a low price of $39 for a total of 32 GB for under $238.99.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering more than 260 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE*** and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you're on a much slower 3G network.

   Easy to use and comfortable in the hand, the 4.8-inch HD Super AMOLED™ display is surrounded by an ultra-thin bezel to maximize the viewing area of the Galaxy S III. Weighing only 4.7 ounces and 8.6 millimeters thin, the combination of a powerful 1.5 GHz dual-core processor and unique services in such an attractive package sets the Galaxy S III apart from other smartphones.

   The Galaxy S III features advanced options for sharing and adding simplicity to one's life. For sharing, Samsung's AllShare® Play, Group Cast and Share Shot functions help you to share photos with a group of friends or a presentation with co-workers and S-Beam allows easy transfer of large files from one Galaxy S III to another by touching the backs of the two devices. SVoice™ features natural language recognition to allow customers to control applications and services with words instead of touch. The Galaxy S III also includes simple to use camera features like Best Shot to choose the best image from a series when taking a photo.

   "The addition of the Samsung Galaxy S III to our portfolio of 4G-LTE devices gives our customers another truly cutting-edge smartphone to choose from," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility. "With an exclusive red color this summer and the power of the nation's largest 4G network, AT&T delivers the best wireless experience for Galaxy S III fans."

 
