
 

AT&T renewed its corporate vows with DirecTV yesterday, signing a three-year contract extension to bring its suite of co-branded satellite TV, broadband and voice services through March 2015. The bundle will be offered across the 22 states where AT&T currently offers residential broadband and voice services -- and, according to a company spokeswoman, where the carrier's U-verse video service is not yet available. Speaking to Broadcasting & Cable, the rep went on to say that the renewed deal shouldn't be interpreted as an indicator of how rapidly the U-verse rollout is progressing, and that its service may eventually be offered alongside DirecTV's operations -- which, as we found out this week, aren't doing too bad at all. More details can be gleaned from the PR, after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AT&T and DIRECTV Sign Three-Year Extension Agreement to Deliver AT&T | DIRECTV Service to AT&T Customers 		Millions of Customers Continue to Have Access to a Compelling and Exclusive AT&T | DIRECTV Quad-Play Bundle Option 		EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--DIRECTV and AT&T* signed a three-year extension to their commercial agreement and will continue to offer a co-branded version of DIRECTV's satellite television service across the 22 states where AT&T offers residential broadband and voice service. This agreement, which has been extended through March 2015, will enable both companies to provide millions of customers with access to an exclusive quadruple-play bundle of AT&T | DIRECTV service and AT&T broadband, home phone and wireless voice services, as well as bundled discounts when AT&T | DIRECTV service is combined with qualifying AT&T services. 		Through a separate agreement, DIRECTV also sells AT&T broadband services, including AT&T U-verse High Speed Internet, through its sales distribution channels and to existing DIRECTV customers. 		"Over the past three years DIRECTV and AT&T worked together to deliver a compelling bundled service at a great value," said Paul Guyardo, executive vice president and CMO for DIRECTV. "With this new agreement, we have a lot in the works to expand our partnership." 		"We want all of our customers to have the option to receive a complete, integrated bundle of services from us, including TV," said Jeff Weber, vice president of video services, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "AT&T | DIRECTV service allows us to offer customers the best entertainment and communication services in areas where U-verse is not available, including compelling features that enhance their entertainment experience." 		AT&T | DIRECTV service customers have access to a variety of DIRECTV programming and services, including: 		Access to more than 170 full-time High Definition (HD) channels.		Exclusive sports programming packages, including NFL SUNDAY TICKET™.		DIRECTV Whole-Home DVR service, where customers can watch shows in one room and finish watching in any other room, in up to 15 rooms, all in HD with one HD DVR.		Up to 400 of the newest movie releases, some available months before Netflix® and Redbox®-all in 1080p HD, the same format as Blu-ray™. Plus instant access to up to 7,000 VOD shows and movies at no extra charge.		Superior television service that has received higher customer satisfaction than the leading cable companies for eleven years running according to the 2011 American Customer Satisfaction Index. 		*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
 