
 

Jealous of your iOS-carrying companions who have been blasting Asteroids for months on their handsets and tablets? Prepare to quell your rage, as Atari has announced that its Greatest Hits app has launched for Android devices. Surpassing 3.5 million downloads in the iTunes App Store, the company has expanded the offering to Google OS faithful -- and it'll come with Missile Command for free, along with a 100 title catalog looking back on 30 years of gaming. Once you grab that install, you'll have your pick of 25 game packs for a buck each or you can spring for the whole lot for a cool Hamilton. The app is available now for both tablet and smartphone users, should you prefer a larger screen when your Centipede addiction strikes. For a full list of titles, hit the PR button after the break before checking things out for yourself in the Market.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  ATARI LAUNCHES ITS GREATEST HITS APP FOR ANDROID		The #1 Selling iTunes App Expands into the Global Android Marketplace 		Los Angeles, CA - November 4, 2011 - Atari, one of the world's most recognized publishers and producers of interactive entertainment, today announced the availability of Atari's Greatest Hits for Android Marketplace. 		Launched only a few months ago for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, Atari's Greatest Hits has already exceeded 3.5 million downloads in the iTunes App Store. Android smart phone and tablet owners can now download the App to receive Missile Command for FREE, and get access to a vast catalog of 100 classic Atari games. This extensive collection pays homage to each of the originals and was designed to mimic the gameplay Atari fans remember from 30 years ago. 		"The #1 selling Atari's Greatest Hits continues to expand its reach to new operating systems, devices and territories," said Jim Wilson, CEO of Atari. "It exemplifies our company goals as we shift our core focus towards delivering casual gaming experiences through mobile and social platforms." 		Players can purchase 25 separate game packs for $0.99 each or buy all 100 games for a discounted price of $9.99. 		Game packs include: 		Centipede, Asteroids, Tempest, Battlezone, Black Widow, Crystal Castles, Gravitar, Star Raiders, Pong, Lunar, Lander, Super Breakout, Major Havoc, Warlords, Adventure, 3D Tic-Tac-Toe, Fatal Run, Quadrun, Casino, Swordquest, Championship Soccer, Football, Realsports Basketball, Realsports Football, Super Breakout 2600 and Hangman.
 