
 
Remember that HDAiR adapter we reviewed with exceptionally high hopes earlier this year? Yeah, it wasn't exactly the dream device we wanted, but it seems as if Atlona may have just remedied the primary gripe we had against it. The all-new HDAiR wireless USB-to-VGA / HDMI adapter is essentially the same one as before, but this time audio is involved. In response to widespread demand for the feature, the outfit has added the ability to output audio in both 3.5mm analog, as well as embedded on the HDMI output. This one's also compatible with Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7, and it's still using the tried-and-true UWB protocol to sling content. If you managed to hold off on the first guy, this one's available to order now for $219.
      

 

Show full PR textAtlona Technologies officially releases the new wireless USB to HDMI or VGA adapter, now with Audio.Atlona Technologies officially releases the new wireless USB to HDMI or VGA adapter, the AT-HDAIR, now with Audio.Atlona Technologies has been known for their innovative product lines as well as constantly paving the way for new and updated technology in the AV world. With the introduction of the HDAiR, a wireless USB to HDMI or VGA converter, earlier this year, Atlona has caused quite a stir among computer users looking to integrate their computers into their HD audio video systems. After its release, users from around the world responded to Atlona's customer survey asking what additional features could make the HDAiR even better. The overall consensus was to add audio support. Atlona has responded by releasing the all new HDAiR with the ability to output audio in both 3.5mm analog, as well as embedded on the HDMI output. Compatible with both XP, Vista, and Windows 7, this one of a kind device will allow users to connect any USB enabled computer or laptop wirelessly, to any HDTV or projector via VGA or HDMI. This unit wirelessly transmits high resolution signal from a small USB adaptor connected to a computer, to a receiver unit placed next to the display, making it perfect for taking the traditionally personal computing experience and making it a communal experience.Like the older model AT-HDAiR, this newer model with audio still uses chipsets developed by Wisair to transmit USB protocol over Ultra wide band (UWB) frequencies. The new AT-HDAiR, is capable of extending any computer wirelessly from the display at lengths up to 30ft with HDTV resolutions up to 720p or PC and VESA resolutions at 1440x1050. Both HDMI and VGA output connections are active at the same time, therefore HDAiR receiver could be used to power up 2 displays at the same time with identical content. The latest addition to this wireless adapter is that is now able to output digital audio through the HDMI as well as a 3.5mm stereo jack. With the addition of audio to this new version, the HDAiR is perfect for viewing continuously popular streaming media from HULU or Youtube, as well as computer based leaning programs such as Rosetta Stone or Lynda online training.With quick and easy installation, the all new HDAiR with Audio opens up a word of possibilities. For home, business, and educational users providing a cost effective and convenient solution to integrate PC's and laptops into HD audio video systems.Atlona's all new AT-HDAiR with audio is officially available just in time for the holidays with an MSRP of $219.00. 
 