
 
 How much better will that Samsung Galaxy Note be when you have Ice Cream Sandwich on it? AT&T users are about to find out, as Samsung confirmed to us that the long-awaited upgrade will be knocking on their doors beginning tomorrow (with a few lucky testers getting it later today). As for the new features, the Galaxy Note's latest refresh won't offer anything we weren't already expecting: in addition to the standard suite of ICS features, it'll also come with the same Premium Suite we saw show up on the international Note a couple months ago. The new Suite offers some huge improvements in S-Memo and S-Note, as the latter is now integrated with Wolphram Alpha. Sadly, the software features we've seen highlighted in the Galaxy S III series (S-Beam, S-Voice, Smart Stay and so on) are nowhere to be found, but at least you'll have plenty of other new items to keep you occupied for a while.

 Update: Samsung's press release is out, so check it out below!



  Show full PR text   Samsung Galaxy Note with AT&T Receives Powerful New Functionality
  With Premium Suite, Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) Upgrade
 
   Premium Suite enhances productivity and creativity with new S Note

   and My Story™ applications and S Memo™ update

   July 10, 2012 – DALLAS – As of today, AT&T Galaxy Note™ users have access to Android™ 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and exclusive new features with the Premium Suite upgrade from Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) 1. The Premium Suite upgrade includes S Note, a new application that enhances productivity and professionalizes communications; a widget that enables one touch access to all S Memo™ features; and My Story™, an application which uses the S Pen™ to create customized greeting cards and notes.

   The S Note extends the S Pen™ capabilities to make everyday tasks and communications simpler and more professional looking.

   · New productivity features such as Shape Match, which refines hand-drawn shapes – such as circle, square, lines and arrows; Formula Match, which recognizes and completes complex math formulas; and Knowledge Search, which enables the user to quickly research information from a hand written note via Wolfram Alpha® database.

   · To help to professionalize communications, S Note provides templates for seven commonly used documents such as an idea note, travel notes, diary entry, meeting notes and recipes. An idea note not only captures ideas, it can record the creation process and replay it in the order it was developed. Meeting notes captures agenda items and attendees and will link the meeting to a calendar entry.

   · S Note also allows users to import and annotate a PDF file and convert dictated or hand- written memos to text with the Continual Voice Input and Handwriting-to-Text features.

   The S Memo upgrade includes one-touch access to all S Memo features – including typing, writing, voice dictation, search and adding an image. The user can place the widget on any of the multiple home screens of the Galaxy Note, which makes accessing and using S Memo faster and easier.

   My Story, which is available through Google Play™, is an S Pen optimized application that allows users to create personalized digital birthday cards, thank you notes and sympathy notes by combining hand written notes, video content, photos, text and voice.

   In addition, the update to Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich includes NFC and Android Beam capabilities, better multitasking through the Recent Apps menu, the Face Unlock security feature and data usage monitoring.

   For more information on Premium Suite for the Samsung Galaxy Note, visit www.samsung.com/galaxynote. To update the Galaxy Note, visit http://www.Samsung.com/us/attgalaxynote/update.

 
