
 
 If you work in a corporate environment, it's probably fair to say that you've at least heard of the trend known as BYOD (bring your own device). While the idea remains just that for many enterprises, AT&T is hoping to make the transition a bit more practical for everyone with its latest Toggle 2.0 platform. First and foremost, the app separates one's work and home life, and allows IT admins to ensure that work content remains separate, encrypted and secure. It also allows users to draw on their business wireless plan while in work mode, and then switch to their own personal plan while off the clock. AT&T first launched Toggle for Android late last year, but with its new Toggle 2.0 system -- developed in conjunction with OpenPeak -- it plans to extend the platform to iOS devices in the coming weeks. Versions for BlackBerry and Windows Phone are also in the pipeline, and are said to arrive by year's end. Businesses will need to pony up $6.50 per month, per device for the service, which is on top of any implementation fees and optional managed services. To learn more of what Toggle 2.0 might mean for you, check the full PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   AT&T Enhances Bring Your Own Device Solution
  AT&T Toggle Expanding to Include Custom Branded Business Platform and Availability on the Major Operating Systems
   Dallas, Texas, June 13, 2012

   Toggling between work and life is getting even easier as AT&T* announced enhancements to AT&T Toggle™ including a new custom branded business platform. AT&T Toggle enables the separation and encryption of business data on employees' mobile devices, creating a distinct work mode apart from the typical personal mode in a single smartphone or tablet.

   The newest version of AT&T Toggle can be used on smartphone or tablet devices running the major mobile operating systems, including devices originally loaded with Android 2.2 to 3.X, and with virtually any service provider.

   Personal mode: When not working, send text messages to friends, watch TV shows and movies, and play games on your mobile device as you otherwise would. Personal activities remain separate from work.  Work mode: When it is time to buckle down and focus on business, employees can enter their encrypted work space. In this mode, users can access corporate email, approved corporate applications, calendars and more, just as they would on a company-provided device.

   AT&T ToggleHub

   Within the work mode, businesses and organizations now have the ability to organize and manage corporate applications, content and media with a completely customized branded content manager, AT&T ToggleHub.

   AT&T ToggleHub enables companies to have a custom, centralized corporate application management center for all of their employees. Users can access business approved applications, including custom apps, media and documents. The custom business applications can only be used when in the work mode, ensuring that critical business data is walled-off from the user's personal applications.

   The AT&T Toggle workspace management platform gives control to the IT department with the ability to set corporate policies, such as enable and disable applications, and to lock and wipe the AT&T Toggle workspace if the device is lost or if an employee leaves the company.

   According to industry analyst firm Frost & Sullivan[1], "AT&T has put tremendous thought into delivering solutions across devices and operating systems, while also embracing the trend that employees want to be able to access company applications on their personal device."

   "Companies of all sizes are turning to AT&T to transform their business so that people, processes and assets are always connected and can be optimized on the go. Today, we have more than 27,000 business customers who have adopted mobile applications," said Chris Hill, Vice President, Advanced Mobility Solutions, AT&T Business and Home Solutions. "The enhancements we've made available on AT&T Toggle give businesses the tool they need to confidently allow employees to use their own smartphones and tablets for work."

   Businesses and organizations of all sizes can benefit from the deep industry experience of the AT&T Mobility Solutions Services (AT&T MSS) team, which provides solution architecture, development and lifecycle management for AT&T Toggle and the entire AT&T portfolio of mobile solutions.

   AT&T offers a leading portfolio of mobile security and device management offers spanning device-based and cloud-based options to manage risk and enable control over a variety of connected equipment including smart phones, tablets, and personal computers.

   Innovation in Action

   First introduced last year, AT&T Toggle was cultivated through three innovation initiatives currently underway at AT&T: The Innovation Pipeline (TIP), AT&T's Fast Pitch program, and The AT&T FoundryTM. Together, these initiatives helped speed an idea to market in just months by dedicating resources to the project and enhancing collaboration between AT&T and third-party developers.

   To learn more about how AT&T can transform personal phones into business-ready devices, visit AT&T Toggle.

 
