
 
 While AT&T's U-verse TV service announced increased support for second screen apps earlier this year and enhanced its own app for iPad with sharing features recently, it's just delivered a new app that brings Facebook to the TV screen. The customized interface brings in user's status feed, friends list and photos, where they can comment or leave standard messages to the service. There's also naturally a tie-in allowing them to share information and updates about the shows they're watching on the IPTV service directly through the app. According to the press release (included after the break) it can handle up to ten different accounts on a single receiver, so they don't all have to post updates to one unlucky members account. Despite seeing many made-for-TV-screens social networking apps we haven't found one that was definitely easier to use than keeping that kind of info on a second screen phone, tablet or PC, but we'll wait to hear from U-Verse subscribers about how well this effort is working.



  Show full PR text    AT&T Brings Facebook® to your TV Screen with New U-verse TV App
   Dallas, Texas, August 29, 2012

   Whether it's on your computer or mobile device, accessing your social media sites has always been at your fingertips. Now, you can connect with Facebook on your TV screen using Facebook on TV, the latest interactive app available from AT&T* U-verse® TV. The app enables you to connect to your Facebook account while you are watching your favorite shows.

   The Facebook on TV interactive app delivers an even better way to watch TV. Through the TV app, you can:

   View your news feed, friends list and photos.  Post status updates and share information about the shows you're watching.  Interact with friends and view their timelines, photos, and status updates.

   "The TV experience is becoming more social, and we've always focused on delivering interactive TV apps that are more engaging and provide an overall better experience," said Maria Dillard, Vice President of U-verse and Video Products, AT&T Home Solutions. "This app gives U-verse TV and High Speed Internet customers the ability to share information about what they're watching on their TV with their remote, on any U-verse TV screen. It's another example of how we continue to enhance and bring more value to the U-verse experience."

   The Facebook on TV app can be enjoyed by everyone in your household. U-verse TV customers can add up to ten different accounts on a single receiver. To access Facebook on TV, customers will need an existing Facebook account and a U-verse High Speed Internet account. You can create a Facebook account by visiting www.facebook.com.

   U-verse TV customers already have access to several additional social TV apps at no extra charge.

   AT&T U-verse added more TV subscribers in total over the last 3 years than any of the major cable TV providers reported** and is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider.

   For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit www.att.com/u-verse.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   **Claim based on comparison of major TV providers' subscriber counts as of 2Q2012.

   About AT&T  AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's largest 4G network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile Internet, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world.

   Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT.

   © 2012 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. 4G not available everywhere. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies.

 
