
 AT&T is finally spilling the beans on how much its Windows Phone 8 handsets will set you back if you plump for a two-year deal. Nokia's Lumia 920 costs $99.99, $50 less than previously speculated, and will come with a free wireless charging plate. If your wallet can't (or won't) stretch that far, then you can snag a Lumia 820 for just $49.99, the same price as last generation's flagship. If you've had your eye turned by HTC's much-lauded Windows Phone 8X, then you can select an 8GB limited edition version in blue or limelight (yellow) for $99.99, or a 16GB device for $199.99. Both of the Nokia handsets will be available to pre-order from the 7th (tomorrow) and available on the 9th (Friday), while the 8X should be rolling around "before Thanksgiving." Now that 'Ma Bell has tipped her hand, it's now down to Verizon, which is expected to make its riposte on Thursday.



  Show full PR text   Windows phone 8 smartphones arrive at at&t nov. 9; pre-orders begin nov. 7
   Special AT&T Promo Offers Free Wireless Charging Plate With Purchase of a Nokia Lumia 920

  DALLAS, Nov.6, 2012 – AT&T* announced today the availability of three new smartphones in its growing Windows® Phone 8 portfolio. Beginning Nov. 9, AT&T customers will be able to purchase the Nokia Lumia 920 for $99.99 and the Nokia Lumia 820 for $49.99. Before Thanksgiving, customers can pick-up the Windows Phone® 8X by HTC® with 16 GB of memory for $199.99. Additionally, AT&T revealed an exclusive version of the Windows Phone 8X by HTC with 8 GB of memory in California Blue and Limelight (yellow) for $99.99. AT&T is only carrier to offer this device in Limelight.

   Starting Nov.7, the Lumia 920 and Lumia 820 will be available for pre-order at www.att.com/lumia920 and www.att.com/lumia820, respectively. The unrivaled leader in Windows Phones, AT&T has sold more Windows Phones than any other carrier.

   Nokia Lumia 920

   The Nokia Lumia 920 includes the latest advances in Nokia PureView imaging innovation. The 8.7-megapixel camera features advanced floating lens technology, dubbed 'optical image stabilization' which helps eliminate blur by compensating for hand movement while photos or videos are being shot. The camera in Nokia Lumia 920 can take in five times more light than typical smartphones to capture top quality photos and videos in low light.

   In addition to its 2000mAh battery – the largest battery Nokia has put in a smartphone – the Lumia 920 includes built-in wireless charging capabilities** for an easy, convenient way to get more out of every day. For a limited time and while supplies last, AT&T will also include a wireless charging plate – free of charge – with each purchase of a Lumia 920.

   The Lumia 920's 4.5-inch PureMotion HD+ ClearBlack display is protected by Corning® Gorilla® Glass and is optimized for readability in the brightest light conditions, even outdoors on a bright day. In addition to its durable, scratch-resistant, curved display, the Lumia 920 also has a new sensitive touchscreen that lets you type with fingernails or while wearing gloves.

   Available in red, white, black, yellow and cyan, the Lumia 920 is available for pre-order beginning Nov. 7 at www.att.com/lumia920 for $99.99 with a two-year agreement.

   For more information, please visit www.att.com/lumia920. A look at the Lumia 920's features in action is available in this video.

   Nokia Lumia 820

   The Nokia Lumia 820 is a snappy, mid-range smartphone that delivers high-end performance in a compact package. It features the same unibody look and feel as high-end Lumia smartphones – including a ClearBlack display and new sensitive touchscreen – in an attractive design that supports exchangeable shells. These exchangeable shells, which are sold separately, are available in range of colors and features, including wireless charging.

   The Lumia 820 offers the same exclusive content as the Lumia 920, including Nokia Drive, a turn-by-turn voice navigation solution, Nokia Music, a free music streaming service and Nokia City Lens, an augmented reality application that uses the phone's camera viewfinder to provide information about points of interests in the surrounding area.

   The Nokia Lumia 820 comes in black and is available for pre-orders beginning Nov.7 at www.att.com/lumia820 for $49.99 with a two-year agreement.

   For more information, please visit www.att.com/lumia820.

   Windows Phone 8X by HTC

   The Windows Phone 8X by HTC boasts a pure unibody design perfectly sculpted with a dramatic taper that feels thin in your hand and its stunning 4.3-inch 720p HD display (1280 x 720 pixels) brings photos, video and Web pages to life.

   The 2.1-megapixel, 88 degree, ultra-wide front-facing camera is able to capture self-portraits of you and the faces of up to four friends all at once. The 8-megapixel rear-facing camera with an f/2.0 aperture allows you to capture great photos and videos – even in low light. As the first-ever Windows Phone 8 smartphone with built-in Beats Audio™ technology, this device gives users authentic, studio-quality sound. The device has a unique audio amplifier that powers the 3.5mm audio jack and speaker to provide improved sound for music, video and even gaming.

   The Windows Phone 8X by HTC will be available in two models – California Blue with 16 GB of memory for $199.99 and an AT&T exclusive in California Blue or Limelight (yellow) with 8GB of memory for $99.99.

   For more information, please visit www.att.com/8xbyhtc.

   For the 2012 holiday shopping season, AT&T will be the only U.S. carrier to offer new Windows 8 tablets to their customers. Samsung ATIV smart PC offers customers the blend of PC capability with the convenient tablet form factor. Beginning Nov. 9, the ATIV smart PC will be available in AT&T company-owned retail stores nationwide and online at www.wireless.att.com.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network***, covering 285 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With smartphones on other carriers' networks, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.

 
