
Later this morning, Verizon will open its virtual doors to early Samsung Galaxy Note 3 adopters wanting to pre-order the new flagship device announced two days ago. AT&T wants to do one better, however, by flipping the switch right now. Starting at 12:01am ET, the GSM network will give you the opportunity to commit $300 of your hard-earned money and two years of your life -- or $35 per month if you plan to use AT&T Next, which effectively translates into an off-contract cost of $700, by our calculations -- to have the large smartphone shipped to your doorstep "around October 1st." So yes, this means the final date is more of a flexible guideline than a rule at this point, though we're holding out hope that this estimate is conservative and will actually arrive sooner rather than later, in the same manner in which the pizza place quotes you when you call for delivery.


The network also confirms that the Galaxy Gear is on its way as well, though it only gets as specific as "the coming weeks."



Show full PR textAT&T BEGINS PRE-ORDERS FOR SAMSUNG GALAXY NOTE 3;SAMSUNG GALAXY GEAR COMING SOON
DALLAS, September 6, 2013 – Beginning Sept. 6 at 12:01 a.m. ET, AT&T* will offer pre-orders for the Samsung Galaxy® Note 3. The Galaxy Note 3 will be available for $35 per month with AT&T Next or $299.99 with a two-year agreement. For more information or to pre-order, visit www.att.com/galaxynote. Orders will begin shipping around Oct. 1.

The Galaxy Note 3 features a 5.7-inch full HD Super AMOLED display and builds on Samsung's successful Note series with a better way to control, write and get more done, such as:

• My Magazine allows you to curate content tailored to the things you love including sports updates, celebrity news, your social media feeds, even nearby restaurant suggestions.• Scrapbook provides an easy and functional way to use the S Pen to grab and store videos, photos and clips from Web pages that are linkable back to the original online source.• Wake-up Command allows you to send messages, make calls and more without touching your phone, just by saying "Hi, Galaxy."• S Finder makes locating emails, text messages, contacts or web history on your smartphone easy. You can even search for handwriting or symbols, or browse by date.• Advanced Multi Window functionality lets you keep two windows of the same app open so you can browse your social media feed while posting vacation photos†. You can also drag and drop an address from an email into a map search without cutting and pasting.• Samsung Smart Switch™ transfers contacts, calendar events, messages, photos and more. It can also automatically find your favorite apps on Google Play™ and recommend similar ones if there isn't a direct match††.• Action Memo makes your handwritten notes actionable. You can dial a number, import information directly into contacts, go directly to a web address and find an address on a map.

The Note 3 also includes innovative camera features as well as additional features introduced on the Galaxy S® 4:

• Eraser Shot removes unwanted background distractions in your photos and videos with just one touch.• Drama Shot captures a time-lapse event all in one frame.• S Beam™ quickly and easily share files simply by tapping two S Beam enabled smartphones together.• WatchON™ simplifies searching and recommends TV, movies and sports according to personal tastes. With WatchON and the built-in IR blaster, the Galaxy Note 3 functions as a remote control for home theater equipment.• Easy Mode settings give new smartphone users or simplicity seekers the option to start out with a basic version of your home screen that keeps your favorite apps and features within reach.• Air View™ lets you hover your finger over photos, files, links and text for an instant preview.

Galaxy Gear™, Samsung's first wearable that extends the smartphone experience to your wrist, will be available in the coming weeks. The Galaxy Gear paired with the Galaxy Note 3 broadens the smartphone experience by intelligently connecting and sharing information. With Galaxy Gear, AT&T and Samsung are expanding how people live their lives with technology. For more information please visit www.att.com/galaxygear.


