
Hankering for a new Moto X, are you? If you're an AT&T loyalist (or just can't figure out a way to slip out of your contract), the carrier has just published its launch details surrounding the most monumental Motorola handset in a decade. The vanilla black and white models will be available for sale starting August 23rd, with the 16GB version going for $199.99 on a two-year agreement and the 32GB variant for $249.99. (With AT&T Next, the 16GB model is available for $27 per month and the 32GB model is $32 per month.)


Moto Maker shipments will begin on 8/23 as well, with a "lucky few" who registered for early access able to get their orders started on the 19th. Moreover, AT&T will be stocking Skip, and all Moto Maker orders will include a Skip gratis for a limited time. If you're curious to see what kind of crazy coloring options are at your disposal, we're told that major (but not all) AT&T retail outlets will boast a table like the one shown above -- decisions, decisions.



Show full PR textMoto X Arrives at AT&T August 23AT&T Customers Are First to Access Moto Maker and Receive New Motorola Skip Accessory Free

Dallas, Texas, August 16, 2013

Beginning Aug. 23, you can pick up the new Moto X from AT&T* or be the first to create your customized Moto X online. The customizable version of Moto X is the first smartphone designed by you, assembled in the USA and available only for AT&T. To see more Moto X features in action, check out this video.

At launch, customers can begin their Moto X customization at AT&T stores and through www.att.com/MotoX. Visit your nearest store** to see physical color samples before making your purchase. Woven white and woven black models will also be available.

AT&T will offer the 16 GB Moto X for $199.99 and the 32 GB Moto X for $249.99 with a two-year agreement. With AT&T Next, the 16 GB model is available for $27 per month and the 32 GB model is $32 per month.

Starting August 19, AT&T will offer a few lucky customers who registered*** at www.att.com/MotoX an opportunity to design and receive their Moto X before the general public.****

"We're excited to be the first carrier to offer you a chance to design a smartphone that's truly yours," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president – Devices, AT&T. "We've worked closely with Motorola to create a tailored display, sales, and distribution processes to get these customized devices into your hands quickly so you can start enjoying all Moto X has to offer, all on the nation's fastest and most reliable 4G LTE network."

Designing your own Moto X is simple. Using Moto Maker, you can select:

Color options for the front and backAccent colors for the power key, volume key and camera ringAdding your name or short message on the back of the phoneUnique wallpapersCustom power-on messageMemory capacity – 16GB or 32GB

Once you've designed and purchased your custom device, it will be assembled in the USA and shipped to you for free in four days or less**** with no hassle returns.

The Moto X runs on Android 4.2.2 (Jelly Bean), and features a 4.7-inch HD display. Other device highlights include:

Touchless Control lets you check the weather, get directions, make a call or search for just about anything-just by saying "OK Google Now." Because you tune Moto X to your voice, it's always ready to respond to you.The Quick Capture function makes the 10 megapixel rear-facing camera with LED flash and 2 megapixel front-facing camera even easier to use. Just pick up your Moto X, twist your wrist twice and you're ready to shoot. Touch anywhere on the screen, and you'll get an amazing shot. Its Clear Pixel technology can capture dark scenes or stop motion blur in bright light.With Active Display, information efficiently appears on the screen. It doesn't interrupt and it's battery friendly. You don't have to wake up Moto X to look at the time or see your messages, satisfying that constant itch to check your phone.

Keeping your phone protected with passwords can be cumbersome. Now with a new accessory called Motorola Skip, you can unlock your phone with a single tap. Skip is a small clip you can wear on a shirtsleeve, shirt hem, belt loop, or wherever it feels most comfortable. Additionally, it comes with Skip dots, which work just like Skip but in sticker form. Stick them in convenient places like a car dashboard or nightstand. Skip allows you to keep information safe, but still have easy access to what you need most. Plus, for a limited time, Motorola Skip will be included for free in all Moto Maker orders.

AT&T recently launched AT&T Next, a new program that gives you the chance to get a new device every year. AT&T Next is simple and easy to use.

You can purchase a smartphone or tablet with no down payment, no upgrade fee and no activation fee and agree to pay monthly installments for the device, with no financing fees.After 12 payments, you can trade it in and upgrade to a brand new device - again with no down payment.AT&T Next is available for new AT&T customers or existing customers who are upgrade eligible.Using AT&T Next, you can get the 16 GB Moto X for $27 per month or the 32 GB Moto X for $32 per month.


