
 A few months back AT&T made some changes to its international data plans and today old Ma Bell is at it again. The carrier's new text and call packages will take effect on November 16th and will offer flat rate pricing to globetrotters who often find themselves abroad. AT&T's Europe Travel plan offers minutes in increments of 30, 80 and 200 respectively priced at $30, $60 and $120 per month, with an overage rate of $1 per minute. For customers traveling elsewhere, the company's new Rest of World Travel setup features buckets of 15, 40 and 100 minutes of talk time also priced at $30, $60 and $120 a month, with an overage charge of $2 per additional minute. As for those who'd rather text than talk, AT&T's newest Global Messaging plan serves up 600 text, video and picture messages for $60 per month in over 120 countries. Finally, customers who have 300MB or 800MB international data add-ons will be able to use AT&T's WiFi International app to access up to 1GB of free WiFi data each month. Now take a breath and let all of that info marinate. Got it? Good. So, if you're a frequent flyer trying to save some won, euros or rupees, or whatever -- then be sure to check out the press release for a complete list of countries covered under these new plans.



  Show full PR text   New AT&T Global Packages Make it More Affordable for Travelers to Call, Text, Tweet and Post Abroad
   On Nov. 16, AT&T Will Launch New Travel Minutes Calling Packages, A New Global Messaging 600 Package and New Wi-Fi Capabilities for Select Data Global Add-On Packages  Dallas, Texas, November 15, 2012

   For anyone planning an international getaway, AT&T* today announced the launch of new discount roaming packages for calling and messaging, as well as new Wi-Fi capabilities on select AT&T Data Global Add-On packages. AT&T's latest international offerings, which go into effect Nov. 16, are designed to give customers more choice, more value and more reasons to keep in touch when traveling abroad.

   Calling: New AT&T Travel Minutes

   AT&T will soon launch a trio of Travel Minutes packages that offer significant cost savings when making or receiving calls while traveling abroad. Ideal for anyone planning a short stay abroad, the new packages offer tremendous value over pay-per-use rates and help keep wireless bills predictable by giving customers a bucket of minutes for one flat price when roaming in more than 220 countries.

   Joining the AT&T Canada and Mexico Travel Minutes package, which was introduced earlier this year but will now be available at a better value, are AT&T Europe Travel Minutes and AT&T Rest of World Travel Minutes. Customers planning a trip abroad, who would like the convenience of being able to place and receive calls at a discounted rate on the same number as they use at home, will simply select the appropriate Travel Minutes package based on the country or countries they will be visiting, and then select the amount of calling minutes that will best meet their needs.1

   Canada and Mexico Travel Minutes, which covers voice calls made and received while traveling in Canada and Mexico, includes:

   80 minutes of talk time for $30/month ($0.38 per minute effective rate)  200 minutes of talk time for $60/month ($0.30 per minute effective rate)  500 minutes of talk time for $120/month ($0.24 per minute effective rate)  Overage rate is $.50/min.

   Europe Travel Minutes, which covers voice calls made and received while traveling in more than 40 European countries, includes:

   30 minutes of talk time for $30/month ($1.00 per minute effective rate)  80 minutes of talk time for $60/month ($0.75 per minute effective rate)  200 minutes of talk time for $120/month ($0.60 per minute effective rate)  Overage rate is $1.00/min.

   Rest of World Travel Minutes, which covers voice calls made and received in most of the countries not covered by the other two packages, includes:

   15 minutes of talk time for $30/month ($2.00 per minute effective rate)  40 minutes of talk time for $60/month ($1.50 per minute effective rate)  100 minutes of talk time for $120/month ($1.20 per minute effective rate)  Overage rate is $2.00/min.

   Messaging: New Global Messaging 600 Package

   Whether it's the standard "I wish u were here" text message or a more personalized and animated video message in front of some spectacular international landmark, being able to send a message from around the world to loved ones back home is definitely one of the perks of mobile technology. For those international travelers who want to share their adventures while on the go, AT&T is excited to introduce the new Global Messaging 600 package, which lets customers send 600 text, picture and video messages abroad for $60/month from more than 140 countries.2

   The new Global Messaging 600 package, which replaces Global Messaging 500, offers significant savings when compared to international roaming pay-per-use messaging rates, which cost travelers $.50 per message sent for text messages and $1.30 per message sent for picture and video messages. In contrast, with the Global Messaging 600 package, customers just pay $.10 a message-regardless if it's a text, picture or video message.

   In addition to the Global Messaging 600 package, AT&T also offers Global Messaging 200 for $30/month and Global Messaging 50 for $10/month.

   Data: New Wi-Fi Enhancement to Select Data Global Add-On Packages

   In June, AT&T introduced its new lineup of Data Global Add-On packages that enable consumer and business customers to enjoy significant cost savings when accessing data in more than 140 countries.3 Beginning Nov. 16, customers who subscribe to either the 300MB or 800MB Data Global Add-On package will now be able to use the AT&T Wi-Fi International app to access up to 1GB of Wi-Fi each month, at no additional charge, at select AT&T International Wi-Fi hotspots.

   International travelers can now enjoy cellular data on the go and also take advantage of Wi-Fi connections where they are available. The AT&T Wi-Fi international app is compatible with most smartphone operating systems.4 At launch, the Wi-Fi hotspots will be available in major cities within 14 countries, with expansion continuing throughout 2013.5

   AT&T's wireless customers enjoy a robust selection of world phones and international discount data, messaging and calling packages. With voice service in more than 225 countries, data coverage in more than 210 countries and ultra-fast 3G network services in more than 175 countries, AT&T customers can stay connected to the people, places and information that matters most when they travel abroad.

   For more information on AT&T international services as well as travel tips, visit www.att.com/global.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   [1] The Europe Region is comprised of the following countries: Aland Islands (Finland), Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Germany, Gibraltar, Greece, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Jersey, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Svalbard, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, Vatican City.

   The Rest of the World Region is comprised of the following countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, American Samoa, Angola, Anguilla, Antarctica (Marambio Base), Antigua, Argentina, Armenia Republic, Aruba, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bonaire, St. Eustatius & Saba, Bosnia Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Christmas Island, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Curacao, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, East Timor, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, French Guiana, French Polynesia (Tahiti), Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Greenland, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guam, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kosovo, Kuwait, Kyrgyz Republic, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Macau, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Martinique, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Micronesia, Moldova, Republic of Mongolia, Montenegro, Montserrat, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands Antilles, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norfolk Island, Northern Marianas Islands, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Palestine, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Reunion, Russia, Rwanda, Republic of Samoa (Western), Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, South Korea, Sri Lanka, St. Barthelemy, St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Maarten, St. Martin, St. Pierre & Miquelon, St. Vincent & the Grenadines, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks & Caicos, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Western Sahara, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

   2 Messaging allowance and overage rates apply to mobile-originated messages in more than 140 countries. Visit att.com/globalcountries for a list of included countries. Messages sent while roaming outside of included countries are billed at pay-per-use rate of $.50/msg for Text and $1.30/msg for Picture/video. Messages received while roaming will be deducted from the customer's domestic messaging package, or, if the customer does not have a domestic messaging package, the messages will be billed at $.20 for a text message, and $.30 for a picture/video message.

   3 The AT&T Data Global Add-On packages provide discounted data rates in 140 countries. Outside of these countries, pay-per-use rates apply. Visit att.com/globalcountries for a list of included countries.

   4 The AT&T Wi-Fi International application is available as a free download at iTunes and Google Play, and supports iPhone®/iPad® with iOS 4.0 or higher; Android smartphone with OS 2.2 or higher; and Android tablet with OS 3.2 or higher.

   5 Wi-Fi hotspots will be initially available in the following locations:

   Argentina: Buenos Aires

   Australia: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth

   Brazil: São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Campinas, Brasília

   Chile: Santiago

   China: Shanghai, Shenzhen, Beijing, Dongguan, Foshan, Jinan, Shenyang, Huizhou, QingDao

   Colombia: Bogota

   France: Paris, Lyon, Lille, Saint Jean de Monts, Bordeaux, Marseille

   Germany: Berlin, Munich, Aachen, Cologne

   Hong Kong

   Japan: Tokyo, Yokohama, Osaka, Nagoya, Sapporo, Kobe, Kyoto

   Netherlands: Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht, Eindhoven, The Hague

   New Zealand: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch

   Spain: Madrid, Girona, Gijon, Malaga

   United Kingdom: London, Manchester, Glasgow, Birmingham, Leeds, Bristol, Nottingham, Edinburgh

 
