
 We'll have to give it to AT&T for going with something a wee bit different than what we're accustomed to seeing in the world of handy MiFis -- but with touchscreens apparently being a thing nowadays, it also shouldn't surprise us that the company chose to go this route. Either way, the newly introduced MiFi Liberate will surely be of help to those who need to stay connected while on the go, offering features such as LTE connectivity (provided the network's live in the area, of course), simultaneous pairing of up to 10 WiFi devices, 11-hour battery life, a microSD slot, DLNA capabilities and, as you can see above, a 2.8-inch touchscreen display. Unfortunately, the carrier didn't say when we can expect the Liberate to be up for grabs (or for how much), with a company representative only telling us that it'll be at some point "in the coming months." While we wait for those details, however, feel free to check out the extra pic located just past the break.



 
  Show full PR text   Unleash the Power of 4G LTE with the New AT&T Mobile Hotspot MiFi® Liberate - The First Mobile Hotspot with a Touchscreen Display
   AT&T is Making it Easier than Ever for Customers to Connect their Favorite Wi-Fi Devices to the Internet on the Go

   Dallas, Texas, September 26, 2012

   AT&T announced today that it will be the exclusive carrier of the new MiFi® Liberate – the first mobile hotspot with a touchscreen display.

   Developed by Novatel Wireless (NASDAQ: NVTL), and powered by the nation's largest 4G network, the MiFi Liberate sports a vibrant 2.8" color touchscreen display, which takes ease-of-use to the next level. Customers can easily connect up to 10 Wi-Fi devices, view data usage, manage connected devices, change network and device settings, and more-all directly from the device.

   The MiFi Liberate, which offers access to 4G LTE speeds, boasts a powerful battery that offers up to 11 hours of continuous use. The global-ready MiFi Liberate also offers connectivity in more than 200 countries, making it more convenient and affordable to browse the Internet, check and send email, and upload photos while abroad. Customers can also easily access and share files and media stored on the inserted microSD card** from connected Wi−Fi or DLNA capable devices.

   "We are committed to delivering wireless solutions that empower our customers and make their lives easier," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president- Devices, AT&T. "As its name suggests, the MiFi Liberate is designed to connect them to the mobile Internet when away from home or the office by arming them with their own portable hotspot, so they can stay connected to the people, places and information that matter most to them."

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   About AT&T  AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's largest 4G network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile Internet, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world.

   Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT.

 
