
 The LG Escape, which we saw leaked out yesterday, is now official on AT&T. We can expect to see the budget-friendly smartphone available on September 16th for $50 with a new two-year commitment. It features a 4.3-inch qHD true-color IPS screen, Ice Cream Sandwich, a 5MP rear camera with 1080p video recording, NFC, a 1.2GHz dual-core CPU (most likely the MSM8960 Snapdragon S4, but we've reached out for confirmation) and LTE. It also features 4GB onboard storage with microSD expansion, an above-average 2,150mAh battery, Bluetooth 4.0, a 1.3MP front-facing camera and a new feature called Skyfire Horizon, which is a browser toolbar extension that promises fast access to social media pages. Check out the press release below for all the info.



 
  Show full PR text    Get Away to an Adventure Every Day with New LG Escape(TM) for AT&T Customers Available September 16  $50 4G LTE Smartphone Features Innovative New Browser Toolbar, Long-life Battery With LG QuickMemo(TM), Write Personal Memos on any Screen Capture for Expressive Communication with Friends and Family

   Dallas, Texas, September 10, 2012  ShareThis

   Starting Sept. 16, AT&T* will expand its 4G LTE product portfolio by offering an unparalleled combination of premium performance and value. The LG Escape™ is perfect for consumers on a budget looking to transition into a powerful smartphone and pairs well with AT&T's recently announced shared data plans creating a great combination of low- cost hardware and service for data-minded families. The LG Escape is a 4G LTE Android smartphone with high-performance connectivity, processing and camera features with a vibrant qHD display. It will be available in AT&T company-owned retail stores and online for $49.99 with a two-year agreement**.

   The LG Escape features the Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) platform and 4 GB onboard memory with the option to add up to 32 GB with a microSD card. A 1.2 GHz dual-core processor delivers seamless multitasking agility. The crisp 4.3-inch qHD IPS display gives users enhanced image clarity with true-to-life color rendering. Near-Field Communication enabled and equipped with the QuickMemoTM feature lets users instantly capture a screen image, add notes or decorate using just a finger, then share with friends. The LG Escape has full HD video recording capabilities, and users can even create customized videos by adding themes, music and text to videos or a series of photos with the Video Wiz editing application, played back in crisp cinematic Dolby® Mobile surround sound. To see more of the Escape's features in action, check out this video.

   Because timing is everything when taking photos on the go, the LG Escape 5-megapixel auto-focus camera offers features to help users tap into their inner photographer. With the Continuous Shot feature, users can capture multiple images in a row to create that perfect panoramic photo or choose the best photo from an impromptu photo shoot to share with all their friends. Time Catch Shot eliminates shutter lag by taking several pictures before the shutter button is pushed to make sure users get the right shot every time.

   LG Escape also features the Skyfire Horizon, a newly created browser toolbar extension that allows users to access their favorite social media pages while surfing the internet. Available on the LG Escape and future AT&T Android smartphones, it provides customers with quick and easy access to popular consumer utilities like Facebook, Twitter, Share URL, and more.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network***, covering 275 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.

   "This is an impressive smartphone for $49.99," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility. "Running Android 4.0 and packing a 1.2 GHz dual-core processor, a qHD true-color IPS screen and cool features like our new browser bar, customers looking for incredible value will quickly select the Escape."

   "LG Escape allows users to capture and share whatever life sends their way with its powerful dual-core processor, true-to-life screen and smart camera features," said James Fishler, senior vice president of marketing and go-to-market operations, LG Electronics USA. "And on AT&T's expansive network consumers can get the best possible experience with Escape by using its LTE capabilities to the fullest."

   For more information, visit www.att.com/aboutus.

   Limited-time offer. Discounted pricing on smartphones requires a new two year agreement with qualifying voice and data plans. Subject to Wireless Customer Agreement. Credit approval required. Activation fee $36 per line. Geographic, usage and other terms, conditions and restrictions apply, and may result in svc termination. Coverage, and svcs not available everywhere. Taxes and other charges apply. Data (att.com/dataplans): If usage exceeds your monthly data allowance, you will automatically be charged overage for additional data provided. Early Termination Fee (att.com/equipmentETF): After 14 days, ETF up to $325. Restocking fee up to $25. Other monthly charges/line may include a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge (up to $1.25), a gross receipts surcharge, federal and state universal svc charges. Visit store or att.com/wireless to learn more about wireless devices and services from AT&T.

   Key Features:

   An advanced 5 MP camera with time catch shot, "cheese shutter," and different shot modes including Normal, HDR, Continuous and Panorama  Android™ 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)  AT&T's 4G LTE Network  The innovative and convenient QuickMemo™ to create and share personalized memos by writing messages or drawings on screen captures  A 1.2 GHz Dual-Core Processor  True-to-Life 1080p HD recording  Long-lasting 2,150mAh battery  Bluetooth® Version 4.0  A crisp 4.3" qHD true-color IPS Touch Screen with Gorilla® Glass durability  Google™ Integration with Google Play, Google Maps™ Navigation and other preloaded Google apps

   Add music and themes to videos and photos with Video Wiz  Data sharing with Android Beam and NFC Technology

   Additional Features:

   1.3 MP front-facing camera and camcorder  Video resolutions up to 1920 x 1080 full-HD  Zoom up to 4x  Simultaneous GPS for Enhanced Location Accuracy

 
