

 We knew it was coming and even Ralph de la Vega himself publicly admitted that it was in the pipeline, but today AT&T has whipped the covers from its new shared data plans. Mobile Share will enable customers to use a single data allocation across all of their devices, with unlimited calls and text. You're entitled to use up to 10 devices on a single plan, of which at least one must be a smartphone. Users can pick how much data they expect to use each month, paying an additional levy to add the rest of their family's handsets (or just your own, if you're Steve Wozniak). Fortunately, tethering is included as part of the plans.

 The new plans will roll out in late August and will sit alongside the current individual and family offerings, with the company allowing current customers to make a switch without forcing them into a contract extension. AT&T also noted that those lucky customers that are still on a grandfathered unlimited data plan can stay on those plans, even if they upgrade to a new phone at the subsidized on-contract cost. We've got the pricing structure and PR for you for you after the break if you're sweaty-palmed in anticipation for the launch.



     First, Choose your monthly Data Amount                   Mobile share with Unlimited Talk & Text   1GB   4GB   6GB   10GB   15GB   20GB       $40   $70   $90   $120   $160   $200     Each Smartphone   +   +   +   +   +   +       $45   $40   $35   $30   $30   $30     Additional data: $15 per GB             Next, add more devices to your plan     Basic and quick messaging phones   Laptops, LaptopConnect cards and Netbooks   Tablets and gaming devices       $30 each per month   $20 each per month   $10 each per month  
  Show full PR text   AT&T GIVES CUSTOMERS MORE CHOICE WITH NEW SHARED WIRELESS DATA PLANS
   New Mobile Share Plans Allow Customers to Easily Share Data Across

   Smartphones, Tablets and Other Devices

   New and Current Customers Not Required To Choose or Switch to Shared Plans

  DALLAS, JULY 18, 2012- AT&T* customers will soon have more options in choosing the plan that's right for them and their mobile devices. With new AT&T Mobile Share plans, available in late August, new and existing customers can share a single bucket of data acrosss martphones, tablets, and other compatible devices, plus get unlimited talk and text. AT&T Mobile Share plans make it easy for customers to manage their data, voice minutes and texting, without needing to keep track of multiple plans.

   Customers can select one of the new shared data plans or choose one of AT&T's existing individual or family plans. Current customers are not required to switch to the new plans, but can choose to do so without a contract extension. There are no changes to AT&T's device upgrade policy, which means customers eligible to upgrade to AT&T's best device price are not required to switch plans. The new plans will also be available for business customers.   With AT&T Mobile Share plans, customers start by choosing how much data they want each month, then choose up to 10 devices to attach to their shared plan, one of which must be a smartphone. Each plan includes tethering and unlimited domestic calls and texts for smartphones and basic or quick messaging phones. The larger the data bucket you choose, the less you pay per gigabyte and the less you pay for each smartphone added to the shared plan.

   AT&T Mobile Share allows customers to essentially build a plan to fit their devices and usage. Customers who are more data-centric can choose a larger data bucket. Customers who typically use more voice than data can add multiple smartphones and basic phones and opt for a smaller data bucket.

   "We offer customers a broad choice and the best lineup of plans, now enhanced by Mobile Share," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T Mobility. "With these new plans, the more you share, the more you save. They'll be a good fit for a variety of new and existing customers. But if customers want to stay on their current plan or choose from our existing plans, they can do that, too. It's their choice.

   "Today we think of people's smartphones and tablets sharing a bucket of data. But in the future we'll see health care monitors, connected cars, security systems and other devices in the home all connected to the mobile Internet," said Christopher. "Our Mobile Share plans are simple, easy and a great value for individuals or families with multiple mobile Internet devices."

   Mobile Share plans give customers more control over how, where and on what device they use data - which has become more important as people use more data devices. You can choose to use more of your data bucket on your tablet, for example, or tap into your databucket only when needed for devices you use occassionally. And by consolidating data plans, you can take advantage of any data you currently have unused each month by efficiently sharing it across devices.

   "The 'more you share, the more you save' concept is one that will resonate well with customers because of the value provided through the Mobile Share data plans themselves and in smartphone connection fees," said Roger Entner, Founder and Lead Analyst of Recon Analytics. "AT&T also is providing its customers with flexibility and choice by keeping its existing data plans and not requiring customers to move to Mobile Share unless they want to. It's a win-win for both AT&T and its customers."

   To help customers track their data usage, AT&T keeps users informed with courtesy alerts as they near their data allowance for the month. Also, customers can check their usage at anytime online, through the myAT&T mobile app, or by calling *DATA# from their mobile phone.

   Each data plan also includes access to more than 30,000 AT&T Wi-Fi Hot Spots - the nation's largest Wi-Fi network** among wireless carriers - at no additional charge. Wi-Fi usage at public hotspots, home or office does not count toward the monthly wireless data plan usage.

   Customers can learn more about the new plans and determine which plan is best for them at www.att.com/mobileshare.

 
 
