
 
 Could it be? Is AT&T addressing bill shock by simply trying to make international data roaming costs reasonable? From the looks of its new Data Global Add-On deals, that might be the case. The baseline price is up from last year at $30 per month, but you'll get 120MB of data for your trouble -- an amount that used to cost $50. The next step up not only costs less than before, at $60 versus the old $100, but ups the data ever so gently to 300MB in the process. AT&T's maximum allotment is still a relatively modest 800MB, but at $120 a month, it's a lot easier to swallow for a European vacation than the earlier $200 for the same data cap. The real advantage for all three may be the overage rate: rather than bill by the byte, AT&T is now charging $30 for every 120MB over your limit, so you won't have to fork over the equivalent of a car payment just because you couldn't resist posting to Instagram from the Alps. We still think dedicated international services like Xcom Global (or an unlocked phone and a prepaid SIM) are the most efficient ways to go, but the carrier-bound among us will catch a big break when the new international plans take effect June 1st.



  Show full PR text   New Global Packages from AT&T Offer International Travelers More Data at an Affordable Price
  Using Data Abroad is Even More Convenient and Affordable With New International Packages from AT&T
  Dallas, Texas, May 31, 2012
  AT&T* today announced a new lineup of AT&T Data Global Add-On packages that will make it more affordable than ever for wireless customers–both consumer and business customers--to enjoy data services while traveling internationally. Beginning June 1, the updated packages allow customers to enjoy the convenience of data access on their AT&T device while traveling abroad in more than 130 countries at a significant cost savings.1
  The new international data package tiers are:
  120 MB Data Global Add-on package for $30/month  300 MB Data Global Add-on package for $60/month  800 MB Data Global Add-on package for $120/month  The overage rate for all packages is $30 for 120MB.
  AT&T is streamlining its international data offerings while giving customers more data per bucket. All three international data packages are designed to give customers the freedom and flexibility to use their smartphone, tablet or laptop to stay in touch via email, update their status on popular social networking sites and enjoy convenient access to information such as maps and directions, without having to search for a Wi-Fi hotspot.
  "We want our customers to experience the same level of wireless connectivity while traveling abroad as they do at home," said Mark Collins, senior vice president, Data and Voice Products, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "Whether they choose to surf the Internet, use GPS on their device, respond to emails, or update their social network status, we are making it more affordable than ever for them to enjoy data services internationally."
  AT&T's wireless customers enjoy a robust selection of world phones and international discount data, messaging and voice packages, along with the best global coverage of any U.S. wireless provider2. With voice service in more than 225 countries, AT&T customers can travel around the globe and make and receive calls on the same wireless number they use at home. For more information on other AT&T international services, including discount packages for messaging, voice and international long distance services, as well as travel tips, visit www.att.com/global.
  1 The new AT&T Data Global Add-On packages provide discounted data rates in 135 countries. Outside of these countries, pay-per-use rates apply. Visit att.com/globalcountries for a list of included countries.
  2 Best coverage worldwide claim based on global coverage of U.S. carriers. Activation of international service required. International roaming rates apply. Availability, quality of coverage and services while roaming are not guaranteed. For countries, rates and additional details, see att.com/global.
  2 The new AT&T Data Global Add-On packages provide discounted data rates in 135 countries. Outside of these countries, pay-per-use rates apply. Visit att.com/globalcountries for a list of included countries.
  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
 
