
 The pricing was already known, but the only information we were given on availability was sometime before Thanksgiving. Now, the picture is a little clearer -- and nearer -- because AT&T has finally announced that the HTC Windows Phone 8X will be in stores and online starting tomorrow (November 9th) in both California Blue and Limelight. The 8GB model will offer the two color options and is still slated to start at $100, but the 16GB version will only have one hue -- California Blue -- and can be yours for $200.



  Show full PR text    Earlier this week we announced pricing for the Windows Phone 8X by HTC with two different memory options for customers – 16 GB of memory in California Blue for $199.99 and an AT&T-exclusive 8 GB of memory version in California Blue and Limelight (yellow) for $99.99.

   If you watched track and field events in the Olympics this summer, you saw how distinctive these electric yellow hues can be. We are the only carrier to offer the device in this eye-catching Limelight hue.

   Just in time for the holiday shopping season, we're excited to announce that all three models will be available for purchase beginning Nov. 9 in AT&T stores and online at www.att.com. You can order them all starting Nov. 9, with 8 GB Limelight and 16 GB California Blue shipping next week.

   The Windows Phone 8X by HTC has a stunning 4.3-inch 720p HD display (1280 x 720 pixels) and an outstanding camera. The 2.1-megapixel, 88 degree, ultra-wide front-facing camera can capture self-portraits of you and the faces of up to four friends all at once. The 8-megapixel rear-facing camera with an f/2.0 aperture takes great photos and videos – even in low light.

   It's the first-ever Windows Phone 8 smartphone with built-in Beats Audio™ technology, so your music sounds even better with authentic, studio-quality sound. HTC also added a unique audio amplifier that powers the 3.5mm audio jack and speaker to provide improved sound for music, video and even gaming.

   This smartphone is one you won't want to miss so be sure to check it out on Nov.9 and visit www.att.com/8xbyhtc for more information.

 
