
 
 AT&T's mobile-friendly Digital Life home monitoring system has been brewing for nearly a year. At last, it's ready to roll: the service is now expected to launch in eight markets as of this March. While we're still waiting on prices, the company is already dividing its offering up into packages. Those worried about break-ins can get a video package with live video from inside and outside the home. There's also bundles that can control doors, manage energy-based devices or even check for water leaks. The carrier is adamant that Digital Life is a go-between service, not a component of its regular network -- we won't need to have AT&T cellphone or broadband access, and it should work with Android, iOS and Windows platforms. The service is a gamble in a crowded field, but AT&T is betting that its telecom savviness will carry the day over the traditionalists.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   AT&T Digital Life Home Security and Automation Available to Homeowners in March
  All-Digital, Internet-Based Nationwide Platform Equips Consumers to Monitor, Protect and Manage Homes from Smartphones, Tablets or PCs
  Dallas, Texas, January 07, 2013
  Turn down the thermostat at home without leaving the office, catch live video of your pets with your smartphone, or lock the back door from the other side of town. Whether you're concerned about intruders, want to check in on your loved ones or pets, or simply want to monitor your energy use, AT&T Digital LifeSM gives consumers control to secure and manage their homes from virtually anywhere.
  AT&T* today announced plans to commercially launch AT&T Digital Life in eight markets in March. A unique, all-digital, wireless-based home security and automation service, AT&T Digital Life equips customers with control of their homes from a smartphone, tablet or PC – regardless of wireless carrier or broadband provider.
  AT&T Digital Life provides new growth opportunity for AT&T. Industry observers indicate that home security has the potential to grow significantly over the next several years.
  "The home security and automation market is about to expand significantly," said Roger Entner, Founder and Lead Analyst of Recon Analytics. "As the capabilities and usability of home automation solutions are dramatically improving, installation becoming easier, the value proposition is becoming a lot more attractive to consumers. Not only can consumers protect their home against intruders, but with these new solutions they can save energy, keep an eye on what is going on in their home even when they are away and protect against costly accidents in their home."
  Through dedicated monitoring centers staffed 24/7, professionals will respond to emergencies and alert police and fire authorities, along with customers, with precise details on where the event inside the home occurred. With its state-of-the-art, user-friendly application, customers can easily customize a security and automation package based on their individual needs, and will have the ability to manage and control their services by setting up programs and alerts.
  "AT&T Digital Life is a game-changing wireless centric home security and automation experience with its unique integration and an intuitive app to control every feature from your smartphone, tablet or PC," said Kevin Petersen, senior vice president, AT&T Digital Life. "Combined with AT&T's wireless network and unparalleled distribution channels, Digital Life will offer exciting new innovation. We can't wait to get it into the hands of our customers."
  Digital Life offers a simple purchasing process with several options. Customers may experience the services inside an AT&T company-owned retail store before making a purchase, order through a dedicated call center representative, visit att.com/digitallife, or schedule an appointment with an in-home sales consultant. Digital Life also features simple installation because it is an all-wireless system, eliminating the need for hard wiring.
  With up to 50 additional market rollouts planned in 2013, AT&T Digital Life features a robust lineup of wirelessly enabled devices, including:
  Cameras  Window/door sensors  Smoke, carbon monoxide, motion and glass break sensors  Door locks  Thermostats  Moisture detection and water shut-off  Appliance and lighting controls
  The Digital Life control panel, built by Cisco, is UL certified and will run AT&T's all-digital, all wireless home security and automation platform.
  "As a company committed to the Internet of Everything, Cisco is proud to work with AT&T on this revolutionary new service," said Joe Chow, vice president and general manager, connected devices, Cisco Service Provider Video Technology Group. "The unique combination of wireless technologies working together for Digital Life represents the future of in-home communications. The software framework incorporated into the platform allows AT&T and Cisco to expand and manage the lifecycle of new services under the Digital Life banner."
  Digital Life is intuitive and easy to set up, customize and navigate. Regardless of the user's age or experience with technology, managing the service is effortless, from simple device control to robust home automation. Accessed through your smartphone, tablet or PC, and regardless of wireless carrier or broadband provider, the Digital Life application was designed to be as simple and effortless as possible. It is compatible with most operating systems, including Android, iOS, and Windows.
  Digital Life Security and Automation Solutions
  Digital Life makes it easy for customers to buy, select and extend the features that fit their needs. Customers can select from basic home security with the Simple Security package to total home automation with the Smart Security package.
  Customers who select the smart security package can add the following home automation packages.
  Video Package: View live video from inside and outside of the home  Energy Package: Control appliances, lighting and HVAC for convenience and energy efficiency  Door Package: Invite a pet sitter or repairman in remotely with automated door locks, or check to see whether your garage door is open or closed  Water Packages: Detect water leaks before damage occurs, or, shut off water at the main water source if a leak is detected  "We're offering consumers a new experience in how they try, buy and experience home security and automation," said Petersen. "Unlike other services in the market, we've designed a service that lets the customer customize their experience, from purchase to services selected to controlling these services through the app on the device of their choice."
  The initial installation of Digital Life will be handled by a professional. Digital Life offers customers the option to add the services they want, or subtract the services they decide aren't needed.
  For the complete array of AT&T offerings, visit www.att.com. To learn more about Digital Life availability, visit www.att.com/digitallife.
  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
 
