
  Longing to get back into the EV game after your MINI E got sent back to the mothership? If you didn't hop on the BMW Group's other electric trial, the 1 Series-based ActiveE, how about giving a shake to a car from its rival in Ingolstadt? At the TED2012 conference, Audi just confirmed prior plans to lease its electrified hatchback, the A3 e-tron. Just like last time we espied it, the electric city-dweller will have a top speed of 90MPH and rather languid 0-60 sprint of eleven seconds. No word on price, though, but those serious on joining the pilot will have to call San Francisco, Los Angeles, Washington DC or Denver home. That quartet of locales represents a diverse range of climates, which it'll use to gleam important real-world data for future e-tron endeavors. We're not entirely sure how we feel about possibly paying to be a transportation guinea-pig, but can you really say no to those red-lined rims? Us neither. Catch them in a video form alongside PR after the break.
      

 

    Show full PR text  Audi at TED2012 Announces U.S. Introduction of A3 e-tron Electric Vehicle Pilot Program  - Audi battery-electric vehicle in-market program debuts in U.S. - Research-based A3 e-tron pilot program to serve as a learning tool for next-gen Audi EV applications world wide - At TED, Audi engages attendees in a progressive conversation about urban mobility and "The City 2.0" with the A3 e-tron and Audi A2 concept vehicle  Audi today announced the battery-electric Audi A3 e-tron pilot program in the U.S. to define a progressive e-mobility driver experience for premium car buyers. Audi made the announcement of the engineering-based pilot program for the A3 e-tron today at TED2012 in Long Beach, Calif., where Audi is presenting a vision for the role transportation will play in the world's increasingly congested urban centers of the future.  The A3 e-tron pilot program marks the first step by Audi into the expanding U.S. electric vehicle landscape, which is a central component of the discussion expected at the Audi Social Space at TED2012.  At TED2012, Audi intends to spark a progressive dialogue about the role transportation will play in the global megacities of the future. The Audi Social Space will present a variety of perspectives on this topic on touch-screen video installations allowing attendees to pose new mobility scenarios for future urban spaces and contribute in real time to Audi's live Twitter feed through the #TEDAudi hashtag.  Elements of Audi balanced mobility initiatives will provide a backdrop for the interactive Social Space and spark conversation on future urban mobility and how to achieve CO2 neutrality across the mobility chain. Initiatives include: the lightweight A2 concept EV that features technology built specifically for the megacity of the future, like traffic-friendly piloted drive technologies for stop-and-go congestion; the Audi e-gas project, which utilizes offshore wind turbines to generate clean power for the production of electricity, hydrogen and methane; and futuristic cityscapes designed by partner architects of the Audi Urban Future Initiative.  Audi A3 e-tron, a global debut Adding a new electric dimension to driving performance, the Audi A3 e-tron pilot program will allow Audi to identify challenges and opportunities with plug-in vehicles as progressive luxury car buyers become increasingly receptive to EV technology. By studying e-tron use across multiple geographical regions, Audi will monitor the effect of climate conditions, driving patterns and energy performance and use insight gained in the final development of future EV technology applications.  The A3 e-tron pilot program will take place in the San Francisco, Los Angeles, Washington D.C., and Denver markets.  "As part of the long-range Audi corporate goal of moving toward CO2-neutral mobility, there will be e-tron plug-in vehicle products exhibiting all of the performance and design attributes Audi drivers have come to expect," said Johan de Nysschen, President, Audi of America. "Audi is committed to refining Audi e-tron technology and we expect our plug-in vehicles to become a significant choice for our buyers within a growing line of advanced, efficient Audi powertrains over the coming years."  With the A3 e-tron pilot program Audi engineers and technical experts will explore EVs in a real world setting and monitor in real-time how e-tron technology operates in everyday scenarios. The pilot will run throughout the year and provide actionable feedback and telematics data to Audi engineering teams in the U.S. and Germany. This approach follows the Audi philosophy of engineering innovation by introducing fully developed alternative technology to ensure no compromises are needed by Audi owners.  "The A3 e-tron pilot program serves as an important innovation platform for Audi to develop greater insight into electric vehicles and how American driving conditions affect use of the progressive technology in everyday life," said Jeff Curry, e-mobility and sustainability strategy lead at Audi of America. "We will integrate the data generated from this program into the launch of a range of Audi e-tron models for American drivers."  The e-tron name indicates that an advanced electrified power train with a plug-in capability is onboard. As a core philosophy of e-tron, Audi engineers are researching e-tron power concepts tailored to different vehicle types and driving needs including full battery-electric (BEV), plug-in hybrid (PHEV) and extended range electric (EREV) versions. The goal is to have the right product for the market at the right time – the best solution for the individual requirements of Audi customers. Audi e-tron becomes the latest entry to Audi's stable of ingredient technologies, including Audi ultra lightweight construction, Audi TDI® clean diesel, Audi connect™ navigation and infotainment and Audi's signature quattro® all-wheel drive.  Based on the award-winning Audi A3, currently sold to U.S. consumers in gasoline-powered and clean diesel TDI configurations, the Audi A3 e-tron features a fully electric powertrain with a 26kw lithium-ion battery, and zero driving emissions. Providing a sporty driving dynamic, Audi A3 e-tron has 199 lb-ft torque, a battery range of approximately 90 miles and a top speed of 90 mph all while retaining the full interior space and versatility of the A3.  Audi also is working on standardizing peripheral technologies that have to be taken into consideration for wide spread EV adoption and use, including driving the establishment in 2011 of common global standards for charging. As part of the pilot program, Audi will develop its network of infrastructure partners, test advanced services and create partnerships that will be central to providing the premium Audi experience for e-tron buyers.  For more information on the Audi A3 e-tron, including video clips and photos, please visit audiusanews.com.  About TED TED is a nonprofit organization devoted to Ideas Worth Spreading. Started as a four-day conference in California 25 years ago, TED has grown to support those world-changing ideas with multiple initiatives. The annual TED Conference invites the world's leading thinkers and doers to speak for 18 minutes. Their talks are then made available, free, at TED.com. TED speakers have included Bill Gates, Al Gore, Jane Goodall, Elizabeth Gilbert, Sir Richard Branson, Nandan Nilekani, Philippe Starck, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Isabel Allende and former UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown. The annual TED Conference takes place each spring in Long Beach, California, along with the TEDActive simulcast in Palm Springs; the annual TEDGlobal conference is held each summer in Edinburgh, Scotland.  TED's media initiatives include TED.com, where new TEDTalks are posted daily, the Open Translation Project, which provides subtitles and interactive transcripts as well as the ability for any TEDTalk to be translated by volunteers worldwide, and TEDBooks, short e-books by speakers that elaborate on a single idea originally presented on TED's stage. TED has established the annual TED Prize, where exceptional individuals with a wish to change the world are given the opportunity to put their wishes into action; TEDx, which offers individuals or groups a way to host local, self-organized events around the world, and the TED Fellows program, helping world-changing innovators from around the globe to become part of the TED community and, with its help, amplify the impact of their remarkable projects and activities.  Follow TED on Twitter at http://twitter.com/TEDTalks, or on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/TED  ABOUT AUDI Audi of America, Inc. and its U.S. dealers offer a full line of German-engineered luxury vehicles. AUDI AG is among the most successful luxury automotive brands globally. Audi was a top-performing luxury brand in Europe during 2011, and broke all-time company sales records in the U.S. Through 2016, AUDI AG will invest about $17 billion on new products and technologies. Visit www.audiusa.com or www.audiusanews.com for more information regarding Audi vehicle and business issues.
 