
 


	The Internationale Automobil-Ausstellung (IAA) Frankfurt looms on the horizon, meaning its time for another round of bodacious concept cars we want, but sadly can never have. We've already seen BMW's entry and now it's Audi's turn to show off an electric city-dweller. Dubbed the "Urban Concept," this latest e-tron is made of carbon fiber reinforced plastic and wields a door contraption that'll put Lambos to shame -- assuming it ever makes it to market. And it just might, seeing as our friends over at Autoblog caught it slumming around Berlin in prototype garb. We'll hear more from Ingolstadt come September, but in the meantime more sketches and snaps of the development mule await you at the source links below.
 

    			Show full PR text  The Audi urban concept – a completely new kind of concept car  					An innovative urban concept car with 1+1 seats 					Sleek cockpit made from CFRP, free-standing wheels with protective plates 					Elaborate suspension, compact electric drive system for sporty performance 			Audi is once again opening up new horizons: the Audi urban concept is a 1+1-seat, ultra-light car for congested urban spaces. The technical study does not fit under any of the conventional categories – the Audi urban concept combines elements of a racing car, a fun car and an urban car into one radical new concept. 			The Audi urban concept is not based on any previous model – its development is solely oriented on the strict principles of lightweight construction, efficiency and reduction. The result is a concept car with no unnecessary weight, and one that concentrates on the pure essence of sporty motion. 			The Audi urban concept has a sleek body. The wheels are free-standing, their surrounding protective plates feature blinking strips of LED lights. The highly concentrated look of the technical study, with its forward-urging lines, is dynamic and emotional – it lends Audi's design language a completely new impetus.			On board there is room for two people, their position slightly staggered and at a sporty, low level. All controls and materials are subject to the dictates of ultra-lightweight construction in order to ensure they convey a completely unique, sensory allure. The driver can adjust the steering wheel and pedals to his own body measurements. Entry to the car is via the tailgate. The roof is designed to be maneuverable and slides to the rear to open. 			The technology in the Audi urban concept reflects the full capabilities of the brand, especially when it comes to ultra-lightweight construction. The cockpit consists of carbon fiber-reinforced polymer, which integrates the undercarriage of both seats. The Audi urban concept rolls on wheels with a 21-inch diameter. 			Two e-tron electric motors provide the propulsion – providing the ultra-light Audi urban concept with the ability to accelerate powerfully. A lithium-ion battery supplies the energy – ideal for extended city tours. 
 