
 If a vehicle outfitted with Audi Connect has found its way into your garage, T-Mobile has a pair of new data plans for you to consider. Dropping $450 nets car owners 30 months of "full data services" to power the infotainment system, which packs features including Google Earth, real-time Sirius XM Traffic info and even WiFi for up to eight devices. Drivers who aren't in the market for such a long term commitment can pony up $30 every month instead. Hit the jump for the full press release from Audi and the UnCarrier.



  Show full PR text   Audi and T-Mobile partner to launch the industry's most competitively priced in-vehicle data plan   New plan offers real-time content and secure Internet access for  as little as $15 per month   HERNDON, Va., April 4, 2013 – Audi of America and T-Mobile USA, Inc. today announced a new data plan that will provide Audi drivers with in-vehicle connectivity at a fraction of the cost of its competitors' plans.   With the new data plan, Audi owners can obtain real-time news, weather and fuel prices, access to Google Earth™ and Google Voice™ Local Search and retrieve information conveniently and securely over Wi-Fi through the award-winning Audi connect® infotainment and navigation system for as little as $15 per month. Passengers in models featuring Audi connect can enjoy broadband connectivity for up to eight devices.   A leading national customer satisfaction survey showed that Audi buyers rank the Audi connect service as the second largest factor behind their purchase decision – just behind design and ahead of engine performance. Today, with the new data plan pricing, Audi and T-Mobile enable even more Audi drivers and their passengers to access high-speed data services on the go.   "Audi and T-Mobile worked closely to develop the new pricing plan based on extensive research and feedback from both dealers and customers," said Anupam Malhotra, Senior Manager, Connected Vehicle, Audi of America. "The T-Mobile-powered Audi connect service delivers unmatched connectivity to our customers at a rate that will turn their Audi into the ultimate mobile device. This plan will help move us toward the goal of one million connected Audi vehicles on the road worldwide by 2015."   "Customers want to have the wireless experience they want when they want it – at home, at work, or in their car. Through our partnership with Audi, customers can now access award-winning in-vehicle service and virtually unlimited data access for as little as $15 per month," said Rusty Lhamon, Director of M2M at T-Mobile.   Audi was the first global auto manufacturer to offer factory-fitted in-vehicle Wi-Fi connectivity with the launch of Audi connect in 2011. With Audi connect, drivers and their passengers have a true view of their route with Google Earth and real-time Sirius XM® Traffic information via enhancements to the Audi MMI Navigation plus system. Audi connect also features real-time localized weather, news and fuel prices; Google Voice Local Search for detailed information about travel destinations, such as restaurant or hotel hours, pricing and customer reviews; and the myAudi Destination feature, which allows users to log on to Google Earth from virtually any location in the U.S. and download up to 50 destinations to the vehicle.   With the plan announced today, new and existing owners of cars equipped with Audi connect can pay $450 at any time to receive full data services over 30 months, a plan equaling just $15 per month or less if the Audi owner enjoyed the six-month free trial period included at purchase. Alternatively, for $30 per month, customers may also choose a month-to-month Audi connect service plan.   Customers with an existing Audi connect subscription plan can sign up at the dealership or through www.myaudiconnect.com. For more information, please visit www.audiusa.com/audiconnect.
 
