
 

If you've made the switch to watching movies delivered via the internet instead of disc, one of the things that you'll usually give up is interactive special features, but Fox is turning that trend around with its latest repackaging of Avatar. The iTunes Extras Special Edition of the movie goes on sale Tuesday and includes "Green Screen X-Ray" features letting viewers deconstruct the extensive special effects during 17 scenes as they watch, as well as an original screenplay from director James Cameron, his scriptment, and a gallery of 1,700 images. You can get an idea of how the X-ray feature works from the images here and a trailer (included after the break), but at $20 for an HD copy, we figure it will be just the most dedicated fans taking a trip back to Pandora before the 3D Blu-ray is freed from exclusivity next year.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AVATAR BREAKS NEW DIGITAL GROUND WITH iTUNES EXTRAS SPECIAL EDITION 		New Interactive Features Take Fans Deeper into Pandora than Ever Before   		LOS ANGELES (Dec. 16, 2011) – Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and Lightstorm Entertainment announce AVATAR available digitally with first-of-its-kind interactive features in the "AVATAR iTunes Extras Special Edition" beginning on Tuesday, December 20. "AVATAR iTunes Extras Special Edition" lets fans deconstruct some of the movie's most memorable scenes to reveal how James Cameron applied special effects to create the breathtaking world of Pandora. "AVATAR iTunes Extras Special Edition" will be available at www.iTunes.com/Avatar for pre-order starting today, December 16 for $19.99 HD/$14.99 SD.   		Fans can experience the global box office sensation like never before as they control scene deconstructions in simultaneous views. This new feature will also enable consumers to interact with the performance capture and visual effects levels in 17 of the film's scenes. For the first time ever, Green Screen X-ray gives users an interactive look through the visual effects levels to see the original green screen footage behind a pivotal scene.   		"Digital platforms like iTunes usher in new ways to interact with and watch movies like AVATAR," said Aubrey Freeborn, Senior Vice President of Marketing and Product Management for Worldwide VOD and Electronic Sell-Through, Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment. "These new interactive features enhance the experience and encourage digital ownership."   		"AVATAR iTunes Extras Special Edition" also features an original screenplay by James Cameron, Cameron's scriptment (a novella with some scenes broken out into dialogue), a gallery of 1,700 images and more.   		AVATAR, the Oscar and Golden Globe winning epic, is the highest-grossing film of all time, generating nearly $2.8 billion in worldwide box office. AVATAR is also the top-selling Blu-ray disc of all time.     
 