
With the release of iOS 7 comes a parade of app refreshes, and one of the participants is Photo Editor by Aviary. Unlike past updates that only add extra features to the mix, this one includes a full interface revamp to complement the platform. Its devs also made it easier to blow money on filters and stickers in one go by collating everything you can buy in-app in the new supply shop. Add that to the fact that the app's been translated to more languages (Arabic, Turkish, Thai and Bahasa Indonesia) and now comes with a simpler sharing tool, and you'll see why it could reach new audiences and make some cash in the process. You'll automatically get Aviary's update with iOS 7, but hit the source link below if you've yet to give the app a whirl.



Show full PR textPhoto Editor by Aviary for iOS 7... Available Today!
Come and get it! Photo Editor by Aviary has been completely remade, specifically for iOS 7, and is available for iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad today!
We've fully embraced Apple's gorgeous new OS to make your photo editing experience fast, fun and more delightful than ever before.If you're new to Aviary – welcome! You can download Photo Editor by Aviary for free from the App Store right now.

If you're one of 20 million people who already have Aviary's app installed on your Apple device, we can't thank you enough for your continued support and feedback! You should automatically get the latest version of Photo Editor by Aviary when you update to iOS 7.

The new app gives you all the fantastic photo editing capabilities you've come to expect from Aviary... but with an incredible number of updates and enhancements, including:

All-new interface! We've completely redesigned the look'n'feel to be fully optimized for iOS 7. It's crisp, clear, beautiful and fluid, while making sure that the most important things – your photos – are at the very heart of the whole experience.

Introducing the Supply Shop! We've made it super-easy to find all of Aviary's awesome Photo Filters, Frames and Sticker Packs in one place at the Supply Shop. We're continually introducing new content packs to the Supply Shop which will make your photos look amazing. Be sure to check it out!

Aviary's gone global! We've always translated our app for people in English, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Simplified Chinese and Traditional Chinese. Now, it's also available in Arabic, Turkish, Thai and Bahasa Indonesia! You can also now seamlessly share your edited photos on the largest social networks all around the globe – including Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, Tencent Weibo and Sina Weibo.

We couldn't be more excited to share the all-new Photo Editor by Aviary with you. Let us know what you think!


