
 

We've seen some rather inventive USB chargers in our time, but surprisingly few have managed to make charging while traveling a painless process. Aviiq's new Portable Charging Station, on the other hand, has threatened to make the outside world a more welcoming place when it comes to juicing up. Acting as a sort of USB hub in a bag, this little black travel sleeve lets you pack and power three USB devices -- even an iPad -- with one outlet. What's more, the station allows for easy syncing by way of a retractable USB port. So $80 ain't cheap, and it won't cook up pork and beans while you sing Camptown Races, but if you're willing to shell out a little extra scratch for a practical USB travel charger, you can get your hands on one at the source link below. Full PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AViiQ Portable Charging Station, the Ultimate Travel Charger Now Available		26 Jul 2011 		Innovative 3+1 USB travel charging hub and sleeve eliminates tangles and cords 		SANTA ANA, Calif – July 26, 2011 – AViiQ, the award-winning mobile electronics accessory and design company specializing in solutions for on-the-go users, announces the availability of the AViiQ Portable Charging Station, the revolutionary travel sleeve that charges three USB devices at the same time using only one power outlet and eliminates hassles caused by tangles and carrying multiple chargers. 		Designed with convenience in mind, the AViiQ Portable Charging Station features multiple internal and external pockets to keep device-specific cables neat and organized. Small enough to fit in a purse, laptop bag or backpack, the travel sleeve measures 10"x5"x1.5" and weighs less than 1 lb, making it perfect for travelers who desire versatility and portability. 		"The number of chargers and gadgets we travel with has increased dramatically, and it isn't unthinkable to travel with a cell phone, headset, iPad, camera, projector, or even more," says Alan Yeung, Co-Founder of AViiQ. "The AViiQ Portable Charging Station eliminates and consolidates all those chargers into one ultra-portable, elegant sleeve." 		In addition to charging devices with different power requirements, including the iPad which requires 10 watts, a specialized data port allows for easy syncing and data backup while charging. The AViiQ Portable Charging Station is made with high quality nylon fabric and ABS plastic for their superior strength and shock absorption qualities, making it durable enough for even the most demanding travelers. 		The AViiQ Portable Charging Station comes with 30 day money back 100% satisfaction guarantee. It is available for $79.99 and can be purchased directly at www.AViiQ.com 		Additional Specs 		Dimensions: 10" x 5" x 1.5"		Weight: Less than 1 lb		Material: ABS Plastic & Nylon Fabric		Warranty: 3 years
 