
 
It's officially too late to send a gift basket now, but to celebrate our 2nd anniversary we'vebeen giving you the presents during seven days of giveaways. We did a Slingbox, RAZRwire, mPack P800, Squeezebox, MDA, and a SDA. Somepretty sweet prizes if you ask us (well, maybe not the RAZRwire), but today being our last day, well, we had to blowout the candles just right. So how would you like an Alienware Area-51 3550? We thought so. How do you win it? Bake usa cake! Yes, we're serious.

It's pretty simple. You bake us agadget-shaped or Engadget-themed cake, send us a picture (or pictures), and the winner (as judged by theeditors of Engadget) picks up an AlienwareArea-51 3550, courtesy of Intel and Alienware. Here are the specs:

Space Black chasis
Intel dual core 940 CPU
2GB dual-channel RAM
500GB hard drive
256MB GeForce6800GS video
Dual NTSC Tuners
Creative Sound Blaster X-Fi 7.1 surround
16xDual Layer DVD burner
10-in-1 card reader


One runner up willalso receive a Squeezebox Wireless! Five more contestants will each win an Engadget t-shirt.A few things:

No photoshops. Seriously, we shouldn't have to explain this one. Take lots ofpictures -- be able to prove it's your cake, and that it's real!
Contests are open to anyone,anywhere. Unless you work for Engadget or Weblogs, Inc.
Enter by dropping your picturesof your cake in comments, or email your pictures in to engadget (at) gmail (dot) com, subject "Birthday cake"(no quotes).
Yes, even professional bakers are allowed to enter, so let's see somecreativity! Best cake (as judged by Engadget) wins!
Monitor, keyboard, mouse, and other peripheralswill not be included.
Please give Alienware a four week turnaround time to build your new Area-513550.
You've got until 11:59PM  EST Monday the 13th to enter yourcake.

Best of luck to everyone and thanks for all of your support for these past two years!P.S. If you want to mail us the cake when you're done, please ensure it's poison and razor-blade free first,ok? Thanks!Yesterday's winner: Jason!Congratulations, Jason!
      

 