
 Bang & Olufsen already offers headphones, and it has the B&O Play line to serve a mobile-oriented world. Wouldn't it be nice if the two categories mixed? As of today, they do. The B&O Play H3 in-ears and H6 over-ears apply that Danish love of aluminum and leather to the kind of headphones you'd want to pack with your MP3 player or smartphone. The H3 carries 10.8mm drivers, a mini bass port and a 20Hz to 16kHz range in a unibody shape that should hold up to exercise; the slightly more stationary H6 over-ears sport 40mm drivers and a wider 20Hz to 22kHz range. Both have primarily iOS-oriented in-line mics and remotes, although the H6 alone has Monster-sourced daisy chaining support to share tunes with others. Don't expect a significant break in B&O's premium pricing just because they're B&O Play-branded headsets, however. The H3 and H6 will respectively cost €249 and €399 when they hit some retail stores in May, and US pricing isn't likely to be much cheaper.



  Show full PR text   B&O PLAY Launches Two New Sets of Headphones that Make Your Music Sound Better
  B&O PLAY challenges the limits of technology with the launch of two new sets of headphones, to present a sound experience tailored for a life on the move. BeoPlay H3 is a superior and comfortable in-ear headphone for people in action, while BeoPlay H6 is a super soft, flexible over-ear headphone. Common for both sets of headphones is a sound performance that takes audio to another level. The headphones combine quality craftsmanship with enduring materials and use the latest technology to make music on the go sound better.
  B&O PLAY by BANG & OLUFSEN builds on core values of craftsmanship and technology for a new type of contemporary products, which deliver excellent high-quality music experiences and are optimized for a life on the move. Now, B&O PLAY launches BeoPlay H3 in-ear headphones and BeoPlay H6 over-ear headphones using state of the art technology to reproduce the original sound material as authentically as possible while you are on the go. Henrik Taudorf Lorensen, VP of B&O PLAY says: "A wide range of headphones on the market today compromise on quality and sound performance. In the making of BeoPlay H3 and H6, we've worked with professional sound technicians and studio musicians, to offer people a pristine sound experience in a package that is a delight to wear".
  Best in class audio performance
  To get the best possible sound experience, B&O PLAY conducted extensive studies in the shape and curves of the human ear to find suitable geometries that minimise sound leakage and reveal all the fine details in the music at any given volume level.
  BeoPlay H6 offers a truly natural and authentic sound performance with focus on getting a clear midrange and a balanced bass and treble performance. BeoPlay H6 is designed around 40 mm custom designed drivers with neodymium magnets that are perfectly angled to get the best distance and sound direction into the ears. BeoPlay H6 features an internal bass port to deliver a well-balanced bass performance in a closed headphone design.
  BeoPlay H3 features a custom-designed 10,8 mm driver and the new Micro Bass Port for a dynamic and balanced full tone sound design. The structural rigidity of the unibody aluminium body provides acoustic precision for a clear musical experience. Together with the 23 ventilation holes, BeoPlay H3 is tuned to deliver an unstrained open sound stage.
  Craft in craftsmanship
  The main structural elements of BeoPlay H3 and H6 are made of anodized high-grade aluminium. With the long history of material excellence in aluminium, B&O PLAY is able to construct BeoPlay H3 and H6 to be surprisingly light as well as robust and scratch-resistant. The housing of BeoPlay H3 is milled from a single block of high-grade solid aluminium. BeoPlay H6 has anodized aluminium on the adjustable slider arm and cover plate to complete the design with a final vibrant touch.
  B&O PLAY has collaborated with Danish industrial designer Jakob Wagner in the shaping of BeoPlay H3 and H6. Wagner is both trained as a mechanical engineer and industrial designer which make him skilled in all practical stages of the design process. With the new headphones, B&O PLAY and Jakob Wagner has created two unique products that are designed for music, crafted with high quality materials that are durable and long-lasting.
  Price for H3 EUR 249 and H6 EUR 399. Available at, Bang & Olufsen stores, the B&O PLAY online store (beoplay.com), selected Apple retail stores, Apple Online, selected design and department stores, from May 2013.
 
