
 Americans love a good bargain -- especially, when it's a twofer. Barnes and Noble, arguably the only real competitor to Amazon's Kindle juggernaut, has just announced a promotion to get as many of its Nook readers into consumers' hands as possible. Starting March 24th and running until the end of the month, consumers that purchase the Nook HD+ online, in-store or at select big box retailers will also be given a free Nook Simple Touch. The limited promotion comes hot on the heels of rumors that B&N would start to de-emphasize hardware production for the Nook line in favor of its content services; a rumor the company publicly shot down. Still, there's no denying e-reader market share's been an uphill battle for B&N, even if the segment is seeing marginal year-over-year increases. Numbers aside, if you've been holding out on joining the digital reading fray because of cost, now's the time to make the switch.



  Show full PR text    March 22, 2013 01:16 PM Eastern Daylight Time Barnes & Noble Announces NOOK® HD+ Special Limited Time Offer: Purchase the Critically Acclaimed NOOK HD+ and Get a FREE NOOK Simple Touch™
   Everything That Customers Want in a Full HD Tablet Plus a FREE NOOK Simple Touch E Ink® Reader, a $79 Value

   NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--NOOK Media LLC, a subsidiary of Barnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS), the leading retailer of content, digital media and educational products, today announced that customers who purchase a NOOK HD+ between March 24, 2013, and March 31, 2013, will receive a free NOOK Simple Touch E Ink reader, a $79 value. This special limited time offer is available at all the nearly 700 Barnes & Noble retail stores nationwide, hundreds of Barnes & Noble College Bookstores and online at www.nook.com. The offer is also available between March 24, 2013, and March 30, 2013, through other leading retailers offering NOOK® products, including Walmart.com, Target and Best Buy. This is the perfect way to experience all that NOOK has to offer, combining NOOK HD+, the lightest full 9-inch HD tablet ever invented, with a free NOOK Simple Touch, the highly acclaimed and easy-to-use E Ink reader.

   "By offering a free NOOK Simple Touch with the purchase of NOOK HD+, customers can fully experience all that the expansive NOOK Store™ of more than 3 million titles has to offer"

   NOOK HD+ delivers extraordinary experiences in the areas that tablet owners use most. The reading experience is unmatched, offering beautifully rendered text, magazines in spectacular HD and lightning fast page turns. The fully laminated display reduces glare and provides excellent viewing angles, perfect for personal or shared viewing. At only 18.2 ounces (515 grams), NOOK HD+ is the lightest full HD tablet ever invented and features great battery life and expandable memory for even more storage. NOOK HD+ is available for $269 (16GB) and $299 (32GB), and is now an even better value with a free NOOK Simple Touch E Ink reader, a $79 value.

   NOOK HD+ is packed full with great tablet features, including:

   NOOK Video™: Delivers a growing and diverse catalog of favorite HD and standard movies and TV shows rendered in spectacular color and stunning definition from major studios and content providers including Lionsgate, MGM and Paramount Pictures.

    NOOK Apps™: Features many of the most popular and bestselling top 100 app titles for tablets, including Angry Birds, Temple Run: Brave and Words with Friends, along with thousands of other popular apps and games.

    NOOK Profiles™: A personalized experience that instantly transforms the device in hand to any family member's very own tablet so only they can see their own content.

    NOOK Channels™: A pioneering recommendation system that provides an easy way to discover new titles by theme.

    The ability to sync the last page read across NOOK devices and apps so customers don't lose their place.

    A stunning full HD 1920x1280 display for rich color and deep contrast.

    A powerful 1.5Ghz dual-core processor and built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.

   NOOK Simple Touch is the perfect device for customers seeking a simple, easy-to-use, dedicated reading experience on an ultra-light, portable 6-inch reader with an advanced E Ink Pearl display and the longest-lasting battery life of up to 2 months on a single charge. With a simple tap to the 6-inch touchscreen, it's intuitive and easy to navigate, shop and read. Customers can look up words, highlight passages, adjust the font size and style or search by typing on the responsive on-screen keyboard that appears only when a customer needs it. The paper-like E Ink display features crisp, clear text that's great for reading anywhere, even in bright sunlight. This award-winning device is normally available for only $79, but for a limited time comes free with the purchase of NOOK HD+.

   Customers can visit www.nook.com or visit the NOOK Digital Shops™ and displays in any of Barnes & Noble's nearly 700 bookstores for more information. Barnes & Noble offers Always Free NOOK Support in all of its neighborhood bookstores, with more than 35,000 NOOKsellers across the country ready to assist customers with setting up their NOOK devices or choosing their next great read.

 
