
 Barnes & Noble must want no corner of Britain untouched by Nooks. Following its planned bookstore invasion, the American company is bringing both the Nook Simple Touch and its GlowLight cousin to Sainsbury's and Waitrose supermarkets, as well as Dixons Retail-owned chains Currys and PC World. When the e-readers arrive at the outlets' respective online and retail stores from early October onwards, they'll bring the Nook's reach to nearly 2,000 UK sales points -- not quite ubiquitous coverage, but more than double what we saw in our most recent check. About all that's left is to offer the Android tablets that have been conspicuously missing from Barnes & Noble's initial expansion strategy.



  Show full PR text   Barnes & Noble Continues its UK Expansion by Partnering with Dixons Retail to Offer Award-Winning NOOK® Products
  Leading Specialist in Electrical Goods to Offer NOOK Reading Experience and Products to its Millions of UK Customers Through PC World and Currys Stores and Online this Autumn
  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Barnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS), the world's largest bookseller and leading retailer of content, digital media and educational products, today announced a partnership with Dixons Retail, owner of the UK's leading electrical retailers PC World and Currys. The partnership further fortifies Barnes & Noble's recently announced expansion into the UK and its commitment to offer UK shoppers the best reading experience through its range of award-winning NOOK products.
  "We are very excited to work with a company that, just like Barnes & Noble, puts its customers at the forefront of its business," said Jamie Iannone, President of Digital Products at Barnes & Noble. "We look forward to bringing our highly sought-after line of NOOK reading devices and content to PC World and Currys customers this autumn."
  Currys and PC World will feature Barnes & Noble's NOOK products in over 600 stores across the country and online (at www.currys.co.uk and www.pcworld.co.uk). They will offer the award-winning NOOK Simple Touch™ and NOOK Simple Touch with GlowLight™.
  Dean Kramer, Head Of Category – Computing Hardware, Currys and PC World, said: "It's vital, as the UK's leading electrical retailers, that we continually offer the right mix of products to meet customers' needs. Portable tablet and eReading technology is becoming ever more popular so we are thrilled to be stocking Barnes & Noble's stylish, high quality NOOK products; we believe they will be one of the must-have gadgets for Christmas."
  Barnes & Noble's partnership with Dixons Retail further highlights the bookseller's commitment to offer the best choice in reading and tablet products, and outstanding customer service for UK consumers. The partnership will expand the expected number of NOOK UK retail outlets to more than 1,600, and include various leading online retail platforms offering NOOK products and the company's soon to launch online storefront, www.nook.co.uk.
  Barnes & Noble is a leader in creating innovative products that provide the best digital reading and entertainment experience for millions of customers today. The company is on track to offer the award-winning NOOK Simple Touch, the lightweight, easiest-to-use Reader with extra-long battery life and a paper-like display, and NOOK Simple Touch with GlowLight, which adds an evenly distributed and adjustable light that's perfect for reading in the dark.
  Both of these critically-acclaimed devices will be available online and to experience first-hand in-store in early October. Commercial terms of the partnership have not been disclosed.
  Barnes & Noble Partners with Sainsbury's To Offer Award-Winning NOOK® Products
  Leading UK Retailer Will Offer NOOK As Exclusive Reading Devices to Millions of Customers
  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Barnes & Noble, Inc. today announced a partnership with Sainsbury's to bring the award-winning NOOK reading experience and digital products as the exclusive eReader to over 270 Sainsbury's stores across the UK and online.
  "Barnes & Noble is committed to delivering the popular NOOK reading experience to the UK, beginning this autumn," said Jamie Iannone, President of Digital Products at Barnes & Noble. "We're proud to have NOOK in Sainsbury's portfolio, and to showcase our award-winning products with one of the UK's most trusted retailers."
  Sainsbury's New Technology Buyer, Lindsay Evans commented: "We aim to offer our customers new and exciting products. The NOOK provides avid readers with a portable, easy way to consume literature. General merchandise represents a significant part of our business' growth and it was critically important to us we found a device partner who understands the specific needs of our customers. The NOOK's high quality and intuitive features make it perfect for the whole family to enjoy."
  The Barnes & Noble partnership with Sainsbury's is another demonstration of the bookseller's commitment to offer the best choice in reading and tablet products, and outstanding customer service for UK consumers. The Sainsbury's commitment to their community and customers make them a great partner in bringing new reading experiences to customers throughout the UK.
  Barnes & Noble is a leader in creating innovative products that provide the best digital reading and entertainment experience for millions of customers today. The company is on track to offer two of its most popular products through leading UK retailers starting this autumn, in time for the holiday shopping season: the award-winning NOOK Simple Touch, the lightweight, easiest-to-use Reader with extra-long battery life and a paper-like display, and NOOK Simple Touch GlowLight, which adds an evenly distributed and adjustable light that's perfect for reading in the dark.
  Further product, pricing and availability details will be announced in the coming weeks. Commercial terms of the partnership have not been disclosed.
  Barnes & Noble Partners with Waitrose To Offer Award-Winning NOOK® Products
  Leading UK Supermarket to Offer NOOK Reading Experience and Products to Millions of Customers Across the Country in Shops and Online this Autumn
  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Barnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS), the world's largest bookseller and leading retailer of content, digital media and educational products, today announced a partnership with the major United Kingdom (UK) supermarket chain Waitrose. Through this partnership, the award-winning NOOK reading experience and digital products will be offered to Waitrose customers in selected stores across the UK.
  "We have enormous respect for Waitrose as great established company in the UK and think it is a perfect brand fit for NOOK," said Jamie Iannone, President of Digital Products at Barnes & Noble. "We look forward to joining forces with them to bring our award winning eReading and tablet products to their millions of discerning customers."
  Waitrose will be featuring the NOOK portfolio of products including the award-winning NOOK Simple Touch and NOOK Simple Touch GlowLight.
  As part of the John Lewis partnership, Waitrose will bring NOOK to selected branches in the UK.
  Brent Collins, Buyer, Electricals of Waitrose said: "We believe our customers will love NOOK products due to their adaptability, design and content."
  Barnes & Noble's partnerships with Waitrose is another demonstration of the bookseller's commitment to offer the best choice in reading and tablet products and outstanding customer service for UK consumers. It will expand the expected number of UK retail outlets to nearly 2,000, and include various leading online retail platforms offering NOOK products and the company's soon to launch online storefront, www.nook.co.uk.
  The award-winning NOOK Simple Touch and NOOK Simple Touch GlowLight devices will be available online and to experience first-hand in-store in early October. Further product pricing and availability details will be announced in the coming weeks. Commercial terms of the partnership have not been disclosed.
 
