
 

If multiple batmobiles, a bat-usb stick, and a bat-puter aren't enough to convince you Bruce Wayne is a vain egomaniac, maybe these Batman: Arkham City batarang controllers will give you pause. In traditional bat-gadget fashion, these Xbox 360 and Ps3 controllers boast a cheesy bat-aesthetic (such as bat-start and select / back buttons), dual rumble motors, comfort-soft grips, and seven switchable splashes of LED color. Although physically the two controllers are pretty similar, Ol' Bats seems to favor the PlayStation 3, giving its controller not only the popular Xbox 360 button / analog layout, but an internal battery, detachable charging cable, and batman-themed USB RF receiver, to boot. The Xbox variant? A dated, wired affair -- but hey, at least it's got that Xbox guide button, right? The controllers will be on display next week at E3, courtesy of Power-A, and will hit store shelves when Batman: Arkham City ships in October, leaving you little excuse not to be geared up and ready when the bat-phone rings. Hit the break for the official press release... or, you know, have Robin do it for you.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Fight Crime in Batman: Arkham City This Fall with the Batarang Controller from POWER A 		Batarang Controller for PLAYSTATION速 3 and Xbox 360速 to Debut at E3 EXPO June 7-9 in Los Angeles 		E3 Expo 2011		June 03, 2011 09:03 AM Eastern Daylight Time 		LOS ANGELES--(EON: Enhanced Online News)--E3 EXPO, Booth #5522 West Hall -- POWER A today announced it will debut official Batarang controllers for Batman Arkham City at the E3 Expo June 7-9 in Los Angeles. Developed by Rocksteady Studios and based on DC Comics' core Batman property, Batman: Arkham City is published worldwide by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. Batman fans will revel in the authenticity of the design of the Batarang, while gamers will appreciate the comfort and performance that POWER A brings to these one-of-a-kind controllers. The Batarang controller for PLAYSTATION速 3 is wireless with reverse analog sticks and a Batman-themed USB RF receiver. The Batarang controller for Xbox 360速 is a wired controller with a 10-foot / 3m inline release cable. 		"POWER A understands the high quality standard that partnering with a legendary brand such as Batman demands," said John Moore, vice president of product development and marketing for POWER A. "We are committed to making the best possible controller to amplify the experience players have with Batman: Arkham City, and the Batarang does just that. It's not just a great Batman collectible, but a high-performance controller worthy of the Batman: Arkham City game." 		The Batman: Arkham City Batarang controller will be available at key retailers in conjunction with the game's October 18, 2011 North American release date.
 