
  When Jada invited us up to its private show room at Toy Fair to do "battle" we were a little concerned -- last we checked we'd done nothing to offend the company. Thankfully, it just wanted to challenge us to a duel with its Battle Machines line of RC toys. A couple of years back the company debuted the line with a pair of cars that drive around playing laser tag with each other. Then, last year, things got really interesting Air vs. Land -- an RC chopper and turret that duked it for IR-equipped superiority. This year the company is expanding the line with Battle Quads (laser-wielding ATVs complete with rider) and Battle Heli (essentially one half of the Air vs. Land package, but programmed to perform rotor-powered dog fights). Neither of the new products were quite ready for a test run yet, but we did give the turret and copter combo a try... just for the heck of it. The toys are complete with blaster noises and, when shot down, an internal IC takes over the helicopter and does a little aerial death dance. After about 15 minutes we finally started to get the hang of piloting the aircraft but, by then, the Jada rep had us plummeting from the sky. Both the Battle Heli and the Battle Quads should be hitting shelves in August for $30 and $60, respectively. Check out the video and PR after the break.


Edgar Alvarez contributed to this report.


    Show full PR text  THE MISSION RAGES ON WITH "BATTLE MACHINES"  Battle Machines from Jada Toys is the only line of R/C vehicles that combines the action of vehicle play with interactive laser combat play. Carrying on the tradition of the Battle Machines line, Jada launches two cool new sets including high powered, heavily armored vehicles, designed in post-apocalyptic styling, with the ability to take on any adversary.  BATTLE HELI Battle Machines has taken laser combat to the skies. The conflict began with Air vs. Land, and continues with Battle Heli, a Battle Helicopter with realistic lights and sounds that is an easy-to-fly helicopter with five direction flying and gyro stabilization. With two Battle Heli helicopters, kids can go head-to-head against each other in the air creating an epic conflict. Battle Machines Battle Heli is for ages 8+ and will be available in August with a SRP of $29.99.  BATTLE QUADS Ground skirmishes take on a new dimension with Battle Quads, the speedy, full-function radio control vehicles with lights and sounds. Each Battle Quads set comes with two Quad Bikes and two controllers. These four-wheeled armored vehicles are ready for laser combat and are available in red, blue, yellow and green. The Battle Quads are for ages 6+ and will be available in August with a SRP of $59.99.  Now in its eleventh year, Jada Toys, Inc. is a privately held, leading manufacturer of authentically licensed and highly stylized die-cast collectibles, radio control vehicles, and toys. Popular brands produced by Jada include Cutie Pops, Battle Machines, Lopro, Big Time Muscle, Hero Patrol, Badge City Heat, and Big Time 4-Wheelin'. Jada has also acquired major toy licenses for top brands such as Marvel Entertainment, Guitar Hero, Speed Racer and Hello Kitty. Jada Toys' products can be found at major retailers and hobby stores worldwide. For more information about Jada Toys and all its innovative products, please visit www.jadatoys.com
 