
 If you need something to keep the shorties quiet while you're emptying the drinks cabinet, then Lovefilm is where you need to be. The Amazon-owned streaming service has nabbed a big chunk of the BBC's kids TV output, including The Sarah Jane Adventures, Tracey Beaker, Balamory and, yes, even Teletubbies. The episodes haven't found their way into the instant service just yet, but we can't imagine it'll keep you waiting too long. If, like Laa-Laa and Po, you prefer everything to be said twice, you can check out the press release below.



  Show full PR text   Kids' Favourites from the BBC Come to Amazon's LOVEFiLM
  LONDON, March 22, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- LOVEFiLM.com, an Amazon company, has today announced an exciting deal with BBC Worldwide that will see a fantastic range of award-winning children's content featuring some of the broadcaster's most memorable characters become available for members to stream instantly.

   The new agreement will bring critically-acclaimed shows with unforgettable characters to junior viewers' fingertips, enabling them to watch TV online, including The Story of Tracy Beaker, pre-school favourite Teletubbies, family drama The Sarah Jane Adventures and the interactive live-action show Balamory.

   The addition of this premium content boosts an already impressive library of TV shows for younger viewers on LOVEFiLM Instant, following content deals with market leaders such as Aardman, eOne, DHX Media, Disney and Saban Brands.

   Chris Bird, Director of Film Strategy at LOVEFiLM, said:

   "We are committed to bringing the very best in children's TV to our ever-increasing audience, and are thrilled to have secured even more brilliant BBC shows for members to enjoy. We have got some of the best family programming around and look forward to entertaining fans of all ages."

   Lisa Rousseau, BBC Worldwide's Head of UK, Ireland and Pan European Television Sales, added:

   "More parents are turning to LOVEFiLM's kids' TV offering as a form of quality family entertainment than ever before and we are excited that this new agreement will see our award-winning children's shows available to subscribers. This is a natural partnership for us and follows on from our previous content deals."

 
