
 

The wonders of iPlayer are no longer the reserve of the Brits. As of today, iPad users in 11 other countries across Europe can subscribe to the service for €7 per month or €50 per year. That equates to $10 -- just about living up to the Beeb's promised maximum price. The subscription grants access to a wealth of TV classics, like Fawlty Towers and Only Fools & Horses, as well as unwitting comedies like EastEnders. Some sort of motoring series by the name of Top Gear is also available, for those who like cars and middle-aged men in pointy shoes. The app will allow for downloading as well as streaming, and marks a "pilot phase" for the service, which should hopefully reach the former colonial outpost of America before too long. Full details in the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  BBC Worldwide Brings Best of British TV to European Fans with the BBC iPlayer App for iPad 		LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--BBC Worldwide, the BBC's commercial arm, is from today offering audiences across Europe the first-ever opportunity to delve into a digital mix of classic and contemporary British TV programming with the launch of the new global BBC iPlayer app, available exclusively on iPad www.bbc.com/iplayer/tv. 		"Based on the soaring success of the UK's pioneering BBC iPlayer service, the app combines technical innovation with editorial creativity to transport users to the heart of the BBC and British television and on a journey of discovery, wherever and whenever they want" 		This brand-new video on demand subscription service, launching first in Western Europe, will deliver the award-winning programming upon which the BBC's history and heritage is built, to viewers in 11 markets. For €6.99 a month (or €49.99 for an annual subscription), the app will initially be available in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, The Republic of Ireland, The Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland. 		Subscribers will be able to access a rich selection of captivating English language programmes across eight genres: News Specials & Documentaries; Entertainment; Drama; Comedy; Science & Nature; Family & Kids; Music & Culture and Lifestyle. The app brings together classic comedies such as Fawlty Towers and Only Fools & Horses, thrilling drama series Sherlock, Luther and much loved Pride and Prejudice, recent episodes of the UK's famous soap EastEnders, global motoring phenomenon Top Gear, the Doctor Who archive and the adorable children's show Charlie & Lola. Hours of new programming will be added to the service every week, along with imaginatively themed collections curated from the BBC's extensive archive, including David Attenborough and the story of the Royal Family. 		Designed to be intuitive and easy-to-use, a key feature of the app allows subscribers both to stream and to download shows for offline viewing for when they can't access Wi-Fi connectivity. The stylish and simple interface enables users to build a personal library of shows. 		John Smith CEO BBC Worldwide said: "I'm proud that we're one of the first international broadcasters to give access to our shows in a perfectly packaged app. This launch is an important route to market in our strategy of pursuing multiple platforms for our programmes and brands, taking British programmes to new digital audiences around the world. Today marks a significant next step on a digital journey that has already seen 12m BBC Worldwide apps downloaded across brands as diverse as Lonely Planet and Good Food." 		"Based on the soaring success of the UK's pioneering BBC iPlayer service, the app combines technical innovation with editorial creativity to transport users to the heart of the BBC and British television and on a journey of discovery, wherever and whenever they want," said Jana Bennett, BBC Worldwide President of Worldwide Networks and Global iPlayer "We have an exciting vision for what this service could become and will develop it based on feedback from within the markets." 		The global BBC iPlayer App is now available to download for free from the App Store in the launch markets on iPad at www.bbc.com/iplayer/tv. 		The global version of the BBC iPlayer app launched today marks the start of a pilot phase for the service.
 