
 Beats snapped up music service MOG back in summer for a tidy sum of $14 million. Since then it's been unclear on what it intended to do with it. Today we learn that Dre and Iovine have appointed former Topspin boss Ian Rogers as CEO, specifically with the task of taking what was MOG, and developing it into a new project that the firm has dubbed "Daisy." In a conference, the team assured that they will use everything Beats has (we assume that's its brand strength and marketing ability) to push Daisy through to what is, to be fair, a very busy market space. Trent Reznor is also involved in the project, acting as a connection between the artist and the consumer. Rogers will reportedly remain involved with Topspin in an executive chairman capacity. Interestingly the firm says it will be focusing on mobile first, with iOS, Android and Windows Phone 8 all getting some love. No details on the business model, though it's been suggested that a $10 per month subscription service could be on the cards. MOG is still staying as MOG for now, but any new branding and product direction will be sure to be outlined soon. Full press release after the break.



  Show full PR text   BEATS ELECTRONICS ANNOUNCES NEW MUSIC SERVICE, PROJECT DAISY; NAMES IAN ROGERS CEO
  Respected Music Industry Vet Joins Jimmy Iovine, Luke Wood and Trent Reznor to Usher in New Digital Music Experience
  Beats Electronics invests in Topspin to create artist opportunities inside Daisy
  SANTA MONICA - January 10, 2013- Beats Electronics LLC (Beats), the leading audio brand co-founded by legendary artist and producer Dr. Dre and Interscope Geffen A&M Chairman Jimmy Iovine, today announced a new music service, project "Daisy" and the appointment of Ian Rogers as CEO. Rogers will oversee the direction, vision and strategy for project "Daisy" and the talented team developing the service.
  Simultaneously, Rogerswill step into the leadership position at MOG, the streaming music service Beats acquired in 2012.
  Effective immediately,Rogers reports directly to Beats CEO and Co-founder Jimmy Iovine and President and COO Luke Wood and is based out of the company's Santa Monica headquarters. The new service will benefit from the creative vision of music icon and newly appointed Chief Creative Officer Trent Reznor and is set to launch in late 2013 as a stand-alone company under the Beats Electronics umbrella.
  "What's missing from the digital music landscape is a cultural context," said Iovine. "We need to bring an emotional connection back to the act of music discovery. With Trent and now Ian we have the right team in place to do it".
  Most recently the CEO of Topspin and formerly the GM of Yahoo! Music, Rogers brings to Beats both technology and music industry savvy, along with a unique understanding of the music business from the artist's point of view. His track record for successfully joining product, promotion, and direct-to-consumer marketing sets a compelling stage for both MOG and "Daisy" within the burgeoning and competitive digital music space.
  "For Ian, innovation and disruption is a concept he has mastered- he is able to instinctively identify the opportunities for growth and improvement that exist in the digital music space better than anyone I have ever met and he knows what it takes to win," said Luke Wood. "There is no one better for this role."
  Rogers, firmly committed to championing the artist community, will remain on the Topspin board of directors and serve as Executive Chairman. Beats Electronics will make a substantial investment in Topspin to help create meaningful business opportunities for artists inside project "Daisy". For more information visit Topspin's blog at http://topspinmedia.com/blog.
  "After years of fighting and uncertainty, it's now undeniable all the world's music will be available on every device by just clicking play. However, the current streaming experiences aren't good enough. They aren't good enough for fans, whoneed it to be easier to find music they love. And they aren't good enough for artists, who want to grow their audiences and make money." said Rogers. "This is the opportunity I've been working toward my entire career. "
 
