
 As enraptured as we might be with Behringer's monolithic iNuke Boom, the 8-foot-long frame and 10,000W output don't really lend themselves to a home installation. Not unless we want to produce false positives on the USGS' earthquake meters, anyway. We're happy to say the company has addressed that domestic oversight with the iNuke Boom Junior. The iOS- and iPod-capable speaker dock won't launch nearly as large-scale an audio assault at 50W, but it's also less than a twentieth of the size of its parent; no one will need a forklift to get Junior into the living room. In spite of the less than ego-inflating dimensions, the smaller system appears balanced with discrete woofer, tweeter and mid-range components as well as separate bass control. We just wish it was slightly more futureproof. As glad as we are that the iNuke Boom Junior's $180 price at Costco spares us from raiding our retirement funds, the speaker is still using a pre-Lightning dock connector and lacks any wireless audio -- iPhone 5 owners will have to turn to an adapter or the aux-in jack. At least we won't be violating any local noise laws in the process.




    Show full PR text   BEHRINGER SCALES DOWN THE WORLD'S LARGEST, LOUDEST, 10,000 WATT DOCK TO FIT INTO YOUR HOME: INTRODUCING THE iNUKE BOOM JUNIOR
  OCTOBER GIVEAWAYS: BEHRINGER will giveaway one iNuke BOOM Junior every weekday during October on Facebook
  SEATTLE – October 4, 2012 – BEHRINGER, an award-winning innovator of professional audio and music equipment, has scaled down the world's largest and loudest dock ever, the 10,000-Watt iNuke BOOM, and is bringing it to you. We're excited to reveal the iNuke BOOM Junior - a 1:23 scale model of its powerful predecessor, packed with professional grade components and a 3-way active speaker design. Now, anyone can have the chance to sit back or rock out while enjoying concert quality sound at home with thumping lows, sizzling highs and crystal-clear sound at any level.
  "We wanted to shake up the whole i-device docking world with a product that brings home some of the magic of the original 10,000-Watt iNuke BOOM," says Costa Lakoumentas, BEHRINGER Senior Vice President of Marketing. "If you make a little room for the iNuke BOOM Junior in your home it will pay you back with stunning sound clarity and enough bass to throw a party; or get thrown out of your apartment."
  If you "Love" the iNuke BOOM Junior, then "Like" Behringer on Facebook for a chance to win your very own! Behringer is celebrating the launch by giving away one iNuke BOOM Junior each weekday in October. Entering is easy-- the giveaway hopefuls only need to visit www.facebook.com/inukeboom, and hit the "Like" button to be entered in the daily drawings.
  The iNuke BOOM Junior is available online exclusively at www.costco.com as item number 671770 (or search for iNuke) for $179.99 including Shipping and Handling, and it is compatible with almost all mobile phones or media players with its included cables.
  Specifications:
  • Indicators: Standby LED indicator, Line-In LED indicator, Aux LED indicator, iPod LED indicator  • Connectivity: iPod dock, Line In, Aux In (stereo RCA connectors), Video Out (video)  • iPhone / iPod / iPad compatibility: iPhone 4 / 4S / 3GS / 3G, iPod Touch / Nano / Classic (5th Generation), iPad 1 / 2* / The New iPad*  • Batteries (remote control): 1 x CR2025 (included)  • Speakers: tweeter (2 x 1"), midrange speaker (2 x 3"), woofer (1 x 5.25")  • Power consumption: max. 50 W  • Power requirement: 110-240 V AC, 50/60 Hz  • Weight: 10.6 lbs. (4.8 kg)  • Dimensions (H x W x D): 8.7 x 16.5 x 9.8" (220 x 420 x 250 mm)
  
 