
 
 At $399, this is a lot pricier than the $249 Matrox DS1 Thunderbolt dock we saw yesterday. That said, it'll bring superior connectivity when it arrives in September -- not least because Belkin has improved on the design it previously showed off at CES. There's Thunderbolt in and out to allow full 10Gbps daisy-chaining of further peripherals, alongside FireWire 800, Gigabit Ethernet, Mini DisplayPort (with included HDMI adapter) and audio in and out. As of the update, eSATA and three USB 3.0 ports have also been added to that healthy list.



  Show full PR text   Belkin Unveils Upgraded New Thunderbolt™ Express Dock and Thunderbolt Cable at 2012 Computex
   TAIPEI - June 4, 2012- Belkin today announced new upgrades to its upcoming Thunderbolt Express Dock, as well as a new Thunderbolt cable for both Mac and PC users. Belkin's new Thunderbolt offerings will be on display at the Intel Exhibition Showcase, Booth M410, at Computex, June 5-9, 2012.

   The Thunderbolt Express Dock is a first-of-its-kind docking solution for both PC and Mac users that enables instant access to up to nine desktop peripherals with one cable, and provides an easy transition from a desktop workstation to a mobile device. Upgrades to the latest version of the dock include the addition of three USB 3.0 ports, instead of USB 2.0 ports, as well as an eSata port.

   Both the dock and Belkin's new one-meter Thunderbolt cable take advantage of Thunderbolt's 10 gigabits-per-second, bidirectional speeds, and enable users to transfer full HD movies in 30 seconds and view online content at Gigabit Ethernet speeds. They also allow for daisy-chaining of up to six additional Thunderbolt enabled products and support high-resolution displays.

   "As more hardware companies announce plans to incorporate Intel's Thunderbolt technology into their products, we aim to create quality accessories that take advantage of Thunderbolt's blazing fast speeds and other benefits," said Martin Avilla, general manager of Belkin's core business unit. "Over the past few months, we have really listened to our end users and created a one-meter cable and refined the dock to make it an even better desktop solution, which we believe will make Belkin a go-to provider for Thunderbolt accessories when they launch in the summer and fall."

   "Thunderbolt delivers unparalleled performance, flexibility, and simplicity to personal computing," said Jason Ziller, Intel's director of Thunderbolt marketing. "Products like Belkin's Thunderbolt Express Dock and cable help highlight what Thunderbolt makes possible."

 AVAILABILITY    The Belkin Thunderbolt Cable will be available in July 2012 at select retailers worldwide and on Belkin.com. The Belkin Thunderbolt Express Dock will be available worldwide in September 2012.  Belkin Thunderbolt Express Dock (F4U055) - $399.99

   Instant access to up to 9 desktop devices with one cable  Cable-clutter-free design for a cleaner workstation  Compatible with both Mac and PC  Connectors: 3 USB 3.0 ports  1 FireWire 800 port  1 Gigabit Ethernet port  1 eSata port  1 3.5mm-out port  1 3.5mm-in port  2 Thunderbolt ports (1 upstream, 1 downstream for daisy-chaining up to 6 additional Thunderbolt devices)  Includes MiniDP to HDMI Adapter

  Belkin Thunderbolt™ Cable (F2CD031-1M) - $44.99

   Convenient 3ft/1m length  Video/Data transfer rates of up to 10Gbps bi-directionally  Dual channel design  Provides up to 10 Watts of power  Daisy-chaining capabilities of up to six devices

 
