
 
 Sure, Belkin's WeMo technology handles outlets and such with an iOS companion app, but now the company is looking to leverage the system with household appliances. WeMo Smart will allow companies to leverage Belkin's apps and existing tech to add new features to their various wares. At CES, a partnership with Jarden Consumer Solutions (JCS) -- the outfit behind brands like Mr. Coffee, Sunbeam, Crock-Pot and more -- has just been announced that will bring the home automation tech to remotely program an monitor small appliances. From the looks of it, you'll be able to turn off the coffee pot after you get to the office should you leave your house in a frenzy. The first WeMo outfitted products are set to arrive later in the year.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text    Belkin Announces WeMo SMART, a Platform to Bring Internet Connectivity to Everyday Devices

   Housewares Industry Leader Jarden Consumer Solutions the First to Leverage WeMo SMART Platform

   LAS VEGAS – January 8, 2013 – Belkin, creator of people-inspired technology products, today announced WeMo SMART, a program designed to bring its simple, Wi-Fi based WeMo home automation platform to new brands and a wider variety of household devices. Jarden Consumer Solutions ("JCS"), a leading provider of global consumer products brands, will be the first company to partner with WeMo SMART for its Sunbeam®, Crock-Pot®, Mr. Coffee® and Oster® brands.

   "As smart devices become more prolific in the home, we wanted to give companies an easy way to reinvigorate traditional product categories with internet connectivity and the ability to integrate with other household devices and cloud-based services," said Jamie Elgie, senior director of product management at Belkin. "JCS is the perfect initial partner because its brands make the exact kind of products our fans have been asking us to integrate with WeMo."

   The WeMo SMART platform allows companies such as JCS to bring smart capabilities to their products quickly and without developing a separate hub, by using Belkin's existing WeMo technology, app development and cloud server. Mature product lines can be quickly brought into the smart home realm, giving them increased functionality and the ability to be controlled via smartphones and tablets.

   "With Belkin's focus on the tablet and smartphone market and recent successes in creating simple solutions for Internet connected devices, it is a natural partner to help some of JCS's best-known brands create appliances that people can use to make their homes smarter, safer and more flexible," said Alejandro Pena, senior vice president and general manager, Global Appliances.

   By expanding WeMo to other known brands and appliances, Belkin gives people the ability to remotely monitor, program or interact with more devices in their homes from anywhere. The first JCS products with WeMo will launch later this year, with additional product offerings through 2014.

 
