
 
 At CES 2012, Belkin outed its WeMo line of home automation products with the Home Control Switch and Motion Sensor with a Baby Monitor tacked on in October. This year in Las Vegas, the company adds a Light Switch to the family. When paired with an iOS device, WiFi router and your home's existing wiring, the Light Switch can be used to control lights from anywhere -- including scheduling -- via the WeMo app. Additionally, Belkin has announced that Android compatibility will be available with the device launches this summer or shortly thereafter. Ice Cream Sandwich is the minimum OS requirement, and beta testing is set to begin next month for Samsung Galaxy S III users.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text    ﻿﻿Belkin Expands WeMo Family with New Product and Platform Updates at the 2013 International CES

   WeMo Light Switch and Android Availability to Launch in 2013

   LAS VEGAS – January 6, 2013 – Building on the success of its WeMo launch in 2012, Belkin today announced two new developments to the WeMo brand of simple, ingenious home control products, the WeMo Light Switch and Android compatibility. The WeMo Light Switch, an Internet connected light switch to remotely control wired household lighting from anywhere, will debut at CES Unveiled on January 6 at the Mandalay Bay and will be on display at the 2013 International CES at Belkin's booth, South Hall #30651, from January 8-11.

   "Android compatibility and the ability to control full household lighting – beyond just lamps – have been the top two requests from WeMo fans since we first launched, so we are excited to announce both at the 2013 CES," said Jamie Elgie, senior director of product management at Belkin. "Both are a natural extension of the WeMo line and help expand on our promise of delivering the peace of mind that comes from knowing you can control and monitor your home from wherever you are, whenever you want."

   The WeMo Light Switch replaces an existing light switch and connects into your home's existing electrical wiring. Once in place, you can turn a full bank of lights on and off from anywhere, put them on a schedule, or use other WeMo or online triggers to control them through a smartphone or tablet. The WeMo Light Switch is controlled via the same free WeMo app as the WeMo Switch and Motion, conveniently keeping track of all of your WeMo-enabled devices from one app.

   WeMo Light Switch  - Controls your homes wired lights from your iOS device  - Works with any Wi-Fi router and any Apple iPod touch, iPhone, or iPad with iOS v5 or higher  - Will be compatible with Android 4.0 or higher shortly after launch  - Operates over Wi-Fi and mobile internet, at home and away  - Works with the free WeMo app

   Aside from growing the WeMo product family in 2013, Belkin also will launch compatibility for Android devices later this year. As the market share for Android continues to grow and more consumers demand it, expanding WeMo capabilities to Android devices is a necessary step for the continued success and evolution of the WeMo brand. In February, Belkin will launch an open Beta test for users of the Samsung Galaxy SIII and other leading devices and follow with an official launch for the WeMo Switch, WeMo Motion and WeMo Light Switch in the summer.

   Availability  The WeMo Light Switch will be available in summer 2013 and will feature Android compatibility at or shortly after launch. Compatibility with Android 4.0 or higher for current WeMo products including the WeMo Switch and WeMo Motion will launch this summer as well. To sign up for more information or alerts about WeMo, please visit www.Belkin.com/WeMo.

 
