
 

If you're looking to control the electrical outlets of your home or apartment via your newfangled smartphone, Belkin has you covered. The company has unveiled the first two products of its newly launched WeMo line of home automation technology. The WeMo Home Control Switch is a plug that doubles as a programmable on / off for any device from lighting to coffee pots. Alongside the outlet power control, the WeMo Motion Sensor will detect your movement and when used in tandem with the Home Control Switch, can be programmed to power on electrical items in reaction to motion. Both pieces of the Belkin kit require the free WeMo app and will set you back $49.99 and $59.99, in order of mention. These two initial products will be available in the US in March, with more devices coming in the Fall.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		BELKIN BRINGS YOUR HOME TO YOUR FINGERTIPS WITH WEMO HOME AUTOMATION SYSTEM 		Simple technology using Wi-Fi® controls devices from anywhere through smartphone, mobile app 		Las Vegas – January 9, 2012 – Belkin today launched WeMo, a line of simple, modular home automation products that allows household electronics to be controlled from anywhere using a mobile app on a smartphone or tablet. Consisting of two initial products, the WeMo Home Control Switch and the WeMo Motion Sensor, WeMo is a customizable, accessible home automation solution designed to simplify home maintenance and bring peace of mind to busy families and individuals on the go. 		WeMo works with a home's existing electrical system and requires only a Wi-Fi® network and free smartphone app to set up and control. Simply plug the WeMo Home Control Switch into any electrical outlet and then plug in any device, such as a lamp, into the WeMo Home Control Switch. Through the free smartphone app, the item then can be turned on or off remotely or scheduled to turn on and off at set times. The second product in the line is the WeMo Motion Sensor, which works with the WeMo Home Control Switch to make your device react to motion. Used together, WeMo can create a home environment that can turn a light on when someone walks in a room, or off when no one is present. 		"Traditional home automation often involves expensive custom installation, but WeMo uses familiar technology to create a plug-and-play solution for controlling gadgets and appliances remotely and is simple enough for the entire family," said Kevin Ashton, general manager for Belkin. "WeMo is designed to make the technical part of life easier, so you have more time to enjoy the spontaneous and organic moments in life that we all cherish. It's home automation for the rest of us." 		WeMo Home Control Switch (F7C027fc) – $49.99		• A plug that becomes a programmable on and off switch for any household device, from fans to lights		• Turns devices on or off from anywhere by using a smartphone		• Creates schedules for devices to turn on or off, and rules based on other sensors connected to Wi-Fi network		• Can work in tandem with the WeMo Motion Sensor, or as a stand-alone product		• Requires free WeMo app 		WeMo Motion Sensor (F7C028fc) –$59.99		• Detects movement, and devices plugged into the WeMo Home Control Switch can be programmed to react to motion		• Requires free WeMo app 		The Home Control Switch and Motion Sensor are just the beginning of a full line of WeMo products designed to create a scalable, customizable system for simple, whole-home management. Future WeMo products still in development will include a remote garage door opener, door lock, lighting controls, and a baby monitor that lets you monitor sounds from your baby's room from anywhere through your Wi-Fi network. 		The Home Control Switch and Motion Sensor will debut at Pepcom's Digital Experience! on January 9, 2012, in Las Vegas. These and prototypes of future WeMo products will also be on display in Belkin's booth, South Hall #30651, at the 2012 International CES, January 10–13, 2012. 		Availability		The WeMo Home Control Switch and WeMo Motion Sensor are the first two products in the WeMo line and will be available in March at major retailers in the United States and online at Amazon.com and Belkin.com. The free WeMo app will be available for download in March. Additional WeMo products will be available starting in fall 2012.
 