
 


	We first caught a glimpse of Belkin's Thunderbolt Express Dock back at IDF. Here at CES, the company has offered more info on the high-speed peripheral -- including an expected Summer 2012 arrival window. The dock features all sorts of added connection potential: three USB 2.0, two Thunderbolt, one FireWire 800, one HDMI, an Ethernet and a 3.5mm audio jack. Lending a hand to your port-deprived MacBook Air or Ultrabook via Thunderbolt, the peripheral offers the expected bi-directional transfer rates up to 10Gbps while keeping with the Apple color scheme. Pricing details aren't expected until closer to the ship date, but for now, take a look at the design render and PR just past the break.

Update: We've just been passed some official images for the Thunderbolt dock. Peep 'em in the gallery below.





  		Show full PR text 		BELKIN PREVIEWS NEW THUNDERBOLT EXPRESS DOCK AT 2012 INTERNATIONAL CES 		LAS VEGAS - January 10, 2011 –– Belkin today unveiled new details about its upcoming Thunderbolt Express Dock. The latest version of Belkin's Thunderbolt Express Dock is currently on display in Belkin's booth, LVCC South Hall #30651, at the 2012 International CES. 		The Belkin Thunderbolt Express Dock enables Macbook and Ultrabook users to instantly access multiple desktop peripherals with one cable. Simultaneously connect to multiple USB devices, watch movies in Full HD 1080p, transfer volumes of data in seconds, and view online content at gigabit Ethernet speeds. The dock provides an easy transition from a desktop workstation to unrestricted mobile productivity. 		"People purchase MacBook Airs and Ultrabooks for ultimate portability, but constantly plugging-in and unplugging numerous cable-connected peripherals is an annoying and time consuming ordeal," said Martin Avilla, general manager of Belkin's Core Business Unit. "The Thunderbolt Express Dock provides a much-needed solution that creates a cleaner, faster, more productive workspace and reliable connectivity to desktop devices and the Internet." 		Belkin Thunderbolt Express Dock - $TBD		• Quickly connect into a desktop workstation and instantly access multiple devices with a single cable		• Adds reliable, gigabit Ethernet connectivity to your laptop		• Includes three USB 2.0 ports, one Firewire 800 port, one HDMI port, one 3.5mm Audio port, one gigabit Ethernet port and two Thunderbolt ports (one upstream and one downstream) for daisy-chaining to another Thunderbolt compatible device.		• Utilizes Thunderbolt Technology for data transfer rates of up to 10Gbps bi-directionally 		Availability		The Belkin Thunderbolt Express Dock will be available in summer 2012 at major retailers across the United States and on Belkin.com. Pricing information will be available closer to the expected launch date.
 