
 


	Hot on the heels of its agreement with MetroPCS, Mobile Content Venture (MCV) is now teaming up with Belkin. The duo will collaborate on new products and application designs for tech that will bring broadcast TV to 120 million existing devices -- and a plethora of new gadgetry, we'd surmise. Live programming will be enabled through MCV's Dyle Mobile TV service which gathers content from 15 major broadcast groups including Fox, NBC and ION Television, just to name a few. Product prototypes are said to be on display this week at CES, and further details on the partnership should be on the way as well.

Update: We got some hands-on time with the setup at CES Unveiled, and spotted the digital TV watching software not only running on an unnamed MetroPCS handset, but on a Belkin dongle-equipped iPad as well. Check out our in-person pics in the gallery.





 		Show full PR text 		Belkin and Mobile Content Venture Team to Enable Mobile Devices to Receive Dyle™ Mobile TV Broadcast Signals 		LAS VEGAS – January 9, 2012 – Belkin, a global leader in consumer electronics solutions and accessories, and Mobile Content Venture (MCV), a joint-venture that operates the Dyle™ Mobile TV service, today announced an agreement that will enable smartphone and tablet users of multiple operating systems to watch live broadcast programming on-the-go through MCV's Dyle Mobile TV. Using broadcast industry standard technology, Belkin and MCV will collaborate on products and application designs for accessories that will help the 120 million devices already in the market receive live TV. 		Dyle Mobile TV is the consumer-facing brand launched by MCV to deliver live mobile television content from 15 major broadcast groups including Pearl LLC (Belo Corp., Cox Media Group, E.W. Scripps Co., Gannett Broadcasting, Hearst Television Inc., Media General Inc., Meredith Corp., Post-Newsweek Stations Inc. and Raycom Media) as well as Fox, ION Television, Univision, Bahakel, Telemundo, and NBC. Equipped with the new Belkin accessories, users with a smartphone or tablet will be able to enjoy live news, sports, and entertainment programming on-the-go through Dyle Mobile TV. At launch, Dyle will be available from more than 72 stations in 32 markets, reaching approximately 50 percent of the U.S. population. 		"MCV's partnership with Belkin means we can address the large, and growing, installed base of smartphone and tablet devices with the Dyle mobile TV technology," said Salil Dalvi and Erik Moreno, co-General Managers of MCV. "This adds to significant progress we have already made in gathering together some of the largest broadcasters in the country and delivering the kind of live programming consumers want to mobile devices via a robust technology platform." 		"At Belkin, we embrace emerging technologies that make connecting to the things you love easier and more accessible, and this partnership with MCV underscores that commitment," said Brian Van Harlingen, Chief Technology Officer of Belkin. "We look forward to unveiling a product in early 2012 that will make live television mobile." 		Additional news surrounding the relationship and product prototypes will be available at The International CES in Las Vegas, January 10-13, at the Belkin booth (#30651) in the South Hall and MCV booth (#13442/#13444) at Central Hall.
 