
 Belkin's line of WeMo products is all about home automation, and its latest addition, the WeMo Baby, lets you listen to the cooing and crying of your offspring from afar. The device is a WiFi-enabled microphone that streams audio of your baby to up to six devices simultaneously -- provided they're running iOS 5 or higher and the free WeMo Baby companion app. That app's powered by Evoz's baby monitoring service and it works over a 3G, 4G, or WiFi connection. So, absentee parents can keep tabs on their bundle of joy whether they're in another room or sneaking a cold one at the pub round the corner. What's the price for such parental freedom? $90 when it goes on sale early next month. Full PR and an app screenshot can be found after the break.



 
  Show full PR text   Belkin Introduces WeMo Baby, The Smartphone Baby Monitor
  Powered by Evoz, WeMo Baby lets you listen to your baby from anywhere on your own device
   PLAYA VISTA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Belkin today launched WeMo Baby, a device that turns any iOS phone or tablet into a digital baby monitor. Powered by Evoz's baby monitoring service, WeMo Baby works over 3G/4G or Wi-Fi® to wirelessly stream high-quality audio from your baby's room to your mobile device no matter your location and without having to carry an additional receiver.

   "Unlike traditional baby monitors, WeMo Baby gives you clear digital sound without range limits, meaning you can check on your baby from places other monitors may not reach, like the backyard or even away from home," said Jamie Elgie, senior director of product management for Belkin. "And because it works using your own device, you don't have to worry about carrying around an additional bulky receiver, which frees up hands and space to make you more productive while baby is sleeping."

   WeMo Baby is a sleek, small device that blends seamlessly into your baby's nursery and sets up with ease. Simply plug in WeMo Baby, download the free WeMo Baby app, and connect to your existing wireless network. WeMo Baby also works with multiple mobile devices, allowing mom, dad and the babysitter to listen in at the same time.

   The free WeMo Baby app powered by Evoz gives you unlimited access to your baby's status with clear digital sound. The app also features an optional upgrade service from Evoz that provides advanced monitoring, cry notifications via text or email, cry history information, and analysis of baby's crying and sleep patterns. The premium service upgrade requires an additional service charge.

   WeMo Baby is the latest addition to Belkin's WeMo line, a family of simple, intuitive products that use your smartphone and Wi-Fi network to control your home from anywhere.

   WeMo Baby (F8J007) - $89.99

   Turns your iOS device into a digital baby monitor. No need to carry a second device  Works with any Wi-Fi router and any Apple iPod touch, iPhone, iPad - iOS v5 or higher  Operates over Wi-Fi and mobile internet, at home and away  Crystal-clear secure digital sound with no interference  Visual and audio indicators  Access from up to six devices simultaneously for remote listening  Free WeMo Baby app  1-year limited warranty

   Availability

   WeMo Baby will be available at Walmart and the Apple Store, as well as online at Amazon, Best Buy.com and Belkin.com starting in early November. The WeMo Baby App is available for download on the App Store. Evoz premium service app upgrade available for $9.99/month or $59.99/year.

 
