
 
 Best Buy started matching prices of online retailers in time for the holidays last year, and now it's set to make the practice permanent in an effort to cure its showroom syndrome and turn window-shopping visitors into paying customers. Come March 3rd, the policy will go into effect for the outfit's website, typical brick and mortar locations, Best Buy mobile shops and even phone orders. Officially dubbed the Low Price Guarantee, the plan will meet prices for all local competitors and a total of 19 online storefronts, including the likes of Amazon, Apple, Staples, NewEgg and Target. Also, the pricing arrangement has been expanded to additional products, but it still doesn't cover on-contract smartphones and other items. While customers might end up saving some coin with the new deal, they'll see the item return period drop from 30 days to 15. By the looks of it, company founder Richard Schulze might be getting his way with plans to save his struggling creation.

 [Image credit: Daniel Oines, Flickr]



  Show full PR text   Best Buy ends 'showrooming' with Low Price Guarantee
  MINNEAPOLIS – February 15, 2013 – Best Buy's Low Price Guarantee hits online and in stores on March 3, signaling the end of "showrooming." Best Buy will price match all local retail competitors and 19 major online competitors in all product categories and on nearly all in-stock products, whenever asked by a customer.
  Best Buy is the only retailer to offer a Low Price Guarantee in addition to having a full range of the latest and greatest devices and services, a sales force dedicated to providing impartial and knowledgeable advice and full support for the life of the product.
  With a Low Price Guarantee, our customers will have the best of both worlds when they shop BestBuy.com or come to a Best Buy store. They will get unbiased service from our Blue Shirts and support for the life of their product while also knowing they have a Low Price Guarantee on nearly every item. This guarantee is available on BestBuy.com, at more than 1,000 Best Buy big box stores, more than 400 Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores in the United States, as well as on the telephone.
  The full Low Price Guarantee policy – including exclusions and the list of online retailers we will match prices from – can be found on BestBuy.com.
 
