
 
Holiday spirit over in Best Buy land must mean "getting rid of old stock by discounting it." The Droid Incredible and Xperia X10 are among the handsets to be featured in the big retailer's December mobile sale, which will involve offering up four free phones each day (one for each carrier) at a price of $0 upfront and subject to the usual two-year agreement. LG's Optimus T and Optimus S will also get their moment in the spotlight this month, though the discount there isn't exactly massive when you consider that the S started life costing $50 on contract. Speaking of S-branded Android phones, wasn't it Best Buy that first leaked out the next Nexus? Now that'd be a holiday offer worth talking about.
      

 

Show full PR textBest Buy® Announces Unprecedented Specials: Free Smart Phones Through DecemberNew campaign offers customers the choice of free smart phones across all four major carriersMINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Best Buy Mobile, the mobile specialty retail unit of Best Buy Co. Inc (NYSE:BBY), today announced that it is giving consumers another reason to celebrate – a holiday event featuring free smart phones. Every day in December, Best Buy Mobile will feature a minimum of four free smart phones (one from each carrier) in all Best Buy stores, in all Best Buy Mobile specialty stores and online at www.BestBuy.com/FreeSmartPhones.Based on the overwhelming success and customer feedback from the Free Phone Fridays campaign in October, Best Buy will feature FREE smart phones every day during the remainder of the holiday shopping season. Examples of smart phones featured include:Droid Incredible by HTC (Verizon)Sony Ericsson Xperia X10 (AT&T)LG Optimus S (Sprint)LG Optimus T (T-Mobile)"We were excited by the amount of consumer interest we received around our 'Free Phone Fridays' promotion in October, so we wanted to do it again only bigger," said Shawn Score, president of Best Buy Mobile. "People want smart phones and we couldn't think of a better way to end the year for our customers than to offer free devices every day in December."The free phones require new or upgrade activation with two-year agreement and minimum quantities will vary by store. There are no price matches and the offer is not valid on prior purchases.
 