
 

Best Buy's just dropped the official details on its iPhone 4 pre-sale, and there are no surprises here. You'll be able to head over to any Best Buy starting tomorrow (that's June 15th) and pre-order up Apple's latest offering for delivery on June 24th. That's the same date Apple gave us so like we said -- no surprises here -- but you can hit up the full press release below if you're into that sort of thing.
      

 

 Show full PR textBest Buy® Launches Pre-Sale Offer for Apple® iPhone™4Starting June 15, Customers Can Reserve an iPhone 4 at Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile Stores NationwideMINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Beginning June 15, Best Buy Mobile, the mobile specialty retail unit of Best Buy Co. Inc (NYSE: BBY), launches its pre-sale of iPhone 4 from Apple. Pre-sale orders can be placed at any Best Buy or Best Buy Mobile standalone store nationwide. The iPhone 4 will land in Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile stores June 24."Adding the iPhone 4 to our stores alongside other great smartphones like the HTC EVO from Sprint and HTC Incredible on Verizon, gives customers a great opportunity to view each side-by-side and get the mobile phone that works best for them."Consumers who purchase the iPhone 4 at Best Buy can avoid dealing with mail-in rebates and get help from a highly-trained staff of specialists at Best Buy Mobile. Combine all of that with a tremendous assortment of accessories and customers can get everything under one roof."Offering the iPhone 4 to consumers is just the latest example of how Best Buy Mobile has become the place to go for the best smartphones. It's exciting to have an opportunity to launch this iconic device with this pre-sale," said Shawn Score, president of Best Buy Mobile. "Adding the iPhone 4 to our stores alongside other great smartphones like the HTC EVO from Sprint and HTC Incredible on Verizon, gives customers a great opportunity to view each side-by-side and get the mobile phone that works best for them."The iPhone 4 key features include:* 16GB and 32GB in both white and black* 9.3MM thick – 25% thinner than existing iPhone* 4X better screen resolution than current iPhone (Retina Display)* Scratch proof glass on front and back of phone* Improved processor (A4)* Quad band HSDPA 7.2* 802.11n WiFi* Dual microphones* 2 cameras (one front facing) with 5MP, LED flash, 5x digital zoom* 720HD video recording at 30fps, tap to focus, built in video editing, one click sharing* Multitasking with new 4.0 software* Micro Sim* 7 hrs of talk time* Video conference calling over WiFiBest Buy Mobile has become a leading destination for smartphone purchases, in part because of the promises the store offers its customers: better choice of phones and networks; impartial, informed advice; straightforward pricing; and someone to be there for the life of the phone.About Best Buy MobileBest Buy Mobile features one of the largest selections of carriers, handsets and accessories available anywhere, as well as a highly-trained staff to help customers make the most of their mobile phones. Best Buy Mobile locations feature more than 90 different handsets from nine carriers, and over 130 accessories. Employees undergo at least 80 hours of intensive training, as well as continuing education on mobile phone technology and trends. Look for your mobile phone solution at Best Buy Mobile locations in every Best Buy store as well as in standalone stores nationwide. For more information about Best Buy Mobile, visit http://www.bestbuy.com/mobile.About Best Buy Co., Inc.With operations in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, Mexico and Turkey, Best Buy is a multinational retailer of technology and entertainment products and services with a commitment to growth and innovation. The Best Buy family of brands and partnerships collectively generates more than $49 billion in annual revenue and includes brands such as Best Buy; Best Buy Mobile; Audiovisions; The Carphone Warehouse; Future Shop; Geek Squad, Jiangsu Five Star; Magnolia Audio Video; Napster; Pacific Sales; The Phone House; and Speakeasy. Approximately 180,000 employees apply their talents to help bring the benefits of these brands to life for customers through retail locations, multiple call centers and Web sites, in-home solutions, product delivery and activities in our communities. Community partnership is central to the way we do business at Best Buy. In fiscal 2010, we donated a combined $25.2 million to improve the vitality of the communities where our employees and customers live and work. For more information about Best Buy, visit www.bestbuy.com.
 