
 
Want a Nexus S this Thursday? Yeah, well, welcome to the club, pal -- you're not alone, so you're going to want to be armed with the right information to figure out your plan of attack. Best Buy has announced the details of how it'll go about selling Samsung's Google-branded monster, and unlike many recent launches, this one is strictly first-come, first-serve -- none of that craziness where you put down $50 in advance to secure your place and get it off the price of the phone on launch day. All stores will be opening at 8AM local time (which is just the normal open time during the holiday season, actually), and online sales will commence at 8AM Eastern Time to coincide with the phone's retail launch on the east coast. You'll be limited to two phones per person -- sorry, eBay scalpers -- and you might want to call ahead or make friends with an employee in the next day or two, because inventory will vary from store to store. What won't vary, though, is demo unit availability: every store that's selling the phone will have a live demo unit to play with while you make your decision. As a refresher, you're looking at $199 on contract, $249.99 with an add-a-line activation, or $529 contract-free; follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textNexus S Lands in All Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile Stores Dec. 16In addition to the in-store launch, online sales – via BestBuy.com – begin at 8 a.m. Eastern time.MINNEAPOLIS, Dec. 13, 2010 – All Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile specialty stores launch Nexus S in-stores and online at BestBuy.com on Thursday, Dec. 16. Nexus S, from Google and Samsung, is the world's first smart phone with Android 2.3, Gingerbread.Here are some important details for the launch of Nexus S:Timing: Online sales of Nexus S begin at 8 a.m. Eastern time to coincide with the opening of Best Buy stores on the East Coast. As a reminder, all Best Buy stores have adjusted their holiday hours to open at 8 a.m.Availability: Nexus S is available in all Best Buy and Best Mobile specialty stores. Exact inventory will vary by store. Nexus S will be sold out on a first-come, first-serve basis with a limit of 2 per customer.Demo phones: All Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile stores will have a Nexus S demo phone on-hand so customers can see and experience the phone.Pricing: The Nexus S is an unlocked phone and can be purchased without contract for $529. The Nexus S can also be purchased for $199 with a TMobile two-year service agreement and qualifying voice and data plan. Nexus S can also be purchased for $249.99 for add-a-line activations.As with all smart phones it sells, Best Buy Mobile will have a full assortment of accessories for Nexus S and offers an array of services aimed at improving the mobile phone buying experience, including:Upgrade Checker: A quick and easy service that gives customers the ability to see when they are eligible for their next phone upgrade. When the upgrade time is nearing, customers receive a complimentary reminder call, e-mail or text message.Walk Out Working™: Free in-store smart phone setup by a Best Buy Mobile Phone Specialist who will sync personal email accounts, set up Bluetooth headsets, transfer contacts and activate other services to allow the customer to leave the store with a fully functional new smart phone.
 