


In case you missed the news earlier this year, Engadget is heading up the 2014 Best of CES Awards! We always look forward to kicking off the year at the country's biggest tech convention, and we're extra stoked to be taking on the role of curating the show's best innovations. In the months leading up to CES 2014, we'll be giving you additional insight into our voting process -- and giving you a chance to cast your own vote for best product -- but first and foremost let's talk submissions. Whether you're an interested company or simply a reader curious about our criteria, you'll find all the info you need below the break.



All interested companies that meet our requirements can submit products for consideration. To be eligible, a product must meet the following criteria:

 Product must be introduced for the first time at CES 2014. Product must fall under at least one of our 14 awards categories (excluding People's Choice). All companies with submitted products must be exhibitors or otherwise have an official presence at CES 2014.Submissions will stay open until 11:59pm EST on the evening of January 5th, before Press Day kicks off on January 6th. Once the submissions list is verified according to the above criteria, a team of Engadget editors will evaluate the products in question, both by viewing them on the floor at CES and thoroughly reviewing the company-provided product information.

All Engadget editors may also nominate products across all categories (excluding People's Choice), and these nominations will be evaluated according to the same standards as all other submissions. We will be judging products according to the following criteria:

 Innovation Design Market appeal FunctionalityOnce all submissions have been reviewed, a team of senior Engadget editors will meet to go through all submitted products, narrowing down the list to 2-4 products per category based on discussion and debate. (We expect this will be a long night!) On January 8th, 2014, we will announce our finalists in a post on Engadget.

After we've announced our Best of CES Awards finalists, our team of senior editors will once again meet to evaluate the entire slate and narrow the selection down to one standout pick per category. All of the winners will be announced on January 9th, 2014 on the Engadget stage live from CES. We'll also run a post announcing all the award winners, and showcase them within the Winners section of the Awards hub.

How to submit your product for CES Awards considerationOnce you've determined your nomination meets the eligibility requirements, send your submission email to bestofces@engadget.com with your full pitch. Please include the following required items for a product to be considered:

 Product name Company name Product description Which of the 14 Awards category/categories your nomination should be considered for -- companies can submit their products for more than one category.Whenever possible, companies should submit the following materials as well:

 Photos Spec sheet(s) Press release(s) Release date PriceOf course, we understand product information may be limited in the lead-up to CES, but the more resources you can provide up front, the better. You can also supplement your initial submission with additional materials once they become available, in one or more follow-up emails to bestofces@engadget.com. We will be honoring all NDAs for embargoed products, so be sure to include any required documentation either alongside your submission, or in advance of your full pitch. It is free to submit products for consideration.

The 14 eligible award categories are as follows:

 Best Startup: The startup showing great sophistication and innovation while also demonstrating a clear path to real-world availability. Eureka Park will be a focus. Best Digital Health and Fitness Product: A product exhibiting the most innovative use of technology to improve users' health and well-being. Example products include smart scales and activity monitors. Best Automotive Electronics Product: Technology related to the ever-advancing science of getting from here to there. Example products include infotainment systems and advances in self-driving technology. Best Audio Product: Technology for overall audio enjoyment. Example products include headphones and media players, along with music-playing apps and services. Best Video Product: This award focuses on home entertainment, with example products including displays, projectors and tuners. Best Software: A piece of software that stands out from the rest. Best Emerging Technology: The product, service or innovation that is blazing a trail in a new category that is rapidly increasing in significance. Best Mobile Technology: The smartphone or tablet that most impresses with its combination of specifications, design and overall ability. Best Gaming Product: The product that best moves forward the broad field of gaming. Example products include game-specific tablets and PCs, videogame consoles, controllers and gaming services. Best Offbeat Product: The product that turns heads on the International CES showfloor without necessarily fitting into any defined product category. This product may not be the best of the best at the show, but it will be one of the most talked-about. Best Kid-Friendly Product: The best device, technology or service intended for younger gadget-lovers. Best Maker-Friendly Technology: This product is geared toward the DIY/maker community. Examples include 3D printers and Arduino-like processing units. Best PC Award: The best laptop or desktop, judged based on its design and specifications. Best of the Best Award: The device, service or technology in any category that stands clearly above the rest, judged based on its innovation and design quality.
