
 
So, here's an interesting one. Intel has yet to officially launch the two newest members of its Core i7 crew, but that little factoid isn't stopping BFG Technologies from doing the honors. Today, the company has introduced its freshest gaming rig, the Phobos, complete with Core i7 950 (Phobos Advanced) and Core i7 975 (Phobos Elite) CPU options. Furthermore, BFG is claiming that these new machines are the first ever to offer one-touch CPU and GPU overclocking, as all that can be handled on the front-mounted touch panel on the tower itself. Heck, there's even an integrated iPhone / iPod dock on the top of this bad boy. The Phobos rigs are yours to order right now starting at $5000 (Advanced) / $8000 (Elite), and the full release is after the break.





BFG Technologies' Phobos, the only gaming system featuring one-touch overclocking, to offer new Intel Core i7 950 & 975 ProcessorsLake Forest, IL – (June 1, 2009) – BFG Technologies®, Inc., the leading North American and European supplier of advanced NVIDIA-based 3D graphics cards, and award-winning power supplies announced today that the Phobos™ Advanced and Elite Editions Gaming/Home Theater System now come standard with Intel's Core i7 950 and 975 processors respectively. The upgraded processors are now the default CPUs for the Phobos Advanced and Elite and are available at no additional charge to customers. "Since first announcing the Phobos we have been committed to offering the best components available in order deliver unbelievable performance," said John Malley, Senior Director of Marketing for BFG Technologies. "Offering these processors is the only logical step for company like ours that is hell bent on building the best systems possible."Being one of the first system builders to offer the new processors is yet another example of that commitment in a long line of achievements for BFG and the Phobos Systems. BFG Phobos firsts include:  First Ever One-Touch CPU & GPU Overclock Functionality The First Touch panel LCD on a High Performance Gaming/Home Theater PC In-Home Concierge Service First iPod/iPhone Dock on a High Performance Gaming/Home Theater PCAvailabilityThe Phobos Systems are available now at www.bfgsystems.com. For more information, including additional configuration options and Phobos FAQs, please visit www.bfgsystems.com.

       

 