
We suppose even if you did buy a custom Jambox speaker done up in Red Sox colors, you wouldn't necessarily cop to it in the comments. As it turns out, though, you wouldn't be alone: more than 70 percent of the people who purchase a Jambox on Jawbone.com choose their own colors for the cap and speaker grille. Given that, Jawbone's decided to do the same thing with the Big Jambox, which you could previously only buy in the stock colors. As with the smaller model, there are over 100 possible combinations, including some permutations only a sports fan could love. As always, too, the personalization has absolutely no bearing on the price: the MSRP for the Big Jambox is still $300.



Show full PR textJAWBONE EXTENDS CUSTOM COLORS TO BIG JAMBOXThe Most Popular Way to Buy a JAMBOX on Jawbone.com, Now Availablefor BIG JAMBOXSAN FRANCISCO – May 15, 2013 – Jawbone® today announced over 100 new custom color combinations for BIG JAMBOX®, the powerful wireless speaker and speakerphone that lets you enjoy all your entertainment – music, movies, games and phone calls – wherever you are, from any smartphone, tablet or mobile device.By popular demand, consumers can now design their own BIG JAMBOX by choosing from a selection of nine grill and 13 cap colors on Jawbone.com. In addition to creating dozens of new color combinations for the iconic BIG JAMBOX, the new shopping experience brings several never-before-seen colors to BIG JAMBOX like Purple, Dark Green, and Crimson Red."Our customers love having the ability to create their own JAMBOX® to match their personal style. It's by far the most popular way to buy a JAMBOX on Jawbone.com, and we're thrilled to bring that selection to BIG JAMBOX," said Travis Bogard, vice president of product management and strategy at Jawbone. "Custom colors are just another example of how Jawbone is dedicated to creating products that are designed for everyday life. Now, BIG JAMBOX can reflect what's important to you – whether it's your fashion sense, favorite sports team, or home décor."Customizable Inside and OutStarting today, every Jawbone speaker – JAMBOX and BIG JAMBOX – is completely customizable, inside and out. Not only can BIG JAMBOX be personalized with apps and new features via Jawbone's industry-first MyTALK® platform, users can also download the free 2.0 software update for BIG JAMBOX, which brings two additional hours of battery life and fewer dropouts and interruptions at greater distances when streaming from iOS 6.1.The nine grill and 13 cap colors bring a new level of customization to BIG JAMBOX and add a colorful twist to its striking core industrial design. Now, you can enjoy incredible sound quality across all media types and genres in a style that reflects your own taste and personal lifestyle.Pricing & AvailabilityBIG JAMBOX is available in custom color combinations starting today for $299.99 on Jawbone.com.

