
 
 Dreaming of turning your HDTV into a George Jetson-style phone booth? If so, California-based electronics firm Biscotti might have what you're looking for. Earlier today the company announced its new XS TV camera, which connects to any modern HDTV via HDMI. Available in March for $300, the set-top receiver features two dual band antennas for WiFi support, as well as an Ethernet port for those who prefer a hardline network connection. Biscotti's new rig also ships with a full QWERTY remote control keyboard, a universal TV mount and a multiport power adapter with international power blades.

 On the software side of things, the XS allows users to record and save video calls / messages via its MyBiscotti cloud services. In addition, the receiver plays nice with Google Talk's video chat, so calls between TVs, tablets and smartphones are a go. However, if you'd like to continue making calls while wearing your leopard-print Snuggie -- worry not! The XS also makes old-fashioned voice calls as well.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Biscotti Inc. Unveils New Biscotti XS and Cloud-based Video Calling Solutions at CES 2013 in Las Vegas
   New Biscotti XS features video conferencing for homes and offices anywhere in the world, providing best-in-class video and connectivity capabilities

   McKinney, TX – Jan. 7, 2012 - Biscotti Inc., a technology leader in high-definition video calling products for the home and business, today announced its plans for CES 2013 in Las Vegas, highlighting the company's newest video calling innovations and solutions for connecting people worldwide. During the four-day show, the company will debut Biscotti XS, the newest member of its line of HDTV-based video calling appliances, and new MyBiscotti services, including video mail, multiparty calling and PSTN interoperability, in LVCC, South Hall 2, Booth MP25458.   Biscotti Inc.'s smart video calling devices and MyBiscotti Cloud Services transform the video calling experience, allowing people to connect in the home, office and enterprise environments. Biscotti is a completely integrated video calling solution that combines high performance low cost hardware, with software and cloud services, making HD quality video calling affordable and available worldwide.   "Biscotti is reinventing the video calling experience," said Dr. Matthew B. Shoemake, CEO and Founder of Biscotti. "Video calling should be just as simple as voice calling. The Biscotti and MyBiscotti Cloud Services we are demonstrating at CES provide our customers with a convenient and comfortable video calling experience, allowing our customers to make and receive video calls as easily as picking up the phone or sending a text."   Biscotti CES 2013 highlights to include:   · Biscotti XS - The new Biscotti XS features hardware and software enhancements including high-performance Wi-Fi, ethernet connectivity, a Multiport Power Adapter with international power blades, keyboard remote control, universal mount and worldwide regulatory approvals:   o High-Performance Wi-Fi - The new Biscotti XS boasts the highest level of Wi-Fi performance of any TV Cam. Biscotti is the first TV Cam to feature dual band, dual antennas and Multiple In/Multiple Out (MIMO) technology for powerful, HD-ready Wi-Fi. This allows reception or transmission over both antennas simultaneously to improve reliability and increase range. Now users enjoy fewer dropped connections and can use Biscotti devices further from a wireless Access Point than with other TV Cams.   o Ethernet Connectivity - The Biscotti XS also offers a wired Ethernet option to help ensure users can stay connected when a Wi-Fi connection is not possible.   o Multiport Power Adapter - Biscotti XS includes a unique Multiport Power Adapter with a single connector and cable to provide an ethernet connection, universal power with international power blades, and an external 3.5mm audio jack for remote microphones offering improved audio capabilities in very large rooms.   o Direct Connectivity to any HDTV - Biscotti XS connects directly to any HDMI port with the supplied HDMI cable without a computer.   o Keyboard Remote Control - An enhanced remote control features a full QWERTY keyboard for easy data entry, navigation and search functions, providing users with a seamless remote solution for use with both the TV and calling device.   o Universal Mount - The Biscotti XS also includes a new universal mount with 330 degree swivel that mounts onto any TV, surface or wall/ceiling.   o Interoperability with Google, SIP and PSTN infrastructure - Biscotti XS works with Biscotti TV Cams, and any computer, smartphone or tablet with Google Video Chat or Android Talk App. Upcoming MyBiscotti Cloud Services features such as SIP and PSTN interoperability will further extend the capabilities of Biscotti XS.   MyBiscotti Cloud Services - With MyBiscotti Cloud Services using Biscotti is even easier. Manage and configure multiple Biscotti, access live images from multiple Biscotti, and record and share time-lapse videos. New and upcoming features include video mail, multiparty calling and PSTN interoperability:   o Video mail – During CES 2013, Biscotti will preview a completely new video mail paradigm. Biscotti records an incoming video call and stores it on the cloud with MyBiscotti Cloud Services. Biscotti can record video mail from any device: smartphone, tablet, PC or other Biscotti. Video mail may be viewed with any web browser by clicking MyBiscotti on biscotti.com  or via automatic e-mail notice. Thus, users can easily access their video mail on any smartphone, tablet or computer making it easy to view video mail where you are.   o Multi-party calling - MyBiscotti cloud-based multi-party calling makes video conferencing as easy to use as a voice conference call, and is accessible to multiple Biscotti, and virtually any other device or endpoint.
   o Phone Interoperability – Leveraging Biscotti's SIP infrastructure, Biscotti works with the public switched telephone network (PSTN). This interoperability allows Biscotti to place and receive calls from standard phone numbers, including landline phones and mobile phones.

   Biscotti XS has an MSRP of $299 and will be available in March 2013.   Biscotti can be seen at CES from Jan. 8-11, 2013, at South Hall 2 Booth MP25458.   More information about Biscotti and the company's line of video conferencing solutions and TV cam devices can be found at biscotti.com  .   For media appointments at CES, please contact Katie Foley at pr@biscotti.com  or (214) 329-1345 x123  .   For sales inquiries and appointment at CES, please contact Dean Tucker, Senior Vice President, Sales and Business Development, at sales@biscotti.com  or (214) 329-1345 x109  .
 
