
 Bitcasa made some serious waves when it hit the scene in December, offering bottomless cloud storage for $10 per-month or $99 for a full year. The service is now leaving beta, with the promised Mac and iOS apps in tow. And, just as icing on the cake, a Linux client is also on the way (and already available in alpha form). While going gold isn't going to change a lot about Bitcasa in the short term, at least the company knows how to celebrate right -- with steep discounts! Sign up for the service during the month of February and you'll get a full year of Infinite Drive for $60 $69. You can sign up at the source and peruse the PR after the break. We're already busy backing up our My Bloody Valentine bootlegs.

 Update: As some of you have noticed, the price being advertised on the Bitcasa site is $69 for the year, not $59 as the press release states. We've updated the post to reflect the advertised cost and asked for a clarification.



   Show full PR text   BITCASA COMES OUT OF BETA, KILLS THE HARD DRIVE  Special Pricing Available Now; 16 Petabytes of User Data Under Management

   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. - February 5, 2013 - Bitcasa, the creator of infinite and secure storage across all devices, announced the availability of the new Infinite Drive™ across iOS, Android, Mac desktop, Windows Desktop, Windows RT, and the Web. For $10/month, worldwide users can enjoy infinite storage, anywhere access, and automatic backup with built-in client-side encryption to ensure privacy. During the month of February, Bitcasa will be offering special pricing of $59 for a year of infinite storage, a 40-percent discount compared to the regular pricing of $99 per year.

   Bitcasa simplifies storage with the Infinite Drive, which works like a magic external hard drive that never crashes or runs out of space. Users can free up space by moving files from laptop and mobile devices into the Infinite Drive. Everything becomes instantly available across all devices regardless of device capacity or file formats. In addition, Bitcasa is fully encrypted client-side, which means that unlike other services, Bitcasa employees can't access any data for any reason.

   "When I started this company, I talked about faulty external hard drives and the outrageous fees for limited file synchronization services," said Tony Gauda, Bitcasa CEO. "I believe - and many of our users will agree - that, with the launch of the Bitcasa Infinite Drive, hard drives are now dead. Our customers have stored more than 1.7 billion photos on the Infinite Drive, and this is just the beginning. Imagine a world where gigabytes simply don't matter anymore. That's Bitcasa."

   Everyday consumers are using Bitcasa all over the world to solve real-world problems:

   Families: Bitcasa has become a welcome addition to many families, as photos, files and videos are kept safely forever. Instead of worrying about losing the important records of weddings, births and the growth of a family, parents have been able to enjoy the peace of mind that their Bitcasa Infinite Drive houses everything safely and securely. Parents are thrilled to find they can send whole photo albums and video collections to relatives with ease and privacy.

   Photographers: The Bitcasa Infinite Drive has become very popular with professional and prosumer photographers alike. They can access their entire high-resolution photo collection everywhere they go. Their complete collections are instantly shareable with anyone in the world.   Musicians and DJs: With so many fantastic emerging artists and bands, as well the growing profession and hobby of DJs, people need a safe, infinite space to store all of their favorite tunes. Bitcasa provides a simple, shareable platform that allows music fans to create playlists on the go, access their infinite amount of music files anywhere, and share tracks with friends. Thanks to Bitcasa, they can now store an unlimited number of remixes and dance tracks.

   About Bitcasa  Founded by former Mastercard and Mozy employees and backed by top-tier investors, including Horizons Ventures, First Round, CrunchFund, Pelion Venture Partners, Samsung Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz, Bitcasa is redefining how consumers are storing and accessing their data. Bitcasa offers access to an Infinite Drive across all devices with support for iOS and Android, Web Access, Mac desktop, Windows Desktop, and Windows RT. Users never have to worry about running out of disk space again. They can save, access, and share an unlimited number of documents, pictures, music, and movies from any device. Everything is encrypted locally and backed up in the cloud, so user data is always safe and secure. Download the Infinite Drive at www.bitcasa.com and follow us at twitter.com/bitcasa and facebook.com/bitcasa.

 
