
Do you like the prospect of shooting 2.5K video with Blackmagic's Cinema Camera, but turn pale at spending $2,995 for the privilege? We have good news: Blackmagic just dropped the pro video camera's price to $1,995. While that isn't exactly impulse purchase territory, it's low enough to put the greater-than-HD shooter in the same price bracket as semi-pro DSLRs. Think of the discount as consolation for delays in launching the Production Camera 4K.



Show full PR textBlackmagic Design Announces New Low Price for Blackmagic Cinema Camera!
Fremont, CA - August 2, 2013 - Blackmagic Design today announced a new lower price for the award winning Blackmagic Cinema Camera to US$1,995.
Now in the hands of thousands of film makers all over the world, the Blackmagic Cinema Camera is globally recognized for its amazing 13 stops of wide dynamic range and 2.5K sensor for true digital film quality shooting. With RAW, ProRes™ or DNxHD™ recording, files can be opened directly in popular editing software without conversion! The multi award winning design has the features customers need to start filming straight out of the box including a super fast SSD recorder, rechargeable battery, and a large 5" LCD touchscreen. This large touchscreen monitor allows easy monitoring, metadata entry, camera settings and fast accurate focus.
Available in two models, customers can choose from either the EF or passive MFT lens mount, compatible with amazing optics from the world's leading lens crafters such as Canon, Zeiss and more. For high end work, filmmakers can shoot in uncompressed 12 bit CinemaDNG RAW. The incredible resolution and dynamic range means that more of the scene is captured, giving greater creative control for Hollywood style color correction with the included DaVinci Resolve software.
"The response to the Blackmagic Cinema Camera has been incredible," said Grant Petty, CEO, Blackmagic Design. "The tremendous support we received encouraged us to work even harder to make the camera available to more videographers and filmmakers. It's amazing to see the projects that have already been completed and I can't wait to see what the creative community delivers next!"
Blackmagic Cinema Camera Key Features
* The Blackmagic Cinema Camera is available in either EF or MFT lens mount models.* Super wide 13 stops of dynamic range allows capture of increased details for feature film look.* High resolution 2.5K sensor allows improved anti aliasing and reframing shots.* Built in SSD recorder allows high bandwidth recording of RAW video and long duration compressed video.* Open file formats compatible with popular editing software such as CinemaDNG 12 bit RAW, Apple ProRes and Avid DNxHD. No custom file formats.* Includes no custom connections. Standard jack mic/line audio in, BNC 3 Gb/s SDI out, headphone, high speed Thunderbolt I/O technology, LANC remote control and standard DC 12-30V power connection.* Capacitive touch screen LCD for camera settings and "slate" metadata entry.* Supports 2.5K and 1080HD resolution capture in 23.98, 24, 25, 29.97 and 30 fps.* Thunderbolt connection allows direct camera capture via included Media Express software and supports live waveform monitoring via the included Blackmagic UltraScope software.* Includes a full copy of DaVinci Resolve color grading software.
Availability and Price
The Blackmagic Cinema Camera is available now from Blackmagic Design resellers worldwide.

