
 
 Activision never disappoints when it comes to limited edition Call of Duty release bundles, and for the upcoming Black Ops II, it actually may have outdone itself. Besting the RC-XD from its predecessor, $180 will let you snag the Care Package edition for Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3. This massive bundle is actually boxed as an in-gamed care package (aerial drop-off not included) that's loaded with a remote controlled MQ-27 Dragonfire quadrocopter drone (!) -- we really wish we'd picked up those Modern Warfare 2 night vision goggles now (not at all for full-fledged, after hours recon of our Aol office-mates...). Naturally, it also comes loaded with the requisite DLC goodies; namely, two extra maps (Nuketown Zombies and Nuketown 2025), exclusive weapon camo, a pair of Player Card backgrounds and copy of the soundtrack. Furthermore, PS3 owners will get a pair of dynamic themes, while those with 360s will receive an XBL Zombie avatar and Claw prop. Lastly, you'll also receive a couple more tangible items in the way of an art book and a duo of "Challenge" coins.

 Not looking to terrorize your local airspace? Shave off the $100 premium for the drone and case (not too shabby if the AR.Drone is expensive for your budget) and you'll be able to grab the Hardened edition packed with everything else. Last, and seemingly least in this case, Activision is putting out a Digital Deluxe for PC users -- similar to the Hardened variant, but with a download code for the aging World at War in place of the physical goodies and PSN / XBL content. Wallet already prepared for the future of secret warfare? You'll find details to place your own pre-order ahead of the November 13th launch at the source links below and trailer courtesy of Joystiq after the break. 




 
  Show full PR text    CARE PACKAGE (Xbox 360/PS3) SRP $179.99:  Call of Duty: Black Ops II  Remote Controlled MQ-27 Dragonfire Drone - Command cutting-edge technology, exclusively for this once-in-a-lifetime combat collection.  Nuketown Zombies Bonus Map - Battle hordes of Zombies in this beloved 1960s nuclear neighborhood.  Nuketown 2025 Bonus Map - Relive the close quarters chaos of this classic fan-favorite map re-imagined in a 1960s visionary depiction of the "model home of the future."  Collectible 2-Sided SteelBook - Limited edition game case featuring exclusive artwork.  (2) Challenge Coins - Limited edition challenge coins that serve as your key to exclusive digital content.  Weapon Camo - Rank-up in style with an exclusive multiplayer weapon skin.  (2) Player Card Backgrounds - Liven up any killcam with two exclusive player card backgrounds, inspired by Nuketown 2025 and Zombies.  Official Call of Duty: Black Ops II Soundtrack - A digital copy of composer Jack Wall's epic in-game score with Theme by Trent Reznor.  Xbox LIVE CLAW Avatar Prop - An exclusive avatar prop, deployable to a dashboard near you.  Xbox LIVE Zombies Avatar Costume - Show off your pride with an avatar costume built exclusively for fans of the Call of Duty undead.  (PlayStation 3 versions include a dynamic multiplayer theme of the Turbine map as well as a dynamic Zombies theme that shows off Call of Duty: Black Ops II Zombies)
  HARDENED EDITION (Xbox 360/PS3) SRP $79.99:  Call of Duty: Black Ops II  Nuketown Zombies Bonus Map - Battle hordes of Zombies in this beloved 1960s nuclear neighborhood.  Nuketown 2025 Bonus Map - Relive the close quarters chaos of this classic fan-favorite map re-imagined in a 1960s visionary depiction of the "model home of the future."  Collectible 2-Sided SteelBook® - Limited edition game case featuring exclusive artwork.  (2) Challenge Coins - Limited edition challenge coins that serve as your key to exclusive digital content.  Weapon Camo - Rank-up in style with an exclusive multiplayer weapon skin.  (2) Player Card Backgrounds - Liven up any killcam with two exclusive player card backgrounds, inspired by Nuketown 2025 and Zombies.  Official Call of Duty: Black Ops II Soundtrack - A digital copy of composer Jack Wall's epic in-game score with Theme by Trent Reznor.  Xbox LIVE CLAW Avatar Prop - An exclusive avatar prop, deployable to a dashboard near you.  Xbox LIVE Zombies Avatar Costume - Show off your pride with an avatar costume built exclusively for fans of the Call of Duty undead.  (PlayStation 3 versions include a dynamic multiplayer theme of the Turbine map as well as a dynamic Zombies theme that shows off Call of Duty: Black Ops II Zombies)
  In addition, the Digital Deluxe Edition for PC contains the following digital items--
  DIGITAL DELUXE EDITION (PC) SRP $79.99:  Call of Duty: Black Ops II  Nuketown Zombies Bonus Map - Battle hordes of Zombies in this beloved 1960s nuclear neighborhood.  Nuketown 2025 Bonus Map - Relive the close quarters chaos of this classic fan-favorite map re-imagined in a 1960s visionary depiction of the "model home of the future."  Weapon Camo - Rank-up in style with an exclusive multiplayer weapon skin.  (2) Player Card Backgrounds - Liven up any killcam with two exclusive player card backgrounds, inspired by Nuketown 2025 and Zombies.  Official Call of Duty: Black Ops II Soundtrack - A digital copy of composer Jack Wall's epic in-game score with Theme by Trent Reznor.  Call of Duty®: World at War Game Download Token - A digital download of Treyarch's classic title, traversing WWII storylines from the Pacific to European theaters of war.
  More information and assets on all of the above can be found here: http://www.callofduty.com/blackops2/ce.
 
