
Tesco's VOD service Blinkbox beat all other UK players to the punch when it hosted the second season of Game of Thrones well before the box-set launch, and it's doing the same with season three. It's only just ended, but from July 15th, the latest series will be available to download or stream in its entirety, and what's more, its arrival marks the first time HD content has been accessible on Blinkbox. You'll also be able to watch season three in SD, should you want to, and both previous seasons will get HD options when the third lands. Pricing isn't yet confirmed, but we'd expect the cost to be similar to that of season two, which was £1.79 (around $2.80) per episode, or £17.99 (around $28) for all ten. If you haven't seen Game of Thrones yet, and we highly recommend you do, you've got just over a month to prepare for the Blinkbox launch and subsequent marathon.



Show full PR textGame of Thrones season 3 coming to blinkbox on 15th July
Tesco streaming service will be first digital retailer offering acclaimed HBO series
June 11 2013: HBO has today confirmed that blinkbox will be the first digital retailer to offer the third season of Game of Thrones following its hugely successful run on Sky Atlantic.
Fans of the Emmy® and Golden Globe® winning show will be able to buy the latest instalment months ahead of its DVD and Blu-ray release, either as individual episodes or an entire season.

Hype around the series has reached fever pitch following the controversial 'red wedding' episode last week and last night's gripping finale.

blinkbox was the first digital retailer in the UK to offer seasons one and two of the epic drama, an adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire, George R. R. Martin's series of fantasy novels.

Already known as the place to enjoy the latest releases without subscription, blinkbox offers a broad range of premium HBO series including all five seasons of smash hit supernatural drama True Blood as well as the critically acclaimed blockbuster mini-series Band of Brothers and The Pacific. Fans of HBO's first-class content can also buy hit shows including Girls, Boardwalk Empire and other familiar favourites The Wire and The Sopranos.

blinkbox CEO Michael Comish added: "Game of Thrones is the TV show of the moment and we expect demand for the third series to be high. Whether you have heard about the series recently thanks to the buzz around season 3 or have enjoyed the first two episodes but don't have a Sky subscription, blinkbox is the place to enjoy this gripping series."

Colin Smith, Director, International Digital Distribution for HBO said: "We are thrilled to offer Game of Thrones season 3 via blinkbox for those in the UK who haven't had the opportunity to see it."


