
 
Looks like TiVo's gone all Switzerland on us by announcing plans to add support for Blockbuster OnDemand to its Series3, TiVo HD and TiVo HD XL boxes -- plus the older Series2 hardware that Netflix missed. Due in the second half of 2009, the marketing deal will put TiVo's on the shelves of local rental outlets and put Blockbuster's service in front of many new users. So far its $4 per movie SD fare has failed to impress, we'll see if it can keep up with the competition when they're on the same box, while TiVo's managed to carve out a position squarely in the middle of the digital download revolution, with Blockbuster, Netflix, CinemaNow and more already available, it could be the big winner in this streaming battle, full press release is after the break.
      

 

Blockbuster And TiVo Announce Agreement To Make BLOCKBUSTER® OnDemand Available Through The TiVo Service And to Promote TiVo DVRs Throughout Retail Stores Nationwide    Blockbuster to Make Extensive Library of Digital Content Available to Millions of TiVo Movie Enthusiasts    Further Distinguishes TiVo as the Best Single Solution for Delivery and Easy Navigation of Broadband Content to the TV    ALVISO, CA, and DALLAS, TX (March 25, 2009) – Blockbuster Inc. (NYSE: BBI, BBI.B), a global leader in entertainment, and TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and a leader in television services for digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced they are joining forces to deliver Blockbuster's vast library of premium digital movie titles directly to the television set via TiVo® DVRs.    BLOCKBUSTER OnDemand, featuring content to both buy and rent, will be integrated into TiVo Series2™, Series3™, TiVo HD, and TiVo HD XL DVRs. The move by two leaders in home entertainment will make it even easier for all broadband connected TiVo subscribers to download Blockbuster's content and enjoy a complete television entertainment experience on their individual schedules using TiVo, the best and most comprehensive single solution for delivery and simple, intuitive navigation of broadband, broadcast, and cable content – all from one remote control.    TiVo DVRs will be sold at thousands of Blockbuster® stores nationwide as well as online at blockbuster.com, giving both companies new distribution outlets and putting TiVo DVRs and BLOCKBUSTER OnDemand front and center of where video shopping takes place. Additionally, the companies will implement a cross-marketing campaign.    "We are excited to be teaming with TiVo, the company that created the DVR, to make Blockbuster's entertainment content readily available to their millions of subscribers," said Jim Keyes, Blockbuster Chairman and CEO. "Ultimately, our vision is to work with TiVo so that their subscribers can access movies not only through our OnDemand service but also from our stores and through our by-mail service as well. Regardless of a film's availability – through VOD or on DVD – we want to work with TiVo to provide their subscribers unprecedented access to movie content."    "Joining with Blockbuster further distinguishes TiVo as a true universal solution for content providers, making it a one stop shop for any content thru broadband or linear distribution straight to the TV," said Tom Rogers, President and CEO of TiVo Inc. "When consumers walk into one of the thousands of Blockbuster stores entertainment for the home is on their minds - - it could not be more natural to have them exposed to the world of millions of entertainment possibilities for the home that the TiVo Service provides."    The companies expect to have the BLOCKBUSTER OnDemand service integrated into TiVo DVRs in the second half of 2009.    BLOCKBUSTER OnDemand offers one of the most extensive libraries of digital entertainment product in the marketplace, with thousands of titles from the hottest new movie releases to the classics. For more information on BLOCKBUSTER OnDemand delivered via the TiVo service visit www.tivo.com/blockbuster.

       

 