
Blockbuster started the month by launching an On Demand app for iOS and embracing the streaming video era. For the end of the month, it's going retro: following a quiet App Store launch earlier in May, the company has formally announced a free Blockbuster 2.0 iOS app that covers everything but streaming. The release is built almost exclusively for traditionalists, letting them manage their Blockbuster By Mail rental queues, scan membership cards and check the stock at those stores that remain open. About the only concessions to modernity are the built-in movie trailers. While the app does give some needed love to disc-based viewers, it's an acute reminder that much of Blockbuster's original audience has moved on.



Show full PR textBlockbuster Makes Movie Renting More Mobile with New iOS App
Manage Blockbuster By Mail accounts, search title availability, watch movie trailers, and browse movie, TV show and game titles for FREE!
ENGLEWOOD, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--In another step towards enhancing the customer experience, Blockbuster is excited to announce the release of its new Blockbuster iOS application that allows users to browse a catalog of more than 100,000 movie, TV show and game titles, manage their Blockbuster By Mail queue, watch movie trailers and check for availability of the newest releases at their local Blockbuster store. The Blockbuster app is compatible with the current version of iOS (5.1.1 and later) and is available for free download starting today.
Millions of movie watchers prefer the DVD and Blu-ray experience, and now Blockbuster customers can use their mobile device for added convenience and control over their entertainment experience.
"Blockbuster By Mail members no longer have to be at a computer screen to add, re-prioritize or organize movies in their queue," said Mitch Weinraub, Blockbuster vice president of product. "Our on-the-go customers can use the iOS app anywhere to easily peruse our 100,000-plus title catalog and decide which new release to watch next."
The free app is available for current Blockbuster members and non-members alike.
Additional features include:
* View movie and TV trailers in-app* Search movie, TV and game titles for a synopsis, list of stars, available formats and more* Add, remove and organize items in your queue* Appropriate screen layouts for iPhone and iPad* Manage your in-store membership (physical membership card not required)* Find your local Blockbuster store* Check for title availability at a specific store* Navigate in English and Spanish
The iOS app joins the Android app, released earlier this year, further increasing access to Blockbuster via mobile solutions. The Android app has already been downloaded over 50,000 times. Blockbuster iOS app updates with additional features will be released in the coming months.
Also available for download is the Blockbuster On Demand app provided by DISH Digital that allows users to stream movies and TV shows to their preferred devices for a low fee per play.

