
 
 It feels like it was only yesterday that BLU was keeping us slightly occupied with its Studio 5.3 and TouchBook 7.3 devices, which, as you may or may not know, left us with somewhat of a bittersweet taste in our mouths. Still, the past is the past, and now the company's back for more with the recent revelation of its Vivo 4.3 handset; one the company's loudly dubbing as the "world's first dual-SIM smartphone with Super AMOLED Plus." Regardless of any global, self-induced titles, the 4.3-inch Vivo appears to offer some interesting features of its own, including that aforementioned Super AMOLED Plus screen, a 1GHz, dual-core Cortex A9 CPU, dual-SIM capabilities and a tweaked flavor of Android 4.0. What's best, however, is BLU plans on selling the Vivo 4.3 unlocked in the US next month for $250, while additional availability is "soon to follow" through Latin America and some parts of Asia.



  Show full PR text   BLU Products announces the VIVO 4.3 - World's First Dual SIM smartphone device to feature Super AMOLED Plus Technology and Dual Core CPU
   New device meant to capitalize on the explosive growth and demand of Dual SIM smartphone devices in emerging markets as well as increased demand for unlocked smartphone devices in US MVNO Channels

   MIAMI, Aug. 3, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- BLU Products, one of the fastest growing mobile phone manufacturers in the world, announced the new Vivo 4.3, becoming the first manufacturer to produce a Dual SIM device to include either a Super AMOLED Plus LCD, or Dual Core Processor - realizing increased performance, user experience and capabilities for consumers in emerging markets, as well as non-contract unlocked devices in the United States.

   "We are extremely excited as we continue to pioneer the growing demand of Dual SIM handsets in emerging markets by offering the most outstanding Dual SIM smartphone available anywhere in the world today." said Samuel-Ohev-Zion, CEO of BLU Products. "Additionally, this is the first in a series of exciting new Android devices we will be announcing, as we are actively and aggressively moving towards providing high performance, affordable smartphones to the ever growing unlocked no-contract segment in the United States."

   The Vivo 4.3 features no physical hardware buttons on the front to ensure a seamless elegant design, and is run by a MediaTek MT6577 dual core 1GHz Cortex™-A9 CPU with 3G/HSPA connectivity, running the latest Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich Operating System. Additionally, the Vivo is designed to deliver high-end multimedia capability, with an 8MP camera, plus HD video recording and playback. The highlights of the phone include the rich viewing experience of the brilliant Super AMOLED Plus 4.3" Display, along with true dual SIM capability allowing both SIMs to be active and receive calls simultaneously.

   The unlocked VIVO 4.3 will begin shipping to major US Retailers in September 2012 with an MSRP of $249.99 and will soon follow through Latin America, and parts of Asia.

   About BLU Products  BLU Products, founded in 2009, designs affordable, attractive and innovative mobile devices to suit a wide variety of consumer needs. Over four million BLU mobile devices have been sold in over 40 countries. Headquartered in Miami, Florida, BLU is one of the fastest-growing mobile phone manufacturers in the world. For more information, visit: www.bluproducts.com.

 
 
