


Cheap smartphones are getting more common, but the BLU Dash 4.5 is redefining the term budget. For $139, unlocked and unsubsidized, you can own an Android 4.2 Jelly Bean handset with a 1.2GHz quad-core chip from MediaTek, 512MB of RAM, 5-megapixel camera, 4.5-inch 854 x 480 pixel display and 21Mbps HSPA+ support for both AT&T and T-Mobile. Though it's not the thinnest device in the world at 11.9mm (0.47 inches) thick, we're willing to ignore that given the price tag. It's $10 cheaper than our current favorite budget smartphone, the Nokia Lumia 520, and you can buy it from online retailers today. We've found an unboxing video in Spanish -- if you're interested, it's just after the break.



Show full PR textBLU Products begins shipments on new BLU Dash 4.5 smartphone device bringing Quad-Core Processor, Jelly Bean OS, and HSPA+ speeds for only $139.00 unlocked
MIAMI, July 11, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- BLU Products, one of the fastest growing mobile phone manufacturers in the world announced today that shipments have now started on the new BLU Dash 4.5 smartphone device, delivering premium build quality with flagship performance at a never before seen price point for an unlocked device in the US. The BLU Dash 4.5 is powered by MediaTek's MT6589M 1.2 GHz Quad-Core chipset, which integrates a power-efficient ARM Cortex™-A7 subsystem, PowerVR™ Series SGX544 GPU, and HSPA+ 21Mbps modem bringing blazing fast 4G Speeds to consumers in the US.

"Users are going to be blown away and thrilled by the performance of this device," said Samuel Ohev-Zion, CEO, BLU Products. "At this price point nothing comes even remotely close, which makes us very proud as a manufacturer to be able to offer the best value available in the world today for a consumer looking to buy an unlocked smartphone."

The basis of incorporating MediaTek's MT6589M chipset is the power-efficiency and leading edge 28nm manufacturing, which results in incredible battery performance, lasting for several days without having to recharge – something users don't have today in the high-end smartphone segment, while still delivering on the high expectations, outstanding performance, and user experience required by consumers in a high-end smartphone.

The BLU Dash 4.5 offers an outstanding viewing experience on the large 4.5-inch FWVGA LCD producing a pixel density of 218 ppi, having photos and videos come to life with spectacular clarity, and includes a 5.0 mega pixel autofocus camera with LED flash, along with HDR feature, HD 720p video recording and secondary front facing camera.

Running on the latest stock Android v4.2 Jellybean OS with no customizations, users will enjoy an extremely smooth and fast experience on the Dash 4.5, which also features innovative, advanced Dual-SIM, Dual-Active functionality which frees users to seamlessly make and receive calls on two SIM cards at the same time. This feature enables higher user experience when traveling, or answering a phone call when doing data transmission - perfect for everyone, everywhere.

The BLU Dash 4.5 is now available unlocked throughout several US Online Retail partners such as Amazon.com for $139.00.


