
       
Blue Microphones' original Mikey made the quite the impression when it landed back in late 2008, and while a good bit of time has passed, the new and improved version doesn't stray from its roots. Debuting here at CES, the second-generation Mikey Portable Recorder for iPod and iPhone touts "improved circuitry for superior recording and enhanced new features," which happens to include a pair of custom-tuned Blue capsules and an optimization for recording high-volume concerts. There's also a 3.5mm line-input here for direct recording of other sources, and the USB pass-through connections enables simultaneous charging and syncing. You'll get a 230-degree range of adjustability with seven detent positions, and it's bundled with a delightful carrying case to keep it safe from harm as you shuffle through the masses. Interested? Check it later this Spring for $99.99 at Apple Stores, Guitar Center, Amazon.com and your local nondescript white van. 





Show full PR textCES 2010: Blue Microphones Announces Second Generation Mikey Portable Recorder for iPhone and iPodOffering unmatched portable sound, the latest Mikey features new capabilities for improved recording(Westlake Village, California – January 7, 2010) – Blue Microphones (www.bluemic.com), a leading innovator in microphone technology and design, announces the second generation Mikey Portable Recorder for iPod and iPhone at CES 2010. Building upon the award-winning audio technology developed for the original Mikey, the second generation is certified for iPod and undergoing iPhone certification, featuring improved circuitry for superior recording and enhanced new features. The latest Mikey, available Spring 2010, along with Blue's recently-released Yeti THX®-Certified USB mic, are being showcased at CES from January 7 – 9 in South Hall 1 at Blue's booth #21836."The second generation Mikey is a natural next step for Blue as we continue to expand our consumer audio line to provide the highest-quality portable audio on the market," said John Maier, CEO of Blue Microphones. "With the new Mikey and the Yeti, the world's first THX®-Certified mic, Blue brings portable and USB recording to the next level."Like the original, Mikey features two custom-tuned Blue capsules for professional-quality stereo recording capabilities. To accompany its sleek new design, Mikey features an improved acoustic circuit that allows for higher quality recordings of high-volume events, like concerts. This next generation Mikey is pending iPhone certification to accompany the already-achieved iPod certification.The second generation Mikey also boasts a 3.5mm line-input for direct recording of other sound sources such as a guitar or mixer along with a USB pass-thru connection to allow for simultaneous charging and syncing. The updated case design makes Mikey compatible with most protective cases and now features a 230-degree range of adjustability with seven detent positions for perfect positioning. Additionally, the new Mikey comes with a soft carrying pouch for convenient protection and portability. Blue also provides a headphone extension cable for instant playback monitoring when using iPod Touch and iPod Nano.To complete the mobile audio experience, Blue recently announced Blue FiRe, a free, high-fidelity field recording app for iPhone and iPod touch that is now available from the App Store. Developed in partnership with Audiofile Engineering, the Blue FiRe App is optimized for the second generation Mikey - enabling users to have a complete, high-quality mobile recording experience.Blue will also be showcasing its recently-released Yeti, the first THX®-Certified microphone. The latest addition to Blue's new consumer line, the Yeti is the ultimate USB microphone for professional recording. The Yeti is first USB mic to offer Blue's premium condenser capsules in a proprietary triple capsule array for the highest quality, most versatile audio recording capability. With four patterns (Omni, Cardioid, Stereo, Bidirectional), Yeti offers studio-quality performance and superior results in any situation.The new Mikey, MSRP $99.99, will be available Spring 2010, while the Yeti, MSRP $149.99, is currently available at flagship retail partners such as The Apple Retail Store, Guitar Center, Amazon.com and other fine pro-audio and consumer electronics retailers worldwide. For complete details, visit www.bluemic.com.
 