
 The final member of the Blue Microphones trio that we saw introduced back at CES is finally hitting shelves. Blue's dual-connecting Spark Digital is now shipping from Apple and Best Buy with other retailers soon to follow. If you'll recall, the mobile recording peripheral touts the label of "the first true studio condenser microphone made for both iPad and USB." An adjustable desk stand, all of the requisite cables and six month subscriptions to both Gobbler and SoundCloud Pro are included right out of the box. You can snag one for yourself for $200 just as fast as you can click. However, if you've already splurged for a new iPad, iPad mini or the iPhone 5, you'll need a Lightning adapter before you can get started.



  Show full PR text   Blue Microphones Now Shipping Spark Digital, Studio Microphone for iPad and USB   Spark Digital is the first true studio condenser microphone made for both iPad and USB, bringing professional recording capabilities to the iPad mobile platform
   (Westlake Village, CA – November 7, 2012) - Blue Microphones, a leading innovator in microphone technology and design, announces the availability of Spark Digital (www.bluemic.com/sparkdigital), the world's first studio condenser microphone to offer both iPad and USB connectivity. The digital version of Blue's renowned analog Spark microphone, Spark Digital delivers professional-quality audio to iPad or any computer, laptop or tablet with USB input. Spark Digital, MSRP $199.99, is now available in-store and online at Apple and Best Buy, and arriving soon at Guitar Center, Amazon and other authorized retailers.   "We are excited to release the first studio microphone for the iPad. With both USB and iPad connections and a wide range of available recording apps like GarageBand, Spark Digital is the missing link for achieving truly professional results on the mobile platform," said Brian Biggott, CTO of Blue Microphones. "Bridging the gap between analog quality and digital portability, Spark Digital completes the true mobile studio."   Taking mobile recording to the professional level, Spark Digital features the same studio-grade condenser capsule and hand-selected components as the original, analog Spark, for high-fidelity recording and consistent performance in any situation. Spark Digital also delivers the same detailed audio found in the original Spark, making it ideal for a wide range of situations: vocals, guitar, drums, podcasts, piano, location recording and more. Spark Digital also features studio controls directly on the microphone including volume and gain control, and instant mute. In addition, Spark Digital is the only iPad microphone to offer a zero-latency headphone out for direct monitoring, critical for eliminating distracting delay or for creating professional multi-track recordings where new tracks need to be synced with existing tracks.  Spark Digital also employs a feature found only on the original Spark: the Focus control, providing two different sonic options in one mic. 'Focus Off' captures crisp, powerful audio with enhanced low frequency sensitivity for recordings with greater impact and definition, and 'Focus On' captures greater clarity and detail for a tighter, more focused sound. For the recording novice, the Focus control provides the freedom to experiment with different sonic signatures in one mic, while providing the experienced recordist with versatile options.

   Spark Digital comes with a custom angle-adjustable desk stand with built-in shockmount that protects against disruptive rumblings and vibrations from a desktop surface and allows users to quickly position the microphone. For each platform connection (USB and iPad), Spark Digital includes a y-cable with an attached, extended female headphone jack for zero-latency direct monitoring. Spark Digital is directly compatible with iPad (3rd generation), iPad 2, iPad, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and is instantly recognized for use with any recording app, in addition to driverless connection via USB on both PC and Mac.  For storing and sharing, Spark Digital also includes an exclusive Cloud Production Bundle with free access to production tools for easy organizing, storing and streaming of audio content across the web. Spark Digital includes a 25 GB storage and transfer account for six months from Gobbler, a leader in music backup and organization, along with a six month Pro Account from SoundCloud, the leading social sound platform that lets anyone create, record, promote and share their sounds on the web, a $125 total value. From recording high-quality audio with Spark Digital to easily storing and sharing in seconds, this free access to SoundCloud and Gobbler gives musicians, podcasters and more the valuable tools they need to create and promote, wherever they go.   Spark Digital, MSRP $199.99, is now available in-store and online at Apple and Best Buy, and arriving soon at Guitar Center, Amazon and additional consumer electronics and pro audio retailers worldwide. For more information visit www.bluemic.com/SparkDigital.

 
