
 

There just aren't enough electric motorcycles in the world at this point, so thank goodness BMW just introduced a new one into the world. It's a slinky thing, with a single front fork and a spindly rear swingarm, two features that don't make it look particularly trail-ready -- despite the Husqvarna branding. (BMW bought Husqvarna back in 2007.) But, it does look a little more off-roadable than the electric scooter concept BMW also unveiled. No further details about range, speed, or indeed likelihood of production are available for either, but there are more pics of both in the gallery below.

Update: We got some further details on the bike. It weighs just 80kg (about 150lbs) and riding it through traffic is said to be like playing a videogame. The press release after the break doesn't say which videogame, but we're hoping it isn't Frogger.






 		Show full PR text  HUSQVARNA CONCEPT E-go 		Husqvarna's Concept E-go bike for the young riders of the future 		Husqvarna Concept E-go. Extreme, light, streamlined. This is Husqvarna's approach to today's electric motorcycling world. Urban commuting for first-time bikers who can have all the attractive features that a Husqvarna machine boasts: an explosive mix of road, off-road and supermotard experiences.Only 80 kg of pure exhilaration, with an innovative design inspired and derived from the latest Husqvarna models, with features such as the striking side panels that makes this bike clearly a member of the Husqvarna family.The Concept E-go is Husqvarna's solution to electric motorcycling and how to enthuse the young generation to the spirit of riding and freedom. Change is inevitable, and Husqvarna is ready, with an advanced technological concept and a highly personal design.The Concept E-go also boasts exclusive technical innovations such as the " single sided double leg fork" , with 35 mm of inner tube and the aluminium single side swing arm.The battery support is also constructed from aluminium, the frame and oval piping is made from steel, while the seat is self-supporting.The Concept E-go is a single-seater, because that is the Husqvarna way. Undiluted fun, dynamism and an ecologically-friendly philosophy combined for the first time in an electric powered two-wheeler.Short and compact, on the Concept E-go, urban traffic will seem like a videogame that will be fun and easy to skilfully nE-gotiate.Young commuting in a new dimension – Husqvarna Concept E-go
 