
  Themaltake and BMW's DesignworksUSA are apparently a design-team match made in PC gaming heaven. After previously partnering up for the elegant (and functional) Level 10 modular PC case, the two are back at it again -- this time with a focus on peripherals. While details are sparse, the Level 10 M mouse concept you're looking at is the first of the bunch to be revealed, and it's said to arrive sometime during the spring. It's not exactly a shoo-in for MadCatz's Rats, but considering the wire and an aggressively breathable design, it's clearly aimed at pro gamers. Sadly, key specs like its DPI rating and details about any macro functionality are currently non-existent, however, it does appear to be of the optical variety -- here's to hoping it'll perform just as awesome as it looks to the eyes. For now, hit up the press release past the break for a totally vague description.




  Show full PR text  DesignworksUSA designs concept for a new series of innovative gaming peripherals for Thermaltake.  09.01.2012  Munich, 9th of January 2012. The collaboration of BMW Group subsidiary DesignworksUSA and Thermaltake has reached the next level. The design consultancy has developed a design concept for an innovative series of gaming accessories of which the first product, the Level 10 M Mouse, will be launched in spring 2012.  As a Think Tank of BMW Group the design consultancy DesignworksUSA works for many industries with only one aim: to transfer design know how between cultures, markets and industries in order to come up with the most innovative, forward thinking and consumer oriented design solutions. In 2009 Thermaltake, the leader and innovator of pro-gaming computer chassis, for the first time partnered with the wholly owned BMW Group subsidiary. The studio had been tasked with the design concept of the Level 10 high end gaming tower. The result was a chassis which triggered off a lot of praise from the IT and pro-gaming world and many awards for its sheer revolutionary approach to computer housing. Now the collaboration continues with the expansion of the Level 10 experience to a range of gaming peripherals for Thermaltake´s e-sports division.  For the upcoming range of Level 10 accessory products DesignworksUSA challenged Thermaltake with most progressive design concepts. They aim at extending the Level 10 experience of the chassis to products that gamers directly interact with. The first product to be launched out of the new series of gaming peripherals is the Level 10 M Mouse. It will give testimony to the delicate thinking of the designers when applying the Level 10 design language to additional products. For the designers this task meant to extend the Level 10 gaming experience to all the gamers' senses. Facing the challenge of translating the design language of the expressive geometrical Level 10 chassis onto products which by nature require ergonomic design solutions the design team came up with an array of innovative solutions to provide pro-gamers with products that speak the Level 10 design language but still provide them with the most pleasant and comfortable equipment for heavy use.
 