
 Here's something you don't want happening when you're trying to wrap up a career, plan a jaunt to Moorea and generally goof off while waiting for the final checks to clear: large numbers of people demanding that you change something. That's probably what one Bob Mansfield is dealing with, just weeks before he'll turn in his Apple employee badge and do... well, whatever he wants. Just six days after the company yanked its products out of EPEAT's green registry, all eligible Apple products are back. Why? Well, many cities, entities and organizations (San Francisco, we're glaring at you) won't purchase products that aren't on the list, and according to a letter from Bob (embedded in full after the break), the removal "was a mistake."

 He also notes that "Apple makes the most environmentally responsible products in our industry," and that no other company in this industry can say that its entire product line "exceeds the stringent ENERGY STAR 5.2 government standard." Curiously, he also states that Apple's relationship with EPEAT "has become stronger as a result of this experience," which sure makes one wonder what went down to begin with. Now, Bob -- retirement. No more emails. Focus.



  Show full PR text   A Letter From Bob Mansfield
   We've recently heard from many loyal Apple customers who were disappointed to learn that we had removed our products from the EPEAT rating system. I recognize that this was a mistake. Starting today, all eligible Apple products are back on EPEAT.

   It's important to know that our commitment to protecting the environment has never changed, and today it is as strong as ever. Apple makes the most environmentally responsible products in our industry. In fact, our engineering teams have worked incredibly hard over the years to make our products even more environmentally friendly, and much of our progress has come in areas not yet measured by EPEAT.

   For example, Apple led the industry in removing harmful toxins such as brominated flame retardants (BFRs) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). We are the only company to comprehensively report greenhouse gas emissions for every product we make, taking into account the entire product lifecycle. And we've removed plastics wherever possible, in favor of materials that are more highly recyclable, more durable, more efficient and longer lasting.

   Perhaps most importantly, we make the most energy-efficient computers in the world and our entire product line exceeds the stringent ENERGY STAR 5.2 government standard. No one else in our industry can make that claim.

   We think the IEEE 1680.1 standard could be a much stronger force for protecting the environment if it were upgraded to include advancements like these. This standard, on which the EPEAT rating system is based, is an important measuring stick for our industry and its products.

   Our relationship with EPEAT has become stronger as a result of this experience, and we look forward to working with EPEAT as their rating system and the underlying IEEE 1680.1 standard evolve. Our team at Apple is dedicated to designing products that everyone can be proud to own and use.

   Bob

 
