
 

Initially, T-Mobile's Bobsled brand simply offered a way to VoIP call your Facebook friends for free but with that angle sufficiently covered, it has moved on to wider access. Starting today it supports dialing out to mobile and landline numbers in the US, Canada or Puerto Rico right from your desktop browser. Also new are free apps for Android and iOS devices, however those are still limited to calling your Facebook friends (and enemies.) Still not quite sure what all this newfangled internet telephone business is? Check out the video demo above and press release embedded after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		October 11, 2011 12:01 AM Eastern Daylight Time Bobsled by T-Mobile Extends Free Calling to the Web, Android and iOS 		New Dial-Out Functionality Allows Bobsled Users to Place Free VoIP Calls to Mobile and Landline Numbers from Across the Web 		BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--T-Mobile today announced enhanced and expanded functionality for its Bobsled™ by T-Mobile® service. The new Bobsled functionality provides users with an easy, seamless way to call Facebook friends from most desktop browsers, Android™-powered smartphones and tablets, and Apple® iOS devices, including iPhones®, iPads® and iPod Touch® products. In addition, Bobsled provides users with free calling to any mobile or landline phone number in the U.S., Canada or Puerto Rico from inside or outside the U.S. from their desktop browser. 		"Earlier this year we brought voice to social networking with Bobsled for Facebook. Now we are expanding the capabilities of Bobsled, allowing users to easily communicate with friends from anywhere on the Web and even dial out for free to mobile and landline numbers," said Brad Duea, senior vice president, T-Mobile USA. "Users can also now jump on Bobsled from Android phones and tablets as well as from Apple iPhones, iPads and iPod Touch. Bobsled allows users to be heard across borders, websites, carriers and platforms." 		As the way people communicate transcends networks and devices, Bobsled provides users with new ways to connect regardless of where they are online, the format of their message or what device they are using: 		Bobsled on the Web 		Bobsled is available for most Internet browsers. Once signed into Bobsled on their browser, users can call, message or voice message with their Facebook friends at any time while using their Mac or PC. Bobsled eliminates the need for dialing - you simply click on a friend's name to start the conversation. There's no need to remember screen names or to input numbers. Users simply click the phone icon to initiate a call with friends and family or message via Facebook Chat. 		Free Calling to Mobile and Landline Numbers 		Bobsled users can now call any mobile or landline number in the U.S., Canada or Puerto Rico for free. Users simply open Bobsled from their browser on a Mac or PC and dial a number using an open Internet connection from anywhere in the world. Also, users can add mobile or landline numbers to their existing Facebook friends. 		Bobsled for Apple iOS and Android Devices 		Bobsled is now available from the Apple App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, and from the Android Market™ for Android smartphones and tablets. Bobsled allows users to call or voice message their Facebook friends from their mobile device for free. 		Bobsled's browser and mobile applications are powered by Vivox Inc. Together, T-Mobile and Vivox, with its compelling VoiceEverywhere technology, are ushering in a new era of voice communications - online, on the go, virtually wherever and however users want to converse. 		"Vivox's partnership with T-Mobile and the Bobsled product is a stellar example of evolving the way we communicate," said Rob Seaver, founder and CEO, Vivox. "As evidenced by Bobsled, VoiceEverywhere creates massively scalable conversations across devices, platforms and experiences and makes digital communication more seamless and natural, regardless of the context or location." 		For more information on Bobsled by T-Mobile and to install Bobsled, please visit www.bobsled.com. 		Apple, iPhone, iPad, iPod and iPod Touch are trademarks of Apple Inc., and are not products sold by T-Mobile USA, Inc. Mention of these devices does not imply endorsement of Bobsled by Apple Inc. Carriers' standard data charges may apply. 		About T-Mobile USA: 		Based in Bellevue, Wash., T-Mobile USA, Inc. is the U.S. wireless operation of Deutsche Telekom AG (OTCQX: DTEGY). By the end of the second quarter of 2011, approximately 128 million mobile customers were served by the mobile communication segments of the Deutsche Telekom group - 33.6 million by T-Mobile USA - all via a common technology platform based on GSM and UMTS and additionally HSPA+ 21/HSPA+ 42. T-Mobile USA's wireless products and services help empower people to connect to those who matter most. Multiple independent research studies continue to rank T-Mobile USA among the highest in numerous regions throughout the U.S. in wireless customer care and call quality. For more information, please visit http://www.T-Mobile.com. T-Mobile is a federally registered trademark of Deutsche Telekom AG. For further information on Deutsche Telekom, please visit www.telekom.de/investor-relations. 		About Vivox 		Vivox, provider of VoiceEverywhereTM, enables integrated digital conversations, anytime, anywhere, and on any device. An industry pioneer in integrated voice services, Vivox now serves more than 60 million users in 180+ countries - exchanging more than 3 billion voice minutes each month. Vivox VoiceEverywhere makes digital communication more seamless and natural, regardless of the context or location. With Vivox, businesses can quickly engage users within their communities and extend their brand beyond traditional boundaries, ultimately inspiring conversations, wherever and whenever people want. Vivox's partners currently include T-Mobile, CCP Games, Linden Labs, Nexon, Sony Online Entertainment, Wargaming.net and others. For more information, visit www.vivox.com.
 