
 
 It's been quite some time since we've heard from Improv Electronics, maker of writing tablets such as the Boogie Board Rip. The company was on hand at CEA today to tease its latest device, the Boogie Board Jot, which like the Rip sports a reflex LCD display that doesn't require power to record your scribbles. In fact, the device only uses energy when you hit the eraser button, which means the battery should get you through some 50,000 erases.

 Unlike the Rip, this model has no on-board storage, which explains the cheaper $40 price. Another new feature is the redesigned stylus, which acts as a stand for the device when docked in the onboard slot. Improv Electronics will launch the Jot in September, but you can catch some of those back-to-school vibes in our hands-on video below the break. 




   Show full PR text   New Boogie Board Jot LCD eWriter Unveiled at CEA Line Shows
  Latest Boogie Board LCD eWriter Model Offers Stylish Electronic Alternative to Paper Memo Pads
  Kent, Ohio, USA – Wednesday, June 27, 2012: Improv Electronics unveiled its newest Boogie Board LCD eWriter model, called the Boogie Board Jot eWriter to media members and other VIPs at the CEA Line Shows preview event held last night in New York City. The latest model to join the growing line of tree-friendly, paperless eWriters will be available for purchase on Amazon.com and from select retailers in September.

   "We are very excited to announce the addition of the Boogie Board Jot eWriter to our Boogie Board product family," said Improv Electronics CEO Dr. Albert Green. "Since the original Boogie Board eWriter launched in 2010, we have seen demand increase exponentially around the world. Demand comes from all consumer demographics – college students and office professionals to young children and busy parents – or from ages 2 to 92 as we like to say. We have responded to this demand with increased production, retail outlets and product offerings. With the launch of the Boogie Board Jot eWriter, we expect even greater demand as it becomes the de facto electronic memo pad for style and eco-conscious consumers."

   Like all other Boogie Board eWriters, the Boogie Board Jot eWriter features a revolutionary Reflex® LCD as its writing surface. Made of shatter-proof plastic, the Reflex LCD is ultra-thin and light. It also provides a writing experience similar to pen and paper. The Boogie Board Jot also includes a number of exciting new enhancements:

   · A sleek and contemporary metallic-look design available with red, blue and graphite accents  · Soft-touch back to provide grip and stability  · Tapered stylus that doubles as a stand for horizontal viewing (great for leaving messages on the kitchen counter)  · Built-in magnets for mounting to refrigerators, file cabinets and other metallic surfaces  · Replaceable coin cell battery (each battery provides up to 50,000 erases)  · Erase lock switch to prevent accidental erasure of written/drawn images

   Two new accessories will be available for the Boogie Board Jot eWriter to help protect it from impact, weather and unwanted screen marks. The Boogie Board Jot Jacket is a fitted water-resistant neoprene sleeve that provides the highest level of protection and is ideal for taking the Boogie Board Jot eWriter wherever you go. The Boogie Board Jot Folio is a leather-like case with a convenient flip-over design similar to a traditional stenographer notepad. It is ideal for the office or other professional settings.

   The Boogie Board Jot eWriter will be available for purchase online through Amazon.com and in select retail stores this September for $39.99.

  About Boogie Board eWriters  Improv Electronics introduced Boogie Board eWriters in January 2010 with the Boogie Board 8.5 eWriter as a paperless replacement for memo pads, sticky notes, scratch pads and other writing and drawing mediums. High global demand immediately followed. Eight colors were added in January 2011. In June 2011, several additional Boogie Board models and accessories were launched including the Boogie Board 10.5 eWriter, Boogie Board 8.5 eWriter for Binders, and the Boogie Board Message Center. At the same time, a custom design of the original Boogie Board 8.5 eWriter available exclusively through Brookstone was introduced.

   The Boogie Board Rip eWriter's ability to record and save notes/images makes it the ideal paperless replacement for paper notebooks, legal pads, and sketch books. It includes the following features:

   · Internal memory for 200 typical images  · High resolution, vector PDF format (nearly infinite scalability; editable in Adobe® Illustrator®/Photoshop® and most other popular illustration and image editing programs)  · 9.5" writing surface (measured diagonally)  · Micro USB port  · Thin, durable and lightweight construction  · Integrated stylus holder (stylus included)  · Erase lock button  · Rechargeable batteries with one week between charges under typical use

   Joseph Volpe contributed to this report.

