
 

So, you've finally accepted the reality that smartphones aren't a passing fad, but you're no less concerned that the special tech-hater in your life might get hip that you've abandoned reading books for flinging unhappy fowl. You're further concerned that you won't have space in your skinny jeans for both a wallet and an iPhone. Well, it sounds like Twelve South's BookBook iPhone 4 case has you and your ridiculous smartphone-conversion anxiety covered. The little leather-bound sleeve not only masks your iPhone in what looks like a miniature Bible binding, but also acts as host to your wallet's contents. If you're looking to fool folks into thinking you're really reading a tiny tome titled BookBook, the case can be yours for $60 at the source link. Full PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Twelve South puts your money where your phone is. Introducing BookBook for iPhone.		Combine your wallet and iPhone case 		Charleston, SC, July 26, 2011 - Twelve South is pleased to announce the arrival of a new must-have accessory for iPhone owners. BookBook for iPhone 4 is a beautiful, pocket-sized wallet that holds both iPhone 4 and your driver's license, debit card, cash and receipts. The new BookBook for iPhone 4 is available now at Apple Store and twelvesouth.com for $59.99. More info and images can be found here. 		Made exclusively for iPhone 4, this tiny vintage book replaces the need for a traditional wallet, which means one less item to keep up with, and one less thing in your pocket or purse. Two of your must-have items, iPhone and wallet, become one item. Having iPhone inside BookBook means you will never forget your wallet again. 		The sturdy leather cover provides maximum protection for iPhone. Open BookBook for edge-to-edge access to iPhone. There are no frames getting in the way of your thumbs. All buttons and ports are accessible. You can sync or listen to iTunes while iPhone is in the book. Soft, chocolate brown suede lines the interior of the wallet. 		BookBook features a handy ID window, making it easy to flash your license. The window has a convenient thumb slide for quick removal of your ID when needed. There are two slots for credit/debit cards and a vertical pocket for cash, receipts or business cards. BookBook conveniently puts your bank card next to your bank and finance apps. 		Andrew Green, Creative Director at Twelve South, said "There are many iPhone cases out there in all shapes and sizes, but we couldn't find the one we wanted. So we rolled up our sleeves and designed the ultimate case. A cool, pocket-sized book that serves as a wallet and iPhone case. It's a phone book and checkbook rolled into one." 		Made with genuine leather, each BookBook is hand-distressed so no two are exactly alike. Since it looks just like a pocket-sized book, it's an easy way to disguise your wallet and phone. The stylish design keeps you and your iPhone from looking like everyone else.
 