
Well over two years after the original graced Boost Mobile's shelves, Samsung's Galaxy Prevail II is being announced for the same carrier. Available for just $179.99 in off-contract form, the handset ships with Android 4.1.2 (Jelly Bean), a 4-inch WVGA touchscreen, 5-megapixel rear camera, 1.3 megapixel front-facing cam, and a 1.4GHz processor. You'll also find a 1,750mAh battery, inbuilt GPS / WiFi modules and Bluetooth 4.0. The prepaid carrier is hawking this on its contract-free $55 / month plan, which just so happens to shrink by $5 per month for every six on-time payments -- in other words, those who hang around long enough will eventually be paying as little as $40 / month for nationwide talk, text and picture messaging, as well as web access. Not too shabby, eh?



Show full PR textBoost Mobile is today announcing the availability of the white Samsung Galaxy Prevail® II priced at $179.99. Samsung Galaxy Prevail II with AndroidTM 4.1.2, Jelly Bean, makes for a powerful, customized consumer experience. The large 4-inch screen with a 5-megapixel rear-facing camera and a 1.3-megapixel front-facing camera allows for face-to-face chatting and the easy sharing of pictures and videos. Under $180, the Galaxy Prevail II is affordable for those consumers who want a premium Android smartphone experience at a real value.Samsung Galaxy Prevail II can be paired with Boost Mobile's no annual contract $55 Android Monthly Unlimited plan with Shrinking Payments. For every six on-time payments, the cost of Boost Mobile's Monthly Unlimited plan shrinks by $5, eventually getting down to as low as $40 a month for unlimited nationwide talk, text and picture messaging, Web[1], email and calls to 411. Payments do not need to be consecutive to qualify for the next savings milestone.Other key features include:• 4-inch WVGA touchscreen• 1.4GHz processor• 1750 mAh battery• Wi-Fi- and GPS-enabled• Bluetooth 4.0Samsung Galaxy Prevail II is available now at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations nationwide and at www.boostmobile.com/prevail2 with free shipping.


