
 We've seen US-based wireless operators offer low-cost calling to Mexico before -- and frankly, creations like Google Voice and Skype have made it cheaper than ever to make a cross-border voice call -- but it's not everyday that you see an MVNO launch a dedicated calling plan to MX. That said, Boost Mobile is today introducing a $15 per month add-on that allows its users to phone up every single landline and mobile number in the country immediately south of America, assuming that it's added on to a monthly unlimited plan.

 Curiously, the offer is only designed to stand through June 6th, and the company isn't mentioning what that sum will rise to after said date. For those who indulge, that $15 also includes limitless calling to landlines in over 45 nations (including Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Argentina and Colombia), unlimited calling to Canada, unlimited international text messaging worldwide from the United States and reduced calling rates to over 200 other destinations. Of course, this is assuming you still communicate via voice, which may or may not be true at this stage.



  Show full PR text    Que Bueno! Boost Mobile Now Offers Unlimited Calling to All of Mexico, Including Mobile Phones and Landlines for $15 a Month

   Great value when paired with new entry-level flip Kyocera Coast handset

   "Boost is delivering a simple and affordable solution for unlimited calling to mobile phones and landlines across Mexico and the United States, which is a perfect complement to our plans with shrinking payments and our broad selection of handsets including the new Kyocera Coast."

   IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Boost Mobile, a leader in the no-contract wireless industry, provides its customers even greater value with the introduction of a budget-friendly handset and a limited-time offer for calling Mexico. Starting today, unlimited calling to all mobile phones and landlines in Mexico is just $15 a month when added to a Boost Mobile monthly unlimited plan1. The company also enhanced the breadth of its handset lineup with Kyocera Coast, available today for $29.99 (excluding taxes).

   The limited-time offer is good for subscribers who add $15 Unlimited Mexico Mobile to a Monthly Unlimited plan by June 6. Those customers who activate the add-on during the promotional period will continue to receive unlimited calls to all of Mexico as long as the account is active and the $15 monthly add-on remains on the current account.

   "No need for international calling cards or access code dialing in order to stay connected with friends and family," said Andre Smith, vice president of Boost Mobile. "Boost is delivering a simple and affordable solution for unlimited calling to mobile phones and landlines across Mexico and the United States, which is a perfect complement to our plans with shrinking payments and our broad selection of handsets including the new Kyocera Coast."

   Both the Unlimited Mexico Mobile offer and Kyocera Coast handset can be combined with one of Boost's Monthly Unlimited with Shrinking Payments plans that start at $50 a month for unlimited nationwide talk, text, Web2, email and calls to 411. Unique from the competition, for every six on-time payments, the cost of Boost Mobile's Monthly Unlimited plans shrink by $5, up to $15 per month in total. Payments do not need to be consecutive to qualify for the next saving milestone.

   Unlimited Mexico Mobile

   Boost Mobile customers who sign up for the $15 Unlimited3 Mexico Mobile offer receive:

   Unlimited calling to all mobile phones in Mexico  Unlimited calling to landlines in all cities in Mexico – including Mexico City  Unlimited calling to landlines in more than 45 countries – including Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Argentina and Colombia  Unlimited calling to Canada (excluding area code 867)  Unlimited international text messaging worldwide from the United States  Reduced calling rates to more than 200 destinations

   New Kyocera Coast

   Boost Mobile is also expanding its handset portfolio with the addition of Kyocera Coast. Available today at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations nationwide and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping, Kyocera Coast is an entry-level flip feature phone perfect for the cost-conscious consumer who wants a simple device coupled with a great no-contract plan. The device will also be available later in April at select national retail locations. Key features include:

   2MP digital camera with video  Dual displays: 2.4-inch internal and external caller ID  SMS and multimedia messaging  Email and IM capable  Hands-free speakerphone  Bluetooth® capable  Wireless Web capable

   About Boost Mobile

   Boost Mobile, recently recognized by J.D. Power and Associates for "Highest Satisfaction with the Purchase Experience Among Non-Contract Wireless Providers," offers wireless phones and services with no long-term contracts. Boost Mobile redefines value for wireless consumers with its Monthly Unlimited with Shrinking Payments no-contract service, where the longer you stay the less you pay with on-time payments for unlimited voice, text messaging, Web, email and calls to 411. Boost Mobile offers nationwide service on the Nationwide Sprint Network, reaching more than 282 million people, with no activation or long-distance fees. Boost Mobile offers a selection of quality handsets from HTC, LG, Motorola, BlackBerry, Samsung, Kyocera and ZTE, ranging from entry-level to Android™ smartphone devices available nationwide at nearly 20,000 major retail stores, including Best Buy, RadioShack, Target, Family Dollar, Walgreens and Walmart, Sprint retail stores, independent wireless dealer locations, and on HSN, a leading TV home shopping network. Re-Boost® Cards are available at approximately 100,000 locations throughout the United States. Experience Boost Mobile on the Web at Facebook and Twitter; and purchase products at www.boostmobile.com.

   1 State and local sales taxes & fees may apply when adding funds to your Boost account.

   2 Includes 2.5GB per month of high-speed data. Adaptive Protocol Video limited to 3G speeds of 600Kbps.

   3 Unlimited is subject to usage restrictions available at boostmobile.com

 
