
 
 Boost Mobile is cranking out a trio of Samsung devices today, and the headliner is the Galaxy S II 4G. Essentially a prepaid version of Sprint's ever-popular Epic 4G Touch, the device will be all yours starting on September 6th for $360. As expected, it sports a 1.2GHz dual-core Exynos chipset, 8MP rear camera with 1080p video capture, 2MP front-facing cam, a 4.5-inch Super AMOLED Plus display, 1,800mAh battery and WiMAX and EVDO rev A connectivity. Fortunately, it will run Ice Cream Sandwich out of the box, and comes in both white and black options. Read on below for the full press release.




  Show full PR text   High-End Speed and Performance Without a Contract: Boost Mobile Strengthens 4G Lineup With the Award-Winning Samsung Galaxy S II 4G   Boost also adds the Android powered Samsung Galaxy Rush smartphone and Samsung Array feature phone to Boost's growing handset portfolio   IRVINE, Calif. – Aug. 22, 2012 – Boost Mobile, a leader in the no-contract wireless industry, and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States[1], today revealed three additions to Boost Mobile's handset lineup: the ultra-thin Samsung Galaxy S® II 4G, the compact touchscreen AndroidTM powered Samsung Galaxy RushTM and the Samsung ArrayTM with a slide-QWERTY keyboard. All three devices pair with one of Boost's Monthly Unlimited plans with Shrinking Payments where customers are rewarded for simply making on-time payments.   "Together with Samsung we continue to launch compelling device options from entry level to 4G-enabled smartphones to meet the evolving needs of our customers," said Andre Smith, vice president-Boost Mobile. "Launching the award-winning Samsung Galaxy S II 4G marks a defining moment for Boost's customers craving a portable entertainment powerhouse on a no-contract unlimited plan that shrinks to as low as $40 a month."   Offered for the first time on a no-contract carrier in the United States, the Galaxy S II 4G provides an unmatched entertainment experience for speed and hypermedia enthusiasts without the stress of a contract. Samsung Galaxy S II 4G will be available starting Sept. 6 for $369.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations nationwide and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. It will also be available late September in select national retail locations.   This feature-packed Android smartphone will operate on Sprint's 3G and 4G (WiMAXTM) networks, bringing 4G speeds to Boost Mobile customers in 71 markets across the country with average upload speeds of 3-6Mbps and bursts of more than 10Mbps. As well as access to Sprint's nationwide 3G network which reaches more than 278 million people.   The Galaxy S II 4G, available in white and black, is loaded with a brilliant oversized 4.52-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus touchscreen, dual cameras and the Samsung Exynos™ processor, one of the fastest dual-core processors in the industry. The phone's rich color display allows, Boost customers to snap bright photos, record full HD video on the go, and browse the Web at blazing fast 4G speeds in 71 markets nationwide. For an additional $10 a month customers can take advantage of the phone's mobile hotspot capability, which can create a personal Wi-Fi network on the go, with connections for up to five Wi-Fi® devices.   Additional key features of the Samsung Galaxy S II include:  Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) operating system  Dual-mode 3G/4G  8MP camera (2MP front facing) with 1080P full HD video  Dual-core 1.2GHz processor  16GB internal memory  8 hours talk time  Wi-Fi/mobile hotspot capability (additional fee of $10/month)

 
