
 
 Boost Mobile is in New York City today to take the wraps off of its new fall lineup, and in addition to the Galaxy S II 4G, it'll be joined by the Samsung Galaxy Rush, a small (but slightly souped-up) smartphone that sports Android 4.0. Noteworthy specs include a 1GHz Qualcomm MSM8655 CPU, 768MB of RAM, a 3.5-inch HVGA touchscreen and a 3-megapixel camera. While built-in storage is limited to just 4GB, users will find a microSD slot for expansion. The phone also sports a rather healthy battery, which weighs in at 1,750mAh. According to Boost, the Samsung Galaxy Rush will hit stores in late September for $150.




 
  Show full PR text   High-End Speed and Performance Without a Contract: Boost Mobile Strengthens 4G Lineup With the Award-Winning Samsung Galaxy S II 4G
   Boost also adds the Android powered Samsung Galaxy Rush smartphone and Samsung Array feature phone to Boost's growing handset portfolio

   IRVINE, Calif. – Aug. 22, 2012 – Boost Mobile, a leader in the no-contract wireless industry, and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States[1], today revealed three additions to Boost Mobile's handset lineup: the ultra-thin Samsung Galaxy S® II 4G, the compact touchscreen AndroidTM powered Samsung Galaxy RushTM and the Samsung ArrayTM with a slide-QWERTY keyboard. All three devices pair with one of Boost's Monthly Unlimited plans with Shrinking Payments where customers are rewarded for simply making on-time payments.

   "Together with Samsung we continue to launch compelling device options from entry level to 4G-enabled smartphones to meet the evolving needs of our customers," said Andre Smith, vice president-Boost Mobile. "Launching the award-winning Samsung Galaxy S II 4G marks a defining moment for Boost's customers craving a portable entertainment powerhouse on a no-contract unlimited plan that shrinks to as low as $40 a month."

   Offered for the first time on a no-contract carrier in the United States, the Galaxy S II 4G provides an unmatched entertainment experience for speed and hypermedia enthusiasts without the stress of a contract. Samsung Galaxy S II 4G will be available starting Sept. 6 for $369.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations nationwide and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. It will also be available late September in select national retail locations.

   This feature-packed Android smartphone will operate on Sprint's 3G and 4G (WiMAXTM) networks, bringing 4G speeds to Boost Mobile customers in 71 markets across the country with average upload speeds of 3-6Mbps and bursts of more than 10Mbps. As well as access to Sprint's nationwide 3G network which reaches more than 278 million people.

   The Galaxy S II 4G, available in white and black, is loaded with a brilliant oversized 4.52-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus touchscreen, dual cameras and the Samsung Exynos™ processor, one of the fastest dual-core processors in the industry. The phone's rich color display allows, Boost customers to snap bright photos, record full HD video on the go, and browse the Web at blazing fast 4G speeds in 71 markets nationwide. For an additional $10 a month customers can take advantage of the phone's mobile hotspot capability, which can create a personal Wi-Fi network on the go, with connections for up to five Wi-Fi® devices.

   Additional key features of the Samsung Galaxy S II include:

   Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) operating system  Dual-mode 3G/4G  8MP camera (2MP front facing) with 1080P full HD video  Dual-core 1.2GHz processor  16GB internal memory  8 hours talk time  Wi-Fi/mobile hotspot capability (additional fee of $10/month)

   Boost Mobile Adds Two Samsung Devices

   The Samsung Galaxy Rush is an affordable Android 4.0 smartphone available late September for $149.99 (excluding taxes), also at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations nationwide, select national retail locations and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. The Galaxy Rush has a large 3.5-inch touchscreen, 3MP rear camera and 1.3MP front-facing camera, which allows for face-to-face chatting and the ease of sharing pictures and videos.

   Like the Samsung Galaxy S II 4G, the Galaxy Rush can be paired with Boost Mobile's no-contract $55 Android Monthly Unlimited plan with Shrinking Payments. For every six on-time payments, the cost of Boost Mobile's Monthly Unlimited plan shrinks by $5, eventually getting down to as low as $40 a month for unlimited nationwide talk, text and picture messaging, Web[2], email and calls to 411. Payments do not need to be consecutive to qualify for the next savings milestone.   Consumers who love to talk and text should check out the Samsung Array, available on Sept. 4 for $59.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations nationwide and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. It will also be available late September in select national retail locations. The Samsung Array is a slim, stylish device with a slide-out QWERTY that is perfect for the texter who wants a 2.0MP camera and Web-browsing capability at an affordable price. The slim form factor makes the handset compact and easy to fit in a pocket. Its 2.4-inch LCD screen it is large enough to see pictures and read texts clearly. The device will also be available on Boost Mobile's $45 Talk & Text Unlimited Plan with Shrinking Payments.

   Samsung, Galaxy, Rush, Array, Exynos and Super AMOLED are trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Other company names, product names and marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners and may be trademarks or registered trademarks. "4G" used in connection with the Samsung Galaxy S II 4G refers to the fact that the device is capable of operating on Sprint's 4G (WiMAX) network.

 
