
We've seen on-ear and in-ear headphones come out of Bowers & Wilkins' labs for quite some time, but now the company has announced its first over-ear pair. The new P7s boast the style's natural advantages, of course -- ear-covering cushions that mold to the wearer's head, improving noise isolation. B&W crafted new audio drivers for the cans too, which it claims are designed more like "traditional audiophile speaker" than a pair of premium headphones. The device's leather and metal finish looks sleek, but it doesn't come cheap -- a pair will set you back $400 when it comes out this September. Too rich for your blood? Well, you can always opt for one of B&W's relatively more affordable options.



Show full PR textBowers & Wilkins launches P7 headphones
Bowers & Wilkins' P7 headphones deliver an enveloping, pristine listening experience. A combination of new drive-unit technology, luxurious materials, and a clever folding design, make the P7s Bowers & Wilkins best mobile hi-fi headphones yet.

Bowers & Wilkins is proud to announce the P7 Mobile Hi-Fi headphones. Our first over-ear headphones, the P7s provide a truly immersive listening experience, combined with the luxurious comfort and impeccable build quality you expect from Bowers & Wilkins.

With the P7s, everything is designed to allow you to lose yourself in music. Thanks to the technological advances we've made with these headphones, sound performance is a revelation. Bass is tighter, vocals are more defined, and there's a wonderful sense of space, balance, and clarity across the entire frequency range.

For the P7s we've drawn on everything we know about speaker technology and built it into a set of mobile headphones. New drive unit technology and Bowers & Wilkins famed attention to detail mean that the P7s offer a giant leap forward in sound quality. At the same time, the over-ear design and snugly fitting ear pads allow you to listen without unwanted interruptions.Because when you're hearing sound this good, you don't want anything to interrupt your enjoyment of it.

The all-encompassing ear cushions not only provide noise isolation and high levels of comfort, their dual-cavity construction helps the pads mold to the contours of the wearer's head. This design maintains a consistent volume of air between the drive unit and the surface of the ear at both sides of the head. Not only is stereo imaging enhanced - the sound is optimized for every listener.

As with all Bowers & Wilkins headphones, no corners were cut in terms of the P7s' build quality and choice of materials. Moving parts are constructed from brushed and stainless steel, as is the ingenious folding mechanism. The logo plates are crafted from brushed aluminum. The headband and ear pads are encased in luxuriously soft leather, making them a delight to wear even for long listening sessions. The P7s also features a detachable remote-control- and-microphone cable.

The result of all of this attention to detail, advanced technology, and choice of materials is the best-performing Bowers & Wilkins headphones yet: the P7s.

Technology

With most headphones, sound quality is compromised by the way drive-units are designed. To save space, the diaphragm must perform the dual role of sound generator and suspension system. But for the P7 we have created a headphone driver that works more like the drive-unit in a hi-fi speaker, with a diaphragm focused purely on the job it's supposed to do: generate sound.

The internal speaker baskets encasing the P7s' drive-units are perforated with air vents covered with a resistive film. This unique design allows for precise control of the airflow from behind the drive-unit, resulting in a more uniform, piston-like movement. Plus, while the voice coil of most headphones are made from copper, the P7s' voice coils are constructed from a lighter aluminum-copper compound. The decrease in weight means that the drive-unit can move more freely, improving high frequency dynamics.

The P7's speaker baffle plates are constructed from a polymer material that has been heavily braced and tuned to make it very rigid and inert. This limits any resonances that might color the sound of the headphones. Finally, damping material inside the speaker enclosure helps control and dampens internal reflections, further reducing coloration and distortion. All of this means a drive-unit with a more precise, controlled movement, capable of producing outstanding levels of performance.

The Bowers & Wilkins P7 headphones are available in September, priced at $399.99

The Bowers & Wilkins P5 is available now, priced at $299.95The Bowers & Wilkins P3 is available now, priced at $199.99The Bowers & Wilkins C5 is available now, priced at $179.00


