
 

Maybe you've wanted to step up your iPhone listening-game with Bowers & Wilkins P5 headphones Maybe its $300 price tag or supra-aural fit just weren't appealing. Well then, maybe you'll be pleased hear about the company's new and extra-mobile $180 C5 noise-isolating in-ear headset. Crafted mostly from aluminum, its bullet-shaped earbuds look like a posh blend of the Zeppelin Air and Mini geared for mobile. The 'buds come equipped with an iDevice compatible inline remote / mic to get a handle on phone calls or swap though playlists, and have a few unique features to boot. To ensure a proper fit on-the-move, you'll find Secure Loops that can be adjusted to hug the inner cartilage of your ear, along with added heft (Tungsten Weighting) near the inner-ear side for a tight seal. Internally, there's a Micro Porous Filter to widen the perceived soundstage, while also preventing any leakage to folks around you. We'll be checking these out in due time, but for now, audio lovers will find full specs at B&W's website linked below.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Bowers & Wilkins is proud to announce C5 in-ear,		noise-isolating headphones 		C5 in-ear, noise-isolating headphones offer pristine sound quality on the move. The innovate Secure Loop design keeps C5 comfortably in place, and aids fit and performance. Plus the proprietary Micro Porous Filter enables C5 to produce a wonderfully open, natural performance, perfect for longer listening sessions. 		N. Reading, MA-July 11, 2011 B N. North Reading, MA-July 11, 2011 Bowers & Wilkins' debut of the C5 in-ear headphones brings the option of amazing clarity of sound, innovative design, and high-quality materials for the discerning customer who demands premium performance from in-ear headphones. 		Best in class sound quality is an attribute long associated with Bowers & Wilkins products. From the 800 Series Diamond to Zeppelin Air to the highly-regarded P5 mobile hi-fi headphones, Bowers & Wilkins products have stood out within their respective categories for 45 years. C5 takes this quality to a new arena: in-ear headphones. 		As with all Bowers & Wilkins products, C5 is a mixture of long-held acoustic principles and technological advances. Key among the advances is the Micro Porous Filter. This acts as a diffuser, enabling C5 to deliver pristine, natural audio, while also providing a more spacious performance than previously possible from in-ear headphones. It also has the advantage of limiting noise bleed, and together with the noise-isolating properties of the sealed fit, this allows users to lose themselves in flawless audio. 		Almost as vital as performance in the in-ear headphone arena is comfort and quality of fit. C5 addresses this with the introduction of the proprietary Secure Loop design, an ingenious innovation where a cushioned loop fixes quickly and comfortably in the inner ridge of the user's ear. This solution holds C5 in place for improved sound, and also makes it ideal for use on the move and during activities. The Secure Loop is infinitely adjustable, so it works perfectly with anyone's ears. 		Adding to this sense of comfort is C5's Tungsten Balanced design. Here, high-mass material is located closer to the user's ear, for an improved seal for better sound and noise isolation. Elsewhere C5 is crafted from high-grade aluminum for a premium-quality finish. 		C5 comes supplied with a Made For iPhone compatible cable, which is ideal for making calls on the move, and a quilted pouch for easy storage. 		For additional information visit: http://www.bowers-wilkins.com/Headphones/Headphones/C5/product-details.html 		C5 is available August 2011 and will cost: $179.95 (U.S. & Canada)
 