
The words red and October together might conjure up thoughts of Tom Clancy or Kanye West, but now you can also associate them with Bowers & Wilkins. Starting next month, the company will offer up its compact P3 headphones in the vibrant hue. The latest color option for the iPhone-compatible on-ear cans joins the likes of the blue, black and white variants for the same $200 price tag. If you like your headphones to look as loud as they sound, you'll find more details in the press release after the break. Here's to hoping the P5 gets a similarly rosey treatment soon.



Show full PR textBowers & Wilkins P3 headphones now available in red, as well as blue, white and blackThe P3 mobile hi-fi headphones are now available in stunning scarlet, joining the current blue, white and black models. Our most portable on-ear headphones just got more colorful.
Bowers & Wilkins is pleased to announce that the award-winning P3 headphones are now available in bright red. This bold new color joins the three existing P3 options of blue, white and black, providing anyone who demands great sound on the move - from a headphone renowned for its rugged yet lightweight construction, foldable design, and detailed, natural sound - with four options for matching his or her personal style.The P3s are Bowers & Wilkins' lightest on-ear headphones, the pinnacle of portable headphone performance.With close to five decades' accumulated acoustic and design excellence behind them, the P3s represent a new high in affordable mobile headphone performance. As you'd expect from Bowers & Wilkins, the P3s' high-performance sound is the result of countless hours of testing and tuning with some of the best, most experienced engineers and listeners in the business.Portable and light, yet rugged, the P3s are built from aluminum and durable rubber, fold up for easy storage, and stow away into their own compact hard-shell carry case - which is red to match the headphones.The P3s comes with a choice of cables: one with a remote-control/microphone attachment that works seamlessly with your iPhone, and another that ensures compatibility with all other mobile phones and MP3 players. Swapping cables is easy, and involves simply popping off the replaceable ear pads.The combination of high-performance, considered features, and smart design make the P3s the headphones of choice for people who demand great sound on the move.Bowers & Wilkins P3 headphones in Red are available October and priced at $199.99.Bowers & Wilkins P3 headphones in Black, White or Blue are available now and priced at $199.99.Bowers & Wilkins P5 Mobile Hi-Fi Headphones are available now and priced at $299.95Bowers & Wilkins C5 in-ear headphones are available now and priced at $179.00

