
 

How much cloud storage space do you need? 2GB? 5GB? Pah! Box.net scoffs at your puny storage needs, and plan to offer a substantial 50GB of free storage (again) for anyone packing a Sony Ericsson Android phone. While the plans have leaked ahead of schedule, the fine details haven't been hammered out just yet; the official blog tells us that the company's "working to provide this offer very soon to all Xperia customers." When the offer does go live, logging in to (or creating) a Box.net account on any Xperia handset will open the floodgates to 50 gigs of intangible internet storage fo' life. If this keeps up, it shouldn't be long till we're looking at gratis terabytes and are freed of our not-exactly-crippling USB stick addiction, right?

Update: Sony Ericsson's not the only one getting gratis cloud storage -- LG owners can snag 50GB for life, too. PR's after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  LG-Box Partnership Brings 50GB of Free Lifetime Storage in the Cloud to All LG Android Mobile Devices 		Users of LG Android Mobile Handsets Are First to Receive 50 GB of Free Cloud Storage and Enterprise-Grade Security with Box for Android to Enhance their Enterprise Mobile Experience 		SAN DIEGO and PALO ALTO, Calif., Nov. 30, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Electronics Inc. (LG), a global technological force in mobile communications and Box, a leading cloud content management provider, today announced that LG would be the first handset maker to offer 50GB of free cloud storage via Box for Android on all LG Android mobile devices. LG users who sign up for an account with Box through their LG Android mobile devices between November 30, 2011 and March 31, 2012 will enjoy the benefits of free, secure cloud storage and sharing for the lifetime of the account. 		"With 50GB of free cloud storage from Box combined with world-class LG Android mobile devices, LG users are provided with cloud computing capabilities to support secure content management, collaboration and productivity on the move," said Ki S. Kim, corporate vice president and head of Global Enterprise Mobility Solutions (B2B) at LG Electronics. "We will continue to set the standard in the enterprise mobility space by introducing innovative, cutting-edge solutions to enhance the mobile experience of enterprise users." 		"Android mobile adoption is growing at an unprecedented rate and by working with LG, we are bringing the full power of the cloud to those users," said Aaron Levie, co-founder and CEO of Box. "To take full advantage of mobile computing, it is essential that users never have to worry about storage limitations, and we believe that LG's efforts combined with the capabilities of Box will be a turning point for both the mobile device and cloud storage categories." 		According to a recent Gartner report, the Android operating system accounted for 52.5 percent of smartphone sales to end users in the third quarter of 2011, more than doubling its market share from the third quarter of 2010. LG, as one of the worldwide leaders in mobile, has released a line of sleek and powerful Android devices this year including the Revolution 4G LTE, Thrill 4G, Marquee and most recently, DoublePlay. 		This joint storage offering culminates from LG's efforts in establishing a solid portfolio of enterprise mobility solution offerings through a robust partner ecosystem. It complements LG's current suite of solutions encompassed within four major categories – mobile device management and security, mobile virtualization, unified communications and cloud computing. As a leading player in the B2B enterprise sphere, LG has gained industry recognition for its manufacturing expertise and integration of mobility solutions into smartphones. Just recently, the Revolution™ by LG with VMware Horizon Mobile™ – the world's first LTE 4G dual-persona smartphone – was announced as an Honoree of the International CES Innovations 2012 Design and Engineering Awards. 		With secure file sharing and storage from Box, LG is poised to support users' demands for access to content from their mobile devices in both their personal and professional lives. Today, Box helps more than seven million individuals and 100,000 businesses, including 82 percent of the Fortune 500, share and manage all their content in the cloud and from mobile devices. Now, LG device owners will realize the full benefits of the Box platform, leveraging the Box app to: 		Manage an immense amount of content in the cloud with 50GB of free storage, the equivalent of approximately 50,000 docs, photos and presentations. 		View, upload and share all types of content from anywhere. 		Leverage Box's open platform to securely access and share information across devices and applications with extreme ease. 		Details and Availability 		The Box for Android 50GB promotion is applicable to Android OS 2.1 or above with display resolution 320x480 or higher. The promotion is available in the U.S. starting November 30, 2011 and concluding on March 31, 2012. 		For more information on LG's Enterprise Mobility Solutions, please visit http://enterprisesolutions.lgmobile.com/main.htm. 		For more information on the Gartner report, "Market Share: Mobile Communication Devices by Region and Country, 3Q11," please visit Gartner's website at http://www.gartner.com/resId=1847315.
 