
 
When it comes to being ushered along to your destination at a high rate of speed within a cocoon of luxury, it's hard to go wrong with the Mercedes S Class. However, if this $90,000 (and way, way up) sedan isn't special enough for you, teutonic tuner Brabus is happy to make some... improvements. The company bumps the power up to 750hp, good for a top speed of 211mph whilst also providing a wealth of iDevices to those being coddled inside. There's an iPad (with keyboard) at each of the rear seats, an entertainment system built into the back of both headrests powered by a 64GB iPod Touch, and a 15.2-inch display that swivels down from the ceiling to expose the output from a tunk-mounted Mac Mini. Even for the most ardent of Mac lovers it's a bit too much, but if it weren't it wouldn't be a Brabus. The cost? Nobody's saying, but don't expect this very special kind of excess to come cheap.
      

 

Show full PR textThe "iBusiness"The Luxury Sedan with 750 hp, 340 km/h and Apple MultimediaBRABUS high performance meets high-tech multimedia: The "iBusiness" represents the world debut of an absolutely unique luxury sedan. The four-seater based on the Mercedes S 600 reaches a top speed of 340 km/h (211 mph). It is powered by a BRABUS SV12 R Biturbo 750 12-cylinder engine with a rated power output of 750 hp (740 bhp) / 552 kW and a peak torque of 1,350 Nm (995 lb-ft). The designers from BRABUS (Brabus-Allee, D-46240 Bottrop, phone + 49 / (0) 2041 / 777-0, fax + 49 / (0) 2041 / 777 111, Internet www.brabus.com) combine this engine with an innovative multimedia system that features the latest Apple components. Two iPads in the rear compartment not only play movies, music and Internet content, they also control all functions of the S-Class COMAND system.The BRABUS "iBusiness" stands for more than just peak performance. It stands foremost for innovative multimedia technology for which the BRABUS electronics specialists integrate state-of-the-art Apple components into the vehicle electronics of a Mercedes for the very first time. The BRABUS upholstery shop creates the perfect luxurious surroundings. The elegant fully leather interior is masterfully crafted from a two-tone combination of high-quality BRABUS leather that is especially soft, breathable and highly durable.At the heart of the "iBusiness" is state-of-the-art entertainment and communication technology on wheels. The centerpiece of the system is an ultra-small Mac minicomputer safely housed under the rear shelf in an electrically deployed drawer whose design mirrors the design of the computer itself.A 15.2-inch TFT display with 16:9 aspect ratio is integrated into the headliner covered with the finest Alcantara and contrasted with leather. Together with the standard screens in the back of the front headrests it serves as a display for the multimedia system. USB 2.0 ports integrated into the rear compartment allow connecting various peripherals to the Mac such as a webcam for video conferencing or a digital camera. The "iBusiness" is connected to the Internet via UMTS and HSDPA.The entire BRABUS multimedia system is controlled from the passenger seat or the rear compartment by two iPads that also control the car's standard COMAND system with all functions such as radio, navigation system and telephone.While on the move the two tablet computers and the Bluetooth keyboard can be safely secured in precisely fitting recesses in the luxurious BRABUS rear tables. The table tops are covered with the same exclusive leather as the entire interior and are bordered by high-gloss aluminum frames. The tables are electrically deployed from special BRABUS seatback consoles and are infinitely adjustable to any angle. They offer ample space for perusing documents, the Apple mouse and keyboard.When the iPads are not in use or when the "iBusiness" is parked they can be stored securely and hidden from sight in custom-tailored compartments in the BRABUS center console. A special BRABUS app will be available shortly for iPad and iPhone, the latter of which is also part of the standard equipment of the luxury sedan.The music comes from a 64GB Apple iPod touch that can store more than 14,000 songs. The sound is reproduced either by the sound system of the S-Class or by Sennheiser Noise Gard headphones, which filter out any unwanted ambient noise for unparalleled listening pleasure.Power-operated curtains provide privacy for the rear passengers and together with an innovative color-changing interior lighting system create a serene atmosphere. The BRABUS fully leather interior creates an exclusive ambiance further augmented by the new BRABUS Yachting wood trim package. It lends the interior of the luxury sedan a maritime feel that is reminiscent of classic Italian sport boats. All wood trim elements of the S-Class are painstakingly created by hand from hundreds of individual pieces and have the look and feel of a miniature ship veneer. The wood inlays have a high-gloss finish and meet the latest automotive quality and safety guidelines.Scuff plates with illuminated BRABUS logo, an ergonomically shaped sport steering wheel and anodized aluminum pedals add further individual highlights.The BRABUS "iBusiness" is also the world's most powerful luxury sedan and the fastest office on wheels. This unique automobile is powered by a BRABUS SV12 R Biturbo 750 engine, a prime example for the proven fact that there is no substitute for displacement except more displacement. A special crankshaft with longer stroke, forged pistons with larger diameter and increased cylinder bore bump displacement from standard 5.5 to 6.3 liters (336 to 385 cu. in.). In addition the inlet and outlet ports of both cylinder heads are optimized for improved mixture flow. Four special camshafts also contribute to that same effect.The BRABUS engine specialists also fit the engine with larger turbochargers, a more efficient intercooling system and a stainless-steel high-performance quad exhaust system with free-flow metal catalysts. Newly programmed engine electronics coordinate the perfect interaction of all new components and ensures not only maximum power yield but also exemplary low emissions that meet the latest emission limits.The rated power output of 750 hp (740 bhp) / 552 kW at 5,500 rpm of the BRABUS SV12 R Biturbo 750 engine is as superlative as its peak torque of 1,350 Nm (995 lb-ft) at 2,100 rpm. In the car torque is limited electronically to 1,100 Nm (811 lb-ft).These extraordinary power specs make the "iBusiness" with BRABUS SV12 R Biturbo 750 engine the most powerful and the fastest luxury sedan in the world. 0 – 100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.0 seconds and to 200 km/h (124 mph) in 11.9 seconds are just as impressive as the electronically limited top speed of 340 km/h (211 mph).Power is transferred to the rear wheels via a modified five-speed automatic transmission. The optionally available BRABUS limited-slip differential optimizes traction. All BRABUS powertrain components are operated with ARAL high-performance lubricants.BRABUS also offers performance increases for the S 600 and S 65 models. The list of options ranges from the T12 performance kit for a rated power output of 580 hp (572 bhp) / 419 kW to the T 65 S performance kit which boosts power output of the S 65 model to 715 hp (705 bhp) / 526 kW.On the outside the BRABUS "iBusiness" is clad in a sporty yet elegant designer suit. The BRABUS designers went into the wind tunnel to develop a striking front fascia whose sophisticated shape reduces lift on the front axle. The large center air inlet further optimizes cooling of the engine and the front brakes. Integrated auxiliary headlights and LED daytime running lights increase the safety factor.Custom-tailored BRABUS aluminum sport fenders that replace their production counterparts give the S-Class sedan an even more extravagant look. The exclusive character of these fenders is embodied by an integrated air vent made from clear-coated carbon fiber and a horizontal brace that spans the vent with embossed BRABUS signet and integrated LED lights. The latter are activated just like the ones in the BRABUS side sills via the keyless remote or by pulling on a door handle.For optimizing the airflow around the sides of the vehicle the designers shaped BRABUS sill skirts that feature integrated entrance lights for added utility. They are activated by the keyless remote or by pulling on a door handle as are the blue-illuminated BRABUS logos integrated into the scuff plates on both sides of the vehicle.The BRABUS aerodynamic-enhancement concept is rounded out by the BRABUS rear spoiler lip, also available in a clear-coated carbon-fiber version, and the new rear fascia with centrally located reflector and custom cutouts for the BRABUS quad sport exhaust system. The underside of the rear fascia also features integrated LED lights which illuminate the ground behind the vehicle. They help avoid any unfortunate missteps into puddles of potholes lurking in the dark..The enormous performance of the "iBusiness" with BRABUS SV12 R Biturbo 750 engine is kept safely under control with custom-tailored solutions for tires, brakes and suspension. They include BRABUS Monoblock light-alloy wheels with diameters ranging from 19 to 21 inches.The largest version features size 9Jx21 wheels on the front axle and size 10.5Jx21 in back. Customers can choose from four different designs Three-piece forged and high-gloss polished BRABUS Monoblock VI wheels with six double spokes, Monoblock E multi-spoke wheels, the Monoblock S double-spoke design and the especially exclusive Monoblock F PLATINUM EDITION forged wheels with cross-spoke design. All versions are fitted with Pirelli or YOKOHAMA tires in size 265/30 ZR 21 in front and in size 295/30 ZR 21 on the rear axle.For all gasoline models up to the S 500 (US: S550) BRABUS also certified Monoblock VI, E, G, Q and S 10Jx22 in size 10Jx22 with high-performance tires in size 275/25 ZR 22 in front combined with size 295/25 ZR 22 tires on the rear axle. Thanks to a tire design specifically calibrated to luxury sedans and high-performance coupes the new BRABUS tire/wheel combination offers sporty and agile handling combined with excellent ride comfort.The large wheels also create the necessary space for installing the BRABUS high-performance brake system with 12-piston aluminum fixed calipers and 380 x 36-mm (15.0 x 1.42 inches) vented and cross-drilled discs in front, and 355 x 28-mm (14.0 x 1.1 inches) discs and six-piston aluminum fixed calipers on the rear axle.The BRABUS "iBusiness" is built to order and can be combined with any engine variant from the S 350 to the S 65. Alternatively any existing current S-Class model can be equipped with the innovative multimedia system and all other BRABUS options.
 