
 
When we took Brammo's Enertia motorcycle for a test ride last summer we found it to be a lovingly crafted and fun to ride bike that really only disappointed when it came to ultimate performance -- far closer to your average scooter than your average sportbike. Since then the company has gone racing, taking on the iconic Isle of Man as part of the all-electric TTXGP and finishing third place with a top speed of 102mph. That fully-faired bike was called the TTR, and now the company is making a naked version for you: the 100mph Empulse. Read on for full details and a little video too.





The Empulse is a radical departure from the Enertia, indicated by the way the company is promoting the thing. When we test rode that first bike Brammo reps were a little cagey about its top speed, initially indicating it would be limited to 50mph but later saying it'd do over 60 if you pushed it. With the Empulse they're making no bones about its 100mph+ top speed. That's hardly world-class in the world of motorcycles, but in the world of electric motorcycles it's a definite rarity.So too are the looks. Most EVs look either like experiments thrown together in a garage or an attempt at replicating something from the future. The Empulse has rather more traditional styling, only its inclined array of water-cooled cells sitting where the motor should be plus that unusually large rear sprocket giving away its alternative means of propulsion. The front end looks rather like a Ducati Streetfighter or MV Augusta Brutale. The golden forks, Nissin brakes, and front fender shape are reminiscent of a 2005ish Triumph Speed Triple. The short, wide seat section is, however, unique to Brammo.There will be three models offered: the 6.0, 8.0, and 10.0. These indicate the endurance of the bikes, with the lowest managing 60 miles of "average range" and the top of the line 100 miles, each of which can be extended by keeping your right wrist in check. The 6.0 will naturally be the cheapest, starting at $9,995, the 8.0 for $11,995, and the 10.0 will go for $13,995. That's before a whole raft of federal and state tax rebates which should save buyers at least 10 percent and, in some states like Colorado and Oklahoma, could knock multiple thousands of further dollars off the price. The only catch? It doesn't ship until sometime next summer. If you want one then you'll need to get on the waiting list now, a refundable deposit saves your spot ahead of these things starting to roll out when the weather gets warm again after getting cold again. We're almost ready to place our order but need a little more information first -- primarily some firm performance figures beyond top speed plus maybe the weight and dimensions of the thing. Those, it seems, we'll have to wait a little while for too.Update: We have some specs thanks to Hell for Leather, namely a horsepower rating of 55 with 59lb-ft of torque and a weight of 390lbs. That's comparable to your average 600cc sportsbike and far torquier, but also a good bit down on power compared to them. Still, all that torque here will be available from 0 RPM, which should make this thing deliciously fun to ride.Show full PR textBrammo announces the Empulse - a trio of 100+mph electric motorcycles, including one model that can travel up to 100 miles on a single charge. Prices start at $9995.Ashland, Oregon – July 15th, 2010. Brammo, Inc. announced today it will begin production of an electric sportbike, calling it the "Empulse." Brammo demonstrated a pre-production prototype today and all three production models of the Empulse will be capable of sustaining 100 mph. The three models will have different battery capacities, all utilizing an innovative proprietary array, the Brammo Power™ battery and vehicle management system. The Empulse is available for immediate order and deliveries will commence in 2011.Craig Bramscher, Founder and CEO of Brammo said "motorcycle riders have been requesting increased speed and range and I am proud and delighted to reveal these game changing Brammo electric motorcycles. Our customers expect Brammo to design and produce the world's most exciting (and affordable) electric motorcycles and that's exactly what we have done." Bramscher continued, "Today's announcement promises no more range anxiety for Brammo customers."The Empulse TrioAll three models of the Empulse will be freeway capable and will enjoy a top speed in excess of 100mph. Each of the three models will offer customers a different average range from a single charge. The Empulse 6.0 is capable of 60 miles average range, the Empulse 8.0 is capable of 80 miles average range and the top of the line Empulse 10.0 is capable of a travelling 100 miles on a single charge. Range of all three models can be extended by travelling at lower speeds.The estimated MSRP for the Empulse trio when deliveries start next year are; Empulse 6.0 $9,995, Empulse 8.0 $11,995 and Empluse 10.0 $13,995. All three models will be eligible for Federal and State tax incentives. For example, the Empulse 10.0 may cost as little as $7,000 in certain states after Federal and State incentives.Empulse TechnologyToday's announcement sees the first application of Brammo's innovative Brammo Digital Drivetrain™ including the Brammo Power™ battery pack and Brammo Power™ vehicle management system. Brammo's breakthrough in price/energy density is at the heart of today's announcement and is unequalled in the electric vehicle industry. The Empulse is also the world's first production electric motorcycle to have a water cooled motor.Brian Wismann, Director of Product Development at Brammo and designer of the Empulse said,"The Empulse reveals the significant price performance that we can deliver using Brammo Power™ technology. Just like it did with the Enertia Powercycle, Brammo has again raised the bar in terms of electrical drivetrain innovation and time to market."Empulse AvailabilityCustomers can place their order for an Empulse by visiting the Brammo website www.brammo.com . Deliveries are expected to commence in mid-2011 and orders will be filled on a first-come, first-serve basis. Customers placing an order will be expected to place a refundable deposit once their Empulse is within 90 days of delivery. The Brammo range of motorcycles will be available globally through select motorcycle dealerships and participating Best Buy stores during 2011.Brammo DistributionBrammo is expanding its dealership network both within the USA and in Europe and Asia. Organizations interested in selling and servicing the Brammo range of motorcycles, which includes the award winning Enertia, can register their interest by visiting www.brammo.com/dealerapplicationAdrian Stewart, director of Sales and Marketing at Brammo said "We are always looking for individuals and organizations that want to enter into a long term business partnership with Brammo to sell and service our range of electric vehicles. JCAM, our distributor and dealer in Hong Kong and Singapore is an excellent example of such an organization. "Forged in the Heat of CompetitionBrammo Power™ technology employed in the Empulse is race proven in the Brammo Empulse RR race bike. You can see the Empulse RR in action at the 2010 Red Bull Grand Prix, Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca. Brammo will race the Empulse RR in the FIM e-Power series which will see 15 electric motorcycle teams from around the world compete on this demanding circuit.Meet the EmpulseBrammo CEO Craig Bramscher will be unveiling the Empulse at the 2010 Red Bull Grand Prix at the Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca in Monterey, California, 11.15am, Saturday July 24th 2010.Later this year the Empulse will be at EICMA Milan, Italy and at the Macau Grand Prix, China.About BrammoBrammo Inc is a leading electric vehicle technology company headquartered in North America. Brammo designs and develops electric vehicles including the award winning Brammo Enertia motorcycle. Brammo is an OEM supplier of it's innovative Brammo Digital Drivetrain™ systems including the Brammo Power™ battery pack and Brammo Power™ vehicle management system. Brammo has vehicle distribution and marketing operations in North America, Europe and Asia.
 