
 
 Brammo has suffered some major setbacks in getting its latest Empulse electric motorcycle to market, but the company has stuck to its revised launch date: it unveiled the 2013 model last night. The key specs haven't changed during the delay -- we're still looking at a six-speed gearbox, a max speed of 100 mph and a fast-recharge time of 3.5 hours -- but the price has jumped from $14,000 to $16,995. There's also the Empluse R, a more premium model that will go on sale for $18,995 in June. The main difference between the base model and the R is the material: the Empulse has a plastic body, while the R uses carbon fiber. Check out the full presser below the break -- and if you're holding out for the 2013 Empulse, the gallery pics of the R will have to tide you over till the base model launches early next year. 




  Show full PR text   ASHLAND, Ore., May 9, 2012 -- Brammo, Inc., the designer and manufacturer of world leading electric motorcycles, revealed pricing and production plans for the Empulse and Empulse R while giving motorcycle enthusiasts in Los Angeles a first look at the stunning new design.

   At this unique electric vehicle industry event, Brammo has demonstrated to consumers and motorcycle insiders alike the advancements in electric motorcycling and is providing a glimpse of what is to come in the future. The Empulse is the only electric motorcycle to include a 100-mile range and 100-mph top speed as well as a breakthrough battery and powertrain system enabling a great zero-emission experience.

   At the launch party, Brammo announced the Empulse and Empulse R will cost $16,995 and $18,995 respectively with financing available from Sheffield Financial. Through this financing, customers will be able to purchase the new Empulse and Empulse R from Brammo dealers as follows:

   Empulse: 8.9% for 72 months at $303, 6.9% financing for 60 month at $334 and 3.9% for 36 months at $499

   Empulse R: 8.9% for 72 months at $339, 6.9% financing for 60 month at $373 and 3.9% for 36 months at $558

   Availability of each model will vary based on demand for the Empulse and Empulse R. Production for the Empulse R will take place first with limited availability in June 2012 and in volume by Q3 2012. The Empulse will be available in Q1 2013.

   Research conducted by Brammo with both customers and dealers has driven the development of the Empulse and Empulse R. As a result, these motorcycles now come with a water-cooled AC motor and fully integrated IET™ six speed transmission, seating for two, regenerative braking and on board J1772 Level 2 charging capability. To ensure the highest quality performance and design, Brammo works with internationally renowned manufacturers for superior components of their motorcycles. This close attention to the supply chain ensures the durability, reliability and ultimately future resale value of Brammo products.

   "It was important to Brammo to create a great motorcycle and we paid attention to customer feedback to create just that," said Craig Bramsher, CEO and president of Brammo. "From concept to production the Empulse product has evolved quite a bit. We are bringing you a different motorcycle that promises to be more than what our riders expected."

  The two models vary as follows:
   The Empulse body work is all plastic, has semi adjustable front suspension and semi adjustable rear suspension.

   The Empulse R uses carbon fiber for headlight shroud, front and rear fenders, top panel and the rear light housing.

   Brammo promised that of the first 1000 people who pre ordered an Empulse, one would be selected at random to receive their motorcycle free of charge. Last week from the first 1000 orders six finalists were selected. At the event, Craig Bramscher rolled a dice and Jueiming Chen was the lucky winner.

   True to Brammo's devotion to zero tailpipe-emission transportation, the Empulse launch event was carbon-neutral. Brammo has worked with Carbonfund.org to purchase carbon offsets to mitigate the greenhouse emissions generated by transportation, electricity use, and other resource-intensive activities associated with this event.

   In additional efforts to reduce travel and carbon intensity of the event, Brammo will stream the launch event live to tens of thousands of motorcycle enthusiasts, who will be able to experience the launch party across the nation and afar in Asia and in Europe.

 
