
 
 When is a wireless speaker not a wireless speaker? When you can also plug your phone into the speaker to charge it up in a pinch. That's the hook with Braven's new Six Series speakers, anyway, which come in three different varieties that each pack a USB port that lets you either charge your smartphone or daisy chain multiple speakers together. Ranging in price from $150 to $190, the three different models all also boast similar features across the board, but differ in construction, with the top-end 625s offering a rugged housing (not to mention a built-in LED flashlight), while the 600 and 650 each sport an all-aluminum design -- battery life also varies a bit by model. If the speakers look a little familiar, it's because Braven is the company formerly known as Spar, which offered some similar speakers under the Zephyr name. Hit the source link below for a closer look at each model.




  Show full PR text  Braven Speakers Unite Sophisticated Style with Superior Sound and Unique Ability to Charge Mobile Devices  New line of Bluetooth speakers with brilliant fidelity also offers daisy chaining multiple speakers, hands-free speakerphone and mobile charging  Provo, UT - BRAVEN, formerly SPAR, today launches a new website and begins pre-orders for the world's first multi-tasking high-definition Bluetooth speakers with integrated smartphone charger and speakerphone. The three innovative speakers provide room-filling high-fidelity audio in a stunning, sleek design that delivers unprecedented battery life. The line includes a rugged speaker built for durability in sporting and outdoor settings, as well as two striking aircraft-grade aluminum models. Each device offers the unparalleled ability to charge USB devices and daisy chain multiple speakers together.  The BRAVEN SIX Series speakers have two custom extended-range drivers and 3 watt speaker output providing high-fidelity stereo audio with left- and right-channel passive sub woofers. Along with extraordinary battery life ranging from 12 to 20 hours and device charging, the speakers allow continuous wireless play up to 33 feet away. The internal duplex microphone allows for hands-free speakerphone calls with most any Bluetooth cell phone as well as compatibility with FaceTime, iChat, Skype and other applications. The SIX Series also has the ability to connect with other speakers and devices through 3.5mm audio in and out jacks.  BRAVEN 625s: Encased in a rugged, shock-absorbing exterior with aluminum grills that let listeners take this tough speaker on the go, the Stealth Black BRAVEN 625s is ideal for sport, travel, and outdoor experiences. Equipped with a waterproof bag, USB flashlight, and up to 16 hours of continuous play, this stylish, durable speaker is built to experience stunning audio and extreme adventure.  BRAVEN 600: Made from aircraft-grade aluminum, the BRAVEN 600 is an ideal choice for an ultra portable, gorgeous audio solution. Delivering rich high fidelity sound, this sleek and stylish speaker is available in Ash Grey and Moab Red and has up to 14 hours of playtime. BRAVEN 650: Crafted to precision, the powerful BRAVEN 650 is equipped with industry leading aptX and AAC audio encoding for an amazingly clear, near lossless listening experience and up to 20-hour playtime. The 650 comes in a spectacularly designed aluminum body.  "We're excited to bring our customers the world's most talented portable speakers," says CEO Warren Osborn. "Our speakers not only provide stunning high-fidelity audio on the go, but they also recharge your mobile devices when they're low on power. You can even take your calls hands free with the built-in speakerphone, making BRAVEN the perfect companion for your mobile phone or tablet. BRAVEN's ultra portable speakers truly are game changers."  Availability  The BRAVEN 600 will retail for $149.99, the 625s for $179.99, and the 650 for $189.99. The speakers are available for pre-order now at www.braven.com and begin shipping the end of June 2012. See the speakers in action on YouTube.  About BRAVEN  BRAVEN is a leading innovator in Bluetooth wireless audio and recharging products. BRAVEN is dedicated to delivering stunning audio and enhanced power solutions to today's mobile consumer. As the first company to produce a portable HD speaker/speakerphone that doubles as a mobile phone charger, Braven is an industry leader that combines first-class sound with unparalleled style. For more information, please visit www.braven.com or connect with us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/bravenproducts and Twitter at twitter.com/bravenproducts.
 