
 
 Jawbone's Jamboxes may be the first gizmos that jump to mind if you're searching for wireless, on-the-go speakers, but they're not the only options out there. An outfit by the name of Braven has been teasing its own Bluetooth-enabled Six Series stereo noiseyboxes since April, and now it's officially ready to ship them off. Aside from pumping out wire-free audio, each unit can be used as a portable USB charger for your various gadgets. You'll have a choice between the aluminum-encased 600 ($150) and 650 ($190) models, while the 625 ($180) variant features a ruggedized, shock-absorbing enclosure and a water-proof bag for the more adventurous of you out there. You'll get anywhere from 12-20 hours of charging depending on the model, but each features the same internal setup for sound: two three-watt speakers paired with a dual passive bass radiator. You'll find more details on the specs of each model and your color options in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text   BRAVEN Now Shipping World's Most Talented Wireless Speakers
  BRAVEN SIX Series Speakers feature big high-fidelity audio,  hands-free calls, and mobile charging in a small, modern design
  Provo, UT – June 14th, 2012 – BRAVEN, a leading innovator in Bluetooth audio and charging solutions, today announced their sophisticated wireless speakers are now shipping. Weighing in at around 12 oz. and about 6 inches in length, these small speakers deliver room-filling high-fidelity audio for music on the go. The speakers also feature a built-in speakerphone, charging capability, and the option to combine multiple speakers together.
  The SIX Series includes the sleek aircraft grade aluminum 600 model available in Moab Red or Mountain Ash. The high-end 650 model comes in classic aluminum and features APTX for today's modern audiophile. The 625s is housed in a rugged shock-absorbent rubber that is built for durability and outdoor adventures. Originally only offered in Stealth Black, the 625s is now available in a new Summit Green.
  The Bluetooth speakers have two custom extended-range drivers, each with 3 watt speaker output providing high-fidelity stereo audio. Along with extraordinary battery life ranging from 12 to 20 hours, the speakers will charge USB devices while blasting music or movies. The internal duplex microphone also allows for hands-free speakerphone calls or chats via FaceTime, iChat, or Skype. For those who want even bigger output, multiple BRAVEN speakers can be daisy chained together or connected to other sound systems via 3.5 mm jack. With intense, powerful sound the BRAVEN speakers also improve the mobile gaming experience, bringing your favorite games to life.
  "These speakers are built for big audio in an attractive portable package," says CEO Warren Osborn. "They are so dynamic and versatile that they fit on a CEO's desk or a family's picnic table, a designer handbag or a teen's backpack."
  The BRAVEN 600 retails for $149.99, the 625s for $179.99, and the 650 for $189.99. The speakers are available at braven.com. See the speakers in action on YouTube.
 
