
 


	Sure, you can take your pick of electric streetbikes, but sometimes you just need an eco-friendly motorcycle for blazin' the trail. BRD Motorcyles is now taking pre-orders for their RedShift SM supermoto (pictured above) and RedShift MX motorcrosser electric motorbikes. Touting performance comparable to race-ready 250cc four-stroke gas guzzlers, the pair sports both an off-road ready demeanor and a street-legal tame side. The bikes themselves will set you back $15,495 and $14,995 before you can start your motocross dominance. Should you so choose, a PD upgrade is available for an extra $2500 that includes a stronger subframe, uprated electrical system and integrated hard luggage. Still interested? Pre-orders start November 3rd, although the RedShift of your choice won't hit your garage until late 2012. Once you get your funds in order, hit that PR button after the break to find out how to grab one.
 

 		Show full PR text  BRD RedShift now available for pre-order 		BRD Motorcycles of San Francisco, CA is very excited to announce that we will finally begin taking deposits on the 2013 RedShift electric motorcycle. Though we announced the bikes in August, we did not want to begin taking pre-orders until we were confident that the RedShift was going to meet or exceed our performance benchmark of top-end 250cc four-stroke race motorcycles. We have now completed sufficient testing to be sure that these bikes have the performance to support their looks and our claims. 		As previously announced, the RedShift SM supermoto and the RedShift MX motocrosser have projected retail prices of $15,495 and $14,995, respectively. The PD package is available as an upgrade to either model with a planned retail price of +$2500. It is expected to include a stronger tubular rear subframe, uprated low-voltage electrical system, and integrated hard luggage. All RedShifts will ship as street legal units to ensure they are eligible for available state and federal eV incentives. Race plastics will be available as a low-cost aftermarket option to remove lighting and switchgear for off-road applications. 		Pre-orders will be accepted via our website at https://www.faster-faster.com/bikes beginning Thursday, November 3 at 12:00pm PDT. Fully refundable deposits are required and will be $100 for the first hundred pre-orders, $200 for subsequent pre-orders. Orders will be finalized and delivered through retail motorcycle dealers, so customers are asked to provide the name of their preferred local store with their deposit. Deliveries are expected in late 2012.
 