
Breaking Bad fans in the UK looking for instant gratification won't have to resort to the torrents anymore, as new episodes will hit Netflix in Ireland and the UK immediately after airing in the US. British viewers are accustomed to longer waits for such shows, but after broadcaster AMC worked with Netflix UK to make episodes of The Killing available sooner, the pair have now followed suit with Breaking Bad. Creator Vince Gilligan said the show has become a "phenomenon" in the countries, and added that he's "delighted" that fans there will be able to enjoy it earlier. Magnanimity aside, the move will no doubt take some of the sting out of the piracy that's inevitable with a long lag, too. Check the PR after the jump for more.



Show full PR textBreaking Bad's Finale Episodes Coming Exclusively To Netflix In The UK And Ireland, From 12 August
-- New Episodes Every Monday, Following U.S. Broadcast

BEVERLY HILLS, California, July 26, 2013 -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and Sony Pictures Television today announced that the Final Episodes of the critically acclaimed drama, Breaking Bad will be available exclusively to members in the UK and Ireland starting on 12 August. New episodes will be available every Monday - following the US broadcast.

"We are thrilled to be bringing the highly-anticipated Final Season of Breaking Bad to Netflix members in the UK and Ireland on a first-run basis," said Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos. "Breaking Bad is a once in a generation calibre of show and continues to be a huge success on Netflix."

Creator of the show, Vince Gilligan said, "Netflix has been instrumental in making Breaking Bad the success that it is – particularly in the UK and Ireland, where it has built an audience and become a huge phenomenon. I am delighted that fans there will be able to enjoy the end of Breaking Bad on Netflix so soon after it airs in the US."

Breaking Bad stars Emmy-award winners Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul and follows Walter White, a high school chemistry teacher turned crystal meth kingpin trying to secure his family's financial future.

All previous seasons of Breaking Bad are currently available for members to watch instantly.

About Netflix:
Netflix is the world's leading internet television network with more than 37 million members in 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV programmes and films per month, including Netflix original series. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without adverts or commitments. Learn more about how Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) is pioneering internet television at www.netflix.com or follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter.


