
 
 Looking for a color inkjet all-in-one that won't use up all of your desk space? Brother's talking up its Business Smart line as a way getting a slew of features without the added office footprint. Aimed at small business owners, the line's first entry, the MFC-J4510DW, utilizes landscape printing and redesigned printer cartridges to help fit all of the requisite features into a smaller body. The peripheral does wireless and mobile printing, auto-two sided printing and features touchscreen controls. It's expected to hit the big office chains and Best Buys in October for $199, with more entries in the line following later this year. More info in the press release after the jump.



  Show full PR text    BROTHER CHANGES PRINTING LANDSCAPE WITH LAUNCH OF NEW INNOVATIVE BUSINESS SMART SERIES INKJET ALL-IN-ONE PRINTERS
  Brother International Corporation, a leader in small business technology, today announced the launch of its new Business Smart™ Series color inkjet all-in-ones.
  Up to now, those in the market for a color inkjet all-in-one typically had to choose between a number of desired key features. Selecting a fast color inkjet all-in-one usually meant having to live with a larger, bulkier unit. If a small product footprint was desired, consumers often had to forgo many features. And in many cases, low printing costs seemed elusive as part of a total package.
  To provide everything most users wanted – all in one unit – Brother started from scratch with a blank sheet of paper rather than manufacturing just another generation of all-in-ones. From this initiative, Brother developed its Landscape Printing Technology that reoriented the way color inkjet printing is done. This involved changing how a page is stored and printed from portrait to landscape, thereby reducing the machine footprint. Engineers also developed a new engine and increased the size of the print head to help increase print speeds. Ink cartridges were also redesigned to take up less space even with super high page yields.
  This breakthrough resulted in a color inkjet all-in-one product line that virtually eliminates the feature trade offs customers faced in their selection process. Now in a sleek and attractively designed product they can have:
  Fastest in class^ print speeds  Smallest in class^ footprint  Low cost printing  Easy-to-use TouchScreen/TouchPanel display
  These all-in-ones also feature wireless and mobile device printing capabilities□, and automatic two-sided (duplex) printing. Additionally, these machines have the ability to print up to 11"x17" documents – which amazingly is about the same size of the unit's footprint.
  "In today's business environment small business owners need technologies they can rely on coupled with a breadth of features to help their business run more smoothly and efficiently," said Marie Le, Brother Director of Marketing for color inkjet products. "What was missing for these consumers was a machine that also fit in to their limited workspaces and budgets. Our solution, the Business Smart™ series offers a striking design and intuitive swipe TouchScreen display controls to compliment their other technologies such as laptops, tablets and smartphones. This new inkjet series is a game-changer for the printing industry delivering the ultimate combination of form and function."
  This introduction, anchored by the flagship model MFC-J4510DW, represents a breakthrough for small office/home office and businesses that want to help increase operational efficiencies and save costs. Businesses can now take advantage of these new models to print a variety of documents, spreadsheets and signage up to 11"x17". Users can also leverage the mobile printing features to quickly and easily connect and print from mobile devices□. The Business Smart series inkjets, like all other Brother products, offer free technical support for the life of the machine.
  The Brother MFC-J4510DW, with an estimated street price of $199, will be available beginning October 2012 at office superstores and Best Buy; additional models in the series will be introduced later this year.
  
