
 

With countless digital projectors ranging in quality from the bottom-shelf drug store stocking stuffer to the six-figure top-of-the-line behemoth, getting your foot in the door as a manufacturer is a near-impossible endeavor. Unless you've designed something like this -- the Model One, from BryteWerks. We've only had a peek at the ultra-sleek glossy black renders at this point, but we're holding out hope that this cube looks as fantastic in person as it does in the gallery below. Inside, you'll find a 16:10 widescreen 1920 x 1200 projector with a brightness of 6,000-11,000 lumens, depending on configuration. There's also a built-in home theater PC, complete with an Intel Core i3 to i7 CPU, Blu-ray drive and storage options that include a 2TB HDD or 500GB SSD. The system can be controlled using the embedded 720p 8.9-inch touchscreen, or remotely using a keyboard and mouse or an Android or iOS app. There's no word on release date just yet, but Model One pricing ranges from $2,449 to $5,999. Hit up the source link to place your order after the site goes live on January 9th.






 		Show full PR text  BryteWerks Announces Its New Line of Intelligent High-Def Digital Projectors 		Start-Up Releases CPU-based Connected Devices for Home and Professional Applications 		January 5, 2012: New Berlin, WI – Tech start-up BryteWerks LLC announces the launch of a product line poised to establish a new category of intelligent, hybrid media centers based on an advanced high-definition digital projector platform. The BryteWerks Model One line of Intel™ Core CPU-based digital projectors merge state-of-the-industry computer, digital, and optical technologies with superior connectivity capabilities and innovative industrial design into a cost-effective and intuitive multimedia control and exhibition powerhouse. 		Designed for either consumer or professional applications, the BryteWerks Model One line delivers exhibition-quality 16:10 widescreen 1920x1200 resolution (within 5% of professional 2K cinema systems), through a LCD Native WUXGA panel. The projectors also feature an ultra-high brightness of 6,000 - 11,000 lumens, a 1000:1 True Contrast Ratio™, and a 1:1 throw of 1 foot to 50 feet, making them the very best, all-purpose digital projectors in their class. Internally, the BryteWerks Model One projectors feature (depending upon model configuration), a fully-integrated Intel Core i3 to i7 HTPC CPU, a full featured, slot-loaded Blu-ray player, up to 2 terabytes of internal storage, including a 500 gigabyte Solid State Drive, unequaled connectivity options, and a custom version of XBMC, an open source media organization and playback application, making the Model One a revolutionary and unsurpassed media center. 		Ease-of-operation in any application was paramount in the design criteria for the BryteWerks Model One. Highly intuitive and non-linear system and content management (including the ability to operate numerous BryteWerks projectors and connected devices simultaneously), is controlled from the 720p 8.9-inch touch panel display on the back of the projector, a provided RF remote control, or the free XBMC remote app for Android and iOS devices, as well as existing Wifi & Bluetooth devices – from keyboards to smartphones to tablets - already on the market. 		The BryteWerks Model One Projector offers the ability to build a professional cinema experience effortlessly, seamlessly and transparently in any environment or application without playback interruption. Operational features, to name only a few, include customized media playlist creation, variable frame rate control up to 60 fps, pre-rendered transitions, and independent control of 'connected devices' and/or daisy-chained BryteWerks projectors (or a combination of the two). Professional post-production applications include editing, visual effects creation and color grading. The open-source Python-based XBMC offers infinite feature and plug-in development allowing users infinite customization options. 		Connectivity via 802.11n Wifi, Bluetooth and gigabit Ethernet provides seamless two-way communication with other BryteWerks projectors, as well as a wide variety of other peripherals, including, but not limited to, gaming devices, flatscreen displays, external hard drives, computers, handheld smart devices, and digital video and signal processing and routing equipment. The unique power and I/O interface, which also features dual USB and HDMI ports, 5.1 individual analog surround sound outputs and AC power, is a fully-upgradeable, patent-pending cable management system that conceals all cable interfaces in the projector's Mag-Snap™ feet. 		The ultra-wide 105 mm adjustable prime lens provides greater picture fidelity and a brighter image with less optical distortion. The 1:1 Lens Throw Ratio eliminates the need for a lens throw calculator, thereby reducing set-up time in both an Imperial and Metric environment. Aftermarket lenses can adjust the projector's throw to any size screen in any size room or theater. Optical Keystone Correction of +/- 20 degrees vertical is distortion-free with no interpolated or cropped pixels - common with digital keystone correction – and provides a more accurate picture. 		The open source, industry standard Metal Halide lamp allows the user the choice of replacement bulbs from multiple inexpensive vendors, thereby reducing long term operating costs. Bulb replacement is fast and easy, without the need for tools, by simply releasing the Model One's magnetically-latched lid and unscrewing the bulb from the projector's light engine. 		The Model One uses the BryteWerks proprietary AirHeart™ airflow management system consisting of multiple chambers with discreet fans and plenums that result in superior cooling at an ultra quiet operating noise level as low as 27dB (depending on configuration). 		The sleek and sophisticated black aluminum and steel enclosure, built on a robust aluminum chassis, is only 17-inches cubed, weighs only 28 pounds, and is devoid of mechanical buttons. In addition, the forward compatibility design criteria allows for simple and inexpensive future data and power management upgrades, resulting in a long and low-cost operational lifespan. The BryteWerks Model One product line is backed by a standard 1-year warranty against manufacturer's defects, which can be upgraded to an unlimited 3-year warranty. 		The BryteWerks Model One is a dazzling and sophisticated centerpiece for a home theater as well as a rugged, if not bulletproof, ultra-reliable tool in a performing arts center, museum, church, indie film theater, corporate boardroom, military applications or AV rental inventory. 		The four BryteWerks Model One projectors range in price from $2,449.00, $2,999.00, $3,999.00 and $5,999.00, and are available factory-direct through http://www.brytewerks.com, which launches on January 9, 2012. All BryteWerks projectors purchased factory-direct are backed by a ten-day, 100% money back satisfaction guarantee.*
 