
 
Tired of your BUGBase lagging out while you're trying to set up that crazy homebrew alarm system? Hope is on the way in the form of BUG 2.0, Bug Labs' next-gen development platform that moves up to a Cortex A8-based OMAP3 core from the original BUGBase's ARM11. The processor bump isn't the only change, though: they're announcing full support for running BeagleBoard apps and -- get this -- Android. That means that you won't necessarily need to be locked into Bug's own development environment for doing your thing, and obviously, folks already familiar with Android development should have a much easier time making the transition. Even better, the base maintains backward compatibility with existing BUGmodules, so most of your current investment won't be for naught -- save the old base, of course. Price and availability are yet to be announced.
      

 

Show full PR textBug Labs unveils BUG 2.0 platform, adds support for Android and OMAP™ 3 platform from Texas Instruments New BUG 2.0 brings open hardware movement to rapidly expanding developer communities New York City and Barcelona – Feb 15, 2010 – Bug Labs, the award-winning open hardware development platform for prototyping and deploying next-generation electronics devices, unveiled at the Mobile World Congress today its second-generation hardware system, BUG 2.0. The new version of the BUGBase product is based on the OMAP™ 3 platform from Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) and also supports the popular BeagleBoard by seamlessly running all applications written for that device. BUG 2.0 also adds support for Android, allowing developers to port current Android apps to the BUG as well as create new apps that utilize BUG's modules to create new Android-based hardware applications. "We are very excited that the next generation of BUG devices support TI platforms and even more excited to see the hardware innovations that will come from developers, given a new vehicle to quickly and affordably bring their visions to life," said Russell Crane, high-performance ARM marketing manager, TI. Bug Labs has a presence at the Mobile World Congress along with its business collaborator Accenture, where they are jointly demonstrating next-generation mobility applications in the fields of health care monitoring, vehicle fleet tracking, and home automation. Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company. Its global mobility business, Accenture Mobility Operated Services, which is working with Bug Labs, helps enterprises develop and deploy new, revenue-generating mobile applications to their customers. The Accenture business group offers a mobile "services store" that includes the design, delivery and management of a broad portfolio of vertical mobility applications using Accenture's proven platform for mobile applications. "The BUG components and platform helps enable our developers bring revolutionary ideas to market in a fraction of the time that it takes for standard prototyping," said Fabio Mungo, chief technology officer, Accenture Mobility Operated Services. "We are demonstrating just a few of the devices that we have in development together, with many more innovative embedded mobile services on the horizon." With Bug 2.0, OMAP 3 users will now be able to take advantage of Bug Labs' unique collection of BUGmodules to explore new application categories. This second generation platform now brings more power, more compatibility and more support for individuals and companies who are conceptualizing, prototyping, testing, and building wireless, networked and headless devices. "We've seen tremendous interest and excitement around BUG since our product launched two years ago," said Peter Semmelhack, Founder and CEO of Bug Labs. "We've spent a lot of time learning from our community and our customers, and have designed our second generation product to meet their growing needs. BUG is now a part of the growing OMAP community supporting open development, and TI has been a pioneer in open source hardware." The company also announced support for the Android platform. This is a leap forward for both Bug Labs and Android, as it brings a wide developer community into the open hardware movement. Current Android applications can be ported directly to the BUG hardware, giving developers a new platform to expand on these apps and add significant functionality through open hardware. Further, Android developers can now build devices that span far beyond typical consumer-focused needs, such as in the healthcare, M2M and telematics industries. BUG is comprised of a unique modular hardware system, integrated web services and related applications that help companies prototype, build, test and deploy new, custom wireless devices at fraction of the time and cost of traditional methods.
 