
 

Cablevision took a major step into the future back in April when it opened up its full channel lineup for viewing on the tablet with Optimum for iPad, and now it's bringing that experience to other iOS devices. The new app, simply called Optimum, runs alongside the original and works on iPhones or iPod Touches, bringing the same controversial ability to stream live TV or play back video on-demand -- provided the viewer is still at home. That tether to your service address takes most of the shine off of viewing on mobile devices, but we won't argue too much about adding extra screens for no additional charge. The iPhone app launches at versino 2.0, sharing features with the newly updated iPad app including the ability to work as a remote control for the cable box and schedule DVR recordings remotely. Hit the source link below to grab either app from iTunes or check out the press release after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  CABLEVISION FIRST TO EXTEND FULL CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE TO IN-HOME iPHONE AND iPOD TOUCH DEVICES 		Following Successful Launch of the Optimum App for iPad, Cablevision Customers Can Now Experience Hundreds of Channels of Live Television, Thousands of Titles of Video On Demand And Other Features on All Three Devices 		Applications For iPad, iPhone and iPod touch Now Include Remote Control Functionality For TVs In The Home – Enhancing The Programming Search And Guide Experience 		BETHPAGE, NY, August 9, 2011 – Cablevision Systems Corp. (NYSE: CVC) today announced the launch of a new Optimum App for iPhone and iPod touch that delivers the full cable television experience on these devices in the home, extending the innovative functionality that debuted in April with the Optimum App for iPad. Cablevision customers can now enjoy more than 300 channels of live TV and thousands of titles of video on demand (VOD) on all three devices, in addition to DVR management, interactive guide information and search. And, for the first time, customers can use the app on all three devices as a virtual remote control for conventional TVs in the home, maximizing its value as a discovery and navigation tool. 		Cablevision was the first company to offer its full cable television service on an iPad in the home and now becomes the first to extend this functionality to the iPhone and iPod touch. 		The Optimum App is available free in the Apple App Store. Customers who have already downloaded a previous version of the Optimum App for iPhone and iPod touch, which did not include access to live TV, VOD content or remote control functionality, can easily update to the new and full-featured version. In just four months, Optimum App for iPad had been downloaded more than 200,000 times. 		"Our new Optimum App for iPhone and iPod touch extends Cablevision's leadership in offering our full cable television service on new devices, functioning as televisions in the home," said John Trierweiler, Cablevision's executive vice president of product management.		"We are also pleased to maximize the value of our Optimum App as a navigation and programming discovery tool by incorporating controls for home TVs as well. The introduction of this remote control functionality will make it even easier for our customers to locate and view all of the content they already receive as part of their television subscription, whether they want to watch on conventional TVs or these Apple devices." 		Cablevision uses its secure and proprietary cable television network to deliver cable programming to customers for viewing on its Optimum App, and content is not delivered over the Internet. Customers do not need to have Internet access to use the Optimum App. 		The Optimum App turns these display devices into additional televisions in the home, enabling Cablevision customers to view the same live programming and VOD content already being delivered to other TVs in the home as part of the service they have paid for. Cablevision has the right to distribute programming over its cable system to in-home iPhones, iPods, iPads and other devices functioning as televisions under its existing distribution agreements with programming providers.
 