
 
 It's been a little over a year since Cablevision launched Optimum for iPad with live streaming of all of its channels to the tablet, and now subscribers can experience the same thing on their computer with the Optimum for Laptops app. Available for Mac or PC it has a brand new interface and searchable guide, as well as the ability to manage DVR recordings and change the channel on cable boxes in the house. According to Cablevision its iOS app has been downloaded over a million times, we'll see how popular this followup is -- and if it spurs any new lawsuits from channel owners.



  Show full PR text   CABLEVISION'S OPTIMUM APP ARRIVES ON THE LAPTOP   Latest Version Of Popular Optimum App Extends Live TV, Interactive Programming Guide, DVR Management And More To Mac And PC Laptop Computers   BETHPAGE, NY – April 19, 2012 – Cablevision Systems Corp. (NYSE: CVC) today announced the launch of Optimum App for Laptop, the latest version of its popular Optimum App, which has been downloaded more than one million times. Like previous versions of the Optimum App for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch devices, Optimum App for Laptop allows Cablevision's iO TV digital cable customers to watch all the channels they subscribe to, live, on any Mac or PC laptop computer in the home.   With the launch of the Optimum App for iPad one year ago, Cablevision was the first – and remains the only – television provider to have an app that delivers a customer's full cable TV service to a variety of devices capable of functioning as televisions in the home. Programming is delivered to the home over Cablevision's secure network and is not transmitted over the Internet.   Optimum App for Laptop features a new user interface and fully-searchable guide that make it easier than ever before for viewers to find programming to watch. The app also includes the ability to manage DVR content and even tune conventional televisions in the home. As with earlier versions of the app, parental controls, closed captioning and other key functions are fully supported.   "With the launch of Optimum App for Laptop, we're extending the live TV experience we have already delivered on the iPad, iPhone and iPod touch to both Mac and PC laptop computers," said Bradley Feldman, Cablevision's vice president of video product management. "We think this additional viewing option will make the Optimum App even more useful for our customers, with a completely redesigned and more comprehensive and functional user interface and guide, DVR controls and other unique features."   Optimum App for Laptop includes:  Live TV – delivers the channels customers receive as part of their cable television service on both Mac and PC laptop computers, live, in their homes.  Enhanced User Interface and Guide – review and search through program listings, and choose to watch on the laptop computer or use the computer to control  conventional television sets in the house.  DVR Management – manage previously-recorded DVR content, or schedule new recordings.  Review "Most Watched" Info – quickly view the top shows other customers are watching, in real-time.  Customers can download the Optimum App for Laptop by visiting http://www.optimum.net/laptop  Cablevision's award-winning digital cable service, iO TV, offers customers access to  hundreds of channels, including more than 50 premium movie channels, 46 channels of  commercial-free digital music, thousands of titles available on demand at all times, an  interactive programming guide, more than 120 free high-definition programming services  and uniquely valuable and relevant local content through News 12, MSG Varsity and their  companion interactive television applications

 
