
Call of Duty: Ghosts debuts this fall as the latest entry in a popular series, but our most in-depth look at it so far comes today. On the eve of E3 2013 press conferences Activision and Infinity Ward are giving a preview of what it will be like on the Playstation 4 and Xbox One, and even on the 122-ft wide screen they'll have in their booth. This is our best look at the game since a brief teaser trailer and word that its DLC will arrive first on the Xbox One. Other than a look at more next-gen gameplay, it also highlighted new elements like a dog named Riley that will accompany you in single player and can take commands via headset and broadcast video back to the player's character. Video of the preview event and the new gameplay footage are ready to view after the break. Check out a few new screenshots below before you click through. 




 Show full PR textCALL OF DUTY® KICKS OFF ELECTRONIC ENTERTAINMENT EXPO 2013WITH WORLD PREMIERE LIVESTREAM OF CALL OF DUTY®: GHOSTS GAMEPLAYActivision Brings E3 to Fans First with "Call of Duty: Ghosts All Access" -Global Telecast of Live Next Generation Gameplay Levels"No Man's Land" and "Into the Deep"Live Broadcast aired on DIRECTV, CallofDuty.com, on Consoles and Global Online Destinations across the WebFans also had Sneak Peek of Massive, Unprecedented Video Wall Set to Blow Attendees Away On-site at E3 this Week; Call of Duty's "Show Mode" Features State-of-the-Art Visual/Sound Effects, Pyrotechnics, Wind, Smoke/Fog to Highlight Original Call of Duty Content, Set to be THE Event of the ShowLos Angeles - June 9, 2013 - Let the games begin. Activision Publishing, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard (Nasdaq: ATVI), kicked-off E3 early this year with an unprecedented live telecast to fans around the world, showcasing a first look at new gameplay from the upcoming Call of Duty®: Ghosts. Featuring an all-new world, new story, new characters and new experiences, all powered by a new, next-gen engine, Call of Duty: Ghosts is not only a stunning leap forward for the mega-hit franchise, but also showcases what's possible on next generation consoles. Hosted by Spike TV's Geoff Keighley and Internet personality iJustine, the live 30-minute broadcast titled "Call of Duty: Ghosts All Access"gave fans of the worldwide phenomenon the first chance to go behind the scenes with Activision's acclaimed studio Infinity Ward, for a look at the upcoming title two days before the start of 2013 Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3 Expo)."Every year our team puts on an amazing production to showcase our games at E3, a spectacle that delivers an epic, immersive experience that takes your breath away. Yet all our fans aren't able to be here and share in the moment," said Activision Publishing CEO, Eric Hirshberg. "So, since our fans can't come to E3, we're bringing E3 to them. This year we're making sure the Call of Duty community is first in line to see Call of Duty: Ghosts as we kick-off what's going to be a historic week."Gamers saw the level "Into the Deep," a beautiful and awe-inspiring underwater mission that pulses with lifelike realism and heart-pounding tension; "No Man's Land," an eerie glimpse at the aftermath of a world recovering from a catastrophic event, as well as the first chance for gamers to get their first peek at Riley, the new canine character in Call of Duty: Ghosts. The televised special, which was broadcast live on television on DirecTV, on consoles and on popular online outlets around the world, offered viewers a sneak peek at the gameplay a full two days before the industry commences its annual E3 conference. The global telecast also featured a series of interviews with members of the Infinity Ward development team, as well as Academy Award® winning writer Stephen Gaghan, who is penning the script for the new title.Fans also got a sneak peek at a massive, immersive and unprecedented video wall built by Activision for show attendees on-site at E3. Call of Duty's "Show Mode" experience also features state-of-the-art visual/sound effects, controlled pyrotechnics, wind, smoke and low-lying fog to highlight original Call of Duty content, providing a truly unique experience for attendees at the show.With an amazing level of attention down to the smallest detail, where each hair is noticeable on character models, scratches and bruises are apparent, and even the dirt beneath fingernails of characters are recognizable, Call of Duty: Ghosts sets a new bar of visual fidelity and near photorealism without sacrificing any performance, maintaining the hallmark of 60 frames per second-on every platform-to provide that signature Call of Duty smoothness and gameplay."Our new tech is allowing us to deliver an absolutely stunning next generation Call of Duty experience on Xbox One, PS4 and PC, but that's not all. The Xbox 360 and PS3 versions will reap the benefits of our new tech as well, which we believe will make this the most striking Call of Duty game ever created, regardless of what platform our fans choose," said Infinity Ward, executive producer, Mark Rubin.The stunning new Call of Duty created by Infinity Ward, Activision's acclaimed development team behind the original Call of Duty® and the award-winning Call of Duty®: Modern Warfare® series, will be showcased this week at E3 in LA at Activision's booth #647 in the South Hall. For the latest intel, check out: www.callofduty.com/ghosts, www.facebook.com/CODGhosts, or follow on Twitter @InfinityWard. Call of Duty: Ghosts is not yet rated.Call of Duty: Ghosts will release on Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system and PC on November 5. Call of Duty: Ghosts will also release on the Xbox One, the all-in one games and entertainment system from Microsoft, and PlayStation® 4 later this year.For fans that missed the "Call of Duty: Ghosts All Access" broadcast, go to www.callofduty.com/ghosts to watch the replay.About Activision Publishing, Inc.Headquartered in Santa Monica, California, Activision Publishing, Inc. is a leading worldwide developer, publisher and distributor of interactive entertainment and leisure products.Activision maintains operations in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Mexico, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Sweden, Spain, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, South Korea, mainland China and the region of Taiwan. More information about Activision and its products can be found on the company's website, www.activision.com.


