
 
We tell ya, these game bundles are getting completely out of hand... and we love it. If you reckoned that Modern Warfare 2 Prestige Edition bundle was hot stuff, wait till you get a load of this. Call of Duty: Black Ops Prestige Edition (promo video beyond the break) just went up for pre-order at select retailers in the US, and if we had to guess, we'd surmise that every last one of 'em will claimed in just a few hours. Aside from getting a beastly box, the game itself and some sort of medal, the package also includes a fully functional RC spy car, complete with a camera that sends back video and audio to the owner's LCD-equipped controller. There's absolutely no telling what the MSRP on this thing will be, but our comrades over at Joystiq are pegging it at $149.99. Mom, dad -- go ahead and add this to our holiday wish list.
      

 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textCall of Duty(R): Black Ops Collector's Editions Now Available for Pre-Order in the U.S.Remote-Controlled RC-XD Video Surveillance Vehicle inspired by Multiplayer Highlights Prestige EditionSANTA MONICA, Calif., Aug 12, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX News Network/ -- Activision Publishing, Inc. (Nasdaq: ATVI) has de-classified details regarding the Collector's Editions for Treyarch's upcoming game, Call of Duty(R): Black Ops, which is expected to be the entertainment event of 2010. Call of Duty: Black Ops Prestige Edition and the Call of Duty: Black Ops Hardened Editions, are expected to be this year's hottest collector's item and are now available in limited supplies for pre-order in the U.S. at major retail outlets nationwide. Call of Duty: Black Ops launches on November 9th, giving gamers the latest classified surveillance technology -- the RC-XD -- as part of the Call of Duty: Black Ops Prestige Edition.For the Prestige Edition, Treyarch and Activision created an entirely original remote controlled surveillance vehicle inspired by the RC-XD from Black Ops Multiplayer. With a range of up to 200 feet, the RC-XD Surveillance Vehicle has a fully-functioning remote camera that transmits both TFT color video and audio to its operator.The Prestige Edition is inclusive of the Hardened Edition, which includes a custom Black Ops limited edition medal, exclusive Black Ops Avatar outfit, as well as four playable cooperative maps.The Call of Duty: Black Ops Prestige Editions and Hardened Editions will be available for the Xbox 360(R) video game and entertainment system from Microsoft and PlayStation(R)3 computer entertainment system when Call of Duty: Black Ops opens worldwide on November 9th, 2010. Black Ops drops gamers deep behind enemy lines into the world of deniable operations as a member of elite Black Ops units. Standard editions of Call of Duty: Black Ops will also be available for the Xbox 360(R) video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation(R)3 computer entertainment system, Nintendo Wii and Windows(R) PC. The title is not yet rated by the ESRB. Also in development, Call of Duty: Black Ops for Nintendo DS is rated "T for Teen" by the ESRB.For more information, visit www.callofduty.com/blackops and also via Twitter @JD_2020.
 