
During its Gamescon 2013 event, Sony said that upgrades for Playstation 4 games would come at a "significantly discounted price," though it didn't offer any details or actual numbers. Now, Activision has said that Call of Duty: Ghosts will cost $10 to upgrade from the PS3 to the PS4, mirroring a similar deal from retailer GameStop for the Xbox One. Based on Sony's statement, such discounts might be coming for other lynchpin titles for the new console for a limited time period, as well. Meanwhile, if you can't wait the ten days between the game's November 5th PS3 launch and the Playstation 4's November 15th US release, hit the PR after the break.



Show full PR textActivision Announces Call of Duty®: Ghosts PlayStation Upgrade for a Suggested Retail Price of Just $10
Announcement Joins Other Policies Designed to Smooth Transition to Next Gen for Call of Duty® Gamers

COLOGNE, Germany--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Activision Publishing, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard (Nasdaq:ATVI), today announced further details surrounding Call of Duty®: Ghosts' participation in Sony's PS3 to PS4 upgrade program. The upgrade program is completely optional and allows consumers who purchase Call of Duty: Ghosts on PlayStation®3 to upgrade to the PlayStation®4 version of the game for a limited time at a suggested retail price of only $10, €10, or £10 depending on territory. More details will be shared in the weeks to come.

"Today we're announcing that anyone who buys Call of Duty: Ghosts for the PS3 will be able to upgrade to Call of Duty: Ghosts for the PS4 for a limited time at a suggested retail price of just $10, €10, or £10"

"Today we're announcing that anyone who buys Call of Duty: Ghosts for the PS3 will be able to upgrade to Call of Duty: Ghosts for the PS4 for a limited time at a suggested retail price of just $10, €10, or £10," said Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing, Inc. "Retail programs, announced by Amazon and GameStop allow our players to upgrade from the Xbox 360 to the Xbox One version of Call of Duty: Ghosts for $10 as well. We have also previously announced that for a limited time our players will bring all of their Season Pass Content and all of their in-game progress with them within a console family, for no additional charge. We have the best fans in the world, and we want to make this transition as seamless and easy for them as possible. And there's more news to come on that front. Stay tuned."

Published by Activision Publishing, Inc. and developed by Infinity Ward, Call of Duty: Ghosts will release on Xbox 360 game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system, PC and Wii U™ on November 5. The title will also release on the Xbox One, the all-in one games and entertainment system from Microsoft, and PlayStation®4 computer entertainment system later this year. Call of Duty: Ghosts is rated M for Mature (Blood, Drug Reference, Intense Violence, Strong Language) by the ESRB. For more information, please visit www.callofduty.com/ghosts, www.facebook.com/CODGhosts, or follow on Twitter @InfinityWard.


