
 

Sherwood isn't the only little-known company bringing the Blu to CEDIA -- now we've got a boutique manufacturer joining the crowd. Announced today in Denver, Cambridge Audio has revealed that it too will be producing a BD deck in early 2009. The 640BD will be designed to complement the Azur range of AV receivers, and it will boast full HDMI 1.3 output (including bitstream output of all the latest Dolby / DTS tracks), a full set of analog video outputs, Ethernet, S/PDIF, Toslink and a set of separate, dedicated 7.1 / stereo analog outputs. Unfortunately, that's all the details the company has prepared for this year's Expo, but we'll certainly be hearing more as CES time draws near. Per usual, the full release is after the break. 
 

Cambridge Audio to introduce first Blu-Ray player in early 2009!  Suggested retail price – TBC  Expected Spring 2009   Cambridge Audio will release its first Blu-Ray/DVD/CD player in early 2009. Designed to be the  perfect partner to the Azur range of AV Receivers the 640BD features full HDMI 1.3 output,  including bitstream output of all the latest HD Dolby and DTS surround-sound systems plus  internal decoding of Dolby Digital EX, DTS ES, Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby True HD and DTS HR  surround-sound. A full set of analog video outputs is supported, HDMI 1.3 video/audio, Ethernet,  SPDIF, Toslink and separate dedicated 7.1 and stereo analogue outputs.   Cambridge Audio prides itself on developing products that offer true value for money to discerning  buyers and has embraced Blu-Ray technology with enthusiasm to wring out the best possible  performance from this exciting new format.   Supporting Dolby True HD means the 640BD provides audio that matches the original studio  masters. While natively supporting up to 1080p from Blu-Ray discs the 640BD is also able to  upscale DVD discs to 1080p video resolution taking the viewer to the heart of movie action.  Meanwhile, 24 frames per second (fps) progressive scan True Cinema allows films to be watched  as the director intended at their original frame rate without conversion for the most natural jog free  panning and motion possible.   All this means the 640BD lives up to Cambridge Audio's philosophy of providing a passion for  performance to get the best out of any movie collection.    Please note, due to Cambridge Audio's policy of continuous improvement, specifications and  appearance may change without notice. 
 