
 
 Canadian carriers flocked to the Galaxy S III before we'd barely even left our seats in London to try it, and it looks like they're also more than a little eager to provide launch details ahead of their American counterparts. Telus and Videotron have both confirmed the leaked June 20th release date, and Telus has gone so far as to reinforce suspicions that LTE models will use the Snapdragon S4 instead of the Exynos 4 Quad -- it expects the phone to use a "1.5GHz dual-core processor," which sure sounds like Qualcomm's latest to us. The same carrier has nailed down pricing at $160 on a three-year contract for a 16GB version and $210 for a 32GB model. Other carriers like Bell and Rogers are still a bit commitment-phobic, although that earlier Best Buy tip makes us think they'll fall into line before long.

 Update: Samsung's own release has swung our way, and it's providing a slew of details that should closely relate to the US launch. As expected, that's a Snapdragon S4 inside, although we now know that the 2GB of RAM of the NTT DoCoMo version will at least be making its way to Canada as well. The LTE version for Bell, Rogers, Telus and a handful of regional carriers is known as the SGH-i747, while the fabled SGH-T999 stops at 42Mbps HSPA+ and is the edition that Mobilicity, Wind and Videotron will get, since it supports 1,700MHz 3G. There's no mention of a 64GB Canadian Galaxy S III, so you'll still have to import if you frown heavily upon microSD cards.


  Show full PR text   The Samsung GALAXY S III provides Canadians with a more human smartphone experience
  Designed for humans and inspired by nature, the Samsung GALAXY S III brings the best combination of power and performance to the Canadian marketplace
  MISSISSAUGA, ON, May 30, 2012 /CNW/ - Samsung Electronics Canada, today announces the models details and availability date of the much-anticipated GALAXY S III. Beginning June 20th, the Samsung GALAXY S III will be available through leading Canadian wireless carriers and authorized national retailers.
  "We are very excited to bring the highly anticipated GALAXY S III to Canadians so they can experience firsthand, the power, performance and passion that Samsung is known for," said Paul Brannen, Vice President, Enterprise Business Group, Samsung Canada. "This next generation of the GALAXY S series is sleek and stylish, and offers users features that promote sharing, and are intuitive and powerful, allowing Canadians to enjoy a more human experience with their smartphone."
  Natural Interaction
  Smart enough to detect face, voice and motions, the GALAXY S III adapts to the user, providing users an interface that is convenient and natural.
  With the innovative 'Smart stay' feature, the GALAXY S III recognizes how the user is using their device such as, reading an e-book or browsing the web. By having the front camera identify eye motion the phone maintains a bright display for continued viewing pleasure.
  The GALAXY S III features 'S Voice,' an advanced natural language user interface, to listen and respond to user commands. S Voice presents powerful functions in regards to device control and commands, such as allowing the user to play a favorite song, turn the volume up or down, send text messages and emails, organize schedules, or automatically launch the camera and capture a photo.
  With 'Smart alert' the GALAXY S III will alert the user by catching any missed messages or calls with a vibration to notify missed statuses when picked up after being idle. If the user is messaging someone but decide to call them instead, they can simply lift phone to their ear and 'Direct call' will dial their number.
  Easy and Instant Sharing
  The Samsung GALAXY S III is more than a personal device that can be enjoyed by one user - it wants to share and experience smartphone benefits with family and friends, regardless of location with the following features:
  With the new 'S Beam,' the GALAXY S III expands upon Android™ Beam™, allowing a 1GB movie file to be shared within three minutes and a 10MB music file within two seconds by simply touching another GALAXY S III phone, even without a Wi-Fi or cellular signal.
  The 'Buddy photo share' function also allows photos to be easily and simultaneously shared with all friends pictured in an image directly from the camera or the photo gallery.  'AllShare Play' can be used to instantly share any forms of files between GALAXY S III and tablet, PC, and televisions that are DLNA enabled, regardless of the distance between the devices.
  The 'Group Cast' feature that allows users to share their screen among multiple friends on the same Wi-Fi network; users can comment and draw changes at the same time as co-workers- witnessing real-time sharing on individual devices.
  The preloaded 'Dropbox' application provides an even more convenient sharing experience, supplying 50GB of free storage for two years for not just image and music files, but now also for video content. With the GALAXY S III files can also be instantly uploaded through data networks without requiring WiFi access.
  Uncompromised Performance
  With a 4.8" HD Super AMOLED display, the GALAXY S III offers a large and vivid viewing experience. Samsung Mobile's heritage Super AMOLED display even enhances to HD and 16:9 wider viewing angles. To ensure faster content sharing and connectivity, the GALAXY S III offers Wi-Fi Channel Bonding which doubles the Wi-Fi bandwidth.
  The GALAXY S III not only presents features with enhanced usability, but also provides an ergonomic and comfortable experience through its human-centric design. Its comfortable grip, gentle curves, and organic form deliver a rich human-centric feel and design. Available in Pebble Blue and Marble White at launch, Samsung will introduce a variety of additional color options.
  The GALAXY S III also sports a range of additional features that boost performance and the overall user experience in entirely new ways, with features such as:  'Pop up play,' users can play a video anywhere on their screen while simultaneously running other tasks, eliminating the need to close and restart videos when checking new emails or surfing the Web.
  An 8MP camera features a zero-lag shutter speed that lets users capture moving objects easily without delay, with the 'Burst shot' function that instantly captures twenty continuous shots, and the 'Best photo' feature that selects the best of eight photographs, the GALAXY S III ensures users a more enhanced and memorable camera experience.
  HD video can be recorded even with the 1.9MP front-facing camera, which users can use to capture a video of themselves. An improved backside illumination sensor further helps to eliminate blur in photos that result from shaking, even under low light conditions.
  With Samsung Hubs, users can continually refresh phone content through the 'Game Hub,' which provides access to numerous social games, while Video Hub, a new service offering to the Canadian marketplace, brings users high quality TV and movies for rent . Furthermore, Samsung Music Hub will offer a personal music streaming service.
  The GALAXY S III will be available for purchase in Canada starting on June 20, 2012. Samsung is pleased to be working with all of the leading wireless providers in Canada, to give our customers a choice of service provider. The SGH-i747 variation of the GALAXY S III will be available from Bell Mobility, Virgin Mobile, SaskTel, TELUS and Rogers Wireless. The SGH-iT999 model will be available from Videotron, Wind and Mobilicity.
  Additional Features Include:
  Processor:
  Snapdragon S4 Dual Core 1.5 GHz  Qualcomm MSM8960 Chipset
  OS (Shipping): ICS 4.0.4
  Data: LTE (SGH-i747 variation) and HSPA+ 42 (SGH-iT999 variation)
  Memory: 2 GB RAM
  Dimensions: 136.6 x 70.6 x 8.6 mm
  Weight: 133g
  Memory: 16/32GB internal memory (SGH-i747)/ 16GB internal memory (SGH-iT999)
  Expandable microSD up to 32GB
  Display: 4.8 HD Super AMOLED 1280x720 (306ppi)
  Connectivity: NFC, Bluetooth 4.0, DLNA, WiFi 802.11 a/b/g/n, MHL Video Out
  Camera: 8MP Rear-facing, 1.9MP Front-facing
  Battery: 2100 mAh
  Other:
  TouchWiz with Motion UX
  S Beam
  AllShare Play enhance functionality
  MP3/ACC+/WAV audio player
  DivX/Xvid/MP4/WMV/H.263/ H.264 Video Player
  For pre-orders, specific pricing and details, please visit your nearest carrier or retailer. For multimedia content and more detailed information, please visit www.samsungmobilepress.com. In addition, you can find a product introduction video at http://www.samsung.com/global/galaxys3/media.html.
  * All functionality, features, specifications and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.
 
