
   If you're in the market for a new wireless printer for that fancy new home office, Canon has a new model that may suit your needs. The PIXMA MX892 wireless all-in-one boasts copy, scan and fax features for those official docs that still have to be sent over the wire. Prints employ the ChromaLife, 5-ink system for high quality images at a resolution of 9,600 x 2,400 dpi. The printer also features a 3-inch LCD screen for last-minute adjustments and will have your 4 x 6 inch borderless Yellowstone photos printed in around 20 seconds each. Built-in effects, such as toy camera and fish-eye, offer quick photo customization in the event of an extreme time crunch. Through software like Google Cloud Print and PIXMA Cloud Link, you can send those documents or photos to the MX892 directly from online albums and your mobile device -- should you be on the move. No word on a shipping date as of yet, but the unit will set you back $199.99 when it hits shelves. Check out all the details in the PR below, should you be in need of a few more.
 

  Show full PR text  CANON U.S.A. ANNOUNCES NEW HOME OFFICE PRINTER POWERHOUSE, THE PIXMA MX892 WIRELESS OFFICE ALL-IN-ONE  Multiple Connectivity Options Make For Easy Printing of Important Documents When Needed  LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., March 6, 2012 – Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, today announced the PIXMA MX892 Wireless1 Office All-In-One (AIO) printer as the flagship model in the award-winning family of Canon PIXMA office printers. Designed with the home office user in mind, this print, copy, scan and fax machine has a variety of connectivity options for easy printing of documents and images from the cloud and other compatible portable devices. The addition of this new model to the Canon PIXMA Office AIO printer lineup helps continue the tradition of providing users with high-quality results and versatility to help increase productivity.  Canon has designed the PIXMA MX892 Wireless Office AIO printer to help home-office users easily access and print materials through utilities such as Google Cloud Print2 and PIXMA Cloud Link. Google Cloud Print will enable Gmail messages, file attachments and select Google Docs to be sent to the printer for printing from any computer, tablet, or smart phone. For those registered with Google's PicasaWeb Albums3, there is PIXMA Cloud Link so users can print photos directly from their online albums. The printer also provides direct access to a wide range of printable templates, such as stationary and calendars, so photographers can get creative with their images.  Adding to the printer's connectivity options is the Canon Easy-PhotoPrint (EPP) mobile app, for use with compatible Apple and Android smart phones and tablets, where documents can be scanned on the printer and sent to the device. Users can also print PDFs of documents that were created with the app directly from these devices4. The Canon PIXMA MX892 Wireless Office AIO printer will also have 802.11n wireless capability allowing for a high-speed network transfer rate and easy sharing on a network. Setting up a wireless network for multiple users to quickly share information can be accomplished with the press of one button when using Wireless Protected Setup (WPS). An Ethernet port has also been included as an alternative when wireless is not available, allowing for a hard line connection for easy sharing with multiple users as well. Canon U.S.A. offers its award-winning service and support online for all of its users looking to set up any of the new wireless products at www.usa.canon.com/wirelesshelp. Here, customers have access to video tutorials and manuals to assist in setting up a wireless printer.  "With users increasingly utilizing the cloud to store important documents and images, it is imperative to provide an easy way for these materials to be printed easily when they are needed ," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies & Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "The variety of connectivity options supported by the PIXMA MX892 Office All-in-One printer allows the flexibility to do just that, and provides the users with the comfort of knowing that the end result will be high-quality."  Productivity at its Best The Canon PIXMA MX892 Wireless Office AIO printer utilizes the ChromaLife 100+ system5 with five individual ink tanks producing superb quality for presentations and memorable images at a maximum color resolution of 9600 x 2400 dpi6. When the latest task includes creating a family photo album, the printer allows you to easily view images on the 3-inch LCD screen and can generate a 4" x 6" borderless photo7 in approximately 20 seconds8. The scanner capabilities feature an incredible resolution of 2400 x 4800 dpi to help ensure the duplicate copy will be equivalent to the original. Further adding to the functionality of the machine, is the capacity to provide print output at approximately 12.5 images per minute (ipm) for black-and-white documents and approximately 9.3 ipm for color9.  A major concern for home office users is being able to scan oversized documents to be distributed at important meetings. With the Canon exposed user interface, scanning or copying of large sized documents can be accomplished without interfering with any buttons needed to perform a task. Further adding to productivity is the Dual Function Panel, which makes navigating through menus and functions a very smooth process. When switching between the fax function and either print, copy or scan functions, the keypad will switch from the standard numbers to a directional keypad thus making the printer look sleek, clean and easy to use.  The Canon PIXMA MX892 Wireless Office AIO printer comes with additional features which can help increase productivity and conserve paper usage. With Advanced Media Handling capabilities such as a 35 sheet Duplex Auto Document Feeder that allows for quick two-sided copying and scanning in addition to Auto Duplex printing, users can perform other tasks while the printer handles the bulk of the workload. The printer also has two paper feeds which can hold a maximum of 150 sheets of plain paper each, helping ensure paper will not run out unexpectedly while working. With the two paper feeds, there is the option to load one tray with standard paper and the other with specialty paper so the user will not have to re-load when changing types of print jobs and save time.  Let Creativity Shine Through For those interested in customizing photos, Easy-PhotoPrint EX software is available for this feature-packed printer with a variety of fun filter effects such as Fish-Eye, Miniature, Toy Camera, Soft Focus and Blur Background. Full HD Movie Print10 software has also been included, producing clear images of frames from videos captured on compatible HD Canon EOS and PowerShot Digital cameras. An added bonus is exclusive printable content through CREATIVE PARK PREMIUM11. The content on this website includes family projects such as Eric Carle greeting cards and photo frames as well as calendars to keep track of important business meetings and appointments.  The Canon PIXMA MX892 Wireless Office AIO printer will have an estimated selling price of $199.9912.
 