

More Info

Leaked EOS M photo looks like Canon's long-awaited mirrorless camera
Canon unveils EOS M mirrorless: 18 MP APS-C, EF compatibility, $800 in October with 22mm lens
Canon EOS M mirrorless camera hands-on


It's here. Finally. Well, that is, if you happen to live in Japan. Canon's very first mirrorless interchangeable lens camera should be hitting shops the world over just as you begin to make room for that decked-out evergreen conifer, but the EOS M is already making the rounds in Canon's home country. It's available at select Japanese retailers for ¥109,900 (about $1,410, including sales tax). That lofty price will net you the EOS M in black, white or silver (the glossy red model remains elusive), complete with 55mm f/2 and 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-M optics, a Speedlite 90EX external flash and the EF-M Lens Adapter, enabling full compatibility with any and all of your EF and EF-S lenses. The US variant, which comes bundled with only the black 22mm "pancake" STM lens, should run you $799 when it appears stateside beginning October 15th, though neither country's model carries a particularly competitive price tag, especially considering how diverse (and well-equipped) the mirrorless ILC market has become.


You might argue that Canon is borrowing a play out of Nikon's book when it comes to pricing the EOS M -- had the camera offered full DSLR functionality, including an advanced user interface, a $799 sticker might be justified. But the company has crippled its new compact shooter so as to avoid cannibalizing its still-successful full-size APS-C DSLR lineup, which includes models ranging from the Rebel T3 (about $475) to the EOS 7D (about $1,350). Appropriately, the EOS M falls right in the middle in terms of capabilities, with the added benefit of a new, nearly pocketable design that should win over more than its fair share of amateurs. That said, there's a reason larger SLRs remain on the market, and Canon very much wants to retain that solid footing. The EOS M isn't for everyone, and that's by design. But is it the right pick for you? Join us past the break as we try it on for size.




HardwareAll cameras are not created equal -- not even all EOS Ms. Sure, each of the four compact flavors may carry the same 18-megapixel APS-C CMOS sensor, 1,040,000-dot 3-inch touchscreen and arguably mediocre UI, but only one has a remotely premium shell. As you may have gathered from our walk-through video above, we're not talking about white. Or red, or even silver. Only the black model, which drops the glossy plastic housing in favor of a matte coat, offers the look and feel of an $800-plus mirrorless compact. As cheap and plasticky as its (relatively) colorful counterparts may be, the black version has a fantastic, slightly textured finish. That's not to say it'll necessarily be the SKU that flies off store shelves, but photographers who are at all serious about their work will likely steer clear of the other three.


Color aside, there's a bit more bad news to get out of the way. Perhaps you've seen the dedicated mode dial that's become the trademark of anything premium at Canon. Even the new PowerShot SX160 IS has the familiar controller, and that model tips the till at just $199. So, does $800 and up deliver direct access to shooting modes, advanced or otherwise? No, it does not. And, well, we can't express our disappointment enough here -- not only does a mode dial simplify the process of selecting your primary shooting preference, it also serves to provide confirmation of your current pick, letting you know that you're in manual before you fire off a half dozen now-useless frames. The EOS M does provide this feedback on-screen, but it's just not the same, and the requisite triple tap to bounce between modes is inconvenient, to say the least. Canon could have done a heck of a lot better than this.


Speaking of taps, you'll be using that touch-enabled display for far more than you may have assumed. The touch-to-focus (and expose/capture) option is nice, but it's easily outweighed by the need to touch the LCD to adjust ISO, for example. As a side note, the EOS M offers an image sensitivity range of 100 to 25,600 (up to 12,800 when capturing video) -- we'll get into that in further detail later on. There's also a 31-point AF system, continuous shooting modes of 4.3 frames-per-second with fixed focus on any lens or autofocus using an EF or EF-S lens, 1.7 fps with autofocus on the 18-55mm EF-M optic or 1.2 fps with autofocus on the 22mm EF-M lens, and 1080/30p and 24p, 720/60p and 50p and 640 x 480 shooting at 30 or 25 frames per second.

Now, back over to those rather horrid controls. The EOS M's rear is akin to that of most Canon point-and-shoots, but given that this isn't a low-cost model, that layout has no business making an appearance here. At the top of the camera, there's a power toggle, a dial to select from auto, standard and movie modes, and a shutter release. There's also a full-size hot shoe (huzzah!) and stereo mics (yes, they're on the top and not the front, making them perfectly fine for narration but less than ideal for interviews). You can counteract that mic placement by adding your own audio capture device thanks to the standard microphone input jack that joins HDMI and USB connectors on the left side. Plus, since there is in fact a standard hot shoe, you will have somewhere to mount an external mic.


Around back, just to the right of the LCD, is a thumb rest and adjacent video record button, followed by Canon's standard lineup of menu, playback, info and dial controls. There's also a five-way toggle that can be used to navigate menus, jump through images during review, and directly access shutter mode, exposure compensation and delete options. On the bottom, there's a standard tripod socket, an SD card slot and a battery compartment, complete with an 875mAh LP-E12 cell (replacements should run you about 75 bucks). You'll find the requisite shoulder strap in the box, this time with a nifty connector that simply slides onto the camera and locks into place with a thin coin or key, along with a USB cable, AC adapter and, in the case of our test model, a Japanese-language user manual. We mostly like the strap design, but because it's able to rotate when locked into position, it's very easy to end up with a bunch of tangles.


What you won't find is a built-in electronic viewfinder, or even an optional attachment (there's no connector present, so it won't be coming in the future, either). The 3-inch LCD is quite sharp, at just over 1 million dots, but it's fixed in place, so there's no way to get it to tilt or swivel. We use this feature on the NEX-C3 on a daily basis, so not having it here really is a significant drawback, especially considering Canon's implementation on models like the PowerShot G12 (sadly its G15 successor does indeed drop this feature). The display's viewing angles are decent, even in bright light, but looking from above or below is really no match for a straight-on view.

User interface

