
 
 If you literally can't wait until you get back home to print your Grand Canyon photos, you're now in luck. Canon has announced the SELPHY CP900 compact printer that makes on-the-go postcard making a bit easier. Making use of the peripheral's added WiFi capabilities, you'll be able to output those images from you hiking expedition from a memory card or with the help of the Easy PhotoPrint app for Android and iOS devices. Of course, you'll be limited to 4 x 6-inch snapshots, but the new accessory will take up less room in your backpack compared to the previous models. Can't find a power outlet? No worries. You can splurge for the optional battery / charger combo for printing mid-safari -- should you so choose. The device also sports a 2.7-inch LCD screen for final adjustments and a wait time of under a minute per copy. Details on a release date are scarce, but the mobile kit will be available in both black and white options for around $100 when it does arrive. For now, a few alternate angles await in the gallery below.



  Show full PR text    PRINT MEMORABLE PHOTOS WIRELESSLY ON THE CANON SELPHY CP900 COMPACT PHOTO PRINTER

   LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., July 10, 2012 – Taking the convenience and versatility of the Canon SELPHY Compact Photo Printers capabilities one step further, Canon U.S.A. Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, today announced the Wi-Fi enabled SELPHY CP900 model for quick printing of memorable moments from almost anywhere in superb quality. For those users of Canon's award-winning lineup of PowerShot Digital Cameras, the new printer is the perfect accessory for providing instant photos from a grandparent's milestone birthday or of a child at a swim meet.

   Consumers can browse and unlock images stored on any computer connected to the same wireless network and send them directly to the Canon SELPHY CP900 for immediate sharing thanks to its new Wi-Fi connectivity. Also, users with compatible Android and Apple smartphones and tablets can utilize the Canon Easy-PhotoPrint mobile app to print stored images wirelessly to the SELPHY printer.

   "The addition of Wi-Fi connectivity offers users the flexibility and convenience to print from a variety of situations without sacrificing the overall quality of the output," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies & Communications Group, Canon U.S.A.

   The Canon SELPHY CP900 Compact Photo Printer will help produce keepsake memories and make them more visually appealing with improved image optimization providing red-eye and brightness correction to match colors spot-on and adjust the sharpness and contrast of images. In addition,the printer has scene detection technology to analyze faces, distance and color delivering optimal image processing and stunning prints with vibrant color. A 16.5-percent decrease in size and 14-percent decrease in weight makes it easier to take the printer to a family member's destination wedding or on a road trip with friends. When power is not accessible, an optional battery and charger are available to ensure printing is not delayed.

   An added feature of the printer is a new 2.7-inch LCD screen with double the overall resolution of any other similar Canon Compact Photo Printer to date providing a clearer and more precise look when viewing images and menus on the screen. The Canon SELPHY CP900 Compact Photo Printer can produce a high-quality 4 x 6-inch image in approximately 47 seconds1, which are capable of lasting up to 1002 years while maintaining their superb image quality. Users can also print photos without connecting to a computer by printing directly from compatible memory cards or using the PictBridge connection.

   The estimated selling price of the SELPHY CP900 Compact Photo Printer is $99.99.

 
