
 
 In plenty of time for back to school shopping, Canon has added three new offerings to the PIXMA family. The company just uncovered the MG2220, MG3220 and MG4220 all-in-one printers. The trio boasts 4,800 x 2,400 dpi max resolution, FastFront for easy changing of both ink and paper via the face of the machine, borderless 4 x 6-inch prints in under a minute and handles up to 8.5 x 11 sizes. With the MG2220, you can expect the advertised copy, print and scan functionality, while the other models each sport wireless capabilities. The aforementioned perk includes AirPrint, Google Cloud Print and Canon's own Easy PhotoPrint mobile app. If that wasn't enough, two new bits of software will be available with My Image Garden and you'll gain access to Facebook galleries with Print Your Days.

 The pricier pair also touts Auto Duplex printing to keep costs down and the MG4220 tacks on a 2.5-inch LCD for convenient adjustments for its higher price tag. The outfit didn't offer any details on when these peripherals will hit shelves, but when the time arrives, you can expect prices of $69.99 for the MG2220, $79.99 for the MG3220 and $129.99 for the all-inclusive MG4220. Further details lie in the full PR and a look at all three models can be found in the gallery that follows.



  Show full PR text    NEW CANON PIXMA PHOTO ALL-IN-ONE PRINTERS PROVIDE HIGH-QUALITY RESULTS AND IMPROVED USER EXPERIENCE AT AN AFFORDABLE PRICE

   Features Include Wireless Connectivity, "My Image Garden" Software and "Print Your Days" Facebook Application To Help Consumers Organize and Create Photo Projects

   LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., July 10, 2012–Canon U.S.A., Inc, a leader in digital imaging solutions, today announced three Photo All-In-One (AIO) printers – the PIXMA MG4220 Wireless*, PIXMA MG3220 Wireless and PIXMA MG2220 – with new and exciting features that will continue to produce the quality results consumers have come to expect from the award-winning lineup of PIXMA AIO printers. A new feature for these affordable print, copy and scan printers is My Image Garden software combining various tools to help consumers organize memorable photos and create new photo projects by unlocking images stored on computers. There is also a new Facebook application, Print Your Days, allowing users to easily access and customize their photos stored on the social networking site.

   "Developing high-quality, yet affordable printers that produce excellent output is always a top priority for Canon," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies & Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "We are excited about the addition of these PIXMA Photo AIO printers, especially with features we feel consumers will enjoy."

   Wireless World  In today's world, it is more important than ever for consumer products to have a variety of connectivity options so users can quickly and easily access their information. Through the support of Wi-Fi connectivity, the Canon PIXMA MG4220 and PIXMA MG3220 Wireless AIO printers allow users to print from almost anywhere. The PIXMA MG4220 model provides access to the Canon PIXMA Cloud Link for easy printing of images and documents stored online. As part of this feature, the printer supports Google Cloud Print™1 for printing from Gmail™ and Google Docs™ on a mobile device and from the Google Chrome™ browser for Mac, Windows, Linux, and Chrome computers. For registered users of Picasa Web Albums, users can wirelessly access photo albums directly through both wireless printers without the use of a computer. All users will have access to exclusive printing templates including stationery, envelopes, memos, calendars and many others. In addition, both wireless models work in tandem with the Canon Easy-PhotoPrint mobile app3, for use with compatible Android and Apple smartphones and tablets, providing easy printing of photos and PDFs of documents.

   Unlock Your Photos  Canon has created two exciting solutions to unlock your images, "My Image Garden"3 software and the "Print Your Days" Facebook4 application, for users to get the most out of their images and empower the sharing experience. With "My Image Garden" software, photos stored on computers can be easily organized into three categories: Calendar, Event and People. With Calendar View, images can be sorted by the dates they were captured while with Event View, images captured at a special event can be easily stored in a separate folder and accessed to share with friends and family. For People View, once a person's likeness has been registered with the software, Image Assorting Technology and Face Recognition technology is utilized to automatically upload a specific person's image to their respective folder for easy access.

   A noteworthy feature of the software is an Automatic Layout function, where multiple images can be selected and based on the priority given to each image, the appropriate layout is selected to create a beautiful keepsake image. There is also an Automatic Suggestion feature where photos stored on a computer are automatically created into various appealing collages and calendars to appear in a desktop slideshow to help bring awareness to those images that may have been forgotten and should be printed.

   An additional feature of the software is My Art for customizing photos through various templates including collages, greeting cards, calendars, stickers, disc labels and paper crafts. "My Image Garden" also features Full HD Movie Print5 to produce clear images of frames from videos captured on compatible HD Canon EOS and PowerShot Digital Cameras and VIXIA Camcorders, in addition to Fun Filter Effects such as Fish-Eye, Miniature and Toy Camera for further image customization.

   With social media sites increasingly becoming the gatekeepers for images from special occasions and events, Canon developed the "Print Your Days" Facebook application where users can print one single photo or combine a maximum of five images into one collage from their Facebook photo albums. Designed with a simple and intuitive layout, users can select the paper size (A4, 8.5 x 11, 4 x 6, 5x7 or 8 x 10-inches), design the layout of images for the collage, add text boxes and utilize photo effects.

   Additional Features  Canon has included many features on these high-quality yet affordable printers that help increase overall usability and productivity. Each new printer uses the FastFront feature for easy changing of ink and paper from the front of the printer and can also produce beautiful, borderless edge-to-edge 4 x 6-inch photos in approximately 44 seconds6 at a maximum color resolution of 4800 x 2400 dpi7. For the PIXMA MG4220 Wireless and PIXMA MG3220 Wireless printers, Auto Duplex printing has been included to help reduce overall paper usage costs.The Canon PIXMA MG4220 Wireless Photo AIO printer also has a 2.5-inch LCD screen for easy viewing of menus and images.

   The estimated selling price of each printer is $129.998 for the PIXMA MG4220 Wireless Photo AIO printer, $79.998 for the PIXMA MG3220 Wireless Photo AIO printer and $69.998 for the PIXMA MG2220 Photo AIO printer.

   Show full PR text    CANON U.S.A. ANNOUNCES NEW PIXMA PRINTER SUPPORTS AIRPRINT FOR WIRELESS PRINTING FROM iPad, iPhone & iPod Touch

   LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., March 6, 2012 – Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging, today announced that the PIXMA MG4220 and MG3220 Wireless Office All-In-One inkjet printers will support Apple AirPrint1 wireless2 printing from iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch. AirPrint allows users to wirelessly print photos, email, web pages and documents without installing device drivers. AirPrint works with iPad, iPad 2, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and iPod touch (3rd generation and later) running using iOS 4.2 or later.

 
