
 
 Were you betting Canon would announce a few WiFi-enabled cameras at CES this year? Ding ding ding -- you're a winner! Fork over 200 bucks and claim your prize. The company's latest ELPH may be tiny, but it still packs all of the banner features you'd expect in 2013. On the wireless front, you'll have the ability to create an ad-hoc network for booting stills and videos directly to connected computers, tablets or smartphones. There's also compatibility with Canon's CameraWindow app (for Android and iOS), along with the ability to add comments to images that you choose to upload to Twitter or send via email. You can also upload shots to Facebook, with control over where the images show up on the site.

 As far as hardware is concerned, there's a 16-megapixel sensor, a DIGIC 4 processor and an 8x optically stabilized zoom lens with a 28mm wide-angle position and a maximum aperture range of f/3.2-6.9. You also get a 3-inch, 461k-dot LCD with the same Eco mode offered with other models in the company's 2013 lineup, which serves to power down the display after eight seconds of inactivity, providing an up to 30-percent boost in battery life -- simply press any button on the camera to wake it back up instantly. There's Intelligent IS, HD video capture and the same Smart Auto mode (and scene modes) offered with previous models. Canon's planning to release the ELPH 130IS with a $200 sticker price -- you can expect it to hit stores beginning next month.




  Show full PR text   NEW CANON POWERSHOT CAMERAS HELP CAPTURE HIGH-QUALITY IMAGES WITH SIMPLICITY
   LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., January 7, 2013 – Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, today announced the PowerShot ELPH 130 IS, A2600, and the A1400 digital cameras to capture emotions and memories to share in stunning quality. To give consumers a simple, yet enhanced image sharing experience, Canon's built-in wireless1 functionality has evolved with new options that help make posting on social networking sites easy. Also for users who are constantly on the move, each of the new camera models are outfitted with ECO Mode, a new feature that provides approximately 30 percent longer battery life when enabled, allowing them to shoot more photos for a longer amount of time.

   "Our new PowerShot models have advanced features that give photographers an enhanced high-quality imaging experience allowing them to fulfill their day-to-day photography needs, express their vision and tell their story with ease, at a great value," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies & Communication Group, Canon U.S.A."

   PowerShot ELPH 130 IS Digital Camera  The wireless functionality built into the PowerShot ELPH 130 IS digital camera is easy and intuitive and provides users with more connectivity options. With the download of the free Canon CameraWindow app2 from an Android™ or iOS® app store, users can connect to both iOS or AndroidTM smartphones and tablets3 to wirelessly transfer photos and videos from their camera to their device. This camera also has the ability to connect directly to social networking sites using Canon's iMAGE GATEWAY4, making photos easily accessible and ready to share. In addition, the PowerShot ELPH 130 IS digital camera has the ability to connect to computers and select PowerShot cameras with wireless functionality, making it possible for images to be available in various locations. And for even more connectivity options, photos can be printed using PictBridge5 on select Canon printers, including the new PIXMA MG6320 or PIXMA MX922 Wireless Photo All-In-One printers.

   To make connecting easy, a new wireless history menu lists the last three connections used for uploading and sharing images. For users who want to share their images with friends and family, the advanced wireless functionality with social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube lets users comment directly from the camera. In addition, users can share images and directly comment to Facebook groups, so the effort of first sending the images to a smartphone, and then posting to Facebook is no longer necessary.

   Additionally, with features such as an ECO Mode to help conserve battery life, an 8x-Optical Zoom with 28mm wide-angle lens, and 16-megapixel sensor with a DIGIC 4 Processor, the PowerShot ELPH 130 IS digital camera is a stylish, versatile and easy-to-use camera with advanced technologies for a great shot any time. Adding to its appeal, the camera also features Smart AUTO, which provides an effortless way to get great images in many situations. The 3-inch LCD screen and Intelligent IS also makes photographing easy, with a compact and sleek design. The PowerShot ELPH 130 IS digital camera will be available in a variety of stylish colors: red, grey and silver and is scheduled to be available in February for an estimated retail price of $199.99.

   PowerShot A2600 Digital Camera  The PowerShot A2600 digital camera is an ideal user-friendly camera that creates high-quality images. It features a 16-megapixel sensor and 5x-Optical Zoom 28mm wide-angle lens to capture memories that last a lifetime. To make shooting simple, Smart AUTO automatically recognizes and chooses the best settings for 32 common shooting scenarios. 720p HD video is also available with a dedicated movie button to make memories come alive in vivid, lifelike detail. For users that are accustomed to the hustle and bustle of daily life, but looking to treasure those busy moments, the PowerShot A2600 digital camera also comes equipped with a new ECO mode that assists with battery conservation by turning off the 3.0 inch LCD screen when idle. In addition, Digital IS reduces the effect of camera shake and subject movement to help produce crisp, clear images. The PowerShot A2600 digital camera is scheduled to be available in February in five color options: black, silver, red, blue and pink, for an estimated retail price of $149.99.

   PowerShot A1400 Digital Camera  With an optical viewfinder, 16-megapixel sensor with a DIGIC 4 Processor, the PowerShot A1400 digital camera gives even the novice photographer the ability to capture spectacular images with ease. The 28mm wide-angle lens with 5x optical zoom aids in capturing great shots from a distance. The PowerShot A1400 digital camera is also equipped with HD Video, and ECO Mode that gives users a camera that is full of features, yet easy to use and economical, allowing for a high-quality imaging experience at a great value. In addition, the PowerShot A1400 digital camera is powered by two AA batteries, allowing for easy replacement whether you are away on an overseas vacation or spending the weekend camping. To make it possible to capture the most cherished moments, the PowerShot A1400 digital camera features Digital IS to help reduce the effects of camera shake and subject movement and a help button that gives users answers to common questions they may have about the camera's many high-quality functions. For even more imaging options, the PowerShot A1400 digital camera includes scene modes such as fisheye effect, toy camera effect and monochrome that give users creative freedom. The PowerShot A1400 digital camera is scheduled to be available in February for an estimated retail price of $109.99.

   For more information, and a full list of product specifications, visit www.usa.canon.com/powershot.

 
