
 
As camera makers shift from touting megapixels to low-light and HD video recording performance, in steps a trio of point-and-shoot cameras from Canon -- the PowerShot S95 pictured above and the SD4500 IS and SX130 IS both pictured after the break. The S95 update ($399.99 in late August) to last year's S90 combines Canon's DIGIC 4 image processing, a 10-megapixel high-sensitivity CCD sensor, and wide f/2.0 lens to enhance image quality and reduce noise at high ISO levels without resorting to a flash. It features a new high dynamic range (HDR) mode, 720p video recording, and mini HDMI for throwing that video up to the living room flat screen. the S95 is also the first PowerShot to feature Hybrid IS image stabilization to help with macro shots. The SX130 IS ($249.99 in August), meanwhile, offers a 12.1 megapixel CMOS and 12x optical zoom lens that relies on optical image stabilization to keep things stable. A 3-inch LCD, 720p video mode, and Miniature, Fisheye, Poster, and Super Vivid creative modes. Rounding things out is the Power SD4500 IS with 10x optical zoom, optical image stabilization, and a 1080p video mode with Dynamic IS that helps further stabilize the video while the shooter is in motion -- a first for a digital ELPH. Canon's even slapped in a 240fps super slow motion mode (at an unspecified resolution) from Casio's bag of tricks. Expect it to hit retail in September for $349.99.






Show full PR textCanon Amps Up the "Power" in PowerShot with Three New Digital CamerasLAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., August 19, 2010 – Further elevating the "Power" in PowerShot, Canon U.S.A., a leader in digital imaging, today announced three new high-performance PowerShot cameras - the PowerShot S95, the SD4500 IS and the SX130 IS Digital cameras. These cameras achieve photographic brilliance with Canon's HS (High Sensitivity) SYSTEM for improved low-light shooting in the S95 and SD4500 IS cameras, High Definition (HD) video recording, High Dynamic Range (HDR) in the S95 camera and a more intelligent Smart AUTO mode, among a range of others. The pro-shooter seizing the last summer sunsets with the S95 camera, the dad recording his son leaving for college on the SD4500 IS model, the aunt capturing a photo of her nephew's football team with the SX130 IS camera - these new PowerShot cameras showcase extraordinary image quality with every shot.Achieving great images in low-lightWhether shooting a large family photo at a sunset wedding or capturing a historical monument at night, the new PowerShot Digital cameras capture clear, exceptional images in low-light settings thanks to Canon's HS SYSTEM. Canon's DIGIC 4 Image Processor combined with a 10-megapixel High Sensitivity CCD sensor in the S95 camera or a CMOS sensor in the SD4500 camera, make up Canon's HS SYSTEM. The HS SYSTEM enhances image quality and helps reduce noise at high ISO levels. It also helps to accentuate a number of hard-to-get details in images with decreased lighting. When used together, Canon's HS SYSTEM and the f/2.0 lens in the PowerShot S95 camera, enables users to capture dimly lit scenes without a flash, resulting in a more natural look for photos."Image quality consistently remains a top priority at Canon and with each generation of PowerShot cameras, we look to build the features and technology that will best improve a customer's experience with our cameras," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Consumer Imaging Group, Canon U.S.A. "New features, like the Canon HS SYSTEM for enhanced low light performance and high-speed shooting, helps consumers to capture images in dimly lit settings, further increasing the beauty of a moment."Shooting HD at its bestWhen it comes to capturing a child walking for the first time or a person diving into a pool on vacation, shooting HD video is the ideal option. With Canon's legacy of delivering exceptional photos, the new PowerShot S95, SD4500 IS, and SX130 IS Digital cameras help to drive users beyond the still and encourage them to explore the world of HD video. It also helps a person to relive the experience when looking back at the images. Available on all three models, this feature offer extraordinary resolution, color and clarity to all cherished moments. Helping to heighten the quality of video, all three new PowerShot models include Miniature Effect movie mode. Available as a scene mode for shooting still photography, the Miniature Effect movie mode creates the illusion where large objects are shown in miniature proportions, providing a creative way to play back video. Combined with stereo sound, the inclusion of HD video capabilities in the PowerShot S95, SD4500 IS and SX130 IS cameras, along with outstanding still image quality, help make these models the ultimate image-capture devices.Capture natural beauty with High Dynamic Range (HDR)Excellent for outdoor shooting, the new S95 camera is the first Canon camera to feature the in-camera, HDR scene mode to help shooters capture the full magnitude of a scene that consists of very dark tones and bright highlights. With the use of a tripod, one push of the shutter button yields three sequential images with various exposures, and then combines them into a single optimized image within the camera. As a result, the image showcases a better range of depth and detail found in natural settings.Get Smart with new shooting scenesCanon's Smart AUTO now features 28 shooting scenes to help automatically adjust to different lighting or movement levels to obtain the best image possible. Another new feature for the less-experienced shooter to utilize is the Best Image Selection option found in the SD4500 IS camera. With one click of the shutter button, the camera will shoot five sequential shots and save the best shot based on a person's movement and facial expressions. Another added bonus in the SD4500 IS camera is Handheld Night scene. Without the use of a tripod, the Handheld Night scene reduces camera shake, allowing users to shoot beautiful images within dark settings.Canon PowerShot S95 Digital CameraPositioned to become another photography-fan favorite, the new PowerShot S95 camera, sibling of the popular PowerShot S90 camera, has been enhanced with 720p HD video capability and in-camera HDR scene mode. For macro-photography enthusiasts, Canon has built its Hybrid IS technology into the PowerShot S95 camera to compensate for angular and shift camera shake, making it the first PowerShot model to feature Hybrid IS technology. The camera also sports a 3.8x optical zoom and an f/2.0 lens that opens up to 28mm wide with Canon's Optical Image Stabilization technology, giving consumers a great, wide-angle lens with excellent focus. Another feature is the manual control ring on the front of the camera. For the advanced amateur shooters, the control ring allows the shooter to access manual control options and RAW shooting capabilities, allowing for more photographic creativity.Scheduled to be available late August, the S95 camera retails for an estimated price of $399.99.*Canon Power SD4500 IS Digital CameraHelping to deliver exquisite image quality with its advanced features, the SD4500 IS model has a 10x optical zoom with Optical Image Stabilization, providing the power to shoot distant subjects with sharp precision and details. A great tool for shooting sports, the camera also features Full 1080p HD video mode, a first for a Digital ELPH model. In addition to its HD video functionality, the camera can also shoots in Dynamic IS mode. While walking through the park on a summer day, the Dynamic IS mode, located in the camera's continuous AUTO mode, helps stabilize video capture while the photographer is in motion, further improving the clarity of HD video. The SD4500 IS camera also consists of a Super Slow Motion Video Mode, capable of capturing a subject at 240 frames-per-second (fps) and shoots video in Smart AUTO. Consistent in delivering excellent image quality, the camera also has a high-speed burst mode of up to 8.4 fps. Adhering to the design quality of an ELPH camera, the new SD4500 IS camera, available in brown, has a slim, body type, elegant curves, and strong aesthetic features. With the mix of advanced functionality and style, the SD4500 IS camera attracts all levels of users with a plethora of great features.Scheduled to be available in early September, the SD4500 IS camera retails for an estimated price of $349.99.*Canon PowerShot SX130 IS Digital CameraExperience advanced features and extreme telephoto capabilities with Canon's latest, ultra-zoom digital camera- the new PowerShot SX130 IS Digital camera. The new PowerShot SX130 IS camera has a 3.0-inch LCD screen and a 12x optical zoom lens with Canon's Optical Image Stabilization technology, helping to achieve brilliant images when capturing distant objects. Continuing to serve its dual functionality, the SX130 IS camera also shoots 720p HD video with stereo sound for outstanding video quality and features Miniature Effect movie mode, adding a more creative look to any user's video capture. Further igniting a photographer's artistic nature within still photography, the SX130 IS camera encompasses four creative modes- Miniature, Fisheye, Poster, and Super Vivid, making it the first model in its series to offer these four modes.Scheduled to be available late August, the SX130 IS camera retails for an estimated price of $249.99.*
 