
 If you haven't already come to grips with the fact that Canon won't be releasing a mirrorless camera with DSLR-like performance, you might as well cut your losses now. Instead of replacing the sluggish EOS M with a compelling shooter, the company has decided to focus on shrinking its DSLR. The result, the EOS Rebel SL1, is the world's smallest Digital SLR. SL stands for "super lightweight," which seems appropriate, given that it tips the scale at just over 14 ounces, yet the camera still accommodates EOS lenses, such as the new EF-S 18-55mm IS STM optic that ships in the box. There's an 18-megapixel APS-C CMOS sensor, DIGIC 5 image processor, a 1.04M-dot fixed touchscreen, a new hybrid autofocus and standard 9-point AF. It offers sensitivity ranging from ISO 100-25,600, can capture 1080p video at 30 or 24 fps, and it includes a built-in mono mic, along with a stereo mic input jack on the side. Jump past the break for our hands-on.




 
 We spent some time with a pre-production SL1, and while we were able to shoot a bit, we weren't permitted to walk away with any sample images. From a performance perspective, the camera seemed quite speedy, with accurate and fast AF both through the viewfinder and in live view mode. There's a typical assortment of buttons and dials, but due to the reduced footprint, Canon had less room to work with -- as a result, things can feel a tiny bit cramped. Despite the size, however, the grip seemed sufficient, and the camera was comfortable to hold. We also had a chance to check out Canon's new Rebel T5i, which, by the company's own admission, is virtually identical to its predecessor, the T4i. The body finish is slightly different and there's now an option for an 18-55mm STM lens kit, but besides a few mode dial tweaks and some even less significant additions, there's really nothing else to speak of here.

 As for pricing, the Rebel SL1 will cost you a bit more than many mirrorless models. It's set to retail for $650 (body only), or $800 with the new 18-55mm STM lens. The T5i will run you $750 (body only), $900 with the 18-55mm optic or $1,100 with an 18-135mm lens. T4i owners looking to build out their collection a bit can pick up that 18-55mm lens by itself for $250 -- unless you plan to buy that optic, however, you might as well snag last year's model if you can find it on sale, given that it's due to be discontinued after all of these new EOS products begin shipping in April. Flip through the gallery for some comparison shots with both the T5i and SL1, then take a closer look at that latter model in our hands-on video below.

 
  Show full PR text   ￼NEW CANON EOS REBEL T5i DIGITAL SLR CAMERA PACKS PERFORMANCE WITH NEW CREATIVE CONTROLS
   MELVILLE, N.Y., March 21, 2013 – Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, is proud to introduce a new flagship model to its popular EOS Rebel line, the EOS Rebel T5i Digital SLR Camera. The incredible image quality and performance starts with an 18 megapixel CMOS (APS-C) sensor and Canon's superb DIGIC 5 Image Processor. Combined with an extensive ISO range of 100–12800 (expandable to 25600 in H mode), the EOS Rebel T5i boasts crisp, detailed images, even in low-light conditions. With a continuous shooting speed of up to 5.0 frames per second (fps) united with 9 all cross- type AF focus points, the new EOS Rebel T5i allows photographers the opportunity to shoot with ease, even in challenging shooting situations.

   When shooting in Live View mode, the Hybrid CMOS AF system enables speedy and accurate autofocus for photos and video. Coupled with Canon's new EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens, available in the standard kit lens bundle, the EOS Rebel T5i takes full advantage of the Stepping Motor (STM) technology, which allows the lens to smoothly and silently focus on the subject whether it is moving or standing still. When combined with the camera's high-resolution Vari-angle Touch Screen 3.0-inch Clear View LCD monitor II and intuitive touch controls, the EOS Rebel T5i stands as Canon's most "consumer- friendly" DSLR.

   "Built to make advanced photography creative and fun, the EOS Rebel T5i Digital SLR Camera gives users exceptional image quality and fast, intuitive operation along with creative functions to help advance photographic expression," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies & Communications Group, Canon U.S.A.

   Expand Your Creativity with New Advanced Features

   The EOS Rebel T5i provides amateur and advanced photographers looking to hone their creative and technical skills with a range of features that allow for crisp, clear images.

   Whether it is adding saturation to a vivid landscape or applying a unique, vintage touch to a portrait, users who want to express their creativity can experiment with different effects and settings, composing a shot, by using one of Canon's seven Creative Filters. When the Creative Filters are applied in Live View, users can preview the filter on the vari-angle three inch LCD touch screen without having to shoot the image first. Effects such as ArtBold, Water Painting, Grainy Black and White, Soft Focus, Toy Camera, Fish- Eye and Miniature let users pick and choose how to best express their creative vision before or after the image is captured.

   The EOS Rebel T5i features advanced shooting modes to take creative imaging even further. When using one of the advanced shooting modes such as Handheld Night Scene, HDR Backlight Control or Multi- Shot Noise Reduction, multiple images are taken and combined within the camera to help create the best quality image based off of the shots taken. Providing quick and easy accessibility, a new mode dial with Scene modes has been included, allowing users the flexibility to select the subject matter while the camera determines the optimal settings.

   Enhanced EOS Full HD Movie Mode

   The EOS Rebel T5i offers easy-to-use professional video capture. When users switch to EOS Full HD Movie mode, the EOS Rebel T5i offers the ability to shoot in 1080p Full HD video in a number of recording sizes and frame rates. With Canon's Hybrid CMOS AF System and Movie Servo AF, the camera provides continuous AF for focus tracking of moving subjects by helping to reduce the camera's need to "hunt", resulting in a quick and smooth continuous AF. While shooting with one of Canon's Stepping Motor (STM) lenses, such as the new EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens, the camera will only capture the stereo sound of the scene being recorded. For added flexibility, the EOS Rebel T5i also features a built-in stereo microphone with manual audio level adjustment to enhance sound quality.

   Expanded Lineup of STM Lenses

   Canon is expanding the lineup of STM lenses by adding one new lens, which now gives users three choices that will allow for the capture of stunning images and video with the EOS Rebel T5i – the EF-S 18-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM, the EF 40mm f/2.8 STM and the new EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5- 5.6 IS STM lens. The EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens offers high magnification in a compact and lightweight EF-S standard zoom lens with an optical image stabilizer for up to four equivalent stops for shake correction. When paired with the Hybrid CMOS AF, it allows for smooth and quiet, continuous AF for photo and video capturing - making it the perfect combination for preserving those once in a lifetime moments.

   Availability

   The EOS Rebel T5i Digital SLR camera is scheduled to be available in April for an estimated retail price of $749.99 for the body alone; $899.99 bundled with an EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens kit, and $1,099.00 with the EF-S 18-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens kit.

   The new EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens also is also scheduled to be available separately in April at an estimated retail price of $249.99.

  CANON U.S.A. ANNOUNCES WORLD'S SMALLEST AND LIGHTEST DSLR CAMERA
   New EOS Rebel SL1 Digital SLR Camera Fuses Advanced Image Quality and Features into an Ultra-Portable Body

   MELVILLE, N.Y., March 21, 2013 – Continuing the quest to deliver superb product innovations, Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, today announced the world's smallest and lightest DSLR* camera: the EOS Rebel SL1 Digital SLR Camera. It features a newly developed 18.0- megapixel CMOS (APS-C) sensor and high-performance DIGIC 5 Image Processor for exceptional image quality and speed. With its combination of lightweight size, ease of use and outstanding image quality, the EOS Rebel SL1 is perfect for users looking for the ideal camera to bring sightseeing on vacation or to capture the everyday.

   "The EOS Rebel SL1 Digital SLR Camera represents a new era in DSLR versatility: ultra-portable, full- featured DSLR cameras," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies & Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "The EOS Rebel SL1 combines the high speed, high image quality and expanded shooting range of a DSLR camera, with the easy and fun usability of a point-and-shoot camera."

   Advanced Image Quality in a Compact Body

   As the world's smallest and lightest DSLR, the new camera body is 4.6" (w) x 3.57" (h) x 2.74" (d), and weighs only 14.36 oz.** In comparison, the EOS Rebel SL1 is approximately 25 percent smaller and 28 percent lighter than the EOS Rebel T4i digital camera.

   ￼￼The EOS Rebel SL1 features an 18 megapixel CMOS (APS-C) sensor that performs exceptionally well in both bright and dimly lit shooting environments with an ISO range of 100-12800 (expandable to H: 25600) for photos and ISO-6400 (expandable to H: 12800) for video. Canon's DIGIC 5 Image Processor technology allows for exceptional image quality and shooting speed up to four frames per second (fps).  The camera includes a new nine-point center cross-type autofocus (AF) system to help achieve fast, sharp focus. The new AF system also includes a new Hybrid CMOS AF II sensor, which provides a wider focus area when shooting photos or video in Live View mode, and a continuous AF speed that's increased from previous EOS models.

   To help capture video with ease, the EOS Rebel SL1 features Canon's Movie Servo AF, which provides continuous AF tracking of moving subjects. When shooting video with one of Canon's new STM lenses, such as the EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM (available in the standard lens kit), Movie Servo AF takes advantage of the lens' stepping motor for smooth and quiet continuous AF. The camera is capable of Full HD shooting in a number of recording sizes and frame rates, and enables easy manual control of exposure, focus and Live View features. The combination of Canon's new Hybrid CMOS AF system II and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM lens is ideal for shooting video helping to ensure only the sounds of the scene are recorded.

   Allowing for clear and easy viewing even in bright environments, the Touch Screen three inch Clear View LCD monitor II provides a rich and expansive display as well as providing intuitive touch panel operation.

   Creativity at your Fingertips

   The EOS Rebel SL1 encourages users to explore their creative side with a wide array of features for convenience and simple shooting. The EOS Rebel SL1 is equipped with Scene Intelligent Auto Mode, an advanced function that detects faces, colors, brightness, movement, contrast, distance and other factors and automatically adjusts and selects the exposure method needed. The results are photos with a wide dynamic range, ideal for users without advanced photography knowledge or experience.

   Users can also access advanced imaging features like the new Effect Shot mode, which automatically creates two different shots, one with a selected creative filter and one without. In addition, Creative Filters and Background Blur Simulation can now be displayed in real time during Live View shooting. Editing photos is also a snap with the Rebel SL1's in-camera editing and cropping functionality. This feature allows users to view and crop the image using the camera's LCD touch screen and save the edited version as a separate file.

   For those who would like to take beautiful photos with ease, the EOS Rebel SL1 offers a variety of scene modes to explore. New special scene modes include Kids, Food and Candlelight, giving users advanced presets to help ensure the best possible photos even under difficult shooting conditions.

   Pricing and Availability

   The new EOS Rebel SL1 Digital SLR Camera is scheduled to be available in April for an estimated retail price of $649.99 for the body alone or $799.99 bundled with the new EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS STM kit lens.

 
