
 
Have you ever looked longingly at your mouse, noting its underutilized input device real estate? Canon has, replacing that excessive unused space with a built-in calculator in its X Mark I Mouse, announced today for folks in the US. (If you'll recall, we spent a few quality moments with this guy in Germany last year at Photokina.) The combo device provides users with both a physical ten-digit adding machine and a numeric Bluetooth 2.0 keypad, which you can use seamlessly with a variety of apps, replacing the number pad now absent on many desktop and portable keyboards. The company's camera design team helped to create the hybrid input device, which also includes a trio of mouse buttons and laser tracking. Canon also announced its X Mark I Keypad, a full-size calculator with Bluetooth support that's powered by either AAA batteries or a built-in solar panel. Both devices will be available for $60 in August and September, respectively, and will ship in both black and white.






   		Show full PR text  CANON U.S.A. ANNOUNCES NEW DESKTOP ACCESSORIES FOR TODAY'S BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS 		New Products Expand Canon Technology into New Markets 		LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., July 26, 2011 – Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging, has strengthened the X Mark I series of products today with the launch of two new desktop business accessories, the X Mark I Mouse Lite and the X Mark I Keypad. Designed with input from Canon's Camera design team, these sleek and stylish products are the ideal extension to a laptop's standard keyboard, helping to improve overall work efficiency for business professionals working remotely. 		"The addition of the X Mark I Keypad and X Mark I Mouse Lite marks Canon's entry into a new product category," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies and Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "Canon recognizes that business professionals are always on the search for tools that help improve work efficiency and we feel these new products will certainly accomplish this task." 		The three-in-one Canon X Mark I Mouse Lite combines the functionality of a laser mouse in addition to a keypad and 10-digit calculator making it ideal for the traveling business professional along with anyone interested in minimizing the number of accessories in a workspace. Available in either black or white, the X Mark I Mouse Lite is compatible with Windows PC or Mac laptops, has three mouse buttons and Bluetooth 2.01 connectivity. In addition, this new mouse has a low battery indicator to avoid running out of power unexpectedly. 		Designed for the on-the-go business professional, the Canon X Mark I Keypad provides users with a two-in-one keypad in addition to a 10-digit Semi-Desktop Calculator that can be easily paired with either a Windows PC or Mac laptop through Bluetooth 2.01. Powered by solar and AAA batteries, the X Mark I Keypad is available in black or white. 		The Canon X Mark I Mouse Lite will have an estimated selling price of $59.99 and is expected to become available in August while the Canon X Mark I Keypad will have an estimated selling price of $59.99 and is expected to ship in September.
 