
 

Today, we've got a pair of Canon point-and-shoots to show you. The S100 is the successor to the highly regarded S95, while the SX40 HS takes on the super-zoom market with its 35x lens. Both cameras use the company's new DIGIC 5 image processor, which brings high-speed burst shooting and 1080p video to the party. The S100 features improved low-light performance thanks to its f/2.0 lens and new, larger 12.1 megapixel CMOS censor (gone is the CCD of yore). It also has a GPS receiver for embedding location data in your photos. The SX40, more or less, slaps the new processor and sensor into last year's somewhat disappointing SX30 IS. Hopefully, those internal upgrades will solve some of the SX line's problems with image quality and noise. Both cameras will cost $430, with the S100 set to ship in early November and the SX 40 HS in late September. Check out the gallery below as well as the PR after the break.





 		Show full PR text  Canon U.S.A. Announces PowerShot S100 and PowerShot SX40 HS Models with New DIGIC 5 Image Processor Providing Enhanced Resolution and Faster Shooting Speeds 		Featuring Full HD Video Recording, High-speed Burst HQ and Intelligent IS 		LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., Sep 15, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging, today announces the addition of two feature-packed digital cameras, the PowerShot S100 and PowerShot SX40 HS, to its award-winning lineup of point-and-shoot models. In addition to superb low-light performance and increased overall speed, these two cameras include a new DIGIC 5 image processor, HS SYSTEM, Full HD video capture, High-speed Burst HQ and Intelligent IS providing clearer, smoother looking images. 		"Photo enthusiasts are always on the search for that next great camera to help them achieve the best results," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies and Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "The inclusion of the new DIGIC 5 image processor and Full HD recording capabilities on both new models will provide users with the tools needed to capture brilliant images and videos as they continue their photographic journey." 		A challenging task for the photographer on assignment or appointed family photographer is working under low-light conditions. Helping improve the quality of images from those situations is Canon's HS SYSTEM, where the camera's image processor and high-sensitivity image sensor work in tandem to enhance low-light image quality. With the PowerShot S100 and PowerShot SX40 HS, Canon has introduced a new DIGIC 5 image processor, maintaining the cameras' superb low-light image quality while improving overall camera operation and color accuracy. The new image processor has improved noise reduction and advanced Multi-area White Balance optimizing color tones of both subject and background under multiple light sources. 		High-speed, High-quality, High-performance 		An added benefit of the DIGIC 5 image processor is the incorporation of the new High-speed Burst HQ(1) providing users with the ability to continuously capture a maximum of eight frames. This new feature will allow the story of a child scoring the winning goal on the soccer field or a marathon runner crossing the finish line to be told frame-by-frame through the eye of the photographer. 		Intelligent IS 		One of the most important innovations for a point-and-shoot camera has been Image Stabilization (IS) since it helps improve image quality by reducing camera blur for both images and videos. Canon has taken this technology one step further with the new Intelligent IS which automatically chooses from six different modes (Normal, Macro, Panning, Dynamic, Powered, Tripod) to optimize image stabilization and help achieve crisp, blur-free images for various shooting conditions. 		It's an HD World 		When the time comes to share one of those "can't miss" moments from a family day at the park or of a pride of lions on a safari expedition, the use of HD video is becoming more popular than ever. As a leader in HD video capture, Canon has incorporated Full HD recording (1920 x 1080) capabilities for both new models. Providing exceptional resolution for crystal clear HD video, both cameras have a dedicated movie record button in addition to having the ability to zoom while recording, further enhancing the overall user experience. An HDMI terminal output has also been included for easy sharing of videos with stereo sound on HD ready televisions 		PowerShot S100 Digital Camera 		When the PowerShot S95 Digital camera was announced in 2010, it received critical praise for having an impressive feature set and superb low-light capabilities. Building upon the success of this model is the PowerShot S100, featuring a host of upgrades making it a must-have for any photo enthusiast. Featuring a 12.1-megapixel CMOS image sensor -- part of the HS SYSTEM -- this versatile camera has a 24-120mm wide angle lens with 5x optical zoom, GPS functionality and is capable of achieving improved low-light performance of up to ISO 6400. Additionally, the camera utilizes an f/2.0 lens increasing the camera's low-light performance by allowing additional light to reach the sensor while creating a shallow depth-of-field for portraits with dynamic, soft backgrounds. The PowerShot S100 will also now be available in either black or silver. Other features of this camera include: 		-- A large 3.0-inch wide LCD screen for easy viewing of those images and menu options. 		-- GPS capabilities(2) where satellites collect data of the latitude, longitude and altitude of an image's location, which is then stored to the image's EXIF data (3). A map utility software is included with the camera to view the locations where images were captured. There's also an internal GPS logger to track the day's photographic route. 		-- A full range of shooting and recording modes similar to those found in DSLR cameras including RAW + JPEG and a control ring on the front of the camera for quick, manual adjustment of key functions such as ISO, zoom and focus. 		-- Compatibility with the HF-DC2 High-Power Flash, which is an optional flash accessory that operates wirelessly and increases the effective flash range up to approximately 30 feet. 		The estimated selling price of the PowerShot S100 Digital camera is $429.99 and is scheduled to be available in early November.* 		PowerShot SX40 HS 		When visiting the local zoo or sitting in the stands of a youth football game, having a camera that has the flexibility to capture images at close-up and far-off distances is a necessity. Canon's PowerShot SX40 HS is just the camera one would need to ensure those images are of high-quality. Other features include: 		-- An incredible 35x optical zoom range (24mm-840mm) with image stabilizer and a 12.1-megapixel CMOS image sensor -- part of the HS SYSTEM -- the camera can capture low-light images of enhanced image quality up to ISO 3200. 		-- A 2.7-inch wide vari-angle LCD has been included for easy viewing of images and menus from almost any angle. 		-- Improved Smart AUTO settings to ensure the settings are intelligently selected based upon the cameras 32 predefined shooting situations. . 		-- The Zoom Framing Assist button, which helps the user steady the camera when tracking a moving subject at extreme telephoto settings keeping it in focus. 		The estimated selling price of the PowerShot SX40 HS Digital camera is $429.99 and is scheduled to be available in late September.*
 