
 
 On the eve of CES, longtime optics heavyweight Canon announced four new camcorders for its VIXIA product line. The HF R42, R40 and R400 all feature a 53x advanced zoom, a DIGIC DV IV image processor and a 3.28-megapixel full HD CMOS image sensor. In addition, these movie-makers capture HD MP4s at up to 35Mbps and AVCHD progressive 60p recordings that tops out at 28Mbps. Moving things to the cloud, Canon's new HF R camcorders allow users to remotely browse and download files via the web. Further adding to its software suite, the company is introducing its CameraAccess app (Android and iOS) with video streaming, sharing and remote control for the HR40 and HR42. Available in March, Canon's new trio of HF R series camcorders are priced at $300 (R400), $400 (R40) and $500 (R42).

 Rounding out today's announcement is the company's new flagship VIXIA HF G20, which packs 32GB of storage, a 10x optical zoom and a claimed 12 hours of full HD recording. Slated to release in February, Canon's new top-shelf video camera can be yours for around $1,100. This equipment may not take you on an unexpected journey to Erebor, however it should easily have enough firepower to spiff-up your YouTube videos. For a further look at Canon's new starting lineup, checkout the gallery below and the presser after the break.




  Show full PR text   CANON ENHANCES CONNECTIVITY AND IMAGE QUALITY WITH NEW VIXIA LINEUP
   Three New VIXIA HF R-Series Camcorders Offer Live Streaming and Remote Shooting;  New VIXIA HF G-Series Camcorder Demonstrates Enhanced Imaging and Low-Light Shooting Capabilities

   Lake Success, N.Y., January 7, 2013 - Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, today unveiled four new camcorders for its VIXIA lineup, with the introduction of three VIXIA HF R-series camcorder models, the VIXIA HF R42, VIXIA HF R40 and VIXIA HF R400, and the expansion of the acclaimed G-series line with the new VIXIA HF G20 camcorder. Compact and portable, the new VIXIA HF R42 and VIXIA HF R40 camcorder models are designed to capture and share life's every day moments with a 53x Advanced Zoom, SuperRange Optical Image Stabilization, innovative wireless streaming and remote control features. Excellent for low-light shooting conditions, the new VIXIA HF G20 camcorder model offers an enhanced HD CMOS Pro Image Sensor and professional-grade functionality.

   "Being able to capture and instantly share memories as they happen is a necessity in today's always-on society," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies and Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "With two of Canon's new VIXIA camcorders, people can have those advanced wireless capabilities that give them the convenience they need, without sacrificing on the quality of their images."

   VIXIA HF R-Series Camcorder Models  Designed for everyday shooting, Canon's expanded VIXIA HF R-series camcorder lineup improves upon numerous features, including image quality, sharing capabilities and the user experience.

   High-Quality Imaging  With 53x Advanced Zoom and a Genuine Canon HD Video Lens, capturing memories in crisp High Definition video is easier than ever on Canon's new VIXIA HF R-series camcorders. The new lineup also offers a 3.28 Megapixel Full HD CMOS Image Sensor, an improved image stabilization system and a new DIGIC DV IV Image Processor for impressive low-light performance. In addition, the new camcorders offer Full HD MP4 (up to 35Mbps) and AVCHD Progressive (up to 28Mbps) 60p recording, so memories are captured in stunning image quality.

   Enhanced Connectivity and Mobile Sharing  With connectivity and instant sharing in mind, the VIXIA HF R42 and HF R40 camcorders offer several tools and features that make uploading content easy and convenient. The VIXIA HF R42 and HF R40 camcorders feature built-in wireless capability, allowing each camcorder to connect and stream live content to a variety of devices, including smartphones, tablets and PCs. Users can instantly upload their videos to social networking sites through CANON iMAGE GATEWAY# or share footage via email to send to friends and family so content can be enjoyed immediately after it is captured.

   Also new to the VIXIA HF R-series camcorder lineup is Remote Browse†, a feature that allows users to preview or download files to a smartphone, tablet or PC when using a web browser. Once both devices are wirelessly connected, users can download or play back their videos instantly without the need for an application or other software.

   Canon's free Movie Uploader app*, available on the iOS® platform, allows users to send video directly to a smartphone or tablet for instant online sharing. Through the free CameraAccess app**, available for iOS® and AndroidTM platforms, individuals can stream live and control their VIXIA HF R42 or VIXIA HF R40 camcorder directly from their smartphone or tablet with the ability to access the camcorder's record, pause and zoom functions.

   These new mobile and live-streaming applications offer numerous benefits, such as using the VIXIA HF R42 or VIXIA HF R40 camcorder to record activities remotely, or setting the device to function as a baby monitor or security camera.

   Convenience and Recording Flexibility  For the ultimate in recording convenience, the VIXIA HF R42 camcorder provides 32 GB of internal memory and the VIXIA HF R40 camcorder provides 8GB – while all VIXIA HF R-series camcorders offer the flexibility of capturing footage to an SD memory card. The new VIXIA HF R-series camcorders feature a new easy-to-use 3.0-inch capacitive touch panel screen for intuitive functionality. All of the new VIXIA HF R-series camcorders offer a higher capacity battery, nearly doubling the recording length over previous models. Users now also have the option of creating stunning, high-quality 60p MP4 files (1920x1080 at up to 35Mbps) in addition to AVCHD Progressive (1920x1080 at up to 28Mbps) for added flexibility. With the new Dual Recording feature, users won't need to choose between recording formats, as each VIXIA HF R-series camcorder can capture both simultaneously.

   VIXIA HF G20 Camcorder  The VIXIA HF G20 camcorder includes a variety of high-level features that make it an excellent option for users in search of a user-friendly camcorder with professional-level functionality.

   Exceptional Image Quality  With a 10x Optical Zoom and Genuine Canon HD Video Lens, the VIXIA HF G20 camcorder records stunning video in 1080p Full HD so every imaginative scene is captured. This new camcorder features an enhanced HD CMOS PRO Image Sensor, improving low-light performance by 20% over its predecessor. Canon's sophisticated SuperRange Optical Image Stabilizer combined with Intelligent IS helps correct camera shake, so even hand-held video taken at long focal lengths is sharp and steady.

   Premium Recording Capabilities  To help ensure a creative moment is never missed, the VIXIA HF G20 camcorder offers Pre-Record, a feature that allows users to automatically capture three seconds of footage before they press the record button. In addition, the new VIXIA G-series camcorder offers up to 12 hours of full HD recording, and provides 32GB of internal memory along with the option of recording to two SD card slots. Operation of the camera is easy and intuitive with a high-resolution 922K-dot, 3.5-inch touch panel screen. With Cinema-Look filters, Shooting Assist and Smart AUTO, users can experiment with a variety of imaging modes and easily identify optimum audio settings to give their videos a rich and dynamic tone.

   Pricing & Availability  The VIXIA HF R42, VIXIA HF R40, and VIXIA HF R400 camcorders are scheduled to be available in March for an estimated retail price of $499.99, $399.99, and $299.99, respectively. The VIXIA HF G20 is scheduled to be available in February for an estimated price of $1,099.99.

   For more information, and a full list of product specifications, visit http://www.usa.canon.com/cusa/consumer/products/camcorders/consumer_camcorders.

 
