
 

Canon's not done insulting your Photoshop skillz, as it announces the PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 Wireless Photo All-In-Ones. These 9600 x 2400 dpi color printer / copier / scanners promise wireless printing of pictures and more boring items like Google Docs, Gmail attachments and PDFs from phones, tablets, laptops and computers. Print wirelessly with Canon's dedicated photo app (for Android and iPhone) and PIXMA Cloud Link, or access Picasa albums from the printer directly and add cool-ish effects like Fish-Eye, Miniature and Toy Camera using the touchscreen. When it comes to actually printing things, the $299.99 MG8220 is a step above its counterpart, with add-on features like a film adapter to convert old slides and negatives to digital. The MG6220 loses some of the high end features but keeps all the connectivity of the MG8220, for a much more reasonable $199.99 price tag. Inkjet enthusiasts, go ahead and check out the press release for all the dirty dpi details.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Canon U.S.A. Announces Two PIXMA Wireless Photo All-In-One Printers For High-Quality Printing From Almost Anywhere		Featuring Brilliant Image Quality and Software Upgrades to Easy-PhotoPrint EX and Full HD Movie Print 		LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., August 23, 2011 – Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging, today announced the addition of the PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 All-in-Ones to the Company's line of Wireless1 Photo All-In-One models with the ability to print, copy and scan images and documents. These beautifully designed, affordable printers are compatible with many of the popular wireless devices on the market today for easy printing from almost anywhere. Additionally, consumers can unlock their creative printing side with the significant software upgrades to Easy-PhotoPrint EX and Full HD Movie Print2. 		As an industry leader in innovative printing, Canon has designed the PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 Wireless1 Photo AIO printers to print from nearly any screen whether on a cell phone, tablet, laptop or desktop computer. The Canon Easy-PhotoPrint mobile app, for use with compatible Android and Apple smartphones and tablets3, has also been upgraded allowing users to print pdfs directly from compatible wireless devices. Furthermore, users can scan documents on the printer to be sent directly to a compatible wireless device. 		With the newly developed Canon PIXMA Cloud Link, printing images and documents is easier than ever. Exclusive to these two PIXMA printer models, is the ability to print select Google Docs™ and Gmail™ attachments from any accessible device, further adding to their wireless versatility4. For registered users of CANON iMAGE GATEWAY or Picasa Web Albums, users can wirelessly access their photo albums directly through the printers without the use of a computer5 and all users will have access to exclusive printing templates including stationery, envelopes, memos, calendars and many others. 		The PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 Wireless1 Photo AIO printers are 802.11n Wi-Fi certified allowing for a faster network transfer rate. Wireless networks can be set up with the press of one button when using a Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS). In addition, Canon offers its award-winning service and support online for all users looking to set up any of the new Wi-Fi products at, www.usa.canon.com/wirelesshelp. Here, customers have access to manuals and video tutorials to assist in setting up a Wi-Fi device. 		"Technology is changing at such a rapid pace that manufacturers need to continually upgrade features to help ensure the needs of the consumer are being met," said Yuichi Ishizuka, executive vice president and general manager, Imaging Technologies and Communications Group, Canon U.S.A. "We feel the upgrades made for these two PIXMA All-in-One models provide consumers with a host of new features without forgoing our high-quality output." 		With Canon's ChromaLife 100+ ink system6, the PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 Wireless1 Photo AIO printers utilize six individual ink tanks to produce superb results in both color and black and white. The inclusion of the gray and photo black ink provides the photo enthusiast with the opportunity for a black and white photograph to be printed with high accuracy.		Unlock the Creative Side 		For the Canon PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 Wireless1 Photo AIO models, Easy-PhotoPrint EX has been upgraded to help spark creativity when customizing and personalizing memorable images with new Fun-Filter Effects such as Fish-Eye, Miniature and Toy Camera. In addition, there is an option to change the focus of the image to have it appear softer and blur specific aspects of the background, similar to an effect which was previously only capable when using an SLR camera. These printers can also print directly on CDs, DVDs and Blu-ray discs for further personalization of media while creating fun photo projects at the same time. 		Full HD Movie Print2 software has been enhanced as well to produce clearer images of frames from videos captured on compatible HD Canon EOS and PowerShot Digital Cameras. Users can easily tell the story of videos from memorable events, frame by frame in a more unique way than before by merging multiple images into one final shot, capturing nearly every portion of the action. There is a new layout feature as well for printing up to 72 individual images on one sheet of paper.		Intelligent to the Touch 		The PIXMA MG8220 and MG6220 Wireless1 Photo AIO printers come equipped with the Intelligent Touch System which helps improve not only ease-of-use but productivity. With back-lit touch sensitive buttons, the light-guidance system eliminates buttons not in use to help reduce opportunities for mistakes. The responsive capacitive touch technology, which picks up on electricity in the users' body when a finger glides across the touch surface, is designed to provide seamless navigation through menus and other desired commands.		Canon PIXMA MG8220 Wireless Photo AIO printer 		Designed with the photo enthusiast in mind, the PIXMA MG8220 Wireless1 Photo AIO printer is ideal for the user not yet ready for a professional printer but who still values high-quality results. The PIXMA MG8220 can produce a 4" x 6" borderless photo in approximately 20 seconds7 utilizing a variety of fine art type papers. This new PIXMA photo printer will also deliver output at approximately 12.5 ipm for black-and-white documents and approximately 9.3 ipm for color8. In addition the printer has a maximum color resolution of 9600 x 2400 dpi9. This printer is also the only current Canon PIXMA model with a Film Adapter Unit for easy converting of older slides and negatives to digital. For easy viewing of images and menu options, a 3.5-inch LCD has been included along with Advanced Media Handling options such as Auto Duplex copying, printing and a two-way paper feed, helping reduce the amount of time it takes to complete a project. 		The PIXMA MG8220 will have an estimated selling price of $299.9910.		Canon PIXMA MG6220 Wireless Photo AIO printer 		The Canon PIXMA MG6220 Wireless1 Photo AIO printer is perfect for the user interested in high-quality results at a more affordable price. Featuring a 3.0-inch LCD screen and similar Advanced Media Handling options as the PIXMA MG6220 Wireless Photo AIO printer, this model can also produce a 4" x 6" borderless photo in approximately 20 seconds7. Additionally the PIXMA MG6220 has a maximum color resolution of 9600 x 2400 dpi9. This new PIXMA printer delivers output at approximately 12.5 ipm for black-and-white documents and approximately 9.3 ipm for color8. 		The PIXMA MG6220 will have an estimated selling price of $199.9910.		Canon CREATIVE PARK 		Extend creativity beyond just photos and document by visiting Canon Inc.'s CREATIVE PARK website at www.canon.com/c-park. The site offers free 3-D paper craft projects, scrapbooking templates and embellishments, novel greeting cards, and educational materials. As an added bonus with the purchase of select PIXMA printers, consumers will be provided with exclusive printable content through CREATIVE PARK PREMIUM11. This content includes post cards, albums, and many more projects including paintings by artists such as Norman Rockwell.		CANON iMAGE GATEWAY 		CANON iMAGE GATEWAY is an exclusive online photography resource and service for owners of registered qualified Canon products. Camera owners who have registered a qualifying Canon camera via their Canon Account can upload and share up to 2GB of photos with friends and family. Members also gain access to informative photography-related articles on topics such as macro shooting, portrait photography, printing tips and print projects to get the most out of their photos. Owners of registered qualifying printers can use their photos to create greeting cards, calendars and much more with Print Projects! Printer members are provided with a wide array of helpful articles to enhance their experience with their Canon printer and to help them create inspiring projects. The Video Podcast Service - available for owners of registered qualifying camera and video products - enables those members to upload videos to be shared and viewed, which can also be used with the Apple iTunes® application and downloaded to access on a compatible Apple iPod or iPhone mobile device.
 