
 

Canon has more on the way from its newly launched EOS Movies lineup than just the C300, as shown by this new prototype DSLR. Promised to be "ideally suited for cinematographic and other digital high-resolution production applications" this camera packs a 35mm full frame image sensor capable of shooting Motion-JPEG encoded 4K video at 24fps. The press pics show it fitted with both EF 50 and new Cine 24 lenses, as Canon looks to blend the success of the 5D MK II with RED-rivaling video capabilities. The director of House shot an episode on that camera already and called it the future, which appears to be arriving sooner rather than later. Check out the press release after the break for the spec breakdown, just don't expect to hear anything about a name, price, or release date.





 		Show full PR text 		Coming Attractions: New Canon Digital SLR Camera Under Development  		HOLLYWOOD, California, November 3, 2011/TOKYO, November 4, 2011 – Canon Inc. today announced that the company is developing a new-concept EOS-series digital single-lens reflex (SLR) camera. Incorporating an enhanced version of the video-capture capability offered in the current EOS-series lineup, the new camera will be ideally suited for cinematographic and other digital high-resolution production applications. The model will be equipped with a 35 mm full-frame CMOS sensor and, enabling the recording of 4K video* (at a frame rate of 24P, with Motion-JPEG compression), will make possible the type of exceptional image quality and sublime imaging expression to be expected from the next generation of "EOS Movies." 		The announcement coincides with the launch of the Cinema EOS System, marking Canon's full-fledged entry into the digital high-resolution production industry. The new professional digital cinematography system spans the lens, digital cinema camera and digital SLR camera product categories. 		Further details regarding the new EOS digital SLR camera currently under development, including the product name, specifications and scheduled launch date, have yet to be decided. 		EOS Movie: A New Industry Standard		Movie recording has been a standard feature in all newly introduced Canon EOS-series digital SLR cameras since the launch of the EOS 5D Mark II in November 2008. Coupled with the diverse array of lenses in Canon's current interchangeable EF lens lineup, this feature has heralded rich visual expressive possibilities, delivering such characteristics as beautiful image blur and low noise while also garnering kudos for the mobility and maneuverability made possible through the cameras' compact and lightweight body designs. 		The impressive images created by the combination of Canon EOS digital SLR cameras and EF lenses, known as "EOS Movies," have already earned their screen credentials on the sets of multiple productions, from television commercials and artist promotion videos to episodic dramas and even major motion pictures. 		For more information and to view online demonstration footage of the new products please visit: www.canoncinemaeos.com 		###		* Cropped to APS-H-equivalent size (dimensions measuring approximately 80% vertically and horizontally of a 35 mm full-frame sensor) when recording in 4K.
 