
 
 Cartoon Network announced plans to join the TV Everywhere party with a live internet feed of its channel (for authenticated cable / satellite customers) during upfronts and now the updated v1.8 app has arrived on iPhones and iPads. The feed can also be streamed with Flash on the channel's website (we tried it on an Android 2.3 device and logged in but couldn't get it to play), although the only differences we noticed were that the website feed was slightly ahead of our cable box and iOS was a few seconds behind, but with slightly higher picture quality. All in all it's very similar to the WatchESPN experience (which ABC expanded upon last week with Watch Disney, Watch Disney Jr and Watch DisneyXD apps, though the full experience is only currently available to Comcast customers), and should satisfy all those who have been missing the Toonami experience when they're away from home. Take a peek after the break for a preview trailer, shot of the login screen and press release.



 
   Show full PR text   Cartoon Network Announces Live Streaming Across Digital and Online Platforms  Network to Expand TV Everywhere Strategy  Cartoon Network, television's #1 network with boys 6-11, announced today that it will soon begin streaming its on-air content live across multiple platforms, including online at CartoonNetwork.com and for mobile viewers on the iPod, iPod Touch, iPhone and iPad. Presented as part of Cartoon Network's advertising Upfront this morning in Los Angeles, the announcement further expands the network's TV Everywhere strategy to provide content for viewers on all screens.

   "It is our commitment to the TV Everywhere strategy to let our audiences enjoy our shows whenever and wherever they want," said Stuart Snyder, president and COO, Turner Broadcasting's Animation, Young Adults & Kids Media (AYAKM). "Soon, viewers will be able to catch Cartoon Network anywhere and everywhere-whether they are in front of their television or maybe even at the airport waiting for a flight, we will be available for viewers to experience the live telecast seamlessly."

   TV Everywhere is an industry-wide initiative that gives subscribers to cable, satellite and telco video services access to more of their favorite full-length shows, available day after air, across multiple platforms (TV VOD, web, tablets and mobile devices) with a high-quality experience at no additional cost.

   Cartoon Network (CartoonNetwork.com), currently seen in 99 million U.S. homes and 168 countries around the world, is Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.'s ad-supported cable service now available in HD offering the best in original, acquired and classic entertainment for youth and families.

   Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., a Time Warner company, creates and programs branded news, entertainment, animation and young adult media environments on television and other platforms for consumers around the world.

  Disney/ABC Television Group and Comcast to Premiere Innovative Disney-Branded Authenticated TV+ Services to Comcast Xfinity TV Customers  WATCH Disney Channel, WATCH Disney XD and WATCH Disney Junior Provide Online and Mobile Access to Live Linear Channel Streams and "On Demand" Content for Kids and Families at Home and On-the-Go
    PHILADELPHIA & BURBANK, Calif., Jun 14, 2012 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Comcast and Disney/ABC Television Group today announced that Xfinity TV customers can now access three new authenticated TV+ products -- WATCH Disney Channel, WATCH Disney XD and WATCH Disney Junior -- at home or on-the-go -- via a suite of new innovative apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, and online at WATCHDisneyChannel.com, WATCHDisneyXD.com and WATCHDisneyJunior.com. The three new WATCH products are the first-ever to provide authenticated users with both access to live, linear network streams as well as an extensive offering of advantaged window "on demand" episodes.

   "We are excited to team with Comcast to be the first in the industry to offer authenticated products that provide both live linear streams of our Disney-branded kids television services and a robust selection of episodes on demand to viewers who verify their subscriptions," said David Preschlack, executive vice president, Disney and ESPN Media Networks affiliate sales and marketing. "Our company prides itself on being at the forefront of innovation, and we are dedicated to continually enhancing the overall viewing experience for our consumers, as well as adding value to our industry's ecosystem."

   Matthew Strauss, Senior Vice President, Digital and Emerging Platforms, Comcast Cable said, "Working hand-in-hand with The Walt Disney Company, we're excited to be the first to deliver this best-in-class kids and family programming to customers -- both in and out of the home across all of our video platforms. This launch is the latest in a series of TV Everywhere initiatives we're delivering that offer customers more choices and new ways to watch the best entertainment anytime, anywhere."

   Xfinity TV customers, who subscribe to Disney Channel, Disney XD and Disney Junior networks as part of their monthly video service can now stream these channels live online and via the convenience of their iOS devices. In addition, Xfinity TV customers can view a variety of top series including "Good Luck Charlie," "Shake It Up," "Phineas and Ferb," "TRON: Uprising," "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse" and "Jake and the Never Land Pirates" from Disney Channel, Disney XD and Disney Junior on these new WATCH products, on Xfinity On Demand, Xfinity.com/tv and through the Xfinity TV app on the iPad, iPhone and iPod touch and Xfinity TV Player app on Android-powered devices, anytime.

   The free Watch apps include a simple, kid-friendly user interface that brings the current online viewing experience to the high-resolution, Multi-Touch displays of iOS devices. Once a user downloads one of the WATCH apps or visits one of the WATCH websites, they will receive sign-in instructions to verify their Comcast Xfinity TV credentials, allowing them access to their favorite Disney Channel, Disney XD or Disney Junior programs on their device(s).

   Non-authenticated users of the WATCH Disney Channel, WATCH Disney XD and WATCH Disney Junior services will have access to a limited number of "on demand" episodes each month.

   Disney/ABC Television Group's WATCH apps are available for free from the App Store on iPhone, iPad and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore .

   Later this year, Xfinity TV will also integrate all of the content available through WATCH apps on Xfinity.com/tv as well as on other viewing platforms. Today, Xfinity TV offers more than 75,000 TV shows and movies, including a variety of kids and family programming, across Xfinity On Demand, Xfinity.com/tv and the Xfinity TV and Xfinity TV Player apps for iOS and Android, respectively.

   The launch of Watch Disney Channel, Watch DisneyXD and Watch Disney Junior, as well as the recent launch of WatchESPN with Comcast is part of a long-term, comprehensive distribution agreement between Comcast Corporation and The Walt Disney Company that was announced in January, 2012. The agreement will deliver Disney's top quality sports, news and entertainment content to Comcast's Xfinity TV customers into the next decade on televisions, computers, tablets and handheld devices. The new agreement enhances the multichannel business model and supports the companies' mutual goal to deliver the best video content to customers across multiple platforms using the latest technology and cloud innovation. For the first time ever, Comcast's Xfinity TV customers will be able to watch ESPN, ABC or Disney shows live or On Demand and across multiple screens. The companies also agreed to collaborate over the term of the deal to create new, innovative viewing experiences for Xfinity TV customers.

   About Disney/ABC Television Group

 
