
 
How do you stand out in the world of cameras? Casio thinks it's got quite the looker with its upcoming Tryx. The 12.1 megapixel shooter sports what the company's calling Exilim Engine HS, which equates to 1080p 30 frames per second video, up to 240fps (at 432 x 320 resolution) slow-motion, and various HDR and panorama options. there's also a 3-inch touchscreen LCD, but the biggest draw here is the swiveling enclosure that serves as a stand for setting up just the right shot. We got an early glimpse at a non-functional prototype, and the size is definitely interesting -- we still need to see it in action, though. Price is a penny shy of $250 and shipping date's April 2011.

But of course that's not the whole story, and Casio's camera lineup is, surprisingly, not as mind-numbingly large as you might expect. Going down the list (at least as far as price is concerned), we'll start with the EX-ZR100, which also has a 12.1MP Engien HS with dual core processors, 1080p 30fps video, 12.5x optical zoom, up to 1,000fps burst fire (224 x 64 resolution), HDR, and the ability to "leverage the camera's full optical zoom and capture digital still images with high-speed burst shooting (10 megapixel), all while recording video," or so the company brags. It's coming March for $299.99, and if you remember its brother the ZR10, that one's due out September for $249.99. If battery's your bigger worry, you can get "at least 1,000 photos" on a single Li-Ion charge from the 16.1MP EX-H30 with 720p HD video (March 2011 for $249.99). Finally, budget-minded folk get the EX-ZS10 ($119.99) and EX-ZS5 ($99.99). Both do 14.1MP shots with 5x optical zoom, but the former does 720p while the latter only records VGA video. March is the date for those two. You know the drill: pictures below, press release after the break.






Show full PR textCASIO LEVERAGES CES 2011 TO USHER IN NEW ERA IN DIGITAL IMAGING The Casio TRYX® Boasts Radically New Form Factor and Raises Bar for Style and InnovationLAS VEGAS, NV, January 5, 2011 ― Casio America, Inc. and its parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., today unveiled TRYX®, a revolutionary new camera that will allow consumers to stand out and be noticed. Strikingly different than any other camera or camcorder on the market today, TRYX impresses with a distinctive, variable frame design which knows no bounds. With TRYX, consumers can do more and be prepared to capture their photographic lives in ways they were never able to before."TRYX truly is a remarkable camera and its announcement is a defining moment for Casio," said Toshi Iguchi, Senior General Manager, Digital Imaging Division, Casio America Inc. "Unlike anything the industry has ever seen, TRYX brings unparalleled innovation and versatility straight to consumers' hands with a radical new design. This is a camera which was designed specifically to meet the needs of the creative and connected consumer, looking for a unique digital imaging experience and a camera to compliment their lifestyle and personality." Tricked-Out DesignThanks to its super thin (.59-inches thick), variable frame design, TRYX can adapt to fit the user's preferred shooting style or to help them capture an image from just about any angle or in any environment. Users can hold the camera horizontally, in a traditional point-and-shoot style to capture still images or flip out the rotating, three-inch, touch-screen LCD and swivel the body to experience countless other positions. The frame rotates 360-degrees and can be adjusted so that the body can act as a tripod, allowing TRYX to stand on its own, or the LCD screen can be rotated up to 270-degrees so that users can perfect their own self portrait and see themselves in the frame. Users can even flip out and rotate the body so that the camera can hang from a hook, doorknob or other surface. The Casio TRYX's body can also be adjusted so that users can record full-HD, 1080 video (30fps) with the traditional feel of a dedicated camcorder, either in a left or right-handed grip or use it vertically, like a pocket camcorder.High-Speed and High-PerformanceIn addition to its good looks, the Casio TRYX also boasts an equally impressive feature set. At the heart of the camera is a 12.1 megapixel back-illuminated CMOS sensor which will help capture stunning images thanks to its enhanced sensitivity and low-light performance. The TRYX's CMOS sensor is also coupled with dual core processors as well as Casio's state of the art EXILIM® ENGINE HS, which add significant processing speed and enhance the overall imaging experience. Together, they power many of the camera's unique creative functions, including High Dynamic Range (HDR) imaging, High-Speed SR Zoom, and slow motion video.Expressing One's CreativityTRYX is fully-loaded and packed to the brim with a full range of functions, such as Slide Panorama and slow-motion video recording, which users can take advantage of to boost their creativity and truly express themselves through images. With Slide Panorama, users can effortlessly capture 360-degree panoramic images, and with slow-motion video, users can record events that are ordinarily too fast for the eye to see, at speeds up to 240 fps (432x320). TRYX also incorporates Casio's revolutionary HDR-ART technology, which gives users the ability to effortlessly transform any photo from ordinary to extraordinary, all with just the touch of a button. HDR-ART works by combining continuous shots with differing exposures and performing highly-precise image analysis to locally change the contrast and level of color saturation. Users can select from three different processing levels to suit their artistic tastes and produce results that are guaranteed to impress.Empowering the Fingertip Housed within TRYX's rotating, three-inch LCD screen (460K pixels / 3:2 aspect ratio) is the camera's intuitive touch-screen interface which puts all camera controls right at the user's fingertip. Through the touch-screen LCD, users can activate TRYX's touch-shutter, which can focus on an area or subject in the frame and capture the photo, just by touching the screen. TRYX's advanced self-timer can also be activated using the touch-screen LCD. Featuring a clever little twist, the self-timer can be triggered using the camera's built-in motion sensor. Users can configure the self-timer using their finger to designate an area in the frame on the LCD where TRYX needs to monitor for motion. When motion is detected in the specified area, the self-timer will be triggered, enabling users to take pictures of themselves or allowing them time to get in the photo with a group of friends after placing the camera in just about any location, whether it be hanging it from a wall or setting it on a tabletop. Ultra-Wide Angle Lens Makes it EasyTaking a self-portrait, group shot, or an image of a landscape is typically a hassle with a standard lens and narrow focal length. With a standard lens, consumers are forced to sacrifice what they can actually capture, as they can't fit exactly what they want in the frame. That's no longer an issue with TRYX, as the camera offers an impressive, ultra-wide-angle, 21mm lens. With such a wide-angle lens, users can fit more of their desired scene into the frame, ensuring that they'll be able to capture their own image as well as the background they're in front of, or even a large group of family and friends. TRYX's 21mm ultra-wide-angle lens is also outfitted with Casio's state-of-the-art High-Speed SR Zoom technology. Significantly more advanced than traditional digital zooms, High-Speed SR Zoom captures multiple still images at high-speed and combines them to produce sharp and clear photos. Image quality can be maintained up to two times the range of the focal length.Social Media SimplifiedCasio also preloaded the TRYX with software that facilitates the uploading of images and video directly to the Internet, including many of today's most popular social networking platforms such as Facebook, Flickr and YouTube. Users can simply select which photos and videos they would like uploaded from the camera beforehand, and upon connecting it to a computer, the files will automatically be sent to each specified destination.The Casio TRYX will be available April 2011 for $249.99.-------CASIO EXTENDS EXILIM® HI-ZOOM RANGE OF CAMERAS WITH THE EX-H30H30 Offers 24mm, 12.5x Optical Zoom Lens and Can Take 1,000 Photos on a Single Charge*LAS VEGAS, NV, January 5, 2011 ― Casio America, Inc. and its parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., today added even more depth to its popular EXILIM® family of digital cameras with the announcement of the 16.1 megapixel EX-H30. With an impressive 24mm, ultra-wide-angle, 12.5x optical zoom lens as well as the ability to capture up to 1,000 photos on a single battery charge (*in accordance with Camera & Imaging Products Association standards), the new EX H30 offers the versatility that today's travelers are looking for in a compact digital camera. "Optics and battery performance are two qualities which should be top of mind for any consumer in the market for a camera to take with them while traveling or on vacation, and the new H30 excels in both areas," said Toshi Iguchi, Senior General Manager, Digital Imaging Division, Casio America Inc. "Whether you're near or far, the H30's powerful zoom and ultra-wide angle lens will help you capture the image you want, while the camera's exceptional battery performance will allow you to focus on capturing those memories rather than worrying about running out of power or the need to recharge."Battery Performance When it CountsThanks to Casio's industry-leading, energy-saving technologies and a high-capacity, rechargeable lithium ion battery (NP-130), the new EX-H30 outperforms the competition when it comes to battery life. With one full charge of the battery, consumers can head out for the day, or in some cases, even the week, and document their travels knowing that they'll have the ability to snap at least 1,000 photos. Extending the RangeWith a powerful 24mm-300mm (35mm equivalent) focal length, the EX-H30's optics are sure to impress; however, that range can be further extended with no loss in image quality by leveraging Casio's Single Frame SR Zoom. With Single Frame SR Zoom, users can extend the maximum telephoto range by 1.5x, putting an effective zoom of 18.8x right in the palm of their hand and in a camera body measuring under an inch thick (.95-inches). The ultra wide angle capabilities of the EX-H30 are also enhanced with Casio's Slide Panorama technology, which will allow users to capture natural panoramic images. Furthermore, when panning across the scene, Slide Panorama will automatically recognize moving subjects, and will omit them from the combined points of the final image (maximum of 240-degree panning).High-Resolution Images and VideoThe new EX-H30 couples a high-performance, 16.1 megapixel CCD with Casio's sensor-shift technology to produce beautiful images with stunning detail. Moreover, the advanced image processing capability provided by Casio's EXILIM ENGINE 5.0 ensures that color reproduction is clear and bright, and that images have a rich tonal gradation. The new EX-H30 also boasts Casio's super-resolution technology which will analyze and optimally process the respective areas of the photo that are contoured, textured with a detailed pattern, or flat, to deliver photos of exceptional quality and resolution.In addition to high-resolution still images, the EX-H30 also offers 720p high-definition video recording with continuous auto-focus. While recording video, users can also take advantage of the camera's full optical zoom so that they capture the action no matter how far away they are. All images and video can be reviewed right on the camera's large, three-inch LCD display (460k).Options for the Enthusiast or Beginner For the enthusiast shooter looking for more control, Casio includes manual shooting modes on the new EX-H30, such as Shutter Priority and Aperture Priority. For those who value simplicity and want to capture beautiful images with each press of the shutter, Casio's Premium Auto is the mode to use. When set to Premium Auto, the EX-H30 will automatically analyze the scene being photographed and simultaneously optimize settings for exposure, ISO, sensitivity, focus location, photo blur correction, tonal range, color balance, and level of noise reduction. Premium Auto will automatically distinguish night scenes, back lighting, a blue sky, green trees or a sunset and can sense whether there is a person's face in the frame, the movement and position of the subject, and whether a tripod is being used. All images are analyzed pixel by pixel to apply different corrections depending on the subject. For example, if Premium Auto recognizes that the subject of the image is a person, it will automatically apply Makeup Mode, and will automatically apply Landscape Mode if it detects that the subject of the image is a landscape.Useful for travelers is the EX-H30's Silent Mode. Users can set the EX-H30 to Silent Mode instantly, which will prevent the camera from emitting any sound or flash, so as to not disturb those around you. Users can also get creative and have a little fun with their images using the EX-H30's Dynamic Photo function. With Dynamic Photo, users can combine moving characters preloaded to the camera's memory, with a still image or movie background of their choice.The Casio EX-H30 will be available in four colors, including sliver, black, red, and gold, and will ship in March 2011 for $249.99.* In accordance with Camera & Imaging Products Association (CIPA) standards: Temperature 23°C, LCD screen on, alternating between wide angle and telephoto zoom every 30 seconds, flash usage once every two shots, and powering on and off after every tenth shot.------CASIO ANNOUNCES NEW FLAGSHIP CAMERA FOR ITS EXILIM® LINEUPRevolutionary New EX-ZR100 Takes High-Speed Processing and Shooting to the Next LevelLAS VEGAS, NV, January 5, 2011 ― Casio America, Inc. and its parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., today unveiled the 12.1 megapixel EX-ZR100, the new flagship model for the company's popular EXILIM® family of digital cameras. Blazingly fast, the EX-ZR100 is powered by Casio's new EXILIM ENGINE HS with dual core processors, which work together to offer consumers a high-speed shooting experience unlike any other. From high-speed image processing to slow-motion video recording, the next generation EXILIM EX-ZR100 represents a dramatic advancement beyond today's traditional digital cameras. Also joining the EX-ZR100 is the EX-ZR10. Announced at the 2010 Photokina Expo, the EX-ZR10 is the younger sibling of the more advanced EX-ZR100, and will begin shipping in January 2011. "Casio is continuously pushing the envelope for what's possible when it comes to digital cameras, and nothing embodies that approach more than the new EX-ZR100," said Toshi Iguchi, Senior General Manager, Digital Imaging Division, Casio America Inc. "The EX-ZR100 combines our most advanced imaging technologies and is indicative of the level of innovation that consumers can expect from Casio. This is a camera that we're proud to call our flagship model for 2011."High-Speed Processing PowerThe EX-ZR100 incorporates a 12.1 megapixel back-illuminated CMOS sensor which will help users capture high-resolution, low-noise images even in dimly lit environments. The camera also features sensor-shift image stabilization to help reduce the blur associated with hand movement for even better results. The sensor-shift stabilization technology also allows users to capture impressive 1920x1080 full-HD video at 30 frames-per-second (fps) with continuous auto focus. In addition, the EX-ZR100 features a built-in stereo microphone, and even offers users the ability to leverage the camera's full optical zoom and capture digital still images with high-speed burst shooting (10 megapixel), all while recording video.The camera's high-performance CMOS sensor is complimented even further by Casio's advanced EXILIM ENGINE HS with dual core processors, which further enhance the digital imaging experience for consumers. Together, the EXILIM ENGINE HS with dual core processors drive the high-speed capabilities of the EX-ZR100 and are responsible for the camera's industry leading, .37 second shot-to-shot time, slow-motion video recording as well as high-speed burst shooting. With burst shooting, consumers can capture 30 10 megapixel images at a maximum speed of 40 shots per second. Adding even more versatility, the EX-ZR100's Pre record Continuous Shutter will begin pre-recording images when the shutter button is pressed halfway, ensuring users will not miss a single critical moment even if they're a little late in snapping the photo. All photos and video can be reviewed on the camera's high-resolution three-inch LCD (460k).Getting CreativeThe new EX-ZR100 encompasses a number of unique shooting modes, such as slow-motion video recording, Slide Panorama, and Casio's HDR-ART technology, which consumers can use to build on their creativity and better express themselves through images. With slow-motion, users can record fast-action events at a maximum speed of 1,000fps (224x64), revealing detail that's simply too fast for the naked eye to see. Additional high-speed frame rates include 480fps (224x160) and 240fps (432x320). With Casio's HDR technology, each press of the shutter button actually takes several shots with different exposures and instantly combines them into a single image with a high dynamic range. This ensures that both light and dark areas are clearly visible in the photograph and that washed out or overly dark areas are minimized. The HDR-ART function uses this HDR technology to create beautifully artistic photographs. It locally controls the contrast and the level of color saturation of the analyzed subject, and achieves the kind of awe-inspiring effects that used to be possible only using dedicated software, all with just one press of the shutter button. The effects of the HDR-ART function can be set at three different processing levels, so now anyone can easily create dramatic, eye-catching HDR images that suit their artistic tastes and are sure to impress.Users can also get creative with Slide Panorama, which will give them the ability to pan the EX ZR100 across a scene, such as an expansive landscape, to capture 360-degree images. Unique about Casio's Slide Panorama is the fact that the function can detect moving subjects or peoples' faces and will not use these subjects for the combined points. This makes it easy to take more natural panoramic images. The EX-ZR100 also makes using the camera fun thanks to its Dynamic Photo function. With Dynamic Photo, users can combine moving characters preloaded to the camera's memory, with a still image or movie background of their choice.Optics That Pack a PunchCasio's new flagship EXILIM model doesn't fail to impress thanks to a robust lens that boasts a powerful 12.5x optical zoom and a focal length of 24mm-300mm (35mm film equivalent). Packed within a compact body that measures under an inch thick (0.95-inches), the ultra wide angle and telephoto capabilities of the EX-ZR100's lens will allow users to fit more into the frame or get in close, no matter how near or far they may be. Furthermore, Casio greatly enhances the 12.5x optical zoom of the EX-ZR100 with its Multi Frame SR Zoom technology, which doubles the camera's zoom to achieve a zoom that's equivalent to a 25x optical zoom. Far more advanced than traditional digital zooms found on today's digital cameras, Multi Frame SR Zoom leverages the high-speed processing power of the EXILIM ENGINE HS to capture and combine several images at once to produce a final photo with no loss of image quality.The Casio EX-ZR10 is available in black and will ship in January 2011 for $249.99 The Casio EX-ZR100 will be available in black and will ship in March 2011 for $299.99------CASIO TARGETS ENTRY-LEVEL SHOOTERS WITH TWO NEW EXILIM® MODELSThe New EX-ZS10 and EX-ZS5 Offer High-Performance Features at Competitive Price PointsLAS VEGAS, NV, January 5, 2011 ― Casio America, Inc. and its parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., today announced the stylish and compact EX-ZS10 and EX-ZS5, two new models which join the company's growing EXILIM® family of digital cameras. Competitively priced at $119.99 and $99.99 respectively, the new EX-ZS10 and EX-ZS5 offer a number of high-performance features which are typically not found in entry-level compact digital cameras, including 14.1 megapixel resolution and 26mm wide-angle lenses with generous 5x optical zooms. What's more is that with the EX-ZS10, users can record their memories in high definition as the camera offers 720p HD video. The EX-ZS5 features VGA video recording at a resolution of 640x480."Because of their price points, consumers don't expect much from entry-level compact cameras," said Toshi Iguchi, Senior General Manager, Digital Imaging Division, Casio America Inc. "It's an unfortunate mindset that Casio is looking to break with the new EX-ZS10 and EX ZS5. With their 14.1 megapixel sensors, high-performance lenses and array of shooting modes, the EX ZS10 and EX-ZS5 will deliver tremendous value to consumers and an overall digital imaging experience that's far from entry-level."Simple OperationThe EX-ZS10 and EX-ZS5 offer a variety of shooting modes for consumers which they can leverage to help capture stunning images with ease. Included with each is Casio's BEST SHOT technology, which puts 23 scene modes at the user's fingertips, each of which are designed to help users capture a wide range of subjects in just about any environment to produce the best images possible. Users will also benefit from helpful images and descriptions which accompany each mode and give a detailed explanation of when to use them and what each will provide in regard to results. In addition, the EX-ZS10 and EX-ZS5 feature large 2.7-inch LCD screens as well as USB charging, which gives users the ability to recharge the battery in camera while connected to a computer or using the supplied AC adapter. The EX-ZS10 will be available in black, silver, red, pink and blue, and will ship in March 2011 for $119.99. The EX-ZS5 will be available in black, silver, orange and pink, and will ship in March 2011 for $99.99About Casio America, Inc.Casio America, Inc., Dover, N.J., is the U.S. subsidiary of Casio Computer Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, one of the world's leading manufacturers of consumer electronics and business equipment solutions, established in 1957. Casio America, Inc. markets calculators, keyboards, digital cameras, mobile presentation devices, disc title and label printers, watches, cash registers and other consumer electronic products. Casio has strived to realize its corporate creed of "creativity and contribution" through the introduction of innovative and imaginative products. For more information, visit http://www.casiousa.com or http://pressroom.exilim.casio.com.
 