
 
Casio's Exilim EX-H20G and EX-Z16 certainly stole the spotlight in the company's press conference here at Photokina, but a couple of other point-and-shoots managed to sneak out simultaneously over in Tokyo. Unfortunately, neither the Exilim EX-Z2300 nor the EX-ZR10 will be making a stateside debut, but those situated in continents not named North America may certainly be interested. The former of the two utilizes a 14.1 megapixel sensor, a 3-inch rear LCD (960 x 480 resolution) and a 5x optical zoomer, with other specifications including an SD / SDHC card slot, 34.9MB of inbuilt memory, 720p video recording, an ISO range from 50 to 3200, CCD-shift image stabilization and a rechargeable battery good for around 580 shots. 

Moving on to the ZR10 (not to be confused with Pentax's similarly named RZ10), this one is Casio's HDR baby. During the company's presser, executives went on (and on) about how wunderbar the camera's inbuilt HDR ART function was, and honestly, the images that were being displayed were indeed pretty fanciful. The point-and-shoot relies on a back-illuminated 12.1 megapixel sensor, the Exilim Engine HS, 28mm 7x zoom lens, an automatic panorama option and a newfangled burst mode that enables up to 30 shots of 10 megapixel images to be taken, with high-speed burst shooting at a maximum speed of 40 shots per second. Better still, the company has upped the video resolution here to 1080p, while also throwing in an SD / SDHC / SDXC card slot, ISO range of 100 to 3200 and a rechargeable battery. No one's talking pricing, release dates nor release regions just yet (aside from shunning America, of course), but we'll be sure to update just as soon as those facts and figures hit our desk. Oh, and we did manage to score a few precious seconds with this guy here in Köln, and it's exceedingly slim given the feature set. We can't speak for the image and video quality first-hand, but based on what was shown and the aesthetic that we witnessed, we'd say the ZR10 has a bright future ahead of it. 



  


Show full PR textCasio Releases EXILIM Digital Cameras That Take Artistic Photographs Using HDR TechnologyHigh-Sensitivity, High-Speed Camera Driven by New EXILIM ENGINE HS Offers the Fun of Creating and Displaying Digital ArtTOKYO, September 20, 2010 - Casio Computer Co., Ltd., announced today the release of a new model in its lineup of EXILIM digital cameras, the EX-ZR10. Powered by the new EXILIM ENGINE HS that integrates high-speed shooting and high-speed image processing, the EX-ZR10 creates amazingly artistic photographs using Casio's high dynamic range (HDR) technology. This next-generation high-speed camera represents a dramatic advancement beyond existing digital cameras.The EX-ZR10 comes with the new EXILIM ENGINE HS and a high-sensitivity, 12-megapixel, back-illuminated CMOS sensor. Its high-speed burst shooting greatly enhance the performance of basic camera functions like shooting, viewing and recording. Meanwhile, Casio's new HDR ART function produces artistic photographs that are radically different from conventional photographs. The EX-ZR10 offers a whole new way of enjoying the unique capability of digital cameras for creating and displaying images.With Casio's HDR technology, each press of the shutter button actually takes several shots with different exposures and instantly combines them into a single, great-looking image with a high dynamic range. This ensures that both light and dark areas are clearly visible in the photograph and minimizes washed out or overly dark areas. The HDR-ART function uses this HDR technology to create beautifully artistic photographs. It locally controls the contrast and the level of color saturation of the analyzed subject, and achieves the kind of novel effects that used to be possible only using specialist PC software - with a single press of the shutter. Now anyone can create dramatic, eye-catching authentic HDR images with ease.The wide-angle 28 mm 7X optical zoom lens achieves zoom performance equivalent to 14X optical zoom with Casio's Multi SR Zoom, which actually combines a number of still images to create a sharp, clear photo. In addition, the dual image processing circuits built into the new engine dramatically reduce the interval between shots, and ultra-high speed burst shooting captures crucial moments at a maximum speed of 40 shots per second. These functions let nothing slip by unrecorded. The wide range of shooting options also includes Premium Auto which takes beautiful photos with just a press of the shutter button, and Slide Panorama that allows users to easily capture 360-degree panoramic images. The camera also offers a full range of movie functions. In addition to high-speed movie recording at up to 480 fps for slow motion movies, the EX-ZR10 also takes Full HD movies (H.264). While shooting a movie, users can also capture still images with the optical zoom and burst shooting function.Starting with the EX-ZR10, Casio is positioning the EXILIM brand as "Amazing Gear"-a brand that never fails to deliver new surprises and excitement. Casio is driving a Digital Image Revolution, creating new value by developing digital cameras that go beyond the limits of cameras in the past.Please see the following pages for more details on the new digital camera.A High-Sensitivity, High-Speed Camera with Functions Far Beyond the Capability of Conventional Digital CamerasNew EXILIM ENGINE HS with high-speed shooting and high-speed image processingThe EX-ZR10 incorporates the newly developed EXILIM ENGINE HS for high-speed shooting and high-speed processing. Equipped with multiple CPUs, a reconfigurable processor that delivers functional and performance flexibility plus high-speed processing, and dual image processing circuits, Casio's new engine achieves functions that were simply impossible before, such as HDR ART, which creates artistic photographs, and simultaneously movie and continuous still shooting. Further, the compositing function using high precision image analysis and processing records highly detailed images without losing any of the fine texture with high speed.HDR technology faithfully represents living colorWith Casio's HDR technology, each press of the shutter button actually takes several shots with different exposures and instantly combines them into a single image with a high dynamic range. This ensures that both light and dark areas are vividly reproduced in the photograph, minimizing washed out or overly dark areas, reproducing the scene just as seen by the human eye. The EX-ZR10 uses newly developed algorithms that expand the dynamic range while maintaining high contrast, even when shooting subjects in difficult, strong contrast situations.HDR ART creates artistic photographsHDR ART combines continuous shots with differing exposures, performing high precision image analysis to locally change the contrast and the level of color saturation. This allows users to create truly artistic photographs radically different than anything possible on conventional digital cameras.Zoom up to 14X while maintaining refined image qualityThe wide-angle 28 mm 7X optical zoom lens offers zoom performance equivalent to a maximum of 14X optical zoom while maintaining the image quality needed for high-resolution photography. This is achieved using multi-frame super-resolution technology which makes a composite image.Ultra-high speed burst shooting captures crucial moments at a speed of 40 shots per secondThe EX-ZR10 can take up to 30 shots of 10 megapixel high-resolution images with high-speed burst shooting at a maximum speed of 40 shots per second. What is more, if the camera is set to Prerecord Continuous Shutter, users will not miss a single critical moment even if they press the shutter a little late, since the camera starts shooting when the shutter button is only depressed halfway.High-sensitivity, 12-megapixel, back-illuminated CMOS sensorThe EX-ZR10 uses a back-illuminated CMOS sensor. With 12-megapixel, high-resolution images, the EX-ZR10 achieves low-noise, high-quality photography even in dim lighting. The model also comes with CMOS-shift image stabilization.Premium Auto produces beautiful photos with just a press of the shutter buttonPremium Auto enables the camera to automatically analyze the scene being photographed - including distinguishing night scenes, back lighting, a blue sky, green trees or a sunset - as well as sensing whether there is a face in the frame, the movement and position of the subject, and whether a tripod is being used. It simultaneously optimizes settings for exposure, ISO sensitivity, focus location, photo blur correction, tonal range and color balance, and level of noise reduction. Images are analyzed pixel by pixel to apply different correction to people and backgrounds. Premium Auto delivers an advanced level of full auto photography, ensuring high quality photos with just a press of the shutter button. With Premium Auto, the camera automatically applies Makeup Mode processing to the image when people are the subject, and Landscape Mode processing when scenery is the subject, creating beautiful photos in all kinds of situations.Slide Panorama for capturing 360-degree panoramic images Even when panning the camera across the scene, this function can detect moving subjects or peoples' faces, making it easy to take panoramic images with minimal photo blur. High-speed movie recording at up to 480 fps for dramatic, ultra slow-motion movies The EX-ZR10 can record high-speed movies of motion that is ordinarily too fast for the human eye to see (480 fps, 240 fps, 30-240 fps,). Beautiful high-resolution Full HD moviesThe Full HD Movie function records beautiful videos at a size of 1,920 x 1,080 pixels. Even while shooting a movie, users can take still images with high-speed burst shooting using the Still In Movie function, and can also use the optical zoom and continuous auto focus. Dynamic Photo function for creating composite moving imagesDynamic Photo creates moving photos by combining moving characters with a background selected by the user, which can be either a still image or moving images. _______________________________________________Casio Releases EXILIM with Single Frame SR ZoomHigh-Performance Camera with Super Resolution Zoom and Stylish DesignFeatures the Fun Composite Moving-Image Function, Dynamic PhotoTOKYO, September 20, 2010 – Casio Computer Co., Ltd., announced today the release of a new model in the EXILIM lineup of digital cameras-the EX-Z2300. Designed with a stylish camera body and a resolution of 14.1 million effective pixels, the camera features highly advanced capabilities such as Casio's new Single Frame SR Zoom for extending the zoom range while maintaining super resolution image quality. The EX-Z2300 offers all sorts of unique ways to have fun with photography including Casio's highly original Dynamic Photo function. The EX-Z2300 is equipped with the EXILIM Engine 5.0 and super resolution technology. Its Single Frame SR Zoom maintains image quality up to 1.5 times the maximum telephoto range of the optical zoom. A very stylish digital camera, the EX-Z2300 also boasts Single Frame SR Quality, Casio's super resolution technology for producing exceptional quality images that look so real they hardly seem like photographs. When used with Casio's Single Frame SR Zoom function, the camera's wide-angle 26mm optical 5X zoom lens offers a maximum 7.5X zoom range that maintains the image quality needed for 14.1-megapixel high-resolution photography. The EX-Z2300 is also equipped with Casio's advanced, fully automatic Premium Auto function, which distinguishes the type of scene being photographed, such as night scenes, backlit shots, and sunsets, detects faces as well as non-human subjects, and applies the most appropriate correction to raise image quality for every type of subject, including people and scenery. Each of these high-level image-processing functions is applied automatically to allow users to take beautiful shots with just a press of the shutter button. In addition to these functions, the EX-Z2300 features a three-inch, high-resolution 460K Super Clear LCD, Casio's CCD-shift image stabilization for reducing photo blur from hand movement, HD movie capability, and high-speed auto focus. The long-life battery lasts about 580 photos on a single full charge.**CIPA StandardsCasio's Dynamic Photo function for creating composite moving images is another attractive feature of the EX-Z2300. This function allows users to combine multiple characters moving independently of one another with a background of moving images of up to 20-seconds long. Along with this, the camera is equipped with Casio's Art Effect function that makes saved images look like artwork. These features make it possible to enjoy photography in a unique way only possible with a Casio digital camera.Designed with the concept of "slim and speedy," the EX-Z2300 redefines the look of the digital camera while enhancing camera operability with a comfortable, accessible design. The camera is designed for a highly attractive appearance in the hand, and is available in five colors: gold, black, pink, purple, and blue.EX-Z2300 FeaturesSingle Frame SR Quality delivers images with exceptional clarity and resolutionEX-Z2300 uses super resolution technology to analyze and optimally process the respective areas of the photo that are contoured, textured or flat, delivering photos of exceptional quality and resolution. Single Frame SR Zoom extends the maximum telephoto range of the optical zoomEX-Z2300 uses super resolution technology to respectively enhance edges, flat areas and textures when enlarging images, by analyzing and adjusting the contours in images and the relief of the subject. The Single Frame SR Zoom extends the maximum telephoto range of the optical zoom up to 1.5 times, while maintaining super resolution image quality. EX-Z2300 offers a 7.5X zoom range that maintains the image quality needed for 14.1-megapixel high-resolution photography when using the optical zoom with the Single Frame SR Zoom.Premium Auto function produces beautiful photos with just a press of the shutter buttonPremium Auto enables the camera to automatically analyze the scene being photographed - including distinguishing night scenes, backlit shots, a blue sky, green trees or a sunset - as well as sensing whether there is a face in the frame, the movement and position of the subject, and whether a tripod is being used. It simultaneously optimizes settings for exposure, ISO sensitivity, focus location, photo blur correction, tonal range and color balance, and level of noise reduction. Images are analyzed pixel by pixel to apply different correction to people and backgrounds. Premium Auto delivers an advanced level of full auto photography, ensuring high quality photos with just a press of the shutter button.Dynamic Photo function for creating composite moving imagesThe new camera offers Casio's original Dynamic Photo function, which makes it easy for users to create "moving photos" right on the camera by cutting moving subjects from the background in images taken with continuous shooting, and combining those images on a different still or moving image background. Moving images of up to 20-seconds long can be used as a background, and it is also possible to make multiple characters move independently of one another. The preset memory includes 26 kinds of animal characters including dogs, cats, and monkeys that move in a comical manner, such as a dog riding a bicycle and a monkey doing a handstand. Users can enjoy not only creating such images, but also use the software included with the camera to upload them to YouTubeTM or a blog, thereby broadening the enjoyment of viewing their original creations. Art Shot and Art Effect functions create photos with the look of a paintingThe Art Shot function makes use of the image processing technology in EXILIM Engine 5.0 to take photos of scenery or human subjects that have the look of an oil painting, crayon, or a water color. With the Art Effect function, it is now possible to apply the same look as the Art Shot function to saved images. 
 