
 

Photokina's kicking off in earnest today with a serious bang in the point-and-shoot realm; Casio just introduced the planet's first camera with Hybrid GPS, which essentially enables it to geotag photos and videos where traditional cameras cannot. Yeah, indoors. The Exilim EX-H20G (shown above) also packs a 14.1 megapixel sensor, SD / SDHC / SDXC memory card slot, a 10x optical zoomer, an ISO range of 80 to 3200, 3-inch rear LCD, CCD-shift image stabilization, 720p movie mode and an HDMI output. Moreover, the company has throw in a world atlas with detailed maps of 140 cities around the world, and the rear screen can actually display a user's current position on said map for kicks and giggles. It'll hit shops this November for $349.99 (or €300 in Europe).

If that's a bit too fanciful for you, the lower-end EX-Z16 might just fit the bill. Boasting a 2.7-inch rear LCD, VGA (640 x 480) movie mode, a 12.1 megapixel sensor, SD / SDHC card slot, a whopping 14.9MB of internal storage (um... okay?), CCD-shift image stabilization and an integrated YouTube capture mode, this dead-simple cam is designed to be about as hands-off as they come. According to the company, the only settings you have to adjust on the 2.7-inch panel are image size, flash and self timer -- everything else sets itself accordingly. 'Course, that won't sit well with the tinkerers in the group, but you can sure brighten a newbie's day by gifting 'em with one when it ships later this month at $99.99. More details are packed in after the break, should you find yourself thirsty for more.

Update: We snagged a quick hands-on with the EX-H20G, and while the images below don't do it justice, the rear screen on this bad boy was something to gawk at. The map on there actually looked amazing, and while you'll have a tough time prying Google Maps Navigation away from our paws, this is definitely a lovely inclusion for those who'd prefer to simply enjoy nearby attractions on a map without pulling out a smartphone (or encountering roaming charges while navigating abroad). 



 


Show full PR textCASIO RELEASES COMPACT EXILIM® CAMERA WITH HYBRID GPSWorld's First Camera Combining GPS with Motion-Sensor Driven Autonomic PositioningDOVER, NJ, September 20, 2010 - Casio America, Inc. and its parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., today unveiled the world's first Hybrid GPS enabled digital camera, the EXILIM® EX-H20G. The latest model to join Casio's EXILIM Hi-Zoom lineup, the EX-H20G offers an impressive feature set as well as Casio's state-of-the-art Hybrid GPS technology, which makes the camera perfect for traveling. Thanks to Casio's Hybrid GPS system, the EX-H20G offers ultra-precise location data for the geotagging of photos and videos and is also the first camera able to geotag indoors. Additionally, the EX-H20G can display the user's current location - as well as geotagged photos and videos - on a map which can be viewed right on the camera itself. "Geotagging has increased in popularity, especially with the advent of photo-sharing Web sites and as consumers look to do more with their images," said Toshi Iguchi, Senior General Manager, Digital Imaging Division, Casio America Inc. "With the new Exilim EX-H20G, Casio is taking the geotagging experience to a new level by incorporating exciting technologies which consumers can now leverage to make the process fun, easy and completely seamless. No matter where in the world you take an image, whether it is indoors or out, the EX-H20G will know exactly where it was taken."The EX-H20G's Hybrid GPS system sets a new standard for geotagging and offers exciting new ways to use a digital camera. Casio's Hybrid GPS system combines GPS with autonomic positioning, which is made possible by an internal motion sensor. This enables the EX-H20G to track a user's last known satellite-acquired position against map data stored in the camera's internal memory, even while the user is indoors. In addition to these features, the camera is pre loaded with information regarding 10,000 sightseeing photo spots around the globe. When in the vicinity of one of these photo spots, the EX-H20G will automatically alert the user, identifying the locations as points-of-interest.The industry-leading GPS and geotagging capabilities of the EX-H20G will dramatically change how people use their digital camera when traveling. The EX-H20G's on-screen map allows users to plan their travels before departing as they can view destinations, points-of-interest and photo locations. While on-the-go, users can then confirm their present location and utilize the EX H20G's digital compass to determine the best route to their next destination. After returning home, users can manage and share their geotagged photos and videos captured with the EX H20G using popular photo-sharing Web sites and software which offer geotagging functionality, such as Picasa, Panoramio, Google Earth, Flickr and iPhoto. These platforms will utilize the precise location data embedded into each image's EXIF file to plot exactly where they were captured on a world map, giving the photographer, as well as their friends and family, the ability to vividly imagine their travels by making the connection with the locations visited and images. By integrating camera and map as well as location data and photos, the EX-H20G creates a whole new way to enjoy traveling. Equipped with the new EXILIM Engine HS, the EX-H20G features all of the essential capabilities expected from a camera. When used with Casio's Single Frame SR Zoom function, the 24mm wide-angle, 10x optical zoom lens actually offers a 15x zoom range that maintains the image quality needed for 14.1-megapixel high-resolution photography. This represents 1.5 times the range of the optical zoom, with virtually no loss in quality. Other features include 720p HD video recording (30fps), as well as a three-inch, high-resolution 460K super clear LCD that is easy to view even when outdoors. The EX-H20G also comes with Casio's advanced, fully automatic Premium Auto function for taking beautiful shots of scenery and people with just a press of the shutter button, and various useful functions for traveling such as Panorama Photo mode, which can take 360-degree photos, as well as auto-time adjustment which will automatically synchronize the camera's date and time with that of the user's current location and time zone. Starting with the EX-H20G, Casio is positioning the EXILIM brand as "Amazing Gear" - a brand that never fails to deliver new surprises and excitement. Casio intends to revolutionize photography, creating new value by developing digital cameras that go beyond the limits of cameras in the past. Please see the following pages for more details on the new digital camera.EXILIM Hi-Zoom EX-H20GA Traveler's Camera Equipped with a Hybrid GPS SystemThe first digital camera with autonomic indoor positioning through Hybrid GPS The EX-H20G is equipped with a Hybrid GPS system that combines a GPS engine with autonomic positioning made possible by a motion sensor. Even if no signals are received from GPS satellites when indoors, the system consecutively tracks the user's location by employing an original algorithm using a three-way accelerometer and a three-way direction sensor. When the user goes back outside, the system automatically updates the positional information of the indoor location based on the exact location determined by GPS reception. Even when the camera is powered off, the GPS system continues to search for satellite signals at 10 minute intervals. This is an ideal system for a digital camera, allowing it to immediately track location data at any time and any place.Highly accurate and speedy position tracking with low power consumptionThe EX-H20G employs Casio's advanced low-power technology, which ensures that the camera consumes only a small amount of power. Power consumption is suited for the various situations in which the EX-H20G will be used, including power on and power-off, satellite acquisition and even while the three-way accelerometer and direction sensor are working in the background while the camera is off. With the EX-H20G, users can rest assured knowing that they won't need to sacrifice battery life to enjoy highly precise and speedy position tracking.Complete with a wide range of functions useful for traveling• Contains world atlas data including detailed maps of 140 world cities and 12 cities in Japan• User's location and photos and movies taken are displayed on a map• Photos are saved with the location information, including longitude and latitude, shooting direction, and place names • About 10,000 photos of popular sightseeing spots around the world are included in the internal memory• Users can leverage the camera's digital compass and map to determine the most appropriate route • A location name database with approximately one million items is included , enabling the camera to display the name of the shooting location on the screen • Location name and other data can be embedded in the photo when taken• H.264 video format grants longer recording time for 720p HD Movies• Travel memories can be reproduced vividly on a large-screen TV in a slideshow with a map using an HDMI terminalPremium Auto function produces beautiful photos with just a press of the shutter buttonPremium Auto enables the camera to automatically analyze the scene being photographed - including distinguishing night scenes, back lighting, a blue sky, green trees or a sunset - as well as sensing whether there is a face in the frame, the movement and position of the subject, and whether a tripod is being used. It simultaneously optimizes settings for exposure, ISO, sensitivity, focus location, photo blur correction, tonal range and color balance, and level of noise reduction. Images are analyzed pixel by pixel to apply different correction to people and backgrounds. Premium Auto delivers an advanced level of full auto photography, ensuring high quality photos with just a press of the shutter button. Landscape Makeup processing, which creates clearer landscape photographs, operates automatically.Equipped with newly developed EXILIM Engine HS The newly developed EXILIM Engine HS for advanced image processing boasts a multi-CPU and two parallel image processors, enabling the EX-H20G to accurately capture the genuine character of photo subjects with high-speed. Powerful zoom that maintains high-resolution image quality through 15xThe EX-H20G is outfitted with a 24mm ultra wide-angle, 10x optical zoom lens which offers a 35mm film equivalent focal length of 24mm-240mm. To enhance the zoom range even further, Casio incorporated its Single Frame SR Zoom in the EX-H20G, which extends the camera's 35mm film equivalent telephoto focal length to 360mm, for 1.5 times the optical zoom or a total zoom range of 15x. Furthermore, the EX-H20G features built-in CCD-shift image stabilization to help reduce photo blur from hand movement. These features allow users to photograph any kind of scene, from enormous structures in sightseeing areas to scenic views at a distance.Dynamic Photo function for creating composite moving imagesThese EX-H20G also features Casio's Dynamic Photo function, which makes it easy for users to create "moving photos" right on the camera by cutting moving subjects from the background in images taken with continuous shooting, and combining those images on a different still or moving image background. With Dynamic Photo, it is possible to make multiple characters move independently of each other against a background of moving images up to as long as 20 seconds. These capabilities encourage users to explore their creativity and make it more fun to create images. Sharing is also simplified as included software makes it easy to upload images to YouTube™ or post them to a blog.The EX-H20G will be available November 2010 for $349.99._____________________________________________________CASIO INTRODUCES SLEEK ENTRY-LEVEL EXILIM Z-16Stylish Design Blends with Easy Functionality for Outstanding PicturesDOVER, NJ, September 20, 2010 - Casio America, Inc. and its parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., announced today the addition of the entry-level EX-Z16 to its EXILIM® family of digital cameras. Marrying Casio's sleek design with a host of easy-to-use capabilities – including Easy Mode, YouTube™ capture and a simplified user interface – the EX-Z16 makes taking great pictures amazingly simple.This newest member of the EXILIM family boasts superb 12MP image quality, as well as 3x optical and 4x digital zoom capabilities. The Easy Mode interface offers a simplified menu, dedicated movie button, and a YouTube capture feature that enables users to record and share live-action videos with just a few clicks. "We wanted to round out our Exilim digital camera line to include simplified functionality that is beneficial to consumers, and the EX-Z16 definitely achieves this goal," said Toshi Iguchi, Senior General Manager, Digital Imaging Division, Casio America Inc. "The EX-Z16 doesn't just take outstanding photos and videos, it captures beautiful, natural and organic shots that you'll share and cherish with friends and family."EX-Z16 FeaturesSleek, Stylish Design Casio EXILIM has redefined digital camera "style" by introducing the world's first super-slim and sleek camera models. The new EX-Z16 is no different, embodying the smooth design and functionality that EXILIM is known for. It fits perfectly in the palm of your hand and features smooth lines and an array of beautiful colors to choose from. New Simplified Easy Mode User Interface Makes Taking Great Pics a SnapEven the most inexperienced photographer can take gorgeous photos with the EX-Z16's Easy Mode User Interface. The only settings you have to adjust on our 2.7-inch LCD screen are image size, flash and self timer – the camera does the rest! Best of all, your options are displayed on a simplified menu, making your adjustments quick and easy. Add in automatic Face Detection technology that automatically provides optimum focus -- even in less than optimal lighting -- and the EX-Z16 can help you take the best shots of your life. Integrated YouTube Capture Mode for Easy Video SharingThis feature enables you to easily record family moments or fun times with friends. Video is optimized to a web-friendly 640 x 480, H.264 format for quick transfer to YouTube, through Casio's YouTube Uploader software. Then simply share with a few clicks of your mouse. Big, Bright LCD Screen Brings Your Scenes to LifeOur 2.7-inch LCD (230K) screen provides an increased brightness and higher contrast, which gives you better image contrast, even in bright light situations. The wide 180 degree viewing angle makes it easy to line up your shots from any perspective, ensuring that what you see is what you get. BEST SHOT Function Produces Beautiful Photos with Just a TouchThe EX-Z16 also offers BEST SHOT technology, which automatically analyzes your scene and applies the best settings for capturing perfect images and video. This feature applies face detection, auto focus and exposure settings to a total of 23 types of scenes, offering optimal configuration in just about any setting or situation. The EX-Z16 will be on store shelves in September and retail for $99.99.
 