
 With the heavy responsibility of handling the Super Bowl XLVII livestream, CBS is focusing in on what football fans really want: commercials. Well, that, and real-time statistic updates, game highlights, alternate camera angles and a star studded musical performance by Beyoncé, of course. The network's taking its duties seriously, and seems to be pulling out all the stops to create a robust second screen experience on CBSSports.com. Viewers will be able to access a pop-up video console from laptops, desktops and tablets to choose between four cameras, pause coverage or check customized Twitter feed culled from the CBS' top sports experts. Deep social integration is promised -- particularly when it comes to the game's infamously expensive commercials -- allowing fans to instantly share their famous moments. After all, if you're going to stream the Super Bowl, you may as well do it right. Read on for the official press release, including specific details on what those four extra cameras will be looking at.



  Show full PR text   CBS SPORTS' LIVE STREAM OF SUPER BOWL XLVII TO BREAK NEW GROUND OFFERING VIEWERS ENHANCED SECOND-SCREEN VIEWING EXPERIENCE
    "Super Bowl on CBSSports.com" To Feature First-Ever Live Halftime Stream, Immediate Access to Commercials and Alternate Camera Angles Never Before Available to Fans

   NEW YORK, NY, Jan. 8, 2013 – SUPER BOWL ON CBSSPORTS.COM, CBS Sports' live stream of Super Bowl XLVII, will provide fans with an unparalleled companion experience to the broadcast of the Super Bowl. The second-screen offerings are designed to deliver the richest game experience ever available to viewers through a host of unique and interactive online and social features, complementing the CBS Television Network's exclusive broadcast of the game on Sunday, February 3.

   The enhanced features on CBSSports.com include the first-ever live stream of the Pepsi Super Bowl XLVII Halftime Show featuring global music icon and 16-time Grammy-Award winner Beyoncé, immediate access to the Super Bowl commercials as they are broadcast on CBS, and additional camera angles to see the action from different perspectives.

   "CBSSports.com will deliver an unprecedented multi-media experience for Super Bowl XLVII," said Jim Lanzone, President of CBS Interactive. "We have developed a deeply integrated second-screen environment that perfectly complements the television broadcast of the game, from the pre-game show to the presentation of the Lombardi Trophy."

   The features of SUPER BOWL ON CBSSPORTS.COM include:

   A pop-up, browser-based video console optimized for laptops, desktops, and tablets featuring CBS Sports' exclusive broadcast coverage of the game. CBS Sports' lead announcer team, Jim Nantz and Phil Simms, call the action along with sideline reporters Steve Tasker and Solomon Wilcots.  Four additional alternate camera angles to allow fans to see the action from different perspectives:  The All-22 camera angle provides a high, full-field view from the 50-yard line showing all players on the field. Used in the broadcast as a telestrator feature to break down plays, the live All-22 angle is ideal for fans who want to study formations and get a coach's perspective on each play.  The Fan Choice camera is a fixed position camera in the best position to hunt for compelling views of the game action. The view will change throughout the game based upon a producer's choice or polls of the SUPER BOWL ON CBSSPORTS.COM audience on the most-wanted viewing angle, bringing a higher level of interactivity into the game experience.  The Sideline camera angle provides field-level views of the action from a camera mounted on a cart. The positioning moves with the plays to focus on the offensive action, making this angle especially useful for goal-line situations.  The Cable camera angle provides an aerial view of the field, positioned behind the play, and stays with the ball.  Deep social integration, including compelling visualizations of the most talked-about moments across social networks and a curated Twitter stream featuring commentary from CBS personalities and Q&As with CBSSports.com experts. Fans can also be a part of the conversation on Twitter by using the official hashtag #CBSSuperBowl.  An interactive gallery of the Super Bowl commercials that allows viewers to watch the ads as they air on the CBS Television Network and then share and discuss the ads immediately within their social networks. Fans won't have to wait to access their favorite commercials from the broadcast or catch any they might have missed.  DVR functionality to enable viewers to pause, rewind and watch amazing moments over and over again.

   Real-time statistics and game highlights available during the broadcast.  Fans can find all of CBSSports.com's Super Bowl coverage at http://www.cbssports.com/nfl/superbowl.

   CBSSports.com streamed more than 20,000 events live in 2012, including March Madness Live, the largest live sporting event on the Internet, live online coverage of the Masters Tournament, and SEC college football and basketball

 
