
 
This one's still in the earliest stages, but it looks like the Consumer Electronics Association (a.k.a. the CEA) is doing its part to add a bit of order to the wild world of active 3D glasses. To that end, it's just put out a request for proposals on a standard IR sync interface for active 3D glasses, and it's encouraging companies that wish to participate to join the 3D Technologies Working Group -- they'll have to work fairly fast, though, as proposals are due in by March 31st. The ultimate goal, of course, is to ensure that 3D glasses sold by one manufacturer are compatible with 3D TVs made by another manufacturer, although there's no word on any companies that have actually signed on to the plan just yet.
 

Show full PR textCEA Begins Standards Process for 3D GlassesCEA Seeks Proposals to Standardize 3D Active Eyewear GlassesARLINGTON, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)® today announced the launch of a new standards process for 3D glasses. CEA, the nation's largest technology trade association, represents more than 2,000 technology manufacturers, retailers, service providers and installers. CEA seeks proposals for standardizing 3D active eyewear that uses an infrared (IR) synchronized interface from consumer electronics (CE) manufacturers. Interested participants are encouraged to join the 3D Technologies Working Group, R4WG16."The expanding presence of 3DTV in the home makes the need for interoperable 3D glasses more urgent than ever," said Brian Markwalter, CEA vice president of research and standards. "As the hub of technology industry innovation, CEA is the logical host for such a crucial effort. Industry participation will help meet consumer demand and expectations regarding 3D interoperability in the home."R4WG16 requests that interested parties in the CE industry download the formal Active Eyewear Standards IR Sync Request for Proposal (RFP), and return it to Alayne Bell at abell@CE.org by 5 p.m. EST, March 31, 2011. You may download the RFP at www.CE.org/Standards/1401.asp.To join the 3D Technologies Working Group, R4WG16, please contact Alayne Bell at abell@CE.org or 703-907-5267.After proposals have been submitted, R4WG16 will select the proposals that will become the basis for standardization. Creating a standard for 3D active eyewear glasses can help break down consumer barriers to purchasing 3DTVs, and increase the expansion of 3D into the home.CEA leads technology manufacturers in fostering CE industry growth by developing industry standards and technical specifications that enable new products to come to market and encourage interoperability with existing devices. CEA maintains an unmatched reputation as a credible and flexible standards making body and has earned ANSI accreditation. Through more than 70 committees, subcommittees and working groups, the CEA Technology and Standards program provides a unique and efficient forum where technical professionals throughout the industry develop a unified technology roadmap and address technical issues critical to CE industry growth. For information about CEA Technology and Standards, visit CE.org/standards, or visit CE.org/Standards/1447.asp to join or start a new standards effort.About CEA:The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) is the preeminent trade association promoting growth in the $186 billion U.S. consumer electronics industry. More than 2,000 companies enjoy the benefits of CEA membership, including legislative advocacy, market research, technical training and education, industry promotion, standards development and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. CEA also owns and produces the International CES – The Global Stage for Innovation. All profits from CES are reinvested into CEA's industry services. Find CEA online at CE.org and Innovation-Movement.com.
 