
  What once was an oddity is now an unstoppable force. With five million units shipped to date, the Galaxy Note's enjoying its well-earned place at the center of Samsung's universe and the company's looking to spread the cheer. Hitting retail shelves across Canada today, the phablet responsible for the stylus's stylish comeback is getting a makeover for Canucks, offering consumers its 5.3-inch wares in a glossy, ceramic white. And with that Premium Suite pack bringing a host of S Pen apps, as well as an upgrade to Ice Cream Sandwich in late spring, users won't have to wait too long for something more to scrawl about. Check out the official presser after the break.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Samsung Canada announces the availability of the Samsung Galaxy Note™ in Ceramic White   The White Samsung Galaxy Note arrives in Canada Just in Time for Spring  MISSISSAUGA, ON, April 4, 2012 /PRNewswire/ - Samsung Electronics Canada is pleased to announce the availability of the Samsung Galaxy Note in a glossy ceramic white colour. Just in time for spring, the White Galaxy Note will be arriving at carriers and select retailers across Canada beginning today.  This new colour variation arrives in Canada as the Galaxy Note surpassed sales of over 5 million units worldwide in just five months. Released in October of last year, the Galaxy Note has proven to be incredibly popular with consumers, showcasing a 5.3" HD Super-AMOLED screen as well its revolutionary S-Pen, which accurately recreates the experience of using a real pen.  "GALAXY Note continues to delight customers with its incredible versatility and unique user experience and we are excited to introduce a new colour of the popular Samsung Galaxy Note to Canadians," said Paul Brannen, Vice President, Mobile Communications at Samsung Canada. "Designed to capture, share and create content like never before, the Galaxy Note combines the power of a tablet with the convenience of a smartphone to bring an all-in-one device to the Canadian marketplace."  Workplace Ready Combining the convenience of a smartphone with the power of a tablet, the Galaxy Note has met rigorous security criteria to be categorized as enterprise ready, providing consumers with confidence to securely integrate their device into the workplace. With enterprise ready criteria built in to the Note Android™ 2.3, Gingerbread operating system, any organization's mobile work force can be remotely managed and securely connected to corporate applications and data while away from their desks.  Enterprise ready is comprised of multiple components that outline Samsung's business-to-business foundations for its mobile devices. These "pillars" are designed to offer customers essential enterprise functionality and security and include: Mobile Device Management, On-Device Virtual Private Network (VPN) and secure access to Corporate Email/Calendar/Contacts.  Enhance The Note Experience To add to the variety and richness of the GALAXY Note experience, Samsung has also announced a 'Premium Suite' upgrade that will enhance and add to the features that accent many GALAXY Note exclusive features like the S Pen. Available to users in the late-spring timeframe, the Premium Suite upgrade offers new features and applications exclusive to GALAXY Note and that utilize its innovative S Pen, bundled with an OS upgrade to Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich.  "With the Premium Suite upgrade, we wanted to add features that enrich users' Note experience even more, including the great advantages of Android 4.0 and innovative applications for S Pen," continued Brannen. "We are committed to providing extraordinary experiences for consumers, and we will continue to provide new features and upgrades to enrich our offering."  Availability and Pricing The Samsung Galaxy Note will be available in Ceramic White from carriers and select retailers beginning April 4th, 2012. For carrier specific pricing and details, please visit your nearest carrier retailer. For more information on the Galaxy Note, please visit www.samsung.com/GalaxyNote.
 