
 With Sony's CES press conference literally just starting, we're pleased to give you a look at the latest sound pushers from its Personal Audio Division. The company's still aiming for that classicly subtle, retro-futuristic look on these new devices, so you might not be swayed if you've never been a fan of the aesthetic in the past. That said, we're pretty impressed with what's inside of 'em. To start, there's a duo of new NFC-packing speaker bars intended for use in and around the house -- think of them as wireless replacements for your old docking speaker. Monikered as the not-so catchy SRS-BTX500 and BTX300, both can handle AAC and apt-X streaming over Bluetooth, staying charged for eight and six hours, respectively. Naturally, NFC handles pairing and powering the devices on for seamless tap-to-start playback.

 Both systems will house "damperless" drivers, which Sony claims reduces vibration and increases clarity. Each system also features a USB port that'll charge your devices and speakerphone capabilities, as these are becoming the norm. While the bars we handled were dummies, we aren't fond of the fragile kickstand found on the smaller 300. We managed to easily knock the speaker over trying to fiddle with its clumsily locking switch. Otherwise, these might make a nice addition around the house in March if the sound matches up to the $300 (BTX500, in black) and $200 (BTX300, in white or black) price points. Beyond those, Sony's announcing US availability during the same month for its smaller -- also NFC and Bluetooth-packing -- SRS-BTM8 ($99, in black) and BTM5 ($69, in black, white and pink) speakers. The BTM8 is begging to be taken on your next picnic thanks to its carrying handle, while the BTM5 is a palmable orb with one up-firing speaker for when you need a speakerphone in a pinch.





  Show full PR text   SONY INTRODUCES NEW WIRELESS PORTABLE BLUETOOTH® SPEAKERS WITH NFC
  Simply Tap an NFC Enabled Device to Play, Stream and Control Music
  LAS VEGAS, Nev. (CES booth #14200) – Jan. 7, 2013 – Sony today introduced four portable
  Bluetooth® speakers with NFC (Near Field Communication) technology, designed to stream
  powerful, dynamic sound experiences from smartphones, tablets and computers whether in the
  home or outdoors.
  With built-in NFC technology, users can simply tap an NFC-enabled smartphone or
  tablet to the portable speaker to instantly stream high-quality music or crystal-clear phone calls
  via Bluetooth. These new speakers also stream music wirelessly from iPhones® and iPads® 
  as well as Android™ smartphones and tablets that are not NFC equipped, once pairing 
  through traditional means.
  "Sony's making the Bluetooth user experience even more convenient with the
  introduction of NFC technology in all of our portable wireless speakers," said Andrew Sivori,
  vice president of the Personal Audio Division at Sony Electronics. "We're also including hands-
  free speakerphone functionality across the line, meeting the demands of today's smartphone
  Designed to Deliver an Unprecedented Portable Audio Experience
  Demonstrating Sony's uncompromising passion for music and commitment to
  extraordinary sound performance, the new Sony X-Series NFC-equipped speakers (SRS-
  BTX500 and SRS-BTX300) include AptX and AAC Bluetooth codecs to ensure the highest
  quality sound while streaming wirelessly. The premium SRS-BTX500 model features sound
  technologies specifically designed by Sony to deliver dynamic sound and a powerful bass
  experience without sacrificing portability. This includes a built-in subwoofer and original Sony
  DMC technology – a combination of Dual Passive Radiators, Magnetic Fluid Speakers, and
  Clear Phase digital signal processing.
  Using Magnetic Fluid technology developed by NASA, Sony had created the world's
  first full-range, damper-less speakers. The removal of the vibrations caused by the dampers has
  led to significant reductions in noise and distortion, delivering clearer and more powerful audio
  than ever before. In addition, the removal of the dampers has increased energy efficiency. Even
  with the same amp power, the speaker can crank out 1.6 times the volume of a conventional
  And Sony's unique Clear Phase circuitry reduces distortion and increases sound presence
  for a crisp and clean listening experience.
  Extraordinary Design
  While delivering rich sound and deep bass, Sony's new premium X-Series portable
  wireless speakers also add style to any room by combining beautiful industrial design with an
  intuitive user experience. Each new X-Series speaker has a smooth-shaped back and brushed
  aluminum accents for a contemporary yet timeless look.
  Built-in rechargeable lithium-ion batteries provide approximately eight hours (SRS-
  BTX300) or approximately six hours (SRS-BTX500) of continuous playback, giving music
  lovers the freedom to enjoy premium Sony sound throughout the house or on the go.
  Both speakers offer the added convenience of a hands-free speaker phone and USB
  charging port for any smartphone, as well as a neoprene carrying case.
  Balanced Sound
  Sony's new line-up also includes the SRS-BTV5 and SRS-BTM8 portable wireless
  speakers, both featuring NFC technology and hands-free calling.
  About the size of a racquet ball, the SRS-BTV5 speaker is ultra-lightweight and delivers
  remarkable sound for its size with Sony's 360-degree Circle Sound audio diffusion technology.
  With a built-in rechargeable battery providing up to five hours of continuous wireless playback
  and its included carrying bag, the SRS-BTV5 speaker is ideal for portability.
  The SRS-BTM8 speaker is designed with a handle for easy carrying anywhere in the
  house or on the go, and features an AC adaptor as well as dry battery functionality for up to 20
  hours of wireless playback.
  Pricing and Availability
  The new portable wireless NFC speakers will be available in March at Sony online
  at www.sony.com/bluetoothspeakers, in Sony Stores, and at authorized retailers nationwide.
  For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/news. Please visit www.sony.com/
  bluetoothspeakers or Follow #Sonyaudio on Twitter for the latest Sony NFC speaker news.
  Please also stay tuned to the Sony Blog for upcoming news. Below are model numbers with
  price and color availability:
  SRS-BTX500, $299, black
  SRS-BTX300, $199, black and white
  SRS-BTM8, $99, black
  SRS-BTV5, $69, black, white and pink
  ###
  SONY INTRODUCES WATER PROOF AND WIRE-FREE WALKMAN® AT CES
  New Water Proof Sports MP3 Player with a Compact, Lightweight Design
  LAS VEGAS, Nev. (CES booth#) – Jan. 7, 2013 – Fitness enthusiasts will never miss a beat
  under water again with Sony's new Walkman® Sports MP3 Player (NWZ-W270), a water-proof,
  all-in-one digital music player designed to conveniently and comfortably wear to the gym, the
  trail, the treadmill, or even into the pool.
  "For many people, music is a vital component to enable a vigorous workout," said
  Andrew Sivori, vice president of the Personal Audio Division at Sony Electronics. "Now,
  everyone from casual fitness enthusiasts to hard-core triathletes can enjoy their favorite music
  while they train or compete. Whether on land or in the water, the new Walkman Sports MP3
  Player is the perfect workout accessory."
  With its water proof design, the NWZ-W270 Walkman Sports MP3 Player withstands not
  just water but the sweat from intense workouts, making it perfect for everyone from the health
  conscious to performance sports athletes.
  Ease of Use and Impressive Sound
  The new NWZ-W270 device is designed with intuitive controls to easily adjust volume
  to play, pause, or change songs on-the-go. With its 4G of on-board memory, users can easily
  drag and drop DRM-free music files from iTunes® for Mac or PC, Windows® Media Player,
  or Windows Explorer. The NWZ-W270 player delivers up to eight hours of audio playback
  on a full charge. It also offers a convenient quick-charge function. Even if the battery if fully
  depleted, with just three minutes of charge time, the device can provide music for up to 60
  Sony has always been committed to extraordinary audio performance, and the NWZ-
  W270 player lives up to that tradition with its crystal clear highs and deep bass. In addition to
  the powerful sound typically found in Sony's high-end headphones, the player features a new
  tension band for a supportive fit and comes with small, medium, and large earpieces – ideal for
  secure, long-term wearing comfort during running, cycling or swimming.
  Pricing and Availability
  The Sony Walkman Sports MP3 Player will be available in March in blue, pink, white,
  and black at Sony online at www.sony.com/sportswalkman, in Sony Stores, and in authorized
  retailers nationwide for about $99.99. For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/
  Please visit www.sony.com/sportswalkman or Follow #SportsWalkman on Twitter for
  the latest Sony Spots MP3 Player news. Please also stay tuned to the Sony Blog for upcoming news.
  ###
 
