
 
 For Windows Media Center fans searching for a good looking remote app for their mobile devices, that wait is over, at least on a few platforms. The Ceton Companion app we've been teased with since CES 2012 is finally officially available, and ready for download from the Android and iOS app stores. We're told the Windows Phone 7 version should be along shortly, as well as the Amazon Appstore edition once its approval goes through. If you've somehow avoided its specifics until now, we have walkthrough videos embedded after the break to show what kind of remote DVR scheduling, guide browsing and remote control action it's capable of. To cover the possibility that a whole Lincoln is too rich for your blood, one way to defray the costs and pay for the app on two platforms is to follow the Ceton Twitter account and enter a contest for a $10 Google Play gift card -- instructions are available at the link below.

 Update: The Windows Phone version of the app is live now as well, check it out at the link below.



   
  
    Show full PR text   New Ceton Companion Enables Mobile Control Of Windows Media Center From iOS, Android And Windows Devices  9/7/2012  Manage Your Media Center Experience on Phones and Tablets from Inside and Outside the Home
   KIRKLAND, WA - September 6, 2012 – Ceton, the world leader in digital cable tuner solutions for the PC, today unveiled its new Ceton Companion, a family of mobile apps that extend the Windows Media Center PC and Ceton home entertainment experience to Apple iOS, Android and Windows smartphones and tablets. Ceton Companion puts total control of Media Center PCs in users' hands, wherever they are, inside or away from home.

   The Device Becomes the Remote  With Ceton Companion, the mobile device becomes the remote control. Users can easily browse the TV program guide as well as their DVR recordings and personal movie libraries. They see an integrated view of all shows and movies in one place, eliminating back-and-forth shifting between TV, movie and DVR sections. Universal Search finds movies and shows whether they're in a personal media library, recorded on the DVR, or airing soon in the program guide. Users can even choose where they want to watch a program, whether on a TV connected to a Media Center PC or one in another room connected to a Media Center extender. The Ceton Companion also serves as an elegant, touchscreen remote to play, pause, record, fast-forward, rewind, and more.

   "Ceton customers represent some of the most enthusiastic Media Center users in the world. They love the Ceton experience we enable on the PC, and with the Ceton Companion we're bringing that to the mobile phones and tablets they also rely on," said Gary Hammer, president and CEO, Ceton Corp. "From integrated TV and movie galleries to universal media search, remote DVR management and a cool touchscreen remote, the Ceton Companion gives people a new way to enjoy their media, along with some of that Ceton magic that our customers have come to expect."

   Even Our Competitors Will Love It  Ceton Companion works on most current smartphones and tablets, including iPhone, iPad, Android phones and tablets, Kindle Fire and Windows Phone devices. The Companion is compatible with Windows 7 Media Center PCs, including PCs using Ceton TV tuners, PCs using non-Ceton tuners and PCs that do not have a TV tuner.

   How to Get Ceton Companion  Ceton Companion consists of two components:  Ceton Companion Services - core software that is installed on the Windows PC  Ceton Companion - app that is installed on the mobile phone or tablet

   Ceton Companion Services and apps are available today for download at the links below.

   Ceton Companion Services:  Companion Services for Windows download (no charge)

   Ceton Companion app stores:  Apple iTunes download ($4.99)  Google Play Store download ($4.99)  Windows Phone Marketplace download ($4.99)  Amazon Appstore for Android ($4.99) – coming soon

   About Ceton  Ceton Corporation is the world leader in digital cable tuner solutions for the PC and is developing the next generation of in-home digital entertainment and communication solutions. Combining stellar hardware and software engineering capabilities with market-making technology, Ceton aims to help unlock the potential of the digital home to unleash a new generation of in-home connected entertainment and communication services. More information about Ceton and its solutions is available at http://www.cetoncorp.com.

  
