
 

Once its certification was official we knew a release date for the Ceton InfiniTV 4 USB was just around the corner, and today the company announced it expects to start shipping the external CableCARD TV tuners September 19th. Starting tomorrow, customers can preorder for $299 from Cannon PC and Fluid Digital, with other retailers like Amazon and Newegg getting stock later in September. Also, the price on the existing internal PCIe model has officially dropped to $299, no rebate necessary. The market is suddenly full of options for the HTPC enthusiast looking to get some premium cable TV channels on their Media Center PC, check the press release after the break and let us know if this one catches your eye.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Ceton Announces External USB-Based Digital Cable Quad-Tuner Solution 		InfiniTV 4 USB Turns Nearly Any Windows 7-based PC into a Platform for Viewing and Recording Premium Cable TV Throughout the Home 		KIRKLAND, WA - August 18, 2011 - Ceton Corporation today announced InfiniTV 4 USB, the company's new, external CableCARD quad-tuner that turns virtually any style of Windows 7-based PC into an entertainment platform for television. InfiniTV 4 USB will be available for pre-order tomorrow, August 19, 2011, from Cannon PC and Fluid Digital at a suggested retail price of $299, with pre-orders expected to ship on September 19, 2011. InfiniTV 4 USB will be available from the company's other retailers - Amazon, Micro Center, the Microsoft Store, Newegg, Velocity Micro and Zones – later in September at the same price. Ceton also announced a reduction in suggested retail price for the company's InfiniTV 4 PCI Express (PCIe) model to $299. 		InfiniTV 4 USB brings the company's award-winning multi-tuner CableCARD™ technology to an external, USB-connected design, making it an ideal solution for virtually any compatible Windows 7-based PC, including laptops, tablets, All-in-One PCs, desktops, towers, home theater PCs and slimline entertainment PCs. InfiniTV 4 USB joins the company's currently shipping InfiniTV 4 PCIe model, positioning Ceton as the only company offering both internal and external solutions for CableCARD-based premium digital cable TV services through the PC. 		A Ceton InfiniTV-equipped PC makes exciting new entertainment scenarios possible in the home, including: 		Watching and recording up to four live HD channels at once;		Streaming live HD channels or recordings to multiple TVs and making Digital Video Recording (DVR) available on virtually every TV using Windows Media Center Extenders;		Enjoying cable TV, Internet TV, music, photos, videos and more, all through one device, with the Media Center experience from Microsoft;		Eliminating cable set-top boxes and their expensive rental fees;		Sharing individual tuners with other Windows 7-based PCs to enable watching TV programming on PC displays as well as TV sets. 		"The Ceton family of InfiniTV digital cable tuners is transforming the PC into the world's most advanced entertainment platform for television," said Gary Hammer, president and chief executive officer of Ceton Corp. "With the introduction of InfiniTV 4 USB, Ceton now offers solutions for the full range of PC platforms, bringing a new generation of television and entertainment services to almost any consumer." 		"In Windows 7 we enabled support for premium cable TV services in the US to create a high-quality entertainment experience on your PC," said Todd Rutherford, Windows Entertainment Product Manager at Microsoft Corporation. "with the availability of the Ceton's InfiniTV 4 USB tuner, a wider range of PC platforms and consumers will now be able to enjoy this entertainment service." 		About Ceton Corporation 		Ceton Corporation is developing the next-generation of in-home digital entertainment and communication solutions. Combining stellar hardware and software engineering capabilities with market-making technology, Ceton aims to help unlock the potential of the digital home to unleash a new generation of in-home connected entertainment and communication services for PC and device makers, software developers and consumers. More information about Ceton and its solutions is available at http://www.cetoncorp.com.
 