
 
 What's the Echo Extender for Media Center got that no other Extender for Media Center has? Support for DTS surround sound, that's what. The catch of course is that the Echo is still just on track for "later in 2012," but the press release after the break is a welcome reminder that the first new Extender for Media Center since 2008 is actually going to happen. Unfortunately, there's still no new updates on price, availability or really anything other than the fact that you'll be able to enjoy your favorite content in surround sound that is encoded with DTS -- hopefully that's enough for now.




  Show full PR text   DTS and Ceton Announce Alliance to Expand into the Connected Home Environment  High-Definition Audio Technology Enhances the In-Home Digital Media Entertainment Experience  2012 NAB Show  Booth #SU7619   LAS VEGAS--DTS, Inc. (Nasdaq: DTSI), a leader in high-definition audio, today announced a partnership with cutting-edge in-home digital entertainment and communication solutions provider, Ceton Corporation. Ceton has integrated DTS audio technology into the upcoming Ceton Echo, a next-generation Windows Media Center Extender, to offer consumers an immersive, high-definition sound experience. Incorporating DTS audio solutions adds superior sound to Internet video services, live and recorded TV services and personal digital media libraries supported by the Echo.   "As we continue to offer innovative devices that allow consumers to make all their media available across multiple screens, we're pleased to boast that the Ceton Echo delivers crisp, clear audio with DTS audio solutions," said Gary Hammer, president and CEO of Ceton. "Integrating DTS audio means our customers can experience immersive audio as they enjoy live and recorded TV, listen to music, surf the Web or stream media to any TV in their home."   With an increasing number of content creators delivering entertainment content mixed in DTS audio, this collaboration marks an effort to expand the capabilities of today's in-home digital media consumer electronics to provide superior audio quality. As more consumers increasingly rely on central hubs to access personal digital media libraries, the Internet and TV content, they seek superior audio quality across all of their consumer electronic devices. Integration of DTS technology allows for an uncompromised, high quality surround sound by decoding DTS encoded content for two-channel stereo playback directly from a digital television or pass-through DTS bit stream to an external device such as an AV receiver or home theater system.   "At DTS, we have an unwavering dedication to the future of audio enhancement and strive to bring the high-performance sound experience to the next-generation of home theaters, powered by media center devices," said Geir Skaaden, vice president of products and platforms at DTS. "Joining forces with a forward-thinking company like Ceton allows DTS to play a more significant role in the connected home entertainment space and further ensure consumers have access to top-notch audio when enjoying entertainment content at home."   The Ceton Echo, compatible with standard- or high-definition TVs with HDMI or composite video input, extends TV, DVR, digital entertainment services and personal media libraries from a Windows Media Center PC to any room in the home, while eliminating the need for cable set-top boxes. The Ceton Echo will be available for consumer purchase later in 2012. 
 