
 

What if you combined a prototype Windows 8 tablet, an electric skateboard and Microsoft's Kinect? Funnily enough, the folks at Chaotic Moon Studios wondered the same, and they didn't stop there. Here at CES 2012, the outfit showcased a downright amazing wheeled machine, capable of reaching speeds as high as 32mph. It's being labeled the Board of Awesomeness, but frankly, that's an understatement. The company's calling this the world's first Xbox Kinect-controlled skateboard, utilizing video recognition, speech recognition, gesture recognition, localization data, accelerometer data, and other factors to determine what the user wants to do. Enough chatter -- head on past the break to see this thing in action.
      

 
  		Chaotic Moon Labs' Board of Awesomeness from Chaotic Moon Studios on Vimeo.

 		Show full PR text  CHAOTIC MOON LABS TAKES MICROSOFT'S XBOX KINECT TO THE STREETS AT CES 2012 		Chaotic Labs' first publicly viewable project allows users to control an electric skateboard with real-time gesture and voice activated interfaces through Xbox Kinect technology 		AUSTIN, TX - (January 10, 2012) – Chaotic Moon Labs, a division of Chaotic Moon, the world's most proven mobile application studio, revealed today the 'Board of Awesomeness'; an electric skateboard controlled via a Microsoft Kinect powered interface. 		"We created Chaotic Moon to not only be the world's most successful mobile application studio, but also to be a powerhouse of innovation that produces unique ideas and inventions that turn heads and demonstrate our creative thinking," said Ben Lamm, CEO of Chaotic Moon Studios. "The labs team has clearly demonstrated that with the 'Board of Awesomeness,' we can transform an interface previously confined to your living room and make it fun and useful for transportation in the outside world." 		Straight out of Chaotic Labs, the team will introduce the world's first Xbox Kinect-controlled skateboard. The board is powered by a Samsung prototype tablet and can reach speeds up to 32 mph. The board will officially be revealed at CES 2012 in Las Vegas, beginning January 10th, but you can catch a glimpse of the pimped out skateboard in action here: http://www.chaoticmoon.com/labs/board-of-awesomeness/ 		"Traditionally we've considered mobile computing to simply mean information provided to us on a device away from our desktops or work areas," said Phil Wheat, Manager of Chaotic Moon Labs. "But this project shows that a computing environment can provide additional information and controls on the move as well as a completely different take on user experience." 		The skateboard uses video recognition, speech recognition, gesture recognition, localization data, accelerometer data, and other factors to determine what the user wants to do and allows the board to follow the operator's commands without other aid. 		"What whurley has been able to achieve with our labs team in such a short time, with constrained budget, has been simply phenomenal and our first project is only the beginning. We are excited to announce that Chaotic Moon will be investing an additional six million dollars into our labs division in 2012 to help fuel growth and take future projects to the next level," continued Lamm. 		To find out where you can see the "Board of Awesomeness" in action, follow the Chaotic team on Twitter: @chaoticmoon.
