
 
The Isis mobile payment service backed by AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon may have been a bit overshadowed by Google Wallet in recent months, but it's still on track for a "mid-2012" trial launch in Austin, Texas and Salt Lake City, Utah, and it's now gotten a boost from a trio of new financial partners. Chase, Capital One and Barclaycard confirmed today that they'll each support the NFC-based service and let folks load their credit, debit and prepaid cards into their Isis Mobile Wallet, joining existing partners Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express. Unfortunately, any specific launch details beyond that still remain a bit on the light side, with Isis only promising that a national rollout will follow sometime after the initial trial launch.
      

 

Show full PR textChase, Capital One and Barclaycard First to Place Their Cards in the Isis(TM) Mobile WalletStarting This Summer, the Isis Mobile Wallet Will Be Available to More Than 100 Million U.S. Card HoldersBARCELONA, Spain, Feb 27, 2012 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Isis(TM), the mobile commerce joint venture created by AT&T Mobility, T-Mobile USA and Verizon Wireless, today announced that Chase, Capital One and Barclaycard have entered into agreements with Isis enabling their credit, debit and prepaid cards to be placed into the Isis Mobile Wallet. Starting in mid-2012, consumers will be able to load their eligible Chase, Capital One and Barclaycard cards into their Isis Mobile Wallet and shop at participating merchants, starting with locations across Salt Lake City and Austin, Texas."Today's announcement is testament to the vision and commitment of Chase, Capital One and Barclaycard to make mobile commerce a real and positive experience for their customers," said Michael Abbott, CEO, Isis. "Mobile commerce is more than a new way to pay; it's about extending the relationships consumers enjoy with their banks and merchants into a powerful and convenient new form factor."The Isis Mobile Wallet will provide consumers with a convenient and secure way to pay, redeem coupons and present loyalty credentials, all with the tap of their phone. Chase, Capital One and Barclaycard will tailor their cardholder service experience within the Isis Mobile Wallet to reflect their respective brands and ensure a seamless and secure experience across physical cards and mobile platforms."Chase is committed to making mobile commerce a reality," said Richard Quigley, president, Chase Card Services. "By working with Isis, we are excited to help pave the way for innovation in the mobile payments space and to provide cardmembers with a secure option for easier and faster payments on the go."Last July, Isis announced relationships with the top four U.S. payment networks: Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express. Isis' relationship with the four U.S. payment networks provides banks with the freedom to enable any major network payment card and provide consumers with ubiquity and freedom of choice when deciding which of those cards to load into their Isis Mobile Wallet."Our customers have embraced digital and mobile banking and are demanding new and easier ways to manage their financial lives," said Jack Forestell, executive vice president, Digital, Capital One. "Our relationship with Isis creates an exciting opportunity for our customers to begin to fully experience the power of mobile commerce."Today's announcement underscores Isis' inclusive approach, providing all stakeholders -- banks, merchants and consumers -- with the freedom and choice necessary to foster a robust new industry. Isis is building an ecosystem to provide consumers with a ubiquitous and positive experience across all participating carriers, phone models, payment networks, merchants and banks."We believe Isis is strongly positioned to bring the convenience, value and simplicity of mobile commerce to consumers," said Stewart Holmes, senior director-mobile commerce strategy, Barclaycard US. "We're excited to build this offering for customers and our card partners with Isis and look forward to shaping the future of payments."The Isis Mobile Wallet will initially launch in Salt Lake City and Austin in mid-2012 and is planning a national rollout to follow."While mobile wallets may look and smell the same from afar, Isis is setting itself apart by patiently building an ecosystem of issuer, network and merchant partners, offering an open platform that leaves partners in control of how they will communicate with their customers, and leaving the partners in control of sensitive payment and marketing data transiting over the platform," says Gwenn Bezard, research director with Aite Group. "Isis' new announcement sends a clear signal: it is serious about scaling mobile payments."About IsisThe joint venture is between AT&T Mobility LLC, T-Mobile USA and Verizon Wireless and is based in New York City. The venture is chartered with building Isis(TM), a national mobile commerce venture that will fundamentally transform how people shop, pay and save. The Isis(TM) mobile commerce network will be available to all merchants, banks, payment networks and mobile carriers. ISIS is a trademark of JVL Ventures, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other logos, product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.www.paywithisis.comCautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking StatementsInformation set forth in this press release contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results might differ materially. The words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "may," "plan," "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth in the discussions of factors that may affect future results contained in Securities and Exchange Commission filings of AT&T, Deutsche Telekom AG (T-Mobile USA is the U.S. wireless arm of Deutsche Telekom AG), and Verizon Communications (of which Verizon Wireless is a subsidiary). AT&T, T-Mobile USA, and Verizon disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in this news release based on new information or otherwise.Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=50182598&lang=enSOURCE: Isis
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

