
 For the eight millionaires who've been watching the pre-release of Killer Elite on their in-home Christie CP2230, we've got exemplary news for you: your already-amazing image quality is about to get even better. The same projector that was chosen to reside in the Academy Theater at Lighthouse International in New York City -- and the same one that remains mysteriously devoid of an MSRP across the world wide web -- now has a similarly sticker-less upgrade kit to consider. The Christie 4K upgrade package includes an entire 4K light engine assembly (replete with a trio of 1.38-inch TI 4K DMDs), an integrator rod assembly and an upgrade label. Yeah, a label. It's like that. Hit the source links for the requisite phone numbers, or better yet, just forward the whole thing to your butler.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Christie Announces 4K-Resolution Upgrade Program For Christie Series 2 Projectors		Customers Can Quickly Transform Their Christie CP2230 2K Projectors Into 4K-Resolution Powerhouses 		CYPRESS, Calif. – (September 15, 2011) – Christie®, the leader in digital cinema projection, continues to provide exhibitors with the widest range of options with the introduction of the new Christie 4K-resolution (4096 x 2160) upgrade kit. Available immediately for the popular Christie CP2230, the upgrade kit converts a Christie projector from a 2K to a 4K, high-resolution powerhouse. By providing four times the resolution, the upgrade delivers a major increase in image detail. 		The kit is quick and easy to install and with it, exhibitors are prepared to screen any 4K content – the industry's highest current resolution – with their current projectors, thereby future-proofing their investment. 		"Since the introduction of the Christie Solaria™ Series CP2230 projector, a large number of exhibitors worldwide have converted their film systems to the CP2230, making it one of the best-selling DLP Cinema® products in history. They did so because they trusted Christie to protect their investments, knowing that they were guaranteed an easy upgrade path to 4K resolution when they were ready," observed Craig Sholder, vice president, Entertainment Solutions. "Christie continues to fulfill the value promise we make every time we sell a projector through innovations like this 4K upgrade kit, which enables exhibitors to display any 4K content in the highest resolution available today." 		Available to all current and prospective Christie partners and dealers, the upgrade can be performed by Christie technicians and Christie-qualified digital cinema dealers. The kit is especially attractive to exhibitors seeking the highest resolution for their largest screens, where brightness and pixel count can be differentiating factors for their business. It is also an important option for postproduction facilities that are committed to working with the highest image quality available and supporting any future 4K-resolution infrastructure. 		"The digital cinema landscape is highly competitive, with an increasingly sophisticated audience that has grown accustomed to, and demands, the stunning quality reproduction that the technology delivers, particularly on the largest screens," said Sholder. 		"By upgrading their Christie CP2230, exhibitors can satisfy even the most demanding moviegoers by assuring them that they will experience the highest-resolution screens in the industry today." 		The 4K Upgrade Program features a credit to qualifying customers upon prompt return of each working Christie 2K projector light engine. Customers should contact their Christie representative for additional information or visit www.christiedigital.com/4KUpgrade.
 