
 


Chumby's app ecosystem expanded to yet another platform last week, thanks to a new partnership with LG. Under the deal, owners of LG's Smart TV-enabled devices will now be able to access more than 1,000 applications available on the Chumby app network, including a variety of news-, entertainment- and music-based tools. The Smart TV crowd can access the ecosystem right now; everyone else, meanwhile, will have to wait a bit longer.
 

 		Show full PR text  CHUMBY EXPANDS CONTENT LINEUP ON LG CONNECTED TVS		LG Smart TV Platform to Integrate chumby App Network 		SAN DIEGO, CA December 2, 2011 -- chumby industries, a software company that provides a personalized Internet experience to a multitude of connected devices today announced that LG Electronics will integrate the chumby app network into the LG Smart TV platform to deliver a rich array of online content to LG connected devices. 		"Combining LG's world class brand, distribution and innovative expertise with chumby's portfolio of content will provide even more options for customers to access their favorite online content," said Derrick Oien, chumby's president and CEO. 		"With its flexible network, chumby will provide additional functionality for our connected TVs, including high value content built-in and optimized specifically for LG devices, resulting in an enhanced end-user experience, which is our ultimate goal," said Matthew Durgin, director, Smart TV Partnerships, LG Electronics USA. 		Through the chumby app network, users can tap into more than 1,000 applications, ranging from news and entertainment, social networking, photo viewing, music, video clips, sports scores and more. chumby's cloud-based ecosystem of content is flexible across screen size and device type, making the chumby platform a natural fit for services available through the TV screen. The alliance with LG is the latest in chumby's expansion to wirelessly stream chumby content to all connected devices. 		LG pioneered the connected consumer electronics device market, beginning three years ago with the first Blu-ray Disc players designed for streaming content. LG's innovative Smart TV platform, a feature on the majority of LG's 2011 HDTVs and Blu-ray players sold around the world, now provides users access to a wide variety of content and services including thousands of movies, videos, music and apps, and the ability to access the Internet through an easy-to-navigate user interface -- all using an intuitive "point and click" Magic Motion remote control.
 