
 
Cisco has continued its push to make home entertainment wire-free with its latest E-Series wireless router, the Linksys E4200. Cisco's new dual-band 802.11n rig enters a high-end market segment currently occupied by the TRENDnet TEW-692GR. Both routers utilize a 3x3 Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) configuration for a max throughput of 450Mbps on the 5GHz band, and while the E4200 only reaches speeds of 300Mbps at 2.4 GHz (as compared to the TEW-692GRs 450Mbps) it should still be quite the video streaming powerhouse. As we've seen in previous Cisco offerings, the company's latest has USB connectivity and UPnP media server capabilities to add network storage and share all of your movies and music. Additionally, the E4200 packs technology similar to that seen in other routers, which allows users to prioritize bandwidth for movies, voice, or music. To keep everyone connected, it has 4 Gigabit Ethernet ports, six antennas, and several internal and external signal amplifiers to provide coverage for even the most palatial of estates. For those itching to pair a performance router with their new internet capable TV, the E4200 is priced at $179.99 and is currently available at Best Buy.
      

 

Show full PR textCisco Supercharges Home Networking With New Linksys Maximum Performance Wireless RouterNew Linksys E4200 Dual-Band Router with Innovative Design Gives Consumers the Speed and Range for the Ultimate Wireless Entertainment ExperienceSAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 19, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Cisco today unveiled its best-in-class wireless home router – the Linksys® E4200 Maximum Performance Dual-Band Wireless-N Router. Designed for optimum home theater performance, the E4200 works seamlessly with the latest entertainment devices, including Internet TVs, iPad tablets, game consoles, smart phones, e-readers, and VoIP devices. This new router not only helps boost performance and range in the home, it provides industry-leading speed of up to 450 Mbps* for smooth streaming of video and music and uninterrupted gaming.(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20110119/LA32205)Building on the decade of leadership and innovation from Linksys, this latest state of the art router features simultaneous dual-band wireless-N, four gigabit ports, and a 3x3 antenna configuration that help give it unparalleled speed and range. Additionally, a combination of internal and external amplifiers coupled with six antennas help increase the signal strength across greater distances, providing improved home network coverage and reducing dead spots. The E4200 also features a next-generation industrial design that combines sleek contours with advanced functionality. "Cisco's Linksys line continues to lead the industry with innovative technology for the growing number of wireless-enabled homes", said Simon Fleming-Wood, vice president of marketing, Cisco Consumer Products. "The new Linksys E4200 router is ideal for home entertainment enthusiasts who want to equip their homes with the latest wireless technology or anyone who wants the reassurance of outfitting their home with the best router on the market today."The research firm, IDC reports that worldwide shipments of wireless-N routers are expected to grow 158% from 2010 – 2014 and the number of household with multimedia networks will grow 103% over the same time period. (IDC, Worldwide Home Networking 2010-2014 Forecast Update, Doc.# 225479, Nov. 2010) These growth projections emphasize the need for high performance routers like the Linksys E4200 that will provide the speed and range connectivity throughout the home.New Features for Storage, Sharing, and Simple SetupThe E4200's new USB feature makes it easy to add external storage to the network and since it is an UPnP Media server as well, consumers can easily store, share and stream movies, music and games to other devices around the home. The USB port also has plans for converting to a Virtual USB port which will also enable printers to easily connect to the network so all users in the home can print wirelessly. The included Cisco Connect software continues to provide simple three-step setup and network management tools such as parental controls and guest access. Product DetailsPerformance:Maximum performance of up to 300 Mbps (2.4) and up to 450 Mbps (5.0GHz)*Simultaneous dual-band (2.4 and 5.0 GHz) with four 10/100/100 gigabit ports3X3 internal MIMO special stream configuration on the 5.0 Ghz band for ideal performance for streaming HD videos, gaming and voiceInternal and external amplifiers for maximum speed at greater distances for added in-home mobilitySix antennas for maximum rangeFeatures:Quality of Service (QoS) for prioritizing bandwidth for movies, voice or musicUPnP media server for adding on storage to serve your Internet-enabled TVs or media server PCsUSB port for easily adding external storage drivesNew designSoftware:Advanced security: WPA and WPA2 and Stateful Packet Inspection (SPI) FirewallPlans to support IPv6 in the springCisco Connect software for enabling simple setup, network management tools (parental controls, guest access) and optional advanced settingsPricing and Availability:The Linksys E4200 Maximum Performance Dual-Band Wireless-N Router is immediately available for an MSRP of $179.99 at Best Buy, Bestbuy.com and the Linksys store at http://homestore.cisco.com. The E4200 will roll out to other retail and online retailers over the next few months.For more information about Linksys and the E4200, please visit: http://home.cisco.com/e4200
 