
 
Lookin' for yet another avenue to hop on the 4G superhighway? Fret not, as Clearwire has just doled out a trio of new products intended to help you do just that. Prior to today, you had only a smattering of options to actually tap into Clear's WiMAX network, but the Clear Spot 4G (WiMAX only), Clear Spot 4G+ (dual-mode with 3G / 4G support) and Clear 4G+ Mobile USB stick have all arrived to give choosy moms more choices. The prior two are simply mobile broadband hotspots (think MiFi, but for 4G), with the 4G+ offering support for Sprint's 3G network if you happen to leave one of those few WiMAX zones already lit. The USB stick is particularly interesting, as it's the first dual-mode device hawked by Clear that's fully compatible with Apple OS X. The Clear Spot 4G will be made by InfoMark and available to purchase for $99.99 next month; those who hate committing can also lease one for $4.99 per month. The Sierra Wireless-built Spot 4G+ (a rebadged Overdrive; shown left) demands a hefty premium for that 3G support, with an MSRP of $224.99 (or least for $5.99 per month) and a similar July ship date. The 4G+ Mobile USB stick (shown right) will support OS X 10.5.x and 10.6.x (along with Windows, of course), and can be snapped up today for $114.99 or leased monthly for $5.99. Head on past the break if you're thirsty for more.





Show full PR textClearwire Offers More Ways to Connect to CLEAR 4G Service with Three New Devices; Adds 4G/3G Modem for Macs and PCs* New CLEAR 4G and 4G+ Personal Wi-Fi Hotspots plus 4G/3G Mobile USB Extend Unlimited 4G Data Plans to More Mobile Devices* New USB Modem Brings National 4G/3G Service to Apple Laptops and PCs* CLEAR's Uncapped Mobile Broadband Experience Available For Netbooks, Notebooks, Gaming, Entertainment, Social Media and Numerous Other Devices and ServicesKIRKLAND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Clearwire Corporation (NASDAQ:CLWR), a leading provider of wireless broadband services, today announced the upcoming availability of three new products that will extend the potential for super-fast speeds and unlimited 4G usage plans to the millions of mobile devices available today."In today's on-the-go world, everyone deserves fast speeds and the usage they want at a fair price – without constantly checking their usage or worrying about their end-of-month bill"The latest suite of devices, the CLEAR SpotTM 4G, CLEAR Spot 4G+, and the CLEAR 4G+ Mobile USB, bring new 4G connectivity possibilities to a wide range of Wi-Fi-enabled laptops, netbooks, smartphones, and other connected devices – without the worries or hassles of tiered or capped usage plans.The CLEAR Spot 4G offers the speed and flexibility of a personal Wi-Fi hotspot, simultaneously connecting multiple Wi-Fi devices at 4G speeds, while the CLEAR Spot 4G+ adds the option of allowing users to easily and securely use nationwide 3G coverage when outside the 4G coverage area. In addition, the CLEAR 4G+ Mobile USB modem is the first dual-mode mobile USB from CLEAR to deliver 4G and nationwide 3G Internet coverage to the MacBook and MacBook Pro along with other non-Mac devices."In today's on-the-go world, everyone deserves fast speeds and the usage they want at a fair price – without constantly checking their usage or worrying about their end-of-month bill," said Dow Draper, vice president of product development for Clearwire. "These new devices offer today's mobile user, and the millions of Wi-Fi products in use across the country, even greater access to CLEAR's fast and affordable 4G service."With CLEAR® super-fast mobile Internet service, users can experience average mobile download speeds of 3 to 6 mbps with bursts over 10 mbps*, using Clearwire's 4G network. Unlike service plans from traditional wireless carriers which cap data usage, CLEAR offers unlimited 4G usage plans that do not require long-term service contracts. In most markets, unlimited 4G coverage from CLEAR starts at $30 for the home, while unlimited mobile plans start as low as $40. Bundled services such as Home and On-The-Go and Home and Voice plans start at $55 per month. CLEAR service is currently available in dozens of cities, in areas of the United States where approximately 51 million people live. A detailed map of service availability can be found at www.clear.com/coverage.The New CLEAR Mobile Hotspots and USBCLEAR Spot 4GThe CLEAR Spot 4G is a personal mobile hotspot allowing users to easily and securely share unlimited super-fast Internet access anywhere CLEAR has coverage simultaneously with up to eight Wi-Fi-enabled devices, including laptops, smartphones, and portable gaming devices. The CLEAR Spot 4G is manufactured by InfoMark and will be available for purchase at $99.99 or for a $4.99 monthly lease. It can be preordered today at www.clear.com/spot and will be available nationwide at CLEAR stores and authorized dealers in July.CLEAR Spot 4G+The CLEAR Spot 4G+ allows power users and road warriors alike to stay connected across the U.S. by automatically switching from 4G and connecting to Sprint's 3G nationwide network outside the 4G coverage area. The CLEAR Spot 4G+ enables users to securely share the connection with up to five Wi-Fi-enabled devices all at the same time. The CLEAR Spot 4G+ is manufactured by Sierra Wireless and will be available to purchase for $224.99 or to lease for $5.99 per month. It can be preordered today at www.clear.com/spot and will be available nationwide at CLEAR stores and authorized dealers in July.CLEAR 4G+ Mobile USB (Series S)Clearwire already offers two 4G-only USB modems for Mac users, but today introduced the company's first dual-mode 4G/3G modem available for Mac users, the CLEAR 4G+ Mobile USB. When not in the 4G coverage area, the modem will automatically switch to the Sprint 3G network to provide more ubiquitous data connectivity around the country. The 4G+ Mobile USB is compatible with MacBook and MacBook Pro laptops using Mac OS X Versions 10.5.x and 10.6.x. The new USB also supports netbooks and notebooks running Windows XP SP2, Vista and Windows 7, all in 32- and 64-bit versions. The new 4G+ Mobile USB is manufactured by Sierra Wireless.The 4G+ USB can be purchased for $114.99 or leased monthly for $5.99. It is available today at www.clear.com/4Gplus-usb and in stores in Atlanta, Dallas, Hawaii and Harrisburg, Lancaster, Reading and York, PA. The CLEAR 4G+ Mobile USB will be available in all 4G markets beginning July 1st.For more information about CLEAR, visit www.clear.com. Company information about Clearwire is available at www.clearwire.com.
 