
 It's not like you couldn't snag an Overdrive from Sprint or an IntelliGo from Time Warner Cable, but if you're dead-set on nabbing your WiMAX gear directly from Clearwire, we've good splendiferous news to share. The 4G-only Spot 4G and 3G / 4G Spot 4G+ (which is just a rebadged Overdrive, shown here) were up for pre-order prior to today, but now both are available in-store and online nationwide. In case the prices have slipped your mind, the Spot 4G will run you $99.99 (or $4.99 per month on a lease) with service plans starting at $40/month, while the Spot 4G+ goes for $224.99 (or $5.99 per month on a lease) with service plans starting at $55/month. Surf on, surfers.
      

 

Show full PR textClearwire Announces Nationwide Availability of 4G/Wi-Fi Personal Mobile Hot SpotsCLEAR Spots Now Available in CLEAR Retail Stores, from CLEAR Authorized Dealers and at CLEAR.comKIRKLAND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Clearwire Corporation (NASDAQ:CLWR), a leading provider of wireless broadband services, today announced the in-store and online availability of the CLEAR Spot 4G and CLEAR Spot 4G+ mobile hot spots. The company also announced that it has begun filling pre-orders for both devices.The CLEAR Spot 4G and CLEAR Spot 4G+ bring super fast speeds and 4G connectivity to Wi-Fi enabled laptops, netbooks, smartphones, portable gaming and other connected devices – without the worries or hassles of tiered or capped data usage plans.CLEAR Spot 4GThe CLEAR Spot 4G is a personal mobile hotspot allowing users to easily and securely share unlimited super fast Internet access anywhere CLEAR has coverage simultaneously with up to eight Wi-Fi-enabled devices. The CLEAR Spot 4G costs $99.99 or can be leased for $4.99 a month. Monthly CLEAR service plans start at $40 per month.CLEAR Spot 4G+The CLEAR Spot 4G+ allows power users and road warriors to stay connected across the U.S. by automatically switching from 4G and connecting to Sprint's 3G nationwide network outside the 4G coverage area. The CLEAR Spot 4G+ enables users to securely share the connection with up to five Wi-Fi-enabled devices at the same time. The CLEAR Spot 4G+ costs $224.99 or can be leased for $5.99 a month. Monthly CLEAR service plans start at $55 per month.Both devices can be ordered online at www.clear.com/spot or purchased nationwide at CLEAR retail stores and authorized dealers beginning today.For more information about CLEAR, visit www.clear.com. Company information about Clearwire is available at www.clearwire.com. For press and broadcast: product images, video footage and company logos can be downloaded from the Clearwire Newsroom. To subscribe to Clearwire's RSS news feed, click here.About ClearwireClearwire Corporation (NASDAQ:CLWR), through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of wireless broadband services. Clearwire's 4G network is currently available in areas of the U.S. where approximately 51 million people live and the company plans to continue to expand its 4G coverage. Clearwire's open all-IP network, combined with significant spectrum holdings, provides an unprecedented combination of speed and mobility to deliver next generation broadband access. The company markets its 4G service through its own brand called CLEAR® as well as through its wholesale relationships with Sprint, Comcast and Time Warner Cable. Strategic investors include Intel Capital, Comcast, Sprint, Google, Time Warner Cable, and Bright House Networks. Clearwire is headquartered in Kirkland, Wash. Additional information is available at www.clearwire.com.Clearwire and CLEAR are trademarks or registered trademarks of Clearwire Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other company or product names are trademarks of their respective owners.
 