
 
iPhone users have been able to avoid radar speed guns using Cobra's iRadar system since late last year, and it looks like Android users will soon finally be able to get in on the act as well. Cobra used the gdgt Live event at SXSW to announce that iRadar will be available for Android phones sometime in April. That consists of a standard dash-mounted radar detector and, of course, an app, which also takes advantage of your phone's built-in GPS capabilities to provide warnings of photo enforcement zones and other potential impediments to your inability to drive 55 -- you'll apparently soon even be able to share radar alerts with other iRadar users. Head on past the break for a video of the iPhone version.
      

 

Show full PR textCompany Joins Some of the World's Coolest Consumer Technology Firms at Event to Preview the Hottest New Gadgets on the MarketAUSTIN, Texas, March 14, 2011 -- Cobra Electronics Corporation (Nasdaq: COBR), the leading manufacturer of radar detection devices, today announced it is sponsoring the gdgt Live event taking place this evening in conjunction with the SXSW Festival in Austin, TX. As part of its sponsorship, Cobra will showcase its newest product, Cobra iRadar for Android. Cobra iRadar is the most advanced smart detection system on the market. The company will also dazzle music, film and gadget lovers with its innovative Cobra PhoneLynx™ and Cobra Tag™ product lines. The gdgt Live event takes place March 14, 2011 from 7–10 p.m. at the PureVolume House in Austin.Based on the tremendous success of Cobra iRadar (launched in October 2010 for the Apple iOS platform), Cobra will release iRadar for Android in April. The system is a sleek radar/laser detector that uses Bluetooth® wireless technology to connect with the free Cobra iRadar app, which is downloaded to an Android smartphone. The app then displays all radar/laser alerts, allows the user to configure all detector settings, and alerts drivers to photo enforcement locations using AURA™, the only 100-percent verified database of driving threats and hazards throughout the GPS/navigation industry. The AURA system is constantly updated with tens of thousands of speed and red light camera locations as well as known speed traps and dangerous intersections. Soon, iRadar users will be able to share radar alerts with other iRadar users. This unique crowdsourcing model will help ensure that other iRadar customers are alerted in real time to upcoming dangers based on their GPS location."According to the very latest data from ComScore, the Android operating system now commands 31.2% of the smartphone market share in the U.S., making it the market leader among smartphones," said Sally Washlow, senior vice president of marketing and sales for Cobra Electronics. "The expansion of our extremely popular iRadar product to Android smartphone users means that our crowdsourced threat database will become even more powerful thanks to an even broader user community. We are very pleased to sponsor gdgt Live at SXSW, and to share with fans the safety and peace-of-mind that comes from being a part of the Cobra iRadar community."For more information on the Cobra iRadar Detection System, please visit www.CobraiRadar.com.
 