
 
After DirecTV, Comcast has been among the most aggressive in pushing 3D programming, so it's no surprise to receive word it's begun scheduling round-the-clock 3D content on the Xfinity 3D channel just days after DirecTV launched 3net alongside ESPN 3D and its own n3D network. While viewers can tune in to see what's playing (mostly some documentaries and varied computer animated content) right now, the official kick off comes this weekend on February 20th when it airs the 2011 Tim Horton's Classic outdoor NHL game between the Montreal Canadiens and Calgary Flames, followed closely by a Kings of Leon concert in Germany presented from MTV's library. After early 2010 featured a sparse lineup of one-off 3D events it looks like the channel guide is at least starting to fill up -- as to whether or not anyone is watching, Comcast also announced it's served up over 1 million views of 3D shows and movies over video on-demand with more sports, music and movies to come.
      

 

Show full PR textKINGS OF LEON CONCERT FROM MTV WORLD STAGE AND 2011 NHL HERITAGE CLASSIC KICK OFF COMCAST'S 24-HOUR, NEXT-GENERATION XFINITY 3D CHANNELComcast Also Announces One Million+ Next-Generation 3D Views On Demand PHILADELPHIA, PA – February 17, 2011 – Comcast announced the launch of Xfinity 3D*, its new 24-hour, next-generation 3D channel, which will make its official debut with the 2011 Tim Hortons NHL Heritage Classic and a MTV World Stage concert by the GRAMMY Award-winning rock band, Kings of Leon, in 3D on February 20. The channel will bring customers concerts from top-tier artists, sporting events, more than a dozen movies and original 3D programming. Comcast also announced that there have been more than one million 3D views On Demand since the Masters Golf Tournament in April 2010."Whether it is a concert, sporting event or movie, Xfinity 3D brings the best seats in the house right to customers' living rooms," said Marcien Jenckes, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Video Services for Comcast. "As the leader in 3D, we will continue to bring our customers the best 3D content available today."On February 20 at 6:00 p.m. ET, Comcast customers can watch the 2011Tim Hortons NHL Heritage Classic, the much-anticipated outdoor match-up between the Montreal Canadiens and Calgary Flames at McMahon Stadium in Calgary, on Xfinity 3D. The 2011Tim Hortons NHL Heritage Classic will be the second regular season outdoor game to be played in the 2010-11 NHL season. The 2011Tim Hortons NHL Heritage Classic will also be available in 3D On Demand on February 21.Immediately following the 2011Tim Hortons NHL Heritage Classic at approximately 8:00 p.m. ET, customers will also have access to a MTV World Stage Kings of Leon concert from the O2 World in Hamburg, Germany on Xfinity 3D. The concert features the 2009 GRAMMY Award-winning group for "Record of the Year" performing their smash hit singles Sex On Fire, Use Somebody and Notion. Xfinity 3D will continue to bring customers concerts in 3D that feature top-performing bands and artists at world renowned music festivals and concert venues.In addition, Xfinity 3D will bring customers movies documenting African safaris, haunted castles, the depths of the ocean, the surface of the sun, the age of dinosaurs and more, along with original programming that gives customers unique perspectives of events such as Chinese dragon dancing and rhythmic gymnastics.The launch of Xfinity 3D is the latest in a series of 3D programming offered by Comcast. Last month, Comcast launched HBO 3D On Demand providing customers access to movies such as Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs, Monsters vs. Aliens and Coraline. Through a partnership with Augusta National Golf Club, Comcast also delivered the first live national next-generation 3D sporting event with the Masters Golf Tournament last year. Comcast has brought customers 3D programming around sporting events such as the 2010 FIFA World Cup™ semi-finals and finals, NASCAR's Coke Zero 400, basketball's Old Spice Classic and college football games along with hit movies including Bolt, Clash of the Titans, Despicable Me, Chicken Little, The Last Airbender and others.About Comcast CorporationComcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communications products and services. Comcast is principally involved in the operation of cable systems through Comcast Cable and in the development, production and distribution of entertainment, news, sports and other content for global audiences through NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential and business customers. Comcast is the majority owner and manager of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates entertainment and news cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, local television station groups, television production operations, a major motion picture company and theme parks.*Check local listings.
 