
Comcast's advanced cable-box footprint keeps getting bigger. While currently you can only get the X1 set-top box in 18 of its service areas, that's growing, as it's come to several new markets recently. A company spokesperson recently told us that the cable giant is still on track to have the new unit as an option for all of its customers by year's end. As of now, new and current Triple Play subscribers in Nashville and Knoxville, TN; Jacksonville, Sarasota and Naples, FL; Baltimore and Frederick, MD and Brunswick, GA can snag the hardware as a free upgrade with select programming packages. Or, if you're patient, you could wait for the X2.




Show full PR textComcast Launches New X1 Video Platform in Nashville and Knoxville
Nashville and Knoxville Area Customers to Experience Newest Cable Television Technology
NASHVILLE, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Comcast recently announced the launch of its new X1 video platform for customers in the Nashville and Knoxville areas. Over the past several years, Comcast has invested $1.6 billion in technology and infrastructure to meet Tennessee customers' needs by delivering quality products and services.

"X1 truly makes the TV experience smarter, more powerful and more personalized than ever before"Using cloud-enabled technologies, the X1 Platform offers a completely new and more personalized TV experience that provides access to Comcast's massive library of live and on-demand video presented with a new, much more graphically pleasing on-screen guide along with popular apps like Facebook and Pandora.

The new DVR-enabled X1 boxes enable customers to record four shows and watch a fifth at the same time using AnyRoom® DVR service. With AnyRoom® DVR service customers can watch recorded shows in any room, start watching a recording in one room and then finish in another, or even have different recordings play in different rooms at the same time.

X1 features include:

 A main screen with a new, easy-to-read and -search guide and interface that enables fast, one-click access to a variety of video content and allows customers to access a host of information about the programs they're watching and related programming; The ability to search TV listings, DVR recordings, and Xfinity On Demand for content simultaneously; Weather, sports and real-time traffic apps, all specially designed and scaled for use on a TV screen (X1 DVR boxes also include Pandora and Facebook apps); An enhanced remote control for the X1 DVR box that's highly responsive and does not have to be pointed straight at the box to work; and The ability to display the highest resolution supported by many new TVs, 1080P at 60 frames per second."X1 truly makes the TV experience smarter, more powerful and more personalized than ever before," said Comcast's Regional Vice President of Marketing for Tennessee, Kerry McKelvey. "This new cloud-based platform gives us the flexibility to continually provide our customers with the newest technology and deliver the best entertainment experience available anywhere today."

X1 Remote app lets customers control X1 via motions, gestures, and voice control
The new companion X1 Remote app (available for free for the iPhone and iPod Touch devices via the iOS app store), lets customers use motions, gestures and voice commands to control the X1. For example, customers can actually swipe their iPhones or iPod Touches to page through the interactive TV guides and program personalized short-cuts and favorites ("Quick Links"). They can also shake their devices to pause On Demand content and even use voice commands to navigate the guide and search for content.

In addition, X1 lets customers search through tens of thousands of programming choices using either their iPhones' or iPod Touches' virtual keyboards, or they can simply say into these devices, "Show me all action movies on HBO." The app also has the ability to filter content by genre, whether it's offered in high-definition, and other criteria, as well as control the DVR and interact with X1's social media tools and apps.

To order X1 and for more Information
X1 is available at no additional charge to upgrading and new customers who order select Xfinity Triple Play packages with HD/DVR service. For more information about the Xfinity service or the X1 platform, call 1-800-XFINITY or visit www.xfinity.com. To view a video about X1, visit: http://xfinity.comcast.net/x1/.

For additional information on the X1 platform, go to http://www.comcast.com/x1.


