
 
We first caught wind of Comcast's 105Mbps broadband plans back in May of last year, but the time since then has been filled with silence until this very moment, when the service has gone official. Neither the name nor basic concept have changed, however, with the Extreme 105 offering 105Mbps download speeds tied to 10Mbps uploads. Pricing has been tweaked a little, starting at $105 a month for the first year when taken up as part of a Triple Play bundle. Comcast claims coverage of 40 million people with its new rollout, including folks in Baltimore, Chicago, Denver, Miami, Philadelphia, Portland, San Francisco, Washington DC, and "the majority" of Boston. More markets will come "on a rolling basis." So what say you, are 105 megabits per second worth 105 dollars per month?
      

 

Show full PR textCOMCAST offers The fastest residential internet service to the most homes in the U.S.'Extreme 105' Now Available to More Than 40 Million Homes From Coast to CoastPHILADELPHIA – April 14, 2011 – Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK), one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communication products and services, announced today that its newest ultra-fast Xfinity Internet speed tier, Extreme 105, is now available to more than 40 million homes in major markets across the nation including San Francisco, Seattle, Portland, Denver, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, and the majority of Boston, among others."This speed tier continues to expand our portfolio of Internet service offerings and takes them up to a whole new level," said Cathy Avgiris, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Communications and Data Services. "With it, we're powering the digital home of the future, where entire families using multiple devices – laptops, gaming consoles, tablets, smartphones – can all take advantage of high-bandwidth applications simultaneously ensuring they each have a great online experience."The Extreme 105 Mbps service, which also offers up to 10 Mbps upload speeds, is available for new or existing customers at an introductory rate of $105 per month for 12 months as part of their Triple Play bundle. In addition, the service comes with a wireless home networking gateway that turns an entire house into its own WiFi hotspot. Comcast offers Extreme 105 service on a standalone basis, and also offers a variety of other speed tiers in either bundles or as standalone packages, so there's something for everyone and consumers can choose a service that best meets their needs.Extreme 105 is made possible through the use of DOCSIS 3.0 technology. At a connection speed of up to 105 Mbps, Comcast customers can not only download and watch a hi-def movie in about 5 minutes, but also play online interactive games, send and receive email attachments, shop, and update social networking Web pages faster than ever before.
 