
 
After debuting on the iPad and iPhone, Comcast has finally released its Xfinity TV app for Android. Right now it only supports basic features like remote controlling cable boxes, scheduling DVR recordings and searching the VOD library but other features like video streaming to the app and tuning to VOD on the TV will be add later, just like on iOS. Unfortunately right now it's optimized for phones, according to the notes it should work on tablets too but official support isn't ready yet. Features on their way to both platforms include recommendations and better filtering of watchlists and personalized TV listings. Other than having to turn our cable box off and on at first, we got it to work without a hitch, for now it's at least one more option to use a cool new device when you can't find the regular remote -- have you looked on top of the refrigerator?





Show full PR textThe XFINITY TV app puts a world of entertainment right at your fingertips!Find your favorite shows and movies, control your TV, and schedule DVR recordings-all with the XFINITY TV app. The XFINITY TV app puts a world of entertainment right at your fingertips!Find what to watch using a few taps:- Browse TV listings customized to your area- Browse an On Demand library featuring thousands of titles- Search TV listings and On Demand for any show or movie- Filter content by genre, network, HD, free and much moreControl your TV and DVR:- Conveniently change channels right from the app- Tune directly to On Demand programs to watch on your TV- Schedule DVR recordings of your favorite shows, series, and moviesRequirements:- Internet connection (Wi-Fi or 3G)- Compatible cable/set-top box (for TV and DVR control). Please see http://www.xfinity.com/eligibleboxes for more details.- Comcast ID or Comcast.net Email Address (and Password)- Some restrictions may apply. Not available in all areas.Initial Setup Notes:Please be at home with your TV and cable boxes turned on. Messages will appear on your TV screen to help you name your boxes for easier identification and control.Compatibility and Known Issues:- Xfinity TV app supports most Android handsets running Android 2.1 and 2.2.- The Xfinity TV app may work on other Android devices, like tablets, but it has not been designed or optimized for them and they are currently unsupported.- Xfinity TV app currently supports devices that allow more than a 16MB memory limit on applications and will automatically detect the required memory. This includes most devices. However, the AT&T HTC Aria is a notable exception and is not compatible.- Xfinity TV app is currently not supported on the Google Nexus S handset with Android 2.3.*Xfinity TV app supports many-but not all-Comcast set top boxes. Specifically, Scientific Atlanta set top boxes are not yet supported. Please see http://www.xfinity.com/eligibleboxes for details about currently supported set top boxes.Having trouble with the Xfinity TV App? Contact our support team via email: xfinity_remote@cable.comcast.com. We cannot respond through the Android Market comment/ratings system but would love to hear from you.
 