
 
 While some pay-TV providers are tied up in nasty battles with the studios that provide them content, Comcast and Scripps have just inked an agreement to bring the company's lifestyle programming to cable subscribers over the internet. As noted in the press release (embedded after the break) the multi-year deal brings HGTV, DIY Network, Food Network, Cooking Channel, Travel Channel and Great American Country to Comcast's TV Everywhere portal, via mobile (and "other" devices) and on Scripps websites. Probably not a minor element in the deal is the inclusion of support for Comcast's on the fly ad-insertion for VOD, which should push the efforts of both partners along, although potentially unskippable ads could be less viewer friendly.



  Show full PR text   COMCAST AND SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE REACH LONG-TERM,   TV EVERYWHERE DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT FOR XFINITY TV CUSTOMERS   PHILADELPHIA, PA and KNOXVILLE, TN – July 16, 2012 – Comcast (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) and Scripps Networks Interactive (NYSE: SNI) announced today they have reached a long-term agreement to expand their relationship in bringing Scripps' popular television networks and their award-winning shows to Comcast's Xfinity TV customers throughout the U.S. on more devices than ever before. The multi-year arrangement covers distribution via Comcast's linear and on-demand platforms and makes Scripps' content available to Xfinity TV customers through online, mobile, and other devices, as well as via Scripps' sites and services.

   SNI's lifestyle networks include HGTV, DIY Network, Food Network, Cooking Channel, Travel Channel and Great American Country, with highly rated shows such as "House Hunters," "Chopped," and "Hotel Impossible."

   "This agreement with Scripps Networks underscores our commitment to TV Everywhere and our desire to use the latest technologies and rapid pace of innovation to deliver the best content to Xfinity TV customers wherever and whenever they want to watch it," said Gregory Rigdon, executive vice president of content acquisition at Comcast.

   With the growing consumer use of time-shifted and on-demand viewing, the agreement provides for increased distribution of Scripps' content through Comcast's video-on-demand services. Additionally, the new contract includes the use of Comcast's advanced advertising platforms, such as dynamic ad insertion, to support programmers' efforts to monetize their content both during the Nielsen measurement window and thereafter.

   "This agreement benefits our viewers and Comcast customers, making available on multiple platforms – both in home and out of home – our lifestyle programming that viewers are so passionate about," said Henry Ahn, executive vice president of distribution strategy at SNI.

   About Comcast  Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communications products and services. Comcast is principally involved in the operation of cable systems through Comcast Cable and in the development, production and distribution of entertainment, news, sports and other content for global audiences through NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential and business customers. Comcast is the majority owner and manager of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates entertainment and news cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, local television station groups, television production operations, a major motion picture company and theme parks.   About Scripps Networks Interactive  Scripps Networks Interactive (NYSE: SNI) is a leading developer of lifestyle-oriented content for television, the Internet and emerging platforms, where on-air programming complements online video, social media areas and e-commerce components on companion Web sites and broadband vertical channels. The company's lifestyle media portfolio comprises popular lifestyle television and Internet brands HGTV, DIY Network, Food Network, Cooking Channel, Travel Channel and country music network Great American Country. Scripps Networks Interactive is based in Knoxville, Tenn., with offices in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Cincinnati, Detroit, Dallas, Atlanta, San Francisco, Nashville, Tenn. and Chevy Chase, Md.   # # #

 
