
 
Gaijin Games has brought its Runner series to the browser in CommanderVideo, a free-to-play endless runner you can dive into right now. The mechanics are similar to previous Runner games, with players jumping, kicking, sliding, blocking and otherwise avoiding obstacles as they try to run as far as possible.

Gaijin's previous game, Runner 2: Future Legend of Rhythm Alien, will make its debut on PS Vita this summer, sometime between mid-July and mid-August. Aside from being technically difficult, Runner 2 also has the distinct honor of being narrated by the voice of Mario himself, Charles Martinet.
      

 

Show full PR textCommanderVideo Embarks on an Endless Retro Adventure!SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. – July 3, 2013 – Gaijin Games today unveiled the browser-based CommanderVideo, the studio's first-ever endless runner. Starring the eponymous CommanderVideo, it features the much-loved 16-bit aesthetic of Runner2's retro levels, as well as a rad retro soundtrack with all the beeps and blorps the kids love so much. It's also completely free to play!You already know this if you clicked the link above, but the game can be found at www.commandervideo.com! Pretty good location, no?Alex Neuse and Mike Roush, co-founders of Gaijin Games, are over the moon with excitement for the game's release."This is totally a video game," said a fiercely excited Neuse. "And like all video games, it should be played in 10-hour binges that compromise your personal wellbeing.""I seriously can't find my car keys," added an animated Roush. And by animated, we don't mean excited. Like, he's seriously an animated cartoon character. It's kind of weird.ENDLESS RUNNER!Given its endless and randomly generated nature, CommanderVideo is quite possibly the longest game in history. Whether or not that absurd statement becomes fact is entirely up to the players, and how well they manage to avoid the many treacherous pitfalls and devious spiders that lay ahead of them. Should they perform well enough, they'll find their way to the game's leaderboards! Should they fail, we'll all laugh at them and tell them they're bad at video games.LEADERBOARDS!Speaking of leaderboards, their inclusion in CommanderVideo is why we feel the game is perfect for playing with friends. Compete to see who can run the furthest without messing up, and then be super bummed when it turns into a super heated rivalry and you all start to hate each other! Video games!UNLOCKABLE CHARACTERS!CommanderVideo will also feature unlockable characters, which can only be earned by collecting gold bars -- the game's form of currency -- while playing. We'd reveal all these characters right here, but what would be the fun in that? Go play the game and find out, ya chump!Members of Gaijin Games will no doubt be playing the game quite a bit here in the next few weeks, and then weeping openly when they realize that they can't make it onto the leaderboards. However, there are plans to hold contests and award prizes to players who perform especially well in the game, so be on the lookout for details about that soon!We hope you enjoy playing the game, and we also hope you check out Bit.Trip Presents... Runner2: Future Legend of Rhythm Alien on the PC/360/PS3/Wii U! Unless you already have, that is. In which case - you're awesome.P.S. - Keep an eye out for an AMAZING FUTURE ANNOUNCEMENT. It will blow your mind.ABOUT GAIJIN GAMESGaijin Games is an award-winning San Francisco- and Santa Cruz-based video game development studio that focuses on making unique gaming experiences for discerning humans. Founded by Genuine Men, Alex Neuse and Mike Roush, Gaijin Games has been responsible for tickling the world with its rhythm-music eccentricities since 2008 with their IGF award-winning BIT.TRIP series and the console version of the IGF award-winning lilt line. In addition to rhythm-music stylings, Gaijin Games has also branched out into the puzzle genre with their Robotube brand, recently launching BlokTonik for the iPad. Moving forward, Gaijin Games aims to bring their special brand of entertainment to all platforms, console and otherwise. More information about the studio can be found at www.gaijingames.com.
 