
 


Taipei's been far too kind to us Westerners, and with Computex drawing to a close here on this side of the world, we can't help but pull ourselves together for a moment and look back at the trade show that was. It's been a fairly wild week in news, in large part thanks to the smorgasbord of tablets that have surfaced for the first time during the 30th running of this great event. Both Intel and Microsoft dropped bombshells on the tech world this week, with ASUS, iiView and even the xpPhone making bigger-than-life impressions. If you missed any of the blow-by-blow action over the past week, we'll work on forgiving you, and while you can relive the memories by visiting the links below, you simply can't move on with your life without living vicariously through us during our trip to the one and only Windows 7-themed '100 Seafood' restaurant. So long, Taiwan -- we'll be back before you know it.

Major news / product releases:

ARM: 'Eagle' to follow Cortex-A9, will support Google TV 
MSI WindPad 100 is a 10-inch, Intel Atom-powered Windows 7 tablet 
MSI WindPad 110: a 10-inch Tegra 2-powered Android tablet 
ASUS Eee Pad official: Intel CULV processors, Windows 7, and a 10-hour battery life 
ASUS Eee Tablet goes official
NVIDIA ushers in the '3D PC' with ASUS G51Jx-EE, Eee Top ET2400 and CD5390 
Intel 'Oak Trail' is headed for tablets in early 2011 
Intel boosts netbooks with dual-core Atom, slims 'em down with 'Canoe Lake' 
Qualcomm ships first dual-core Snapdragon chipsets clocking 1.2GHz 
ASUS EPad: like the EeePad, but with less ecstasy 

Hands-on / previews:

ExoPC Slate hands-on
ASUS Eee Pad EP101TC and EP121 preview 
ASUS Eee Tablet preview 
Exclusive: LG UX10 tablet preview at Computex 
Intel 'Canoe Lake' prototype netbook preview 
MeeGo Moorestown-powered tablet preview 
Microsoft reveals Windows Embedded Compact 7, hosts heaps of tablets 
Pixel Qi introduces tablet-ready screens, we go hands-on (video) 
 Intel demos Android 2.1 on Moorestown smartphone (video) 
Microsoft Windows Embedded Compact 7 tablet prototype preview 
Huawei S7 runs 1GHz Snapdragon and Android 2.1 like a champ (video) 
iiView M1Touch is a 10-inch iPhone tablet, seriously (video) 
Innoversal's Pixel Qi-based tablet prototype: $530 for the display of your dreams 
ITG xpPhone functioning at Computex, we go head-on (video)

Everything else:

Labor practice protest goes down at Computex, Steve Jobs called an 'OEM profit bloodsucker' 
Microsoft: Windows Phone 7 not planned to hit tablets, Courier was always a concept 
Windows 7 tablet roundup from Computex, nay Tabletex 
Engadget dines at Taipei's Windows 7-themed restaurant (video) 
Terror in Taipei: Computex taxi drivers watch live TV, video chat while cruising 

After all of that, we're still just skimming the surface. For the full monty, be sure to check out our Engadget Computex 2010 landing page right here.

A huge, huge thanks goes out to Andy Yang for his invaluable translation skills and all-around amazingness during the show. Another major thank you to the entire Engadget Chinese team for their hospitality and kindness. One final thank you to the nation of Taiwan and city of Taipei -- without you, the world would be far less awesome.
 