
   ComScore released its annual US Digital Future in Focus report this week, offering a year-end wrap of many of the trends its tracked throughout the past year and a look towards the next. One of the more telling stats concerns email use among those in their teens and twenties. According to the report, web-based email use among 12-17 year olds dropped 31 percent in the past year, while use among those 18 to 24 saw an even bigger drop of 34 percent. Some of that can no doubt be attributed to Facebook and other email alternatives, but a big factor is the growth of email use on mobile devices; both of those age groups saw double-digit growth in that respect, with mobile email use jumping 32 percent among 18 to 24 year olds.  In terms of sheer growth in the past couple of years, though, there's not much that matches the trajectory of tablets (obviously aided by one in particular). ComScore notes that US tablet sales over the past two years have topped 40 million, a figure that it took smartphones as a category a full seven years to reach. Another area that saw some considerable growth in 2011 is digital downloads and subscriptions (including e-books), which jumped 26 percent compared to the previous year, leading all other areas of e-commerce. The full report and some videos of the highlights can be found at the source link below.
 

  Show full PR text  comScore Releases the "2012 U.S. Digital Future in Focus" Report Report Offers Insights on Key Trends from 2011 and What They Mean for the Coming Year  RESTON, Va., Feb. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- comScore, Inc. SCOR +2.09% , a leader in measuring the digital world, today released the 2012 U.S. Digital Future in Focus report. This annual report examines how the prevailing trends in social media, search, online video, digital advertising, mobile and e-commerce are defining the current marketplace and what these trends mean for the year ahead.  "2012 promises to be an exciting year for the digital media industry as the explosion of available content and proliferation of web-enabled devices drive the evolution of the digital consumer, creating new opportunities and challenges for the entire digital ecosystem," said Linda Abraham, comScore CMO and EVP of Global Product Development. "In order to be successful in this new paradigm, digital marketers must understand the key trends shaping the current marketplace and what that means for the future of their businesses."  To download a complimentary copy of 2012 U.S. Digital Future in Focus report, please visit: http://www.comscore.com/2012USDigitalFutureinFocus  Key insights from the 2012 U.S. Digital Future in Focus include:  Facebook-Led Social Media Market is Redefining Communication in the Digital and Physical Worlds  Social Networking accounted for 16.6 percent of all online minutes at the end of 2011 and is on track to surpass Portals as the most engaging online activity in 2012. Facebook continues to lead as the driving force behind this shift in consumer behavior, accounting for the largest share of online minutes across the entire web in 2011.  Bing Gains Ground in Search  Although Google maintains a strong lead in the U.S. search market, one of the most notable stories in search in 2011 was Bing's positive growth trajectory. Bing closed out the year by surpassing Yahoo! for the #2 position among core search engines for the first time in its history, bolstered in part by its social search partnership with Facebook implemented in early 2011.  Online Video Boom Signals Sea Change in Video Ecosystem  Online video viewing witnessed impressive gains across a variety of measures in 2011, signaling a behavioral shift in how Americans are consuming video content. More than 100 million Americans watched online video content on an average day to close out 2011, representing a 43-percent increase versus year ago.  Digital Advertising Enters Era of Increased Accountability as Brand Dollars Continue to Shift Online  A staggering 4.8 trillion display ad impressions were delivered across the U.S. web in 2011 as brand advertisers continued to shift dollars to the digital medium. This shift in ad dollars has magnified the need for greater transparency and accountability in ad delivery across the digital advertising ecosystem.  Smartphone and Tablets Fuel the Rise of the Digital Omnivore  The rise of smartphones and tablets has drastically altered consumers' digital media consumption. In 2011, the majority of all mobile phone owners consumed mobile media on their device, marking an important milestone in the evolution of mobile from primarily a communication device to also a content consumption tool. At the end of the year, more than 8 percent of all digital traffic was consumed beyond the 'classic web' via devices such as smartphones and tablets.  E-Commerce is Back and Better Than Ever  Despite the backdrop of continued economic uncertainty, 2011 was a strong year for retail e-commerce. Throughout the year, growth rates versus the prior year remained in double-digits to significantly outpace growth at brick-and-mortar retail. Total U.S. retail and travel-related e-commerce reached $256 billion in 2011, up 12 percent from 2010.  Webinar - 2012 U.S. Digital Future in Focus: Trends Every Marketer Needs to KnowJoin Jeff Hackett, executive vice president of comScore Media Metrix, and Eli Goodman, comScore Media Evangelist, on Wednesday February 22nd at 2 PM EST, as they share key insights from the 2012 U.S. Digital Future in Focus report and discuss what these trends mean for today's marketers.For more information and to register, please visit: http://www.comscore.com/2012_Future_in_Focus_Webinar  About comScore comScore, Inc. SCOR +2.09% is a global leader in measuring the digital world and preferred source of digital business analytics. For more information, please visit www.comscore.com/companyinfo .  Follow us on Twitter http://twitter.com/comScorehttp ://twitter.com/gfulgoni  SOURCE comScore, Inc.
 