
 Yet another print powerhouse is bringing its wares to the iPad, all lining up neatly ahead of Apple's upcoming WWDC. First it was Time, then it was Hearst, and now Condè Nast is joining the fun with very similar terms to the other two. Starting this week with The New Yorker, digital versions will be available for free to current print edition subscribers. For new subscribers it's $5.99 per month or $59.99 a year, which gets you 47 issues. Seven other magazines from the publisher are coming by the end of May, including Wired and Vanity Fair, priced at $1.99 each or $19.99 annually. That matches up perfectly with the earlier announcements, meaning Apple and the publishers seem to finally be getting along. Isn't it nice when everyone gets along?
      

 

 		Show full PR text  CONDÉ NAST TO OFFER MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR iPAD 		The New Yorker Available Via Subscription on the App Store Starting Today, 		Seven Others by End of May  		New York, N.Y.-May 9, 2011- Condé Nast has begun offering subscriptions for iPad editions of its magazines today, it was announced by Robert A. Sauerberg, Jr., President of Condé Nast. Subscriptions are now available for The New Yorker, which will be followed by Vanity Fair, Glamour, Golf Digest, Allure, Wired, Self and GQ in the coming weeks. 		Subscriptions for iPad editions of Condé Nast magazines will be available through In-App Purchase on the App Store. Current print subscribers will be able to access iPad editions immediately through the term of their subscriptions, and new print subscriptions sold on Condé Nast websites ―including newyorker.com― will include access to iPad editions.  		"We've been working closely with Apple for some time to be the first to deliver what consumers clearly want: easy access to premium packaged digital content via subscription," said Mr. Sauerberg. "The iPad has created an incredible new way for readers to experience our award-winning magazines. Over time, we'll see subscriptions leading to greater and greater scale, helping to drive overall industry growth."  		"We are thrilled to have Condé Nast's world-renowned magazines available on the iPad," said Eddy Cue, Apple's Vice President of Internet Services. "Condé Nast is connecting with readers in an innovative way, and we think everyone is going to love being able to subscribe to iPad editions of their favorite Condé Nast magazines with just one click." 		Condé Nast will offer monthly and yearly subscriptions and will continue to offer single issues, all via In-App Purchase on the App Store. Some additional pricing details: 		· Subscriptions to The New Yorker's weekly iPad editions are available through In-App Purchase on the App Store and include password access to the web-based edition for $5.99/month (4 issues) or $59.99/year. Print and digital bundled subscriptions available at newyorker.com include print, iPad and web-based editions for $6.99/month (4 issues) or $69.99/year. 		· Subscription offerings available through In-App Purchase on the App Store for Wired, Vanity Fair, Glamour, Golf Digest, Allure, Self and GQ will be $1.99 per month or $19.99 per year.  		Condé Nast, a division of Advance Publications, operates in 25 countries and is home to some of the world's most celebrated media brands. In the United States, Condé Nast publishes 18 consumer magazines, four business-to-business publications, 27 websites, and more than 30 apps for mobile and tablet devices, all of which define excellence in their categories. Condé Nast has won more National Magazine Awards over the past ten years than all of its competitors combined.
 