
       
The iPad may not have a camera in its current incarnation, but Apple's at least laying the foundation for one: we just confirmed with extremely trusted sources that iPhone OS 3.2 contains rudimentary support for video calling, which could explain that mysterious space at the top of the device in our leaked pics. We're told that there are hooks to accept and decline a video conference, flip a video feed (which suggests a front-facing camera) and -- most importantly -- run the video call in either full screen mode or in just a portion of the screen. That means you'll be able to chat and do other things at the same time, which could mean there's at least some type of multitasking going on here.   We can also confirm that iPhone OS 3.2 supports file downloads and local storage in the browser, which means you'll be able to pull files off the web and use them in other apps, and there's at least the beginnings of SMS support buried within the code -- a fact we were able to verify with noted iPhone jailbreaker chpwn, who sent in the above screenshot from a hacked-up copy of the iPad simulator. (The simulator always says "iPhone simulator" in the menu bar, but that's the iPad.) chpwn also tells us he's found some inklings of actual phone support, there's a spellchecker, and that both the new landscape orientation for the homescreen and keyboard support appear to be destined for the iPhone itself when 3.2 comes out.   We're not sure what any of this means at this point, or if any of it will ever be implemented, but we're definitely starting to get the impression that Apple didn't tell us everything there is to know about the iPad on Wednesday -- and we're even more curious to find out what iPhone OS 4.0 will look like when it arrives.  P.S.- chpwn was also able to port iPhone multitasking hacks ProSwitcher and Backgrounder to the iPad simulator, which is certainly going to be useful if an iPad jailbreak exploit is eventually discovered. Check out a shot of it going in the gallery below, along with some other settings panels the coder dug up.  Update: We just got another tip from iPhone jailbreak dev Ryan Petrich, confirming that there's a spell checker with multiple dictionaries and user-added entries (huzzah!), much richer text support for apps, the ability to selectively draw to external displays (using the VGA or component adapters, we'd imagine), location-aware ads in Maps and possibly other programs that use the Maps API, file upload ability in Safari, a modifiable cut / copy / paste menu, and, most interestingly, prototype support for a "handwriting keyboard." Maybe we'll see some stylus action on this thing after all. Peep Ryan's take after the break. 





  -- New features I've uncovered: • CoreGraphics to PDF API for sure, printer API is being prototyped  • Spell checker in text fields and web views using AppleSpell  - multiple languages   - grammar checking (English-only so far)   - address book integration   - user added words   - SDK access   - Included dictionaries: Apple Dictionary, New Oxford American Dictionary, Oxford American Writer's Thesaurus, Shogakukan Daijisen, Shogakukan Progressive English-Japanese Japanese-English Dictionary, and Shogakukan Ruigo Reikai Jiten (may also be used for a Dictionary app perhaps?)  • USB Host support or expanded Bluetooth support   - PTP support for transferring images   - MobileStorageMounter (perhaps used for PTP; perhaps used to mount external USB storage?)  - Hardware keyboard: USBKeyboardLayouts.plist • Much richer text API including low-level access to font data and highlevel support for drawing formatted text  • Support for querying attached screens and choosing which screen a window draws on (App Store approved?)  • The beginnings of file upload in Safari  • Location-sensitive ads are being prototyped in integrated Maps application (and applications that use the maps framework)  • Ability for applications to modify the standard cut/copy/paste menu • "Handwriting keyboard" is being prototyped.

       

 