
 Clearly, there's a lot of us out there who like the idea of blending multiple connection types: in the wake of a better than expected Kickstarter run, Connectify's Dispatch is ready to download. As promised, the app unifies as many cellular, Ethernet and WiFi connections as a computer can muster, whether it's for a simple speed increase or a quick handover if one or more links goes down. It's also smart about bandwidth use, tracking usage and prioritizing connections to avoid using that heavily capped mobile data plan until it's absolutely necessary. Only Windows users get to boost their internet for now, although Connectify is hoping for Android, Linux and Mac ports in 2013.



   Show full PR text   CONNECTIFY DISPATCH COMBINES ETHERNET, WI-FI, AND 4G TO TURBOCHARGE INTERNET SPEED
  PHILADELPHIA, PA. - December 13th, 2012 - Connectify, Inc. announced today the launch of Connectify Dispatch, a PC software application that lets users combine Ethernet, Wi-Fi, 3G, and 4G Internet connections to create a faster and more reliable "super connection." Connectify Dispatch empowers consumers to connect to multiple networks at the same time, for the combined speed of all connections. Any number of Wi-Fi, 3G/4G mobile broadband, and wired connections can be used simultaneously with Dispatch. Users also enjoy the most reliable Internet experience possible. If one Internet connection fails, Connectify Dispatch moves traffic onto the working connections until additional networks become available again.
  "Today, most people have multiple Wi-Fi, 3G/4G, and Ethernet connections available to them, and it has become clear that consumers want an easy-to-use solution for combining these various connections to get faster, more reliable Internet access," said Alex Gizis, founder and CEO of Connectify. "Some hardware routers can aggregate certain types of connections, but these devices are difficult to use and can cost thousands of dollars. Connectify Dispatch brings this load-balancing technology to everyone, with an easy-to-use software interface, and at a fraction of the cost."
  Following a successful Kickstarter campaign in September, the enthusiastic backers of Connectify Dispatch helped to launch the software on schedule by offering feedback and beta testing. Connectify plans to continue in the spirit of end-user collaboration. The company is launching a campaign on its own site to let consumers unlock new Dispatch features as incremental "stretch goals" are met.
  For more information on Connectify Dispatch, visit: www.connectify.me
 
