
 


Contour has already produced a handful of imagers for football players and cyclists, but the company has now come out with a solution for underwater explorers, as well, with its first waterproof camera -- the ContourRoam. This hands-free device boasts a super wide-angle, 170-degree rotating lens, capable of capturing HD video in three different resolutions (1080p, 960p, and 720p) at 30fps. Its lens can also rotate up to 270 degrees, and projects a horizontal laser to help you align your shots. The camera's instant on-record option, meanwhile, allows you to start recording as soon as you turn it on, while its waterproof aluminum body lets you shoot video at underwater depths of up to one meter for up to 30 minutes at a time -- meaning you can leave that old ContourHD case at home. Aspiring Steve Zissous can buy one now for $200, at the source link below. Otherwise, just wade past the break for more information, in the full presser.    
 

 		Show full PR text  Ready, Set, Record with ContourROAM: The World's Easiest Hands-Free Video Camera 		Contour's Latest Camera Features a Waterproof, Versatile Design at an Affordable Price 		– Available Today to Record All Life's Action 		SEATTLE, Wash. – September 8, 2011 – Contour, Inc. (http://www.contour.com), a market leader in hands-free video cameras and social video tools, today announced ContourROAM, (http://contour.com/products/contour-roam) the easiest, most versatile video camera on the market. The company's first waterproof camera also features a super wide-angle 170-degree rotating lens to let explorers record their adventures effortlessly. The new design includes an Instant On-Record Switch enabling users to instantly record so there's no question whether the camera is on/recording or not. ContourROAM is now available at Contour.com and retail partners for $199. 		"ContourROAM is all about capturing action video easily while having versatility of use across all sports and environments. We created this new hands-free video camera to take the guesswork out of whether the camera is recording or not and to capture and share video with the greatest of ease," said Marc Barros, CEO of Contour. "ContourROAM is so lightweight and compact you don't even notice it's there. It goes wherever the action is, from action sports to team sports to weekend adventures. Just slide the record switch forward and go big." 		Contour's latest camera couples its signature hands-free design and technical features with increased simplicity to deliver a fun and easy way to capture action video. Its new Instant On-Record power and record switch enables people to know that the camera is on and recording with a single push of a switch. Being waterproof with a built-in battery allows explorers of all kinds to focus their attention on what's most important: the adventure. 		How ContourROAM Delivers 		The new action video camera lets people: 		· Easily Record On-the-Go: The Instant On-Record Switch powers the camera and starts recording with one touch, so there's no question on whether it's recording or not. 		· Withstand Any Environment: With a waterproof aluminum body, the camera records under up to one meter of water for 30 minutes and can sustain the most rugged conditions. 		· Capture it All in HD: The camera records crisp high-definition video with three resolutions (1080p, 960p, and 720p at 30fps each) and also has a 5-megapixel still photo mode. A wide-angle 170-degree lens captures the peripherals and backdrops to enhance the point of view experience. 		· Line up the Perfect Shot: The lens rotates up to 270 degrees and can project a horizontal Laser Line to make sure the shot is level, even when the camera is mounted on its side or upside down. 		· Capture Video Anywhere: Its compact, low-profile, hands-free design makes the 5.1 ounce camera easy to wear without getting in the way. ContourROAM features a new tripod screw mount and the Contour TRail™ mounting system, built-in to mount virtually anywhere.  		Shipping today from Contour.com, ContourROAM is also available from the following retail partners: Amazon.com; Best Buy; B&H Photo; Video and Pro-Audio; CCS; Eastern Mountain Sports; Gear Co-Op; and Point of View Cameras. 		Contour's latest camera joins its line of award-winning action video cameras, including Contour+ and ContourGPS. The company creates a variety of solutions to fit every explorer's needs, and makes capturing and sharing action video seamlessly with its comprehensive suite of mounts and accessories, free apps, software and online community. 		More information on Contour is available at www.contour.com.
 