
 
The Contour family of helmet cameras are among our favorite, their little lasers making it a little easier to figure out just where the heck they're pointing. Not as nice as the integrated screen as on the Drift Innovation HD170, but rather less bulky. Soon you won't have to worry about lasers with the upcoming Live Viewfinder feature. As it turns out, the $349.99 ContourGPS doesn't just have a GPS chip inside, there's Bluetooth connectivity in there somewhere too.

This enables the little cameras to connect wirelessly to your Android or iOS device and send some video its way. At least, that's the theory, as the apps aren't ready for consumption yet, though we're told iOS is coming first sometime this summer. It looks like you won't be able to tap into the camera's storage, this will exclusively work like a viewfinder, but that gives us something to hope for in coming releases. This extension is coming later this year, but we're hoping to check it out a lot sooner than that. Stay tuned.
      

 

Show full PR textContour Turns Your Mobile Phone into a Live Viewfinder for its ContourGPS CameraJanuary 5, 2011 (Seattle, Wash.) – Contour, a market leader in hands-free video cameras, is announcing a new feature for its award winning ContourGPS model: Bluetooth. Already the first hands-free video camera to capture speed and location in real-time, Contour is unveiling a built-in Bluetooth chip in the ContourGPS and a mobile app that together enable your phone to become a live viewfinder. Now, you can see what your camera sees while configuring your settings, all from the most remote locations. Applications are currently being developed for the Android and iOS platforms. Contour will be demonstrating this new functionality at the Consumer Electronics Show. "We're excited about turning a phone into a live screen for the ContourGPS and delivering the single feature nearly all of our customers have been asking for," says Marc Barros, Contour's CEO. "ContourGPS was already the first hands-free camera to introduce real-time GPS, bringing a whole new level of video storytelling to our customers around the world. But with the enabling of Bluetooth, ContourGPS becomes the only hands-free video camera with a wireless viewfinder." Hands-free is one of the fastest growing video camera categories, but it's often limited in its application by the lack of a screen. By unlocking Bluetooth, ContourGPS opens itself to connectivity with audio, remote control, and mobile accessories. Most importantly, it enables a mobile app to turn your phone into a live viewfinder. The ContourGPS camera brings together three of the hottest trends: location, mobile, and video. It goes beyond being just a camera – it's an all-in-one platform that offers innovative software in conjunction with a vibrant online community. Customers can record, post, and share their video adventures while tracking their path, speed, and elevation on a map - all at the same time. A rugged video camera made specifically for the estimated 100 million outdoor enthusiasts around the world, ContourGPS makes it easy to capture video from within the action and share it online in seconds. A 2011 CES Innovations Award Winner, ContourGPS ($349.99 MSRP) is being displayed at the Digital Experience Event on January 5th and at the company's CES Booth #35155. Visit http://contour.com/camera/contour_gps to learn more or to find a complete list of retailers.About ContourContour is the market leader in hands-free, location-aware video cameras. Producing adventure storytelling tools based on a simple intuitive design, Contour enables modern-day explorers to use location-based video to replay their personal tales of action, adventure and travel, sharing them with world at the touch of a button. For more information about Contour please visit www.contour.com.
 