
 

Remember that Contour Plus helmet cam teased by a cheeky cyclist last month? Well, this is it, though it turns out the name's actually written as Contour+. Like the ContourGPS, this new imager captures 1080p video at 30fps, and also packs built-in GPS plus Bluetooth v2.1 -- the latter's for the wireless viewfinder app on iOS and, eventually, Android. The difference between these two cameras? Well, ignoring the colors and the extra 3mm in length, the Contour+ does indeed come with a mini HDMI-out port alongside the microSD slot on the back. Better yet, you'll also find an HDMI cable in the box to get you going. And of course, let's not forget the new super-wide lens (still rotatable) that does 170 degrees for 960p and 720p recording, or 125 degrees for 1080p. Both modes best the camera's predecessor, though the trade-off is the lack of dual-alignment lasers. If this isn't a problem for you, then feel free to shell out $499.99 when it launches on May 18th.

Update: We have PR after the break.

[Thanks, Daniel H.]
      

 

 		Show full PR text  TAKE STORYTELLING TO THE NEXT LEVEL WITH NEW CONTOUR+ HANDS-FREE VIDEO CAMERA – AVAILABLE TODAY 		Contour's Latest Innovation Adds Richness to Stories with Progression in Video, Location, Audio, and Streaming 		SEATTLE, Wash. – May 12, 2011 – Contour, Inc. (http://www.contour.com),a market leader in hands-free video cameras, today announced Contour+, Contour's first camera for the broadcast and pro-sumer markets. The Contour+ marks the next progression in hands-free video and represents the company's continued focus on leading the market's innovation. The Contour+ is now available at Contour.com and retail partners for $499. 		"Nowhere on Earth is off limits to filmmakers and other visual storytellers, but there are plenty of places standard pro cameras can't go," said Marc Barros, Contour CEO. "Contour+ delivers high-quality video, audio, location data and streaming capabilities anywhere there's a story to tell. Today, anyone can be a documentarian or filmmaker, and we've created the most affordable way to give pro-sumers, broadcast and filmmakers everything they need to tell incredibly rich stories from right within the action." 		The hands-free and wireless technology that has established Contour's technical leadership in the market is augmented with progressions in the lens, first-ever features in the hands-free market, and more to create a new era in the technical side of storytelling. The camera's powerful and unique combination of technical features has piqued the interest of industry tastemakers including Film Producer and Freeride Entertainment Director, Derek Westerlund. 		"Hands-free is a big revolution in the camera space, but we haven't had anything that was progressive enough to use on professional shoots until now," said Westerlund. "The Contour+ allows me to capture great POV shots and will help bring the movie's story to life. The Contour+ is the new standard for next generation, high-quality, hands-free cameras." 		Greg Tracy, a renowned stunt driver and filmmaker who has worked on feature films such as "Bourne Ultimatum," "Wanted," and "The Town," looks forward to using the new Contour+ on his upcoming professional shoots. "When I'm shooting action, I love to put the audience in the middle of it and experience it first-hand. With the Contour+, I'll be able to do this like never before." said Tracy. "With its professional-grade lens, connectivity options and size, the Contour+ is the perfect tool for my demanding production work, and it won't break the bank." 		How Contour+ Delivers		The next progression in hands-free cameras lets explorers:		• Expand Field of Vision: A six-element glass lens delivers 1080p video quality, an adjustable white balance to dial-in details and a 170-degree field of view to clearly integrate peripherals and backdrops in each shot		• Deliver Live Action: Streaming video via HDMI and an external transmitter broadcasts the action in real-time		• Stay Connected Better than any POV Camera: Built-in Bluetooth connects to a mobile phone, creating a wireless viewfinder to check the angle; a HDMI port allows instant replay on a laptop or widescreen direct from the included microSD card		• Capture Crisp Audio: The first external 2.5mm microphone jack on any hands-free camera helps distinguish featured audio from ambient noise		• Benefit from Contour's Signature Elements: Three resolutions, four frame rates and a five-megapixel still mode are available to customize the shot; an internal interactive GPS receiver tracks speed, location, and elevation at four frames per second 		Shipping today from Contour.com, the Contour+ is also available from Amazon.com; B&H Photo, Video, and Pro-Audio; Gear Co-Op, Paragon, and Samy's Camera. 		Contour's complete collection of high quality, easy-to-use cameras, including the ContourGPS and ContourHD, provide a variety of solutions to fit every adventurer's need. The company helps people further share their stories with its free apps and online community.
 