
 

Desktop PC power supplies are tough to get excited about, no matter how many features they cram in. But Cooler Master's Silent Pro Hybrid Fanless series is actually pretty alluring. The supply isn't actually "fanless" but it does have a fanless mode that can be used to minimize machine noise, at least until the load crosses the 200W threshold. Add to that a 90-percent efficiency, fully modular cables and a control panel that lets you manually adjust the speed of your system fans and you're looking at quite the compelling product for the DIY desktop enthusiast. As you could have guessed though, all these fancy features don't come cheap. Cooler Master is offering three different models: 850W, 1050W and 1300W, which range in price from $200 to $300 -- a sizable chunk of change to drop on any component. They'll be shipping this month to the US and Asia, with Europe to follow in November. Check out the complete PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Silent Pro Hybrid Fanless Series 		Cooler Master, an industry leading chassis, thermal solution, peripheral, and accessory manufacturer, is proud to announce a world's first in power supply technologies, the Silent Pro Hybrid Series. Equipped with fully modular cables, centralized control of power supply and system fans, a noise-free operation mode, and an included 5.25" drive bay fan controller module, the Silent Pro Hybrid Series becomes the industry benchmark to aspire to. 		A New Revolution		Silent Pro Hybrid represents a paradigm shift in the way power supplies will be perceived within a system setup. It includes the features that many enthusiasts demand such as full control over cable management with fully modular cables, over 90% efficiency with 80Plus Gold Certification, noise-free operation, and other value-added features that ensure these users get the most out of their purchase. 		Direct Fan Control		With a power supply integrated 7V fan power port and included 5.25" drive bay fan controller module, the Silent Pro Hybrid Series removes the middleman by taking an unnecessary load off of the motherboard. This direct connection between power supply and fan controller provides the user with immediate on-the-fly control over the 135mm Super Silent Hydraulic Bearings power supply fan and up to 3 other system fans. The power and system fan speeds are adjusted independently via two dials. Users may determine the level of control they would like to wield by switching between automatic and manual modes for the power supply fan. 		Noise-free Operation		The first to offer a "fanless" mode, the Silent Pro Hybrid Series seeks to eliminate unneeded fan noise. The power supply fan can be completed turned off to essentially operate as if it were fanless. This mode persists until loads become greater than 200W. At this point, a safe mode will activate the fan and cool according to the level of the load. 		Simple Setup and Maintenance 		Needs differ between systems and a fully modular cable setup allows the user to determine what is critical to their setup. This individualized approach provides for easier management of cables that open the door for a professional cable routing look with less overall effort. Maintenance and upgrades on the main power supply unit become extremely efficient and effective. Upgrade from one wattage to another by simply detaching all cables from the power supply and replace it with another, more powerful, unit in the Silent Pro Hybrid Series. All of this is done without disconnecting cables from the system itself. A computer can now be back up and running to work or game in a matter of seconds. 		Price and Availability		The Silent Pro Hybrid Series will come in 850W, 1050W, and 1300W models and will be available for US region and Asia in October, and Europe region on November 2011, with price $199.99, $249.99 and $299.99 MSRP (USD) at retail and online locations that carry your favorite Cooler Master, CM Storm, and Choiix products. 		About Cooler Master		Cooler Master was founded to provide the best thermal solutions to our customers worldwide. Since its establishment more than a decade ago, we continue to invest in product development in order to provide the leading-edge innovations to people and businesses. Cooler Master's enclosure technology line-up includes heat sinks and fans, chassis, power supplies, function panels and accessories. Cooler Master has its headquarters in Taipei, Taiwan, with global branch offices located in Europe, America and APAC, so that we can offer to our customers the best service in time. For more information on Cooler Master, please visit www.coolermaster.com.
 