
 

Hold on to your seats gaming enthusiasts, Corsair just unleashed an onslaught of Vengeance series peripherals aimed at helping you dominate that Call of Duty marathon... and we got our hands on all of 'em. There's a lot to cover, so we'll get right to it. The K60 gamer keyboard boasts Cherry MX Red interchangeable keys for rapid fire, 20-key rollover, windows key lock and crazy fast reporting rate at 1000 reports per second. Its companion, the M60 mouse, implements an Avago 5670 DPI sensor, adjustable center of gravity, custom lift detection and high-mass scroll wheel. In addition to all that, this bad boy features a dedicated sniper button which allows you to hone in on your target that much faster. Read on for the full rundown on the goods.






 What's that? You're more of an MMO or RTS gamer? No worries, Corsair's got you covered there as well with the K90 and M90 keyboard / mouse combo. The keypad (pictured above) houses several of the same features of the aforementioned K60 with the addition of backlit, icy blue LEDs and 18 programmable macro keys with three separate banks. You read that right -- 54 independent macros will be at your disposable should you need them. Not to be outdone, the M90 laser mouse has 15 customizable buttons of its own that take cues from six unique profiles that can be selected mid-game and many of the stellar options from the M60 FPS clicker. All of the above will be available in October -- the keyboards will set you back $129 (K90) and $99 (K60), while the mice will be priced at $99 (M90) and $79 (M60), respectively.If you're needing a headset to go along with your new peripheral duo, the outfit has your back there as well with its Vengeance 1500, 1300, and 1100. Both the 1500 and 1300 cans feature 50mm drivers, 3D positional audio, and a noise-canceling cardioid microphone. While the former connects via USB and provides both 7.1 and 5.1 Dolby Headphone positional audio, the latter analog set makes use of dual 3.5mm jacks. Last but not least, the 1100 implements both of the previously mentioned connections for flawless compatibility, 40mm drivers and a mic that won't pick up all of your top-secret background chatter. Also hitting retailers next month, the trio will cost you $99, $79 and $39 from top to bottom. Catch all that? If not, don't fret, just peek at the galleries or the video below for all the minutiae.Dante Cesa and Myriam Joire contributed to this report.   See more video at our hub! 		Show full PR text  Corsair Announces New Vengeance Gaming Keyboards and Laser Gaming Mice		The new Corsair Vengeance gaming peripherals line focuses on high performance and meeting the unique needs of PC gamers 		FREMONT, California - September 16th, 2011 - Corsair®, a worldwide designer and supplier of high-performance components to the PC gaming hardware market, today announced their new line of Vengeance™ PC gaming peripherals, including two gaming keyboards and two laser gaming mice. "Corsair has built a reputation for developing innovative products that focus on the unique needs of our customers," said Andy Paul, Corsair's President and CEO. "Our new Vengeance keyboards and mice follow in that tradition. PC gamers will love their gorgeous design and attention to the smallest details, like the intelligently designed button layout on our mice or the specially shaped WASD keycaps on our keyboard." 		Corsair's new PC gaming peripherals line includes four new HID products: The Vengeance K60 and Vengeance K90 gaming keyboards and the Vengeance M60 and Vengeance M90 gaming mice. A key feature of all four of these new Vengeance Series products is the use of an aluminum structure to provide strength and durability, as well as a stunning industrial design. 		"As enthusiastic gamers ourselves, we've developed precisely the products we always wanted, with a level of quality we have not seen before," said Ruben Mookerjee, VP and General Manager of the Components Business Unit at Corsair. "We're confident that our Vengeance gaming keyboards and mice will give you a competitive edge. Whether you prefer the immersion and intensity of MMO and RTS, or the adrenaline-fueled combat of FPS, our goal is to help you win."  Vengeance K60 and M60: Designed For First-Person Shooters		The Vengeance K60 gaming keyboard and the Vengeance M60 laser gaming mouse are designed for PC Gamers who specialize in First-Person Shooters (FPS). The Vengeance K60 keyboard features the predictable linear response and light touch of Cherry® MX Red mechanical key switches for more agile movement and faster multi-taps. The contoured left-wrist rest plus shaped and textured WASD key caps increase comfort, even during extended gaming sessions. The K60 uses an advanced key matrix design that delivers complete anti-ghosting so no keystrokes are missed. Unlike other USB gaming keyboards that are limited to the USB-standard 6-key rollover, the K60 features a 20-key rollover and a blazing fast 1ms reporting rate (1000 reports per second). 		The Vengeance M60 mouse features an enthusiast-grade Avago 5670 DPI sensor with on-the-fly resolution switching, an aluminum unibody design with adjustable center of gravity, programmable lift detection, a high-mass scroll wheel, and PTFE glide pads. A key innovation of the M60 mouse is the Sniper button, allowing an instant toggle from fast movement, high DPI-resolution mode down to a high-precision mode for more accurate aiming.  Vengeance K90 and Vengeance M90: Designed For MMO and RTS Gaming		The Vengeance K90 gaming keyboard and M90 laser gaming mouse are optimized to meet the unique needs of MMO and RTS gaming. The Vengeance K90 keyboard also features Cherry MX Red key switches, full anti-ghosting, 20-key rollover, 1ms reporting rate, and each key is individually backlit with a cool blue LED that can be adjusted to three different levels of intensity. The K90 also includes18 dedicated macro keys that can be programmed either through software or on the fly, and with three user-selectable banks of macros you have a total of 54 independent macros available at any time. Your macros are stored in flash memory on the keyboard so you'll be able to bring them with you wherever your gaming takes you. 		The Vengeance M90 gaming mouse features 15 fully programmable buttons, arranged and tuned for intuitive operation without compromising your grip, and on-board flash memory lets you save your macros in up to six profiles that can be switched on-the-fly. An Avago 5670 DPI sensor allows on-the-fly resolution adjustment and the programmable lift detection, high-mass scroll wheel, and PTFE glide pads ensure swift, precise movement. The intuitive Windows-based Vengeance software utility lets you manage your macro keys, on-board profiles, and sensor settings so you can customize your M90 to exactly match your gaming style.  Pricing and Availability		The Vengeance K90 gaming keyboard has an MSRP in the United States of $129 and the K60 has an MSRP of $99. The Vengeance M90 gaming mouse has an MSRP $99 and the M60 has an MSRP of $79. The full range of Vengeance gaming peripherals are expected to be available in October 2011 from authorized Corsair retailers and etailers worldwide. To get the full story on our new Vengeance gaming keyboards and laser gaming mice please visit: http://www.corsair.com/vengeance-gaming.html 		Show full PR text  Corsair Announces New Vengeance Gaming Headsets		The new Corsair Vengeance™ gaming headsets deliver an audio experience that helps gamers play their best 		FREMONT, California - September 16th, 2011 - Corsair®, a worldwide designer and supplier of high-performance components to the PC gaming hardware market, today announced their new line of Vengeance PC gaming peripherals, including three new gaming headsets. 		"The award-winning Corsair Gaming Series audio products have built a reputation for providing accurate, detailed audio that makes everything from games to music and movies a joy to listen to, as well as creating the situational awareness gamers need for a competitive advantage," said Andy Paul, Corsair's President and CEO. "Our new Vengeance gaming headsets continue that tradition. Everything from the sleek design and the careful choice of materials, to the obsessive focus on audio tuning is dedicated to the goal of providing a compelling experience for PC gamers who are as passionate about sound as they are about winning." 		"We're gamers, too. Our Vengeance gaming headsets reflect our desire to build the products we want to use and can't find anywhere else," said Ruben Mookerjee, VP and General Manager of the Components Business Unit at Corsair. "No matter what style of game you play, from FPS to MMO or RTS, you need clear, reliable voice communication, a comfortable design you can wear for hours, and fantastic audio quality. We believe the new Vengeance gaming headsets deliver on every one of these."  Vengeance 1500 and Vengeance 1300 Gaming Headsets: Pure audio reproduction for pure gaming excitement		The Vengeance 1500 and Vengeance 1300 gaming headsets employ circumaural, closed-back earpad designs for immersive audio and long-term comfort. Both feature custom-engineered 50mm drivers and careful acoustic tuning for audiophile-grade sound and accurate 3D positional audio. The high-sensitivity, noise-cancelling cardioid microphone helps ensure effective team play. The Vengeance 1500 connects via USB and delivers 7.1 and 5.1 Dolby® Headphone™ positional audio for competitive gaming. The Vengeance 1300 is designed to pair with your high-end sound card using dual 3.5mm headphone and microphone connectors and accurately reproduces the 3D positional audio generated by X-Fi CMSS®-3D and other sound card-based positional audio systems.  Vengeance 1100 Gaming Headset: Online gaming and chat with outstanding comfort and convenience		The behind-the-head design of the lightweight Vengeance 1100 gaming headset provides excellent comfort for long online gaming and chat sessions. Both USB and 3.5mm analog connectors are provided in the same package for easy compatibility with any laptop or PC. The 40mm drivers – exceptionally large for a behind-the-heads headset – deliver amazing audio quality, and the high-sensitivity, noise-cancelling cardioid microphone provides clear voice communication.  Pricing and Availability		The Vengeance 1500 USB gaming headset has an MSRP in the United States of $99 USD and the Vengeance 1300 analog gaming headset has an MSRP of $79. The Vengeance 1100 gaming headset has an MSRP of $39. 		The full range of Venegeance gaming peripherals are expected to be available in October 2011 from authorized Corsair retailers and etailers worldwide. To get the full story on our new Vengeance gaming headsets please visit: http://www.corsair.com/vengeance-gaming.html
 