
 
Call us jaded, but most USB flash drives just don't get the juices flowing like a new tablet or smartphone. Nonetheless, they've become a critical component of many a workflow, and for a device where speed is key, a USB 3.0 boost is certainly welcome. And Corsair did just that with its Flash Voyager, Flash Voyager GT, and "adventure-proof" Flash Survivor lines. The entry level Voyagers ship in 8GB ($17) and 16GB ($24) capacities, while the premium model offers 32GB and 64GB of storage, for $59 and $129, respectively. 8GB ($28) and 16GB ($35) drives in the ruggedized Survivor series are constructed of aircraft-grade aluminum and are water-proof all the way down to 200 meters -- that algae-covered Survivor you found 650 feet down at the bottom of the ocean floor? Yup, it probably still works. The new drives are shipping now, and you can find the full scoop from Corsair just past the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Corsair Announces New High-Speed USB 3.0 Flash Drives 		– Updates to the Flash Voyager® GT, Flash Voyager, and Flash Survivor® offer durability and superior speed – 		FREMONT, California - September 9th, 2011 - Corsair®, a worldwide designer and supplier of high-performance components to the PC gaming hardware market, today announced the availability of USB 3.0 versions of their award-winning Flash Voyager GT, Flash Voyager, and Flash Survivor product lines. 		Flash Voyager GT USB 3.0: Superior Speed and Renowned Flash Voyager Durability 		The premium performance Flash Voyager GT USB 3.0 provides data transfer rates of up to four times the speed of USB 2.0 drives, and even two times the speed of standard USB 3.0 flash drives - the 64GB model has a maximum read speed of 135 MB/sec and a maximum write speed of 83 MB/sec. Fully backward compatible with USB 2.0, it's also one of the fastest USB 2.0 flash drives on the market. The tough all-rubber housing is water-resistant, and the rounded edge design makes it an ideal choice for busy professionals and PC enthusiasts who need to quickly and safely transport important data. 		The New Flash Voyager USB 3.0: Sleek, Ergonomic New Design 		The ergonomics of the Flash Voyager USB 3.0 get even better with a redesigned body style. With a length of just 73mm (vs. 100mm for the previous version) and a width of 22mm (vs. 26mm), the new design is sleeker and more comfortable to use than ever. Wrapped in the same rubber housing as previous Flash Voyager models, these new drives provide the same durability and data protection the Flash Voyager line is known for. 		Flash Survivor USB 3.0: High-Speed, Adventure-Proof Data Transport 		Flash Survivor USB 3.0 utilizes the same proven design of previous Survivor models, with the added boost of USB 3.0 speed. The anodized aircraft-grade aluminum housing is waterproof to 200 meters, and its solid-state electronics are shock and vibration-resistant providing incredibly rugged protection for your important data. 		Universal Compatibility 		All three new families support the new USB 3.0 standard and are also compatible with USB 2.0. They work directly with Microsoft® Windows®, Mac® OS X® and Linux without the need for special drivers or software installation. 		"Our new lines of USB 3.0 flash drives offer great choices for performance enthusiasts and on-the-go professionals." said Thi La, Vice President of Memory Products at Corsair. "The Flash Survivor and Flash Voyager families are known for their ruggedness, reliability, and superior ergonomics, and USB 3.0 speed makes them even better." 		Images of the Flash Voyager GT USB 3.0 can be downloaded here, Flash Voyager USB 3.0 images can be downloaded here, and images of the Flash Survivor USB 3.0 can be downloaded here. 		The new models are available from authorized Corsair retailers and etailers worldwide. For more information on Corsair USB 3.0 flash drives, please visit: 		http://www.corsair.com/usb-drive.html
 