
 Look around you. Are you at an electric vehicle charging station? If so, good for you! If not, that's okay, because the things are still mighty rare. California-based Coulomb is helping to change that, expanding its operations with deals that will see its ChargePoint networked charging stations appear in Poland and in Australia. The Warsaw-based station is powered by juice from 365 Energy, while the Sydney one is being run by GoGet, a sort of Aussie Zipcar, if you catch our drift, mate. They join the 600 stations that Coulomb deployed in 2009 and are part of the thousands the company hopes to scatter about in this year. Both forward-reaching press releases are included for your enjoyment after the break, either of which make for great reading while your Tesla hungrily sucks down the electrons.
      

 

Show full PR text365 Energy Selected as Provider of ChargePoint Networked Charging Stations in Poland365 Energy and partner Zohar Energy start collaboration with POLENERGIAMay 26, 2010 Coulomb Technologies' EMEA partner 365 Energy today announced that Zohar Energy has been chosen by Polish energy company POLENERGIA to support its expansion as a leading provider of infrastructure solutions for electric vehicles (EVs) in Poland. The first ChargePoint® Networked Charging Station was installed in Warsaw earlier this month. The ChargePoint stations are manufactured by US-based Coulomb Technologies."POLENERGIA is a leading private energy company in Poland and aims to develop an electric mobility infrastructure," said Artur Zdybicki, president of the management board of POLENERGIA. "We have chosen 365 Energy Group as our partner as we believe that their Coulomb electric vehicle charging solutions offer a number of benefits such as networked station management and billing. We are very happy to partner with 365 Energy Group on our pilot project which we hope to expand across the country.""We are excited about our first installation in Poland," said Omer Zimmer, Managing Director of Zohar Energy, a member of the 365 Energy group representing the Eastern European markets. "We aim to expand our electric vehicle charging network across Poland and we thank POLENERGIA for its decision to work with us. We are sure this cooperation will be of great value to both sides."365 Energy is the EMEA's early market leader in providing EV charging infrastructure, which combines significant advantages from both a software technology and end user standpoint. The ChargePoint Networked Charging Stations are equipped with electrical metering and wireless communications capabilities so drivers can get information on the status of the charging station and the charging process online or via SMS. Access to the charging stations is provided via a SmartCard which makes it easier for the user to manage his account. More details can be found at http://www.coulombtech.com/files/eu-ChargePoint-0909.pdfChargePoint Networked Charging Stations are developed by Coulomb and exclusively marketed in Europe, the Middle East and Africa by 365 Energy. Coulomb's advanced software technology allows utilities and governments to scale their networks to accommodate large numbers of networked charging stations. The foundation is the development of the ChargePoint Network powered by Coulomb's advanced software technology. The ChargePoint Network is open to all drivers of electric vehicles and provides authentication, management, and real-time control through multiple web-based portals for hosts, fleet managers, drivers, and utilities.365 Energy Group – Changing the Way People Move365 Energy Group, with headquarters in Berlin, Eindhoven, Milan and Istanbul, is a pioneer in the e-mobility industry. The company provides innovative charging stations with integrated network technology – a completely new and holistic approach to charging electric vehicles. This technology was developed by Coulomb Technologies, the global market leader in electric vehicle infrastructure. 365 Energy is the international partner of Coulomb Technologies and an investment management company belonging to Estag Capital AG in Berlin.About Coulomb Technologies, Inc.Coulomb Technologies is the leader in electric vehicle charging station infrastructure with networked charging stations installed in municipalities and organizations worldwide. Coulomb provides a vehicle-charging infrastructure, with an open system driver network: the ChargePoint Network provides multiple web-based portals for Hosts, Fleet managers, Drivers, and Utilities, and ChargePoint Networked Charging Stations ranging in capability from 120 Volt to 240 Volt AC charging and up to 500 Volt DC charging. For more information, follow Coulomb on Twitter at twitter.com/coulombevi. To request a charging station in your area, visit http://www.mychargepoint.net/request-station.php. To download the ChargePoint iPhone App, click here.About Zohar EnergyZohar Energy (Solar) Group is focused on delivering best in class e-mobility solutions to its customers and partners. The company is operating in all CEE markets and in Austria and Israel. The company aims to promote and simplify the market for electric vehicles. Zohar Energy is the sole distributor and a strategic partner of 365 Energy groups in its markets.Sydney Installs Nation's First Public ChargePoint Networked Charging Station for Electric VehiclesAustralia's first public on-street electric vehicle charging station opens by Sydney Lord Mayor Clover Moore MPSYDNEY May 25, 2010: Coulomb Technologies today announced their partner distributor ChargePoint Australia unveiled Sydney's first public ChargePoint® Networked Charging Station for electric vehicles in Derby Place, Glebe Australia. The station was installed by Visionstream and is managed by ChargePoint AU. The charging station will be used for Sydney's GoGet car share program."Electric vehicles have zero exhaust emissions, while car sharing replaces up to 10 privately owned cars for each shared vehicle. Each day more than 700,000 cars travel throughout the Sydney local government area, significantly contributing to smog, greenhouse gas pollution, congestion and noise. Anything we can do to decrease the greenhouse gas emissions caused by motor vehicles is a step towards a healthier city. Together with public transport, walking and cycling, electric vehicles are part of the climate change solution," Sydney's Lord Mayer Clover More said. "Today, Sydney joins other cities including San Francisco, Amsterdam, Philadelphia, Houston, Detroit and Vancouver who all have installed charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. When I was in Copenhagen in December for a Climate Change Summit I committed to working with the NSW Government, car share companies and others to scale up the purchase of electric vehicles. Today is a first step in supporting a cleaner mode of transport."There are about 3,000 individual members of car share companies within the City of Sydney area, the majority with GoGet, including 500 small businesses. The City provides 120 dedicated on-street car share spaces, four times more than any other Australian city. Worldwide, car share membership has risen from around 50,000 users in 1997 to 550,000 in 2009.Car share schemes provide a network of vehicles that members can book to use for short periods of time (from one hour to several days). Costs associated with fuel, insurance and maintenance are usually included in the operators' car hire fees.GoGet co-founder, Bruce Jeffreys said members will be able to drive the plug-in electric hybrid at the same price as the rest of the GoGet hybrid fleet. "It's great to see a plug-in electric hybrid vehicle in a safe and convenient location with a world-class charging station ready to go," said Jeffreys. "We're looking forward to the introduction of additional electric vehicles into the GoGet fleet as demand grows."Luke Grana, CEO and founder of ChargePoint Australia said the Sydney installation is a public demonstration of the viability of charging stations with preparations underway for a national rollout. "ChargePoint is preparing to conduct charging station pilot programs later this year in Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide. The Glebe charging station will provide behavioral and energy usage data which will be vital for effective and efficient energy management and future infrastructure planning."Ms Moore said the City of Sydney is investigating the purchase of retrofitted plug-in Hybrid EVs and new EVs for its vehicle fleet, as part of its goal to reduce carbon emissions by 70 per cent from 2006 levels by 2030.About ChargePoint Pty LtdChargePoint Pty Ltd, with headquarters in Sydney, is considered a pioneer in the e-mobility industry. The ChargePoint Network enables electric vehicle drivers the convenience of charging their battery at home, and public locations including curbside, workplace and shopping centers. Consumers subscribe to the ChargePoint Network and receive a ChargePoint Smart Card that allows them to charge their car at any ChargePoint Networked Charging Station Australia wide. The ChargePoint Network includes charging stations, consumer subscription plans and utility grid management technology for electric utility companies to smooth electrical demands on the grid. For more information on ChargePoint Pty Ltd, visit: www.chargepoint.com.auAbout Coulomb Technologies, Inc.Coulomb Technologies is the leader in electric vehicle charging station infrastructure with networked charging stations installed in municipalities and organizations worldwide. Coulomb provides a vehicle-charging infrastructure, with an open system driver network: the ChargePoint Network provides multiple web-based portals for Hosts, Fleet managers, Drivers, and Utilities, and ChargePoint Networked Charging Stations ranging in capability from 120 Volt to 240 Volt AC charging and up to 500 Volt DC charging. For more information, follow Coulomb on Twitter at twitter.com/coulombevi. To request a charging station in your area, visit http://www.mychargepoint.net/request-station.php. To download the ChargePoint iPhone App, click here. 
 