
  

The Cowboys might not be doing so well on the field these days, but that's not stopping Jerry Jones from constructing a gadget lover's nirvana for them to call home. The world record-holding Mitsubishi displays at the center of Cowboys Stadium will this weekend be treated to the first public demo of a new real time 3D conversion technology from HDlogix. Touted as a glasses-free autostereoscopic method, it will be demonstrated before Sunday's game against the Chargers, and used during the game on highlights and live video to give the good people of Dallas an extra dimension to their already supersized visual experience. The list of promises from HDlogix is mighty impressive, including the ability to convert to and from all the 3D standards floating around at the moment (more on that in the source PDF below), but we advise waiting until Sunday when said good people can judge for themselves. Full PR after the break.

Update: We've received a quick note from the company to say that the actual feed on the Cowboys' megatron will be based on old school glasses-needy anaglyphs, since the humongous structure isn't capable of doing the more sophisticated stuff.
      

 

Show full PR text3D Sports: Closer Than You ThinkPremiere Event at Cowboys Stadium:The Dallas Cowboys Continue their Tradition of Innovation and Will Host the First Ever Public Demonstration of HDlogix Real Time Conversion of 2D HDTV Video Into 3D to be Held Prior to the Dallas Cowboys-San Diego Chargers Game December 13 at Cowboys StadiumTo Be Followed by First Ever Live 3D Broadcast to be Shown on World's Largest HDTV DisplayWHAT: 	The Dallas Cowboys and HDlogix will demonstrate HDlogix's new 	ImageIQ 3D™ technology converting standard HD video signals from 2D to 3D in real time.A press conference will be held prior to the game in which the ImageIQ 3D technology will be demonstrated. Then, at halftime and during the Dallas Cowboys-San Diego Chargers game, the Cowboys will use HDlogix technology to power the first live 3D broadcast ever to be shown on the world's largest HDTV display at Cowboys Stadium. Measuring 160 feet in length and 72 feet in height on the sideline boards-the largest video board installation in the world-the four board video cluster, suspended 90 feet directly over the center of the playing surface, stretches from the 20-yard line to the 20-yard line.The development of ImageIQ 3D was based on HDlogix's expertise in live video communications and super-resolution products. ImageIQ 3D incorporates sophisticated algorithms such as real-time optical flow and image structure analysis capabilities to reconstruct the entire geometry of the scene contained within each video frame. Unlike other 3D conversion solutions, ImageIQ 3D runs in real-time, without the need for any manual intervention. ImageIQ 3D outputs true 3D stereo video suitable for display on screens ranging from ordinary televisions to the world's largest HDTV.WHO: 	HDlogix is a leader in imaging and video-based products for the world's consumers, entertainment companies and service providers. HDlogix plans to formally unveil its technology next month at the 2010 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. http://hdlogix.com/WHEN:	1:30 PM CSTSunday, December 13, 2009WHERE:	Cowboys Stadium1 Legends WayArlington, TXRoom: Radio Lounge
 