
 
TiVo users, even with boxes provided by their cable company in the case of RCN and Comcast, have so far had to make a compromise: Choose their cable company's video on-demand offerings, or bring their own DVR and access online video from sources like Amazon and Netflix -- but that's no longer the case. Cox and TiVo have reached an agreement -- sound familiar? -- that will see allow retail CableCARD equipped TiVo Premiere DVRs to access Cox's VOD, as well as all that over the top internet video we've come to love. The SeaChange powered VOD will work similarly to RCN's, but we're waiting to see if this can give the new universal search an extra source to pull from as well. The deal also means Cox will cross promote the TiVo in its own marketing, and provide free installs for units purchased at Best Buy and other outlets including the TiVo website. 

The only bad news here? While TiVo plans to start testing later this year, it won't see a wide rollout (in "all major markets") until 2011. Check out the press release for all the details before calling your cable company, why should Cox customers get to choose between two different modernized, integrated set-top box platforms while the rest of us are stuck with interfaces and access rules that have been around since before the X-Games?
      

 

Show full PR textCOX COMMUNICATIONS TO PROMOTE TIVO PREMIERE WITH COX VOD SERVICE TO ITS SUBSCRIBERS Cox Plans to Promote TiVo Premiere, Offer the TiVo Solution Through its Call Centers, and Provide Free Installation First-Ever Integration of Cox On DEMAND service in a Retail Device to Provide A Full Service Cable Solution Along with Broadband ContentALVISO, CA and ATLANTA, GA – August 12, 2010 - TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), a leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs) for consumers, content distributors and consumer electronics manufacturers and Cox Communications, the third-largest U.S. cable television company, today announced that they have entered into an agreement whereby the two companies will offer TiVo Premiere with integrated Cox On DEMAND service to Cox subscribers. This represents the first time that a cable operator will make its entire video on demand (VOD) library available via a retail DVR and TiVo Premiere will become the first retail product to fully integrate a cable VOD service, along with linear television and broadband content accessible through TiVo's user interface and intuitive search capabilities. As part of the agreement, Cox will promote TiVo Premiere to its subscribers, support TiVo Premiere as an optional set-top, and provide free installation for TiVo Premiere boxes purchased by subscribers at Best Buy and other retail and online outlets including TiVo's own website. Customers will need a CableCARD for access to Cox services. Cox will promote TiVo Premiere via its website, cross-channel advertising, and via direct marketing to its video and high-speed internet subscribers. "We recognize that consumers are attracted to a growing range of devices that enable them to access broadband content and interactive capabilities," said Pat Esser, President of Cox Communications. "With TiVo Premiere, Cox is providing consumers even more choice. Our subscribers will not only have access to TiVo's user experience but Cox's robust Advanced TV offering including On DEMAND service." "Making our video on demand library available to customers who are using TiVo Premiere ensures that they can continue to enjoy all of the great television and movie choices available through our offerings but now have it seamlessly combined with access to a myriad of broadband content in addition to what we offer today," said Steve Necessary, Vice President of Video Strategy and Product Development for Cox. "This is a major opportunity for TiVo, the cable industry and television viewers alike," said Tom Rogers, President and CEO of TiVo Inc. "We are extremely pleased that Cox has elected to integrate its VOD library into TiVo Premiere and offer it to subscribers along with simple and free installation. This is a terrific cost-effective solution for cable operators looking to deliver broadband content and over-the-top television to subscribers. We couldn't be happier than to be teaming with Cox to bring this fully integrated converged television and internet experience to our shared customers." In addition to having access to Cox's vast VOD library and Advanced TV content, subscribers using a TiVo Premiere box will also be able to enjoy TiVo's entire suite of advanced features including access to near infinite broadband content including movies and music, remote scheduling, multi-room viewing, interactive applications and TiVoToGo functionality. Cox plans to make its video on demand service available on TiVo Premiere boxes to subscribers in all its major markets.### About Cox CommunicationsCox Communications is a broadband communications and entertainment company, providing advanced digital video, Internet, telephone and wireless services over its own nationwide IP network. The third-largest U.S. cable TV company, Cox serves more than 6 million residences and businesses. Cox Business is a facilities-based provider of voice, video and data solutions for commercial customers, and Cox Media is a full-service provider of national and local cable spot and new media advertising. Cox is known for its pioneering efforts in cable telephone and commercial services, industry-leading customer care and its outstanding workplaces. For seven years, Cox has been recognized as the top operator for women by Women in Cable Telecommunications; for five years, Cox has ranked among DiversityInc's Top 50 Companies for Diversity, and the company holds a perfect score in the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index. More information about Cox Communications, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, is available at www.cox.com and www.coxmedia.com. About TiVo Inc. (www.tivo.com) Founded in 1997, TiVo Inc. (Nasdaq: TIVO - News) developed the first commercially available digital video recorder (DVR). TiVo offers the TiVo service and TiVo DVRs directly to consumers online at www.tivo.com and through third-party retailers. TiVo also distributes its technology and services through solutions tailored for cable, satellite, and broadcasting companies. Since its founding, TiVo has evolved into the ultimate single solution media center by combining its patented DVR technologies and universal cable box capabilities with the ability to aggregate, search, and deliver millions of pieces of broadband, cable, and broadcast content directly to the television. An economical, one-stop-shop for in-home entertainment, TiVo's intuitive functionality and ease of use puts viewers in control by enabling them to effortlessly navigate the best digital entertainment content available through one box, with one remote, and one user interface, delivering the most dynamic user experience on the market today. TiVo also continues to weave itself into the fabric of the media industry by providing interactive advertising solutions and audience research and measurement ratings services to the television industry. TiVo and the TiVo Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of TiVo Inc. or its subsidiaries worldwide. © 2010 TiVo Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, the timing, promotion, and support of the future availability of the Cox ON DEMAND service integrated with TiVo Premiere service. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as, "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "intend," "estimate," "continue," or similar expressions or the negative of those terms or expressions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include delays in development, competitive service offerings and lack of market acceptance, as well as the other potential factors described under "Risk Factors" in the Company's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q since then, and Current Reports on Form 8-K. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect an analysis only and speak only as of the date hereof. TiVo disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 