
 Hot on the heels of its acquisition of a glut of AWS licenses from cable giants Comcast, Time Warner and Bright House for a few billion, Verizon's at it again. This time, Big Red's grabbing a swath of 20MHz AWS spectrum from Cox Communications for a tidy $315 million. In a separate agreement, Cox and VZW will begin selling each other's services as well. Of course, this is all pending FCC approval, but it looks like this latest purchase will have Verizon only further extending its LTE lead over Ma Bell.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Cox Communications sells wireless spectrum to Verizon for $315 million		Cox Communications Announces Agreement to Sell Advanced Wireless Spectrum to Verizon Wireless 		Cox and Verizon Wireless will become agents to sell each other's residential and commercial products 		ATLANTA, Dec. 16, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Cox Communications announced that it has entered into an agreement to sell to Verizon Wireless its 20 MHz Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) spectrum licenses covering 28 million POPs for $315 million. The sale of Cox's AWS spectrum to Verizon Wireless is an important step to ensure that consumers' growing demands for mobility will be met. This agreement does not include Cox's 700 MHz spectrum licenses, the company's Cox Wireless customer accounts or any other assets. 		Separately, Cox and Verizon Wireless will also become agents to sell each other's residential and commercial products and services through their respective sales channels. Over time, Cox may have the option to sell Verizon Wireless' services on a wholesale basis. In addition, Cox expects to enter into arrangements with the innovation technology joint venture formed by Verizon Wireless, Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks to better integrate wireline and wireless products and services. 		"These agreements provide Cox customers with key enablers to mobility, such as access to Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network and iconic wireless devices," said Pat Esser, president of Cox Communications. "We look forward to the many benefits this will bring to customers." 		The sale and transfer of Cox's advanced wireless spectrum to Verizon Wireless is subject to approval by the Federal Communications Commission and review under the Hart-Scott Rodino Act and other customary conditions. 		Cox announced last month that it would no longer sell its Cox Wireless service, but would continue to provide service to its wireless customers through March 30, 2012.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

