
 
 There's nothing quite so enlightening as a solution to a problem you didn't realize you had. RaptorFire's booth, tucked away in the back corner of the LA Convention Center's South Hall was offering up just that, in form of Cronus, a little USB stick that the company promises will "change how you look at gaming." While the little USB adapter's functionality isn't quite so grandiose (same goes for the company's assertion that it's "the greatest invention in gaming since the controller"), the peripheral offers up an interesting proposition -- being able to control your Xbox 360 with a PlayStation 3 controller -- and the other way around. Oh, and Wiimotes are in the mix, as well.

 The Cronus is a black USB dongle with a small single digit display on the top and a USB input on the rear. Plug it into the console of your choice, sync it up and you should be good to go. We played a round of Battlefield 3, using an Xbox 360 controller on a PS 3 -- and things went smoothly. We didn't get a chance to actually try out the syncing process, but the device's manufacturer assured us that it's quite smooth, for what that's worth.




   
 The question, of course, is why anyone needs such a device. The scenario painted for us was visiting a friend who doesn't have the same console at home (you know, if you're capable of looking past such personality flaws). Or perhaps you've picked up a new system yourself, but aren't ready to make that controller leap. The rep we spoke to played down the device's modding potential, perhaps in an attempt to make the whole thing a bit more above board, so far as the manufacturers are concerned.

 No firm details on pricing or availability yet, though we're told, broadly, that the company's looking to get these to market in two to three months, priced at around $50 to $60.

  Show full PR text    Change Your Gameplay through Raptorfire Technology
  Raptorfire Inc., a Miami, FL-based manufacturer of gaming device modification tools, will be present at this year's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, CA from June 5th thru 7th. The booth will feature product demos as well as Q&A sessions with product developers.
  Raptorfire will feature their new gaming controller modification chips for both Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. The chips, which are installed into existing hand-held controls for both systems, improve and enhance controller functionality and game play for the user. Many of the features provided by these chips include rapid fire, "drop shot", fast reload, and other popular modifications that are central to most first-person shooting games.
  Alongside the rapid fire modification chips, the company will be demonstrating a new modification device known as "Cronus". This revolutionary tool will allow gamers to do what has never been done: cross-system controller interchangeability. Do you prefer the feel of a Playstation 3 controller in your hand but regularly use the Xbox 360? Now you can have the best of both worlds by using the Playstation 3 controller on the Xbox 360 thanks to the innovative features of the "Cronus" device. Gamers can switch controllers between systems with ease using this ground-breaking product. The device is compatible with Playstation 3, Xbox 360, and the Wii.
  Configuration of the "Cronus" can be done using any standard Windows-based PC. The device features nine customizable slots that can be loaded with configurations for any of your favorite games. Gamers can even download programmable mods to the device that will let you add functionality to the controller without the need to install a separate mod chip. This amazing product is small enough to fit in the palm of your hand and opens up a whole new world of gaming.
  Excited? We are too! Be sure to stop by the Raptorfire booth for a free demo and information about our entire product line. Raptorfire at E3 2012: Get ready.
  
