
 

At this point it's kinda tough to get excited about 3D printing -- actual devices and services are a dime a dozen, but Cubify has a decidedly user-friendly vibe working in its favor. 3D Systems is rolling in to CES with its Cube 3D printer, but it'll also be showing off Cubify.com and its new Kinect-To-Print app. The app will allow users to design objects with "coloring book simplicity," then have them printed up and shipped to their door, or they can post their creations to the web for others to purchase and earn cash. The site will also be prepopulated with a selection of games and other custom objects ready to be printed on demand either at home on the Cube 3D or by the company and shipped out to customers. Cubify.com will go live in a beta version on January 10th and, while you wait, you can check out the video and PR after the break.
      

 

   		Show full PR text  3D Systems Unveils Cubify.com At CES		Release Date: Thursday, January 5, 2012 - 09:30 		ROCK HILL, South Carolina, January 4, 2012 – 3D Systems Corporation (NYSE: DDD) announced today that its Cubify.com 3D @home create-and-make online experience will go live in a beta release January 10, 2012. The company plans to unveil Cubify.com at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada, January 10th–13th 2012 at the Las Vegas Convention Center in the exclusive 3D @Home section. 		Cubify.com combines coloring book simplicity with cloud gaming excitement to deliver a vivid 3D create-and-make experience through a fully integrated, fluid interface. With intuitive 3D apps, rich 3D printable content libraries of games, puzzles and collections, Cubify.com turns any mobile device, tablet or Kinect® into a powerful, digital canvas that unleashes creativity and brings ideas to life in 3D. Compelling content creation, capture and customization apps make it simple and fun to personalize creations and Cubify them at home on a Cube™ 3D printer or have them Cubified using our online 3D printing service. Now everyone can unleash their creativity and earn money by marketing their own 3D creations or by developing new apps for Cubify.com. 		To get engaged, 3D Systems will be demonstrating a new Kinect-To- Print app powered by Geomagic and a variety of Tablet-To-Print content creation and manipulation apps powered by its 6000+ strong developer community. The company will showcase its new Cube™ 3D consumer printer and make available 3D collection libraries as downloads. 3D Systems calls on all aspiring 3D app developers and designers to become part of its groundbreaking Cubify.com community. 		"We invite all CES attendees to experience the full impact of Cubify.com live," said Rajeev Kulkarni, Vice President and General Manager, Consumer Solutions for 3D Systems. "We expect Cubify™ to become the preferred destination for all kids and adults seeking to earn money by marketing their own 3D creations or by developing new apps for Cubify™." 		© 2012, 3D Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. The 3DS logo, Cubify, and Cube are trademarks of 3D Systems, Inc. Kinect is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.  		Forward-Looking Statements 		Certain statements made in this release that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to statements that explicitly describe such risks and uncertainties, readers are urged to consider statements in the conditional or future tenses or that includes terms such as "believes," "belief," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "anticipates" or "plans" to be uncertain and forward-looking. Forwardlooking statements may include comments as to the company's beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting its business and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the company. The factors described under the headings "Forward-Looking Statements," "Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors," and "Risk Factors" in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as other factors, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected or predicted in forward-looking statements.  		About 3D Systems Corporation 		3D Systems is a leading provider of 3D content-to-print solutions including 3D printers, print materials and on-demand custom parts services for professionals and consumers alike. The company also provides creative content development, design productivity tools and curation services and downloads. Its expertly integrated solutions replace, displace and complement traditional methods and reduce the time and cost of designing new products by printing real parts directly from digital input. These solutions are used to rapidly design, communicate, prototype and produce functional parts, empowering its customers to create with confidence. 		More information on the company is available at www.3DSystems.com. 		To experience 3D Systems' entire range of 3D content-to-print products and services please visit www.printin3D.com, www.zcorp.com, www.production3dprinters.com, www.toptobottomdental.com, www.quickparts.com, www.3Dproparts.com, www.alibre.com, www.bitsfrombytes.com, www.botmill.com, www.The3dStudio.com, www.freedomofcreation.com, www.sycode.com, blog.3dsystems.com, or via email at moreinfo@3Dsystems.com. 		About CEA and CES 2012 		The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) is the preeminent trade association promoting growth in the $190 billion U.S. consumer electronics industry. More than 2,000 companies enjoy the benefits of CEA membership, including legislative advocacy, market research, technical training and education, industry promotion, standards development and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. CEA also owns and produces the International CES – The Global Stage for Innovation. All profits from CES are reinvested into CEA's industry services. Find CEA online: www.CE.org and www.Innovation Movement.com. Follow CES at www.CESweb.org
 