
 
We're just weeks away from the Boxee Box bringing its pan-dimensional shape to your home entertainment center, but still the surprises keep rolling. VUDU has announced that it too will be making an appearance on the thing, offering streaming downloadable rentals of big hits with some, like Avatar, having special features to boot. Viewers will have 1080p on tap along with Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround and the pleasure of knowing that their $2 per rental is going straight into Walmart's pocket. Who doesn't love Walmart?

Update: To be clear, VUDU will be available to users of the PC and Mac Boxee clients as well.
 

Show full PR textVUDU Streaming to Boxee on Your Mac and PCUsers Can Now Watch the Latest Hollywood Blockbusters on PC, Mac and the upcoming Boxee Box by D-Link San Francisco, CALIF (October 28, 2010) – VUDU is coming to the Boxee platform in November, bringing its best-in-class streaming movie experience to millions of PC and Mac users. Simply by installing Boxee's free media center software, users gain instant access to VUDU's massive movie collection anywhere they have a computer and an Internet connection. VUDU will be available on the Boxee platform downloadable on Mac, PC, and the Boxee Box by D-Link. VUDU delivers the highest quality movie watching experience with a huge collection of titles, including the best indies and Hollywood hits, with new releases available to rent as soon as they hit the market and thousands of titles available for just $2 for 2 night rentals. Boxee's free media center software gives viewers access to VUDU's immense movie collection in standard definition. The Boxee Box by D-Link lets viewers experience the cinema-like quality of VUDU's full HD and HDX library delivered directly onto their televisions in 1080p with Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound."We're thrilled to offer our existing customers a new way to enjoy the VUDU service and to bring VUDU to a whole new community of movie watchers. Boxee allows VUDU to deliver our best in class streaming movie experience to anyone with a Mac or PC, through a simple and free download. " said Edward Lichty, General Manager, VUDU. "VUDU is the best way to get high-definition Hollywood movies in full surround sound to the connected home and Boxee is a state-of-the-art multimedia platform with the power to play it."Boxee lets users play most popular media file formats from a home network along with ad-supported and premium TV shows and movies, videos, and music from the Internet, with support for full 1080p and 5.1 surround sound. With tens of thousands of movies and TV shows, access to the most popular web series, and applications from MLB.TV, NHL GameCenter LIVETM, Pandora, and FunnyOrDie, Boxee is a great way to bring entertainment from different sources into one place. Additionally Boxee has been built from the ground up to be social so users can easily share recommendations about their favorite movies with one another via Facebook and Twitter on Boxee."Boxee is all about giving the user what they want, and that means everything from the most viral video on YouTube to the acclaimed international films, and VUDU gives Boxee a deep library of incredible movies," said Avner Ronen, CEO and co-founder of Boxee. "The fact that Boxee Box users will have access to the largest selection of HD content through Vudu in the highest quality available today really sets us apart from our set top box competitors."VUDU will be available as a free download from boxee.tv for your PC, Mac and Linux computer, and on the Boxee Box by D-Link this November. Important Linkshttp://www.vudu.comhttp://www.vudu.com/boxeehttp://www.boxee.tvhttp://www.boxee.tv/boxhttp://www.boxee.tv/downloadAbout BoxeeBoxee is changing the way people experience home entertainment by bringing TV shows, movies, videos, and music from the Internet to the TV. Boxee's software can be easily downloaded for free to any computer or embedded in living room devices. Boxee has quickly established itself as the best way to bring entertainment from different sources into one place - anything from a local collection of movies, TV shows, music, and photos, to streaming content from websites like MLB.TV, Pandora, Last.fm, and flickr. Users can also discover new entertainment from their friends and share recommendations with social networks like Facebook and Twitter. More than a million people use Boxee to enjoy their entertainment. Learn how you can join them at www.boxee.tv.About VUDUA leader in digital entertainment, VUDU offers the world's largest selection of streaming HD movies, including thousands of blockbusters, Hollywood classics, and indies available in stunning HDX 1080p with Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound. Movies are available the same day they are released on DVD or Blu-Ray, and can be rented or purchased without a subscription. VUDU comes built in on select internet connectable HDTVs and Blu-Ray Disk Players from, LG, Mitsubishi, Samsung, SANYO, Sharp, Toshiba and Vizio. VUDU is a wholly owned subsidiary of Walmart, and is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA. For more information, visit http://www.vudu.com/.
 