
 Dacor's ninth-generation oven pulls together a 1GHz processor, 512MB of DDR2 RAM and Android 4.0.3. It also cooks food. At the front of the Discovery Wall Oven, there's a 7-inch LCD touch panel, while the UI behind its oven-centric widgets is apparently the product of a design collaboration between Dacor and BMW's DesigworksUSA -- they're all simple enough to navigate and get things done. The oven-maker's Discovery IQ controller cooking app will offer up interactive cooking guides, recipes and all other things cooking, although you'll still be able to install more standard apps from Google Play. The built-in cooking app offers preprogrammed dishes and adjustable timings for several dishes, while you can even program the oven to cook food remotely from any Android device.

 You'll also get notifications (text message or on-screen) through your other Android device when your meal is done. An iOS version of the app will be ready to launch alongside the oven sometime this summer, with the double unit priced at a wallet-trembling $7,499 and the single oven at $4,499 -- so there's the price for convenience. It'll arrive in three different finishes, but sounds like it should go well with our other digital white goods and digital cutlery. We've got our hands-on video uploading at the moment, but take a look at our gallery for a closer look. 




 
 
 Billy Steele contributed to this report.
  Show full PR text   DACOR WILL REVEAL THE NEXT STEP IN KITCHEN EVOLUTION EXCLUSIVELY  AT TWO PREMIER MEDIA EVENTS FOR INTERNATIONAL CES 2013
   Industry leader of innovative design and concepts for the kitchen will showcase the  world's first built-in Android oven at premier media event.   City of Industry, CA (USA) – January 4, 2013 – Dacor®, a market  leader in the design, manufacture and distribution of luxury kitchen  appliances since 1965, announced today their participation in two  premier media events surrounding the world's largest and most  important technology tradeshow of 2013 – International CES. Dacor  plans to stun the media by revolutionizing the appliance industry with  the world's first wall oven featuring the integrated Discovery IQ™ Controller for Android™. It will  be presented for the first time at CES Unveiled: The Official Press Event of the International  CES held on Sunday, Jan. 6 from 4-7pm at the Mandalay Bay Hotel, South Seas Ballroom C, in  Las Vegas and at Showstoppers, the global leader in technology showcases, during  International CES 2013, held on Tuesday, Jan. 8 from 6-10pm at the Wynn Hotel, Lafite  Ballroom, in Las Vegas.

   Dacor is responsible for many industry firsts including the 30" Self-Cleaning Pure Convection™  Wall Oven, which set the standard for this built-in appliance category. The Discovery™ 30" Wall  Oven represents Dacor's 9th generation of 30" built-in wall ovens. The company's dedication to  continuously manufacturing innovative luxury appliances is evident here. Specifically, the  Discovery Wall Oven connects the kitchen to the home via a new industry exclusive – the  Discovery IQ Controller, which is the first Dacor oven to feature Wi-Fi connectivity.  With the Discovery IQ Controller, home chefs can expect the latest  technological advances for the kitchen running on the Android OS platform.  Powered by a Samsung 1GHZ Processor and 512MB DDR2 RAM, the built-in  controller is exclusive to Discovery™ Series Wall Ovens. The controller rounds  out with complete Wi-Fi connection capability and is equipped with stereo  sound and a PowerVR SGX 540 graphics processing unit delivering an exciting  multimedia experience through a 7" LCD glass touch screen panel.  The graphic user interface (GUI) is easy to use and is the most  recent collaboration from Dacor and BMW Group DesignworksUSA,  an international leader in design strategy, premium design  development, and brand communication. With the built-in Discovery  IQ Controller home chefs can access the Dacor Discovery IQ  Cooking Application and Guide while simultaneously downloading  other popular applications through the Google  ®  Play Store,  researching new recipes or viewing cooking video demonstrations wirelessly through a home WiFi network.  The Discovery IQ Controller with interactive cooking application and guide can also be accessed  remotely by the home chef throughout the home with their own Wi-Fi enabled tablet or smart hone. The IQ eliminates the guesswork associated with preparing popular dishes and family  recipes by way of a pre-programmed guide. It enables users to prepare a wide range of dishes to  perfection with the touch of a finger. Simply select the desired recipe from the display menu,  insert the dish, initiate the program and relax as the oven takes care of the rest. Additionally,  when the desired cook time has been reached, the oven will place the dish on warming mode,  keeping food warm until ready to serve.  With Dacor's proprietary IQ application, the kitchen takes on a life of its own. Once a dish is ready  to serve, the IQ will notify the chef via text message or push notification. Should the wall oven  encounter a problem or require maintenance, IQ will notify the owner with an error message and  an automated report will be sent to Dacor for troubleshooting. To ensure optimal IQ and oven  performance levels, automatic system updates and self-diagnostics will be downloaded directly to  the IQ Controller via Wi-Fi from the Dacor server.  "The Discovery IQ is truly a revolutionary wall oven controller that has raised the bar for cooking  convenience and performance. It has set the standard for the connected kitchen of the future as  the first wall oven with an integrated Android controller and Wi-Fi connectivity," said Steve  Joseph, President of DACOR.  By combining oven technology with the insight of the IQ Controller and cooking application, Dacor  is empowering the novice cook to perform at expert levels with a simple swipe of a finger. With  control features such as Guided Cooking, Quick Start Guide, My Recipe Box, and Slow Cook  Mode, home chefs are almost guaranteed to cook all their favorite dishes to perfection.  In addition to the exclusive IQ Controller, the new Discovery 30" Wall Oven is built with core  features signature to Dacor, such as a 4.8 cubic foot oven cell capacity to prepare large poultry or  for multi-rack cooking; exclusive Four-Part Pure Convection™ System which reduces cooking  time, provides superior heat distribution and eliminates flavor transfer; GreenClean  TM  Steam  Technology which cleans light build-up in 30 minutes without the use of high heat or harsh  chemicals; and GlideRacks™ equipped with a convenient easy-pull handle which allow the home  chef to move heavier dishes in and out of the oven easily. And to top it all off, personalize  your Discovery Wall Oven by selecting one of two handle options, the professional Epicure®  stainless steel handle, or the proprietary Dacor integrated stainless steel handle, for a flush  contemporary look.  The new Discovery 30" Wall Ovens with exclusive IQ Controller are targeted for production during  the Summer of 2013 - $7499 UMRP for a 30" Double Wall Oven and $4499 UMRP for a 30"  Single Wall Oven. Discovery IQ Wall Ovens will be available at specialty kitchen appliance  retailers, Pacific Sales, Lowes, and internationally through distributors in Canada and Mexico.  About Dacor: Dacor is the innovator of stylish, American-made kitchen appliances that provide a luxurious  culinary experience for those who are passionate about the details of gourmet cooking. Since its inception in  1965, Dacor has been owned and managed by three generations of the Joseph family. Dacor is responsible  for many industry firsts, including the 30" self-cleaning Pure Convection™ wall oven, a drop-in cooktop with  continuous grates, and an outdoor grill with halogen lights and the first professional dual-fuel range with  sealed burners. Today, Dacor utilizes the expertise and heritage of a third generation, family-owned  company to provide exquisitely designed luxury appliances.  Dacor was established with the principles of innovation, style, performance, craftsmanship and  sustainability. The company manufactures three luxury product collections; the innovative Discovery™  Series, the intelligent Renaissance® Series and the essential Distinctive™ Series, to fit the needs of the  discerning home chef.  For more information regarding the new Discovery 30" Wall Oven with exclusive IQ™ Controller and for hig

 
