
       
Mitsubishi, mostly seen in this space with displays for your living room, has finally got some recognition for its display that could be your living room (a subtle yet important distinction). Yes, that's right: the Guinness folks are presenting the scoreboard at Cowboys Stadium with the coveted World's Largest High-Definition Video Display award. Consisting of four Diamond Vision LED video screens (the two main displays measure 72 feet high by 160 feet wide while the end-zone displays are 29 feet high by 51 feet wide), this bad boy is suspended 90 feet above the center of the playing surface and might prove something of a "punt magnet." To celebrate, the Engadget editors are going to take another stab at the Publication With The Most Editors Sporting Beards Made Of Bees award. Huffington Post, it's on! Full PR below. 

Show full PR text
Guinness World Records to Recognize Dallas Cowboys and Mitsubishi Electric Diamond Vision for World's Largest Video Display

Four-Sided, High-Definition Screen Equivalent of 3,268 TVs Hangs Above Cowboys Stadium Playing Field

CYPRESS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Mitsubishi Electric gained yet another entry in the Guinness World Records book with the recognition of its revolutionary Diamond Vision video boards at Cowboys Stadium as the World's Largest High-Definition Video Display. The official certificate presentation will take place during a pre-game ceremony on September 28, just prior to the Cowboys vs. Carolina Panthers Monday Night Football game, which will be aired nationally on ESPN.

The world's first four-sided, center-hung, high-definition video display in a stadium consists of four Diamond Vision速 LED video screens, with the two main sideline displays measuring 72 feet high by 160 feet wide, and two Diamond Vision速 end-zone displays measuring 29 feet high by 51 feet wide. Weighing 600 tons, the screens are suspended 90 feet directly over the center of the playing surface and stretch from nearly one 20-yard line to the other.

With a total viewing area of 11,393 square-feet, the Diamond Vision速 display is equal to 3,268 52-inch televisions, and has 10,584,064 LED lights.

"This was probably the most exciting project we've ever been involved with," said Mark Foster, general manager of Mitsubishi Electric's Diamond Vision Systems. "The Dallas Cowboys are one of the most innovative teams in the NFL, and their new stadium reflects that. These scoreboards and displays are the realization of the Cowboys' commitment to their fans and the sport. We are very proud that the Cowboys organization turned to Mitsubishi Electric to deliver their vision as part of this incredible project."

"We're extremely proud of our world-class Mitsubishi Electric Diamond Vision screen," said Dallas Cowboys Owner Jerry Jones. "We have designed everything about Cowboys Stadium to provide an unequalled experience for our fans, and this screen is the centerpiece of what we have created for them."

Mitsubishi Electric has now been recognized by Guinness World Records five times for its accomplishments, and the Cowboys' board is the fourth Diamond Vision screen to be honored by Guinness. The first came in August 2003, for the World's Longest Video Display for the Hong Kong Jockey Club Sha Tin Racecourse in Hong Kong which was installed in August 2003. In March 2005, GWR recognized the Diamond Vision速 LED display at Turner Field in Atlanta as the World's Largest High-Definition Television Screen, and in September 2005 the Mitsubishi Electric video board at the Japan Racing Association Tokyo Racecourse was certified as the World's Largest Television Display. In 1993, Mitsubishi Electric was recognized for designing and installing the World's Fastest Elevator - capable of traveling 750 meters per minute (approximately 28 miles per hour) - at the Landmark Tower in Yokohama, Japan.

 