

 If you are not a videophile, then you've probably never heard of the Darblet video processor. While those obesesed with the best picture quality money can buy, were head over heels for the little box that you put in-line between your HD set-top and your HDTV, via HDMI, the $349 retail price deterred most. The company is back with a more consumer and gamer focused model, the Cobalt. At $269 this phone sized box has modes for video, gaming and "Full Pop" and is only HDMI 1.3 compatible -- the original Darblet is 1.4 so it supports 3D and Deep Color. Although this price point makes it more interesting, it isn't exactly affordable enough that everyone will think the picture quality improvement is worth the cost of admission. The press release that follows includes even more details, but if you are really interested you might want to go ahead and pre-order one as it is expected to be available late this month.



  Show full PR text   DarbeeVision Goes Beyond HD With New HDMI Video Accessory for Consumer, Video Game Markets  Cobalt Model DVP4000 Debuts at CES 2013

   LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwire - Jan 8, 2013) - Revealing their first new product for 2013, DarbeeVision, Inc., a pioneer in the field of digital image enhancement, has expanded their product line to include the Cobalt™, featured and priced for the general consumer and video gaming markets. While their original product, the Darblet™, is optimized to meet the needs of the high end home theater video purists, DarbeeVision designed the Cobalt to add Darbee Visual Presence™ depth and clarity to HDMI video at a price point that allows the unparalleled and addictive visual experience to be appreciated by the massive general consumer and video game enthusiast market.

   DarbeeVision's proprietary technology takes video images to the next level of reality for home theater and video games. Darbee uses a unique and patented approach to deliver extremely lifelike images that make the original image seem dull and flat by comparison. As a video processor module in a small mini-box, the new accessory is simply placed in-line at the output of any HDMI video source, such as a video game console, DVD or Blu-ray player, media player, or any digital broadcast. The super realism benefit of the device is easily apparent on both standard and high-definition TVs, computer monitors, and projection systems.

   About the size of an iPhone®, the new Cobalt is an HDMI video processor designed for ease of use:  HDMI 1.3 compatible  Standard 24bit, 4:2:2 color video  Three viewing modes (HiDef, Gaming, Full Pop)  Physical buttons, remote control, on screen menu/display  Increase/decrease the Darbee Level with 5% increments  Cobalt blue case

   "For consumers and video game players looking for the ultimate visual experience on their televisions, the Cobalt provides a new opportunity for everyone in the world to appreciate this must-have technology," noted Paul Darbee, DarbeeVision's founder and CEO. "As with the Darblet, TV viewers and gamers using the Cobalt will notice that objects appear to possess a strong sense of depth separation and roundness. Not only do these qualities make video more gratifying to watch, they actually help gamers to win because you can see more in the game."

   DarbeeVision will introduce their new Cobalt accessory to the consumer electronics community at the 2013 CES show in Las Vegas. During the show, they will host live demonstrations of the Cobalt and Darbee Visual Presence technology for Blu-ray, DTV, Xbox 360, PS3, and mobile devices in their Las Vegas Hotel exhibit suite #1965. Company representatives who are interested in a demonstration or pursuing business inquiries should make an appointment to visit the DarbeeVision team.

   With a projected MSRP of $269, the Cobalt continues the DarbeeVision approach of easy to use accessories for the consumer electronics market. The expected availability date for the Cobalt is January 2013. DarbeeVision will resell the product via channels in both eCommerce and retail stores for broad distribution. To inquire about Darbee Visual Presence technology business opportunities and to see a demo at the CES 2013 show, please call 714-931-5941, or email Larry Pace, COO, at larry@darbeevision.com to schedule an appointment.

 
