
 

Delkin sneers at wimps who sit around all day debating whether it's worse to be too hot or too cold. Its new 32GB and 64GB rugged CompactFlash cards relish both extremes, with a claimed operating temperature range of -40 to +85 degrees Celsius. They achieve this by eschewing the cheaper multi-level cell design of namby-pamby mainstream cards in favor of single-level cells that last for up to two million cycles and max out at 105MB/s reads and 95MB/s writes. We wouldn't stick anything else in our SnoMote. Full details in the PR after the break.
      

 

   			Show full PR text  Delkin Devices Introduces 32GB and 64GB High Performance Extended Temperature CompactFlash™ 			SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Delkin Devices, Inc., leading supplier of industrial solid state storage products, announces the production release of 32GB and 64GB high performance, extended temperature CompactFlash cards. Delkin is the first manufacturer to offer 64GB CF cards with an operating temperature range of -40 to +85°C, through the use of single-level cell (SLC) NAND flash. Complementing their industrial-grade ruggedness, the Delkin 32GB and 64GB CF cards also deliver high speed performance, reading up to 105 MB/second and writing up to 95 MB/second. 			"Delkin has taken CompactFlash to the next level by leveraging the latest advances in NAND technology and our 25 years as a leader in industrial storage" 			In addition to their enhanced environmental specifications, Delkin's SLC cards are up to ten times more durable than multi-level cell (MLC) flash cards, delivering over two million program/erase cycles. Delkin has engineered these cards to deliver the maximum capacity, speed, endurance and temperature tolerance, as well as shock and vibration resistance, to meet the demands of industrial applications in harsh environments. 			"Delkin has taken CompactFlash to the next level by leveraging the latest advances in NAND technology and our 25 years as a leader in industrial storage," stated James Grassman, Delkin Vice President of Sales and Business Development. "The new 32GB and 64GB cards are ideal for applications requiring large storage capacity and high speed data transfer in extreme conditions, while maintaining the ease of integration of the trusted CompactFlash form factor," he added. 			Delkin Devices industrial-grade flash products, including the new 32GB and 64GB high performance extended temperature CF cards, are manufactured in the USA with controlled bills of materials to ensure a consistent solution and reliable performance. 			For more information visit www.delkinindustrial.com or call 800-637-8087 and ask for the industrial storage solution sales team. 			About Delkin Devices, Inc. 			Delkin Devices is a USA-based manufacturer of industrial flash memory with over 25 years of expertise providing rugged solid state storage solutions for extreme environments. Delkin specializes in SLC flash products with extended temperature ranges, enhanced shock and vibration specifications and a menu of customizable features. Delkin offers the broadest range of standard form factors, such as 2.5" and 1.8" SATA drives, mSATA, CompactFlash, SD, microSD, PC ATA, PATA drives, USB drives and embedded modules, and also offers custom design services. Delkin Devices is ISO-9001:2008 certified and is committed to delivering high quality, competitive and cost-effective products. 
 