
Now that it's unveiled its next-gen Ultrabook, Dell's taking the opportunity to refresh the machines it's already got. Starting with the XPS 12 convertible Ultrabook, the company is adding an NFC chip, Haswell processors and a bigger battery (50Wh, up from 47Wh). Between that CPU change and the enlarged power pack, Dell says the system will now last up to 9.5 hours on a charge -- more than three hours longer than the OG version. Fortunately for you, the starting price is staying put at $1,200, with shipments beginning July 9th in most regions.


Moving on, the XPS 27 all-in-one is stepping up to a 2,560 x 1,440 screen with improved brightness (350 nits vs. 300) and a wider color gamut (99 percent, up from 72). As you'd expect, Dell also swapped in fresh Haswell processors and a 2GB, next-gen NVIDIA GPU, along with a Thunderbolt port, TPM and Dell's ProSupport service offering. Finally, the machine's getting a bigger storage option: a 2TB 7,200RPM HDD paired with a 256GB SSD. That's available today for $1,600 and up -- the same price you would've paid for the last-gen model with a touchscreen. Finally, Dell replaced the XPS 8500 desktop tower with the XPS 8700, which brings Haswell, along with four HDD bays, up to 4TB of storage and up to 32GB of RAM. Additionally, the SSDs offered now include Intel's Smart Response Technology. That's available today too for $700 and up. Happy shopping!



Show full PR textMaking the Best Better: Dell Delivers Performance and Security Enhancements to Leading Edge Touch-Enabled PCs
• Updated consumer & commercial PC portfolio offers unprecedented levels of performanceTaipei, Taiwan, June 4, 2013 – Addressing the next-generation of computing needs for consumers and commercial customers, Dell today announced performance enhancements to its flagship lineup of Latitude, OptiPlex and XPS laptops and desktops. These award-winning product families demonstrate Dell's commitment to deliver the best computing experience with improved design and touch computing performance, as well as advanced security and manageability for the commercial PCs.
"We have taken outstanding products and made them even better with improved performance, sleek design and state-of-the-art security and management capabilities," said Kirk Schell, vice president, PC Product Group, Dell. "We're constantly listening to customers and improving our leading edge products based upon their input. Through enhanced components and engineering, we're providing customers with a great computing experience and helping them realize the efficiency and productivity benefits provided through improved performance."
Enhanced Touch Experiences and Performance BoostNew Dell XPS systems feature performance and expandability enhancements over the previous generation for customers that demand the latest high-performance technology. The new XPS 27 All-in-One PC delivers one of the world's most vibrant touchscreen AIO experience with an incredibly vivid Adobe RGB Quad HD display. Now customers can design, create or enjoy multimedia with brighter, truer colors. For consumers seeking a versatile desktop with advanced performance, the XPS 8700 is built with speed, expandability and storage in mind. In addition, the award-winning XPS 12 convertible laptop is now designed to be faster and more efficient than before. With 63 percent overall performance improvement1, the XPS 12 is 1.6 times faster, and now has up to 8 hours and 43 minutes of battery life2– over two hours more than the previous generation2.
Dell Delivers Most Manageable & Secure Commercial PCs
Dell commercial PCs and solutions are not only designed to handle every business computing need, but also help ensure data remains safe and secure. Building upon its security, manageability and reliability leadership, Dell today announced the Latitude E6540, the latest edition to its secure and manageable commercial laptop portfolio. The E6540 laptop features a FIPS 140-2 certified TPM and Dell Data Protection that includes comprehensive file-level encryption, advanced authentication and leading-edge malware protection to guard data wherever it goes.
The OptiPlex 9020 is the world's most manageable Intel® vPro™ enabled desktop and is Dell's most powerful commercial desktop to date. Available in four form factors, including a versatile, compact AIO, it fits seamlessly into any office environment providing a new level of control and manageability paired with leading-edge reliability and security. Additionally, the new OptiPlex 9020 can be cloud enabled with the Dell Cloud Desktop feature, a new fully incorporated desktop and application virtualization technology powered by Dell Wyse WSM. With Dell Cloud Desktops configured to be stateless and diskless, the capabilities of the OptiPlex 9020 can be shared to a number of virtual users in an extremely secure environment with centralized management and storage, while delivering the same look, performance, feel and function of a traditional desktop with an OS.
All of the PCs announced today are based on 4th generation Intel® Core™ processors.
Making the Computing Experience Complete with New Peripheral DevicesComplementing the enhanced performance in these PCs, Dell continues its leadership in monitors with the launch of the Dell 21.5" Touch Monitor S2240T. Featuring a fast, intuitive way to interact with applications, and brilliantly sharp Full HD resolution, the 10-point Dell 21.5" Touch Monitor also offers a versatile stand design. Users can slide and tilt the monitor to touch and type, mount it on the wall or attach it to the Dell Single Monitor Arm.
Dell also is announcing the addition of two new multifunction printers to their portfolio. The B1165nfw and B1265dfw are designed to provide growing businesses and home users with affordable printing solutions to complement their desktops. Versatile and affordable, the new multifunction printers include wireless networking capabilities3 and document management software, driving new office efficiencies and the ability to print, scan, copy and fax with one easy-to-use device. And to complete the multifunction printer offering to the Small Business and SOHO segment, Dell will be launching the B1163w, a 3-in-1 multifunction printer, in August this year.
AvailabilityThe XPS 27 AIO, XPS 8700 and the 21.5" Touch Monitor are available today at www.dell.com in the United States and select countries around the world. The XPS 12 convertible laptop, Latitude E6540 laptop, OptiPlex 9020 desktops, and multifunction printers will be available in the coming weeks.

