
 Dell has been teasing plans for a true wireless dock that would let Latitude 6430u Ultrabook owners get all the expansion they need without proprietary technologies -- or the usual cable spaghetti. It's at last here in the (rather plainly titled) Dell Wireless Dock. The station relies on a bandwidth-rich WiGig connection to give the Latitude supplementary audio, DisplayPort, HDMI, Ethernet and three USB 3.0 ports without skipping a beat. Few would call the Wireless Dock cheap at $249, but it could be a time-saver for any worker who just wants to grab their laptop and go at the end of a long day. Eager buyers should see the dock at the source link very shortly.



  Show full PR text   Dell Makes Wireless Docking a Reality with the Industry's First and Only WiGig Docking Station for Unparalleled Connectivity and Convenience
  New Dell Wireless Dock provides best-in-class untethered docking experience with the Dell Latitude 6430u Ultrabook for fast, flexible connectivity between devices and peripherals  WiGig standard led by Dell and Wilocity marks new era in mainstream wireless with speeds up to 10 times faster than Wi-Fi and the ability to transmit high quality video streams  ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dell today announced the availability of the Dell Wireless Dock, the industry's first and only docking solution based on the latest multi-gigabit tri-band Wi-Fi standard (WiGig) and compatible with the award-winning Dell Latitude 6430u Ultrabook™ for a best–in-class wireless docking experience. The new WiGig standard begins an exciting new era in mainstream wireless connectivity with speeds up to 10 times that of today's fastest Wi-Fi networks.
  Designed for use in offices, meeting rooms and classrooms, the Dell Wireless Dock offers quick and easy connectivity to displays, projectors, networks, speakers and other peripherals for unparalleled connectivity and convenience. The new dock supports up to two external displays with both DisplayPort and HDMI, features ample peripheral connectivity via three USB 3.0 ports and facilitates easy collaboration with a front Audio In/Out port for voice over IP at speeds of up to 4.6 gigabits per second. The Dell Wireless Dock can also be easily managed with the updated Dell Connection Manager that now supports both WiGig and Wireless LAN settings.
  Especially ideal as a connectivity solution in conference rooms and classrooms, the Dell Wireless Dock supports cable-free, seamless transitions between multiple presenters and hassle-free collaboration. An adapter is available for VGA-based infrastructures and an Ethernet connector helps ensure dedicated, stable bandwidth for fast data transfers and efficient communication with remote locations. Additionally, the Dell Wireless Dock has the same level of usability and easy integration as the current Latitude E Series Docking Stations with remote access, monitoring and configuration for business class control.
  With the potential to offer many advanced uses, such as virtually instantaneous wireless backups, synchronization and file transfers between computers and handheld devices, the WiGig standard (802.11ad) is the result of close industry collaboration led by Dell and Wilocity. Based on the proven IEEE 802.11 standard specification for long-term stability, WiGig offers the same level of security and manageability as today's best WLAN technologies. WiGig is powered by the first 60 GHz multi-gigabit wireless chipsets developed by Wilocity and brought to the Dell Latitude 6430u by Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., a subsidiary of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.
  Quotes
  "We are proud to introduce the Dell Wireless Dock, the industry's first and only WiGig dock that is the result of a five-year-long leadership effort. WiGig represents a new era in wireless connectivity and a shift in the way enterprises and consumers will experience connectivity and interact with their devices in the future," said Kirk Schell, vice president, commercial PC group, Dell. "The Dell Wireless Dock is the latest example of our approach to develop cutting edge, innovative solutions that benefit our customers."
  "Multi-gigabit wireless connectivity in the 60 GHz spectrum is no longer about technology demos and future-state conversations," said Tal Tamir, chief executive officer of Wilocity. "We're proud to help Dell be first to market in bringing the wireless capacity and performance of WiGig to its customers in the Latitude 6430u and Wireless Dock. Dell's WiGig dock allows for closed lid operation, significantly reducing power consumption, as well as adding interfaces that do not reside natively in the 6430u. These attributes, in addition to the convenience of high-speed wireless connectivity, will provide Dell customers with an unparalleled computing experience."
  "Today's computer users require top-notch connectivity in their devices, whether for wireless docking within a room or office, or more broadly throughout the premises," said Vivek Gupta, vice president and general manager of computing, Qualcomm Atheros. "Our tri-band solution provides reliable wireless connectivity and sets the stage to enable a broad range of applications, such as data syncing and video streaming, all while maintaining wireless docking capabilities. We're pleased to be working with two ecosystem leaders-Dell and Wilocity-in providing this technology."
  Availability and Pricing
  The Dell Wireless Dock is available today worldwide for $249US.
 
