
 
Back when we reviewed the Dell Vostro V13 we had a few complaints, including the fact that it lasted less than three hours on a charge and lacked an HDMI port. Well, Dell's gone and taken care of at least one of those issues with its new Vostro V130. The original thin and light chassis has been kept intact, which means there's still the same old battery issues, but Dell's freshened up the 13.3-inch magnesium alloy laptop with an HDMI port, extra USB socket, a SIM card slot, new Core i3 / i5 ULV processor options, and some new Intel "Hyperbaric Cooling" technology. We don't know much about that new cooling stuff, but apparently it will help the .65-inch thick system stay cool and quiet. Oh, and did we mention it now comes in that bright red hue?! The small business machine still starts an impressive $429 and is available today. If you're looking for more details hit the break for the full press release and the gallery below for some glossy shots. 




Show full PR textEntrepreneurs Work Beautifully with Dell Vostro V130· Durable, high-quality laptop gives small businesses style and substance· One of the thinnest and lightest ultraportable 13-inch laptops available· The first ultra-thin laptop to offer Hyperbaric Cooling, an Intel® Advanced Cooling TechnologyROUND ROCK, Texas, Nov. 30, 2010 – Dell today unveiled the Vostro V130, the latest and most stunning addition to its award-winning Vostro laptop line.Designed with the needs and wants of on-the-go entrepreneurs in mind, the Vostro V130 combines head-turning style with best-of-breed durability and security. The Vostro V130 is one of the thinnest [as thin as 0.65" (front) to 0.78" (rear)] and lightest (starting at 3.5 pounds[i]) ultraportable 13-inch laptops available and includes color options Lucerne Red and Aberdeen Silver. Constructed from sturdy aluminum and reinforced with zinc hinges and a magnesium alloy palm rest, it is also road-ready and able to survive everyday bumps and thumps. In addition, the V130 is the first ultra-thin laptop to offer Hyperbaric Cooling, an Intel® Advanced Cooling Technology, to help it stay quiet and cool.To increase productivity, the laptop can run Windows® 7 effortlessly while performing everyday tasks quickly thanks to the new Intel Core ULV processor, full-sized keyboard and 13.3-inch High Definition WLED display. In addition, the new laptop provides business-class security and superior service and support when and where it's needed, giving customers the power to do more while carrying less. With the Vostro V130, customers can choose their own level of 24/7 coverage with optional Dell ProSupport™ services and Accidental Damage Service2, as well as get help when they need it with DellConnect™3 which allows tech-support agents to troubleshoot and help repair system issues remotely. The laptop also comes equipped with the latest Trend Micro Worry-Free Business Security Services to protect your system and servers from viruses and virtual threats, as well as CompuTrace4 anti-theft."Small and mid-sized firms are re-examining their IT needs and are ready to implement technology that gives them comprehensive access to all the capabilities they need, even while on the road," said Ray Boggs, vice president of small and medium business research at IDC. "Notebook PCs are on SMB shopping lists in a big way as firms shift from desktops and implement product refreshes that have long been delayed. Dell continues to keep SMB needs in focus with effective design, connectivity options and more processing muscle."Vostro V130: The Perfect On-the-Go Ultraportable for Small BusinessThe Vostro V130 is the perfect follow up to the popular V13 and includes new connectivity features based directly on customer feedback including the addition of an HDMI port for easy connection to High Definition TV, the ability to back up seamlessly or quickly connect devices and peripherals using the two USB 2.0 ports, shared USB/eSATA port and VGA. Small businesses can work virtually anytime anywhere wirelessly with 802.11n wireless technology, optional WiMAX technology(U.S. only)5 and Bluetooth 3.0 for easy wireless connection to devices and peripherals such as keyboards, mice and headsets within a short distance. The new SIM card slot and upgraded built-in webcam complete the package, helping you stay connected to your business."With the V130, we are adding the functionality customers asked for without sacrificing the beautiful design they fell in love with in the V13," said Sam Burd, vice president, Consumer, Small and Medium Business Product Group, Dell. "Starting today, I predict the V130 will fast become the must-have travel companion for today's mobile professional." Pricing and AvailabilityThe Vostro V130 is available today worldwide, starting at $429.Related Links:Dell Small and Medium Business Solutions CenterPhotos of the products launched todayDell Small Business on FacebookAbout DellDell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services they need and value. Dell printers are available direct from Dell and from Dell's more than 50,000 partners worldwide. For more information, visit www.dell.com.Dell and Vostro are trademarks of Dell Inc.Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
 