
 
Dell doesn't take its site down when it introduces product unlike some laptop peddlers. The result, however, is shots like this of early pre-release gear like the Inspiron Mini 9 netbook as Dell spins the product up for retail. $449 fully spec'd just like we heard with 8GB SSD, 1GB memory, Bluetooth 2.1, Windows XP, and a 1.3 megapixel webcam. We still expect to see a lesser spec'd $349 model running Ubuntu. Shipping on the 16th of September in your choice of white or black though white will cost you a $25 premium. Dell hasn't officially announced the product yet but we're sure they'll get that sorted out in a few hours. For now, happy URL hacking as we dig for more details.Update: Here's the $349 model running Ubuntu -- the Inspiron 910u. The top-end $449 XP configuration pictured after the break.Update 2: Starts at £299 in UK and €369 in Germany.Update 3: Oops, looks like someone broke a press release embargo making all the specs and prices listed above extra, super official and in sync with the exclusive we had back in June. In addition, the take home price also includes a free, basic Box.net plan offering 2GB of remote storage. See the full release after the break all you tweens and tweeters.Update 4: Direct2Dell -- Dell's official blog -- says you can get the Mini for just $99 with the purchase of a Studio 15, XPS M1530 or XPS M1330. Offer ends Tuesday, September 9th. Not bad if you're already gearing up for a back-to-school Dell anyway.


[Thanks, Shon]
      

 MEET YOUR NEW BEST FRIEND: DELL'S INSPIRON MINI 9Ideal Internet Buddy For Surfing, Shopping and Chatting· Light, Highly Mobile Device Built For Easy Online BrowsingAnd Entertainment· Box.net Web Storage Keeps Your Personal Files Safe AndEnables Anytime Access and SharingROUND ROCK, Texas, Sept. 4, 2008 –Dell today officially unveiled theInspiron Mini 9. This small, easy-to-carry device stands ready toconnect teens, tweens, travelers and "Tweeters" to their online worldbe it surfing the Web, chatting with friends, blogging, streamingcontent, uploading photos or enjoying favorite online videos, musicand games.The Inspiron Mini is an affordable Internet companion that can befine-tuned to fit users' specific needs and deeds. It is available nowon www.dell.com/mini in the U.S., Japan and select countries inEurope. Availability elsewhere will be handled on a country-by-country basis.Solid Construction & ConnectionsWith a starting weight of 2.28 lbs.[i], digital nomads will value theInspiron Mini's durable design, with sealed keyboard and reliablesolid state drive (SSD) memory storage. A bright 8.9‑inch glossy LEDdisplay (1024x600) presents most web pages with no left-rightscrolling, and the keypads are large and easy to navigate. Standardbuilt-in Wi-Fi means quick and easy wireless internet access tohotspots in the home, on campus, in a local coffee shop, in the officeor at a conference. The Inspiron Mini can be further customized withoptional technology like:· Built-in Webcam, bundled with Dell Video Chat, making iteasy to stay in touch using video chat, recording and sending videoemails, or even PC-to-PC phone calls around the world. DVC evensupports four-way calling, making virtual family reunions a reality.· Built-in Bluetooth(R) for easy wireless connections toBluetooth-enabled accessories like a pair of stereo headphones, amouse, a printer, etc.Dell has teamed up with Box.net to offer exclusive web-based filestorage, access and sharing to Inspiron Mini users, including a freeBasic plan with 2GB of remote storage space, expandable to 25GB.Dell's Inspiron Mini will include a direct link to a Dell-exclusivehome page on Box.net (www.box.net/dell), providing users with an easyway to add incremental online storage space to easily manage theirdigital lives. Individuals can safely and securely upload files ofany type to their Box, including photos, videos, music, documents andpresentations, and then access those files from almost anywhere on anydevice.Box.net's world-class service requires no software to download. Withits OpenBox platform, Box.net enables people to edit documents andphotos directly from their web-browser and post media to their blog orsocial networks, further enhancing the mobility and user experience onthe Inspiron Mini.Individual & Intuitive, Simple & StylishIndividuals can personalize their Inspiron Mini with choice of colors– Obsidian Black or Alpine White – and interaction experience –optional Windows(R) XP(R) or Ubuntu 8.04 with custom Dell interface(coming soon). For those looking for a more traditional and familiarexperience, the Inspiron Mini with Windows XP Home is availableimmediately starting at $399.Inspiron Mini devices featuring an intuitive Dell-developed custominterface are expected to be available in a few weeks with a startingprice of $349. The custom home screen is designed to make it easy tofind what people are looking for. Intuitive icons link directly togroups of similar applications, like games, Web and entertainment, andfavorite web links for quick access. Plus, the home screen can bepersonalized, putting your favorites front and center.This highly mobile and fun device can be carried anywhere in stylethanks to a full line of custom "Designed for Dell" backpacks,messenger bags and convertible cases from merchants including Timbuk2.Blending high fashion and superior function, the coordinated bags andaccessories incorporate subtle design elements and offer Inspiron Miniowners a unique way to express a personalized, integrated style."Designed for Dell" products currently are available in the UnitedStates, Canada and Europe.Finishing TouchesDell provides a variety of service offerings and add-on options tohelp ensure devices are easy to use and maintain optimal performance,including:· Dell Support Center: Quickly access Dell service and supportfrom an icon on your desktop that provides automated fixes, softwareupgrades and tools to help keep your system up-to-date and runningefficiently.· DellConnect™ Remote Assistance:[ii] Dell experts helpdiagnose and solve PC problems via an Internet connection (availableonly on Windows-based systems).

       

 