
Dell Wyse, the company's cloud services arm, is worried about your security. It's also thinking that it's time you didn't need to drag that laptop wherever you go. As such, it's working on Project Ophelia, a chunky Android stick that turns any HDTV or monitor into a display. What's different to devices like FXI's Cotton Candy, for instance, is that the hardware is a gateway to a cloud server where all of your content lives. Users can play games, display presentations or finish the last few lines of that essay wherever they are. The company isn't talking about details (or how you'd control such a device), but it's expecting to have it ready for prime-time by the summer.




Show full PR textUltra-Compact Dell Cloud Connection Device Enables Access to Personal and Professional Content From Any Capable Display
LAS VEGAS, Jan. 8, 2013 – Dell today unveiled a solution that extends the value of cloud client computing to the next level, enabling people to manage the increasing convergence of their work lives and personal lives by using a compact, portable device to access not only secured professional assets, but also personal content via the cloud. The ultra-compact multimedia-capable device, called Dell Wyse "Project Ophelia," is slightly larger than a USB memory stick and enables users to convert any capable TV or monitor into a functioning interactive personal display device without using a computer, tablet or smartphone.Today, people are increasingly looking to take and securely access their personal and professional content wherever they go. Despite rapid advances in mobile technology, however, they still face challenges when it comes to securely accessing desired information when they are away from the office. There is no easy way, for example, to access photos, music or video from a personal cloud or entertainment subscription when away from a PC, smartphone or tablet. Equally, professionals find it difficult to securely access and share work applications, presentations and content if they are away from their usual devices, or worse, if their mobile devices are misplaced or fail during travel. It is also difficult for IT organizations to enable and manage access to enterprise apps and content for highly mobile users, especially those who may be without their preferred laptop, tablet or smartphone.

Built on Dell Wyse software technology already used on millions of devices, Project Ophelia transforms ordinary displays into a window to entertainment, communications and a person's own personal cloud. The device also allows business users to instantly turn a display into a flexible, securely managed, communications-enabled thin client for work, demos or presentations. These capabilities are packed into a device barely larger than a USB stick that is self-powered through a monitor and easily fits inside your pocket.The product addresses a variety of uses being fueled by the growing need to access cloud-based apps and resources at any time, or whenever a larger screen high definition digital display provides a superb user experience. Examples include:- Consumers who desire in-the-moment access to cloud-based games or content but do not have their laptop or tablet in their possession;- On-line gamers wishing to take advantage of a much larger display for an improved interactive experience;- Highly mobile professionals who may not have a large display capable device with them; and- Cloud access providers wishing to provide an attractively priced device included with carrierinternet/wireless services

Key benefits of Project Ophelia:- Enables instant and secure access to your personal cloud, entertainment, work content and applications wherever there is an available capable display (using a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse), including a wide variety of Dell flat-panel displays.- Integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth facilitates access and communication.- Built on the Android 4 OS to support Web browsing, social networking, media playback and Android Appswith a possibility to extend to other services.- Securely connects to Windows desktops and applications running on back-end systems from all leadinginfrastructure providers including Citrix, Microsoft and VMware.- Flexibly powered zero-battery device gets power from the attached display monitor via its MHL interfaceto the monitor's MHL port, or separately via its own USB interface. No batteries to charge or change.- Remembers settings for each individual to enhance usability.- Compatible with many existing Dell Wyse thin clients and software products.￼￼￼￼￼￼￼- Managed by Dell Wyse Cloud Client Manager software-as-a-service (SaaS) which can ensure the device is being used by the appropriate person with the right permissions and access to apps and content based on role, department, and location.obile devices have small screens, tablets and PCs aren't always convenient to haul around, and all these devices require batteries that can run down. 'Project Ophelia' turns capable TVs and monitors into personal and reliable Wi-Fi enabled work orentertainment stations – all managed easily by IT via Dell Wyse Cloud Client Manager."

Availability:Project Ophelia will be available in the first half of 2013 from Dell Cloud Client Computing.


