
 
We've got a little more detail on those four new pre-orderable phones up in Best Buy Mobile's business this week now that the news has gone from leak status to official, and needless to say, the truth is even stranger than fiction. The Dell Streak will be available for the first time in retail stores for $299.99 on contract come October 24, joined by a white version of Verizon's Samsung Fascinate for $149.99 on contract; those two will be followed on November 8 by the HTC Surround for $199. Here's where it gets interesting, though: the white Sony Ericsson X10 for AT&T -- also rumored in our original leak -- will come pre-loaded with "The Essential Taylor Swift Experience," which frankly doesn't paint a picture of the target demographic we'd really expected. But hey, we like surprises! What does her essential experience entail, exactly? Two albums, a new single, ringtone and video content, and access to her new album when it launches on October 25. This bad boy also comes in on October 24 for $99 on contract. Best Buy claims that all four of these are in-store exclusives... which, particularly with the Surround, is pretty insane. Follow the break for the press release.
      

 

Show full PR textIt's an Exclusive Holiday at Best Buy Mobile® With Launch of Four New Smart PhonesPre sale begins today on all four exclusive devices: Sony Ericsson Xperia™ X10 in White with The Essential Taylor Swift Experience, Dell Streak™, HTC Surround™ based on Windows Phone 7 and White Samsung Fascinate™ MINNEAPOLIS – Best Buy Mobile has the most smart phones under one roof and, this holiday, it is adding to that selection with several exclusive smart phones as well. Best Buy Mobile, the mobile specialty retail unit of Best Buy Co. Inc (NYSE: BBY), today proudly announced the exclusive launch and pre sale of four dynamic new smart phones. The lineup includes:Sony Ericsson Xperia X10 in White on AT&T with the Essential Taylor Swift ExperienceDell Streak™ on AT&T featuring a 5" screenHTC Surround on AT&T featuring the new Windows Phone 7 mobile operating system (National Retail Exclusive)White Samsung Fascinate on VerizonAll four devices are exclusive to Best Buy Mobile and go on pre sale today at all Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile specialty stores nationwide, as well as online at BestBuy.com/Mobile."There are thousands of places to buy mobile phones in America, but there is only one place where customers can buy one of these great smart phones. And that place is Best Buy Mobile," said Scott Anderson, head of merchandising for Best Buy Mobile. "Each one of these devices offers something new and unique to the market and we are excited and honored to bring them to our customers. Best Buy knows consumers expect the hottest products, but also great prices along with a level of service and support that simply makes life easier – that's what we're delivering." White Sony Ericsson Xperia™ X10 with The Essential Taylor Swift ExperienceCustomers can only get this experience here – with the exclusive white version of the X10 plus music and media from one of this Holiday's hottest artists. The phone retails for $99 with a new two-year activation and will be in stores on Oct. 24.The ultimate media pack of Taylor Swift content includes:Taylor Swift's self titled and 'Fearless' albumsHer new single 'Mine' along with the Ringtone and Music videoPlus, get access to all of the music from the new "Speak Now" CD on the Oct. 25 release day.Additionally, there is an exclusive accessory pack for the White X10 that includes a Skin for the phone and matching headphones – the fan's essential!The X10 runs on the Android operating system and features:8.1 MP cameraLarge 4" WVGA capacitive touch display1 GHz Snapdragon processorTimescape™ – Easily manage Facebook™, Twitter™, Email & more in an animated deck-of-cards formatMediascape – Photos, online photos, videos and music all in one place, plus music links to YouTube™.5" Android-based Tablet: Dell Streak on AT&TThe Dell Streak has found a way to fit your whole world in a 5-inch screen, and in your pocket. The 5-inch Android-based tablet is designed to provide people the best on-the-go entertainment, social connection and navigation experience.Dell Streak features:Only 5" Tablet optimized to be pocket friendly for easy portability5" Gorilla glass display creates a high quality damage resistant displayFast processing power with 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon™ processorTwo cameras allow users the flexibility to capture the moment by photo or video chatIntegrated A-GPS and e-compass enables Location-Based Services (LBS) applications for personal navigation w/real time maps.The Streak retails for $299.99 with a new 2 year activation and launches in stores on Oct. 24.Windows Phone 7 arrives: HTC Surround on AT&TThe HTC Surround is the first smart phone at Best Buy to feature Windows Phone 7. It retails for $199 with new two-year activation and will be in stores on Nov. 8.With Windows Phone 7, the things that matter most to people, such as games, music and video, photos and office productivity are organized through integrated experiences known as Hubs and fueled by the rich experiences of Xbox LIVE, Zune, Bing, and Office.The HTC Surround includes integrated Dolby Mobile and SRS surround sound speakers. The speakers slide-out and reveal a kickstand for watching video beneath its 3.8-inch touch screen.White hot: White Samsung Fascinate on VerizonOne of Verizon Wireless' best selling phones now comes in white and is only at Best Buy Mobile. The phone is $149.99 with new two-year activation and launches on Oct. 24. It features:Brilliant 4" Super AMOLED screen1GHz processor5MP Camera720 DH Video Recording16GB pre-installed SD CardBest Buy Mobile rapidly has become a leading destination for smart phone purchases, in part because of the promises the store offers its customers: better choice of phones and networks; impartial, informed advice; straightforward pricing; and someone to be there for the life of the phone.About Best Buy MobileBest Buy Mobile was founded in 2006 with a goal of changing the way consumers shop for and purchase mobile phones in America. Today, Best Buy Mobile is in every Best Buy store and also has 128 Best Buy Mobile specialty stores around the country. Best Mobile features one of the largest selections of carriers, handsets and accessories available anywhere. Employees undergo at least 80 hours of intensive training, as well as continuing education on mobile phone technology and trends to help customers get the most of their mobile phones. For more information about Best Buy Mobile, visit www.bestbuy.com/mobile or www.bestbuymobile.comAbout Best Buy Co., Inc.With operations in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, Mexico and Turkey, Best Buy is a multinational retailer of technology and entertainment products and services with a commitment to growth and innovation. The Best Buy family of brands and partnerships collectively generates more than $49 billion in annual revenue and includes brands such as Best Buy; Best Buy Mobile; Audiovisions; The Carphone Warehouse; Future Shop; Geek Squad, Jiangsu Five Star; Magnolia Audio Video; Napster; Pacific Sales; and The Phone House. Approximately 180,000 employees apply their talents to help bring the benefits of these brands to life for customers through retail locations, multiple call centers and Web sites, in-home solutions, product delivery and activities in our communities. Community partnership is central to the way we do business at Best Buy. In fiscal 2010, we donated a combined $25.2 million to improve the vitality of the communities where our employees and customers live and work. For more information about Best Buy, visit www.bestbuy.com
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

