
 


	Over the past few weeks, we've seen HP and Toshiba freshen up their all-in-ones, while Samsung made a belated jump into the market just last week. Today, it's Dell's turn -- the company just announced an addition to its all-in-one lineup, the 23-inch Inspiron One 2320. Funnily enough, the new design reminds us somewhat of the PCs HP trotted out last month in that it has an easel-like display with enough space underneath to stow the keyboard, although this one doesn't have a tilting screen. Spec-wise, it's well-matched against the competition, with a 1080p touchscreen, Intel Wireless Display capability, optional NVIDIA GeForce GT525M graphics, six USB 2.0 ports, HDMI-in, a Blu-ray option and up to 2TB in storage. (For whatever reason, USB 3.0 didn't make the cut.) That starting price of $950 will get you a Core i5-2400S CPU and 6GB of RAM, but if you have an extra $450 lying around you can step up to a Core i7-2600S processor with 8GB of memory. Wrapping it all up, the 2320 runs Dell's touch-friendly Stage UI, the latest version of which lets you sync photos and other media across different devices. We've rounded up a few glossy press shots below, but hit the source link if you're curious enough for the full spill.





 		Show full PR text   Dell Introduces the Inspiron One 2320, the Ultimate Stay-Connected Desktop for Families 			- Thin and Powerful: Sleek all-in-one design with Intel 2nd generation Core i processor options			- Family Centerpiece: Fun and intuitive technology makes staying in touch, completing tasks and accessing favorite content quick and easy 			Tweet This: Dell introduces the sleek, powerful Inspiron One 2320 all-in-one desktop. #DellInspiron 			ROUND ROCK, Texas, October 5, 2011 – Dell today introduced the Inspiron One 2320, the ultimate 'stay-connected' all-in-one desktop that delivers the latest in entertainment and interactive experiences for the entire family. Finishing homework assignments, keeping track of household expenses, enjoying movies and music – the Inspiron One 2320 is the ultimate PC for every member of the family. 			Sleek and stylish, this PC is a definite overachiever - offering more than just stunning good looks. Available with Intel® CoreTM i5 or i7 processor options, and optional discrete graphics , the Inspiron One 2320 delivers outstanding performance, connectivity and entertainment capabilities. Keep up-to-date and share experiences with friends and loved ones with built-in Wi-Fi and HD webcam –grandparents can say goodnight, and students can catch up with friends, no matter where they are in the world – down the street or across the miles. 			The desktop's large high-definition (1080p) display makes it perfect for double-duty as a home entertainment center. For a theater-like experience, viewers can stream full HD movies and video, or hook up a gaming console by an HDMI-in connection . With immersive SRS audio and optional JBL speakers, the Inspiron One 2320 is the ideal home entertainment system for watching TV with the optional built-in TV tuner or a favorite flick. 			For those who like to touch as well as type, the Inspiron One 2320 is also available with a multi-touch display option, offering a simple, intuitive experience for accessing content, which can then be quickly and easily shared with others. With the multi-touch display option, the Dell Stage user interface also comes pre-loaded with fun touch games like "Bug Blast" and "Drum Zone", for fun and easy children's entertainment. 			The Inspiron One 2320 is the latest addition to Dell's family of Thin + Powerful solutions, which includes the XPS 15z laptop for uncompromising performance in a beautifully-designed anodized aluminum finish, and the Inspiron 14z laptop for all-round computing with an attractive, sleek design.  Versatile, space-saving design			At just 68mm thin for the touch-screen model (66.5mm for the non-touch display), the Inspiron One 2320 embodies a sleek, space-saving design that fits perfectly in tight spaces – such as in the kitchen, a dorm room, or on a desk in the home office. With a single power cord for a "clutter free" look and a VESA mount option for connecting to walls, the Inspiron 2320 is easy to incorporate almost anywhere throughout the home. 			"Families today are looking at PCs as the hub for everything: entertainment, education, household organization – and they want it to look good at the same time," said Sam Burd, vice president of Dell's Consumer and Small/Medium Business product group. "The Inspiron 2320 is the ultimate 'family togetherness' PC for staying connected, getting tasks done and being the centerpiece for family entertainment."  Share and enjoy favorite digital content			The Inspiron One 2320 could very well be considered the most popular "member" of the family and a blank canvas for fun. Stay organized with Dell Stage, an intuitive user interface which places shortcuts or "tiles" to documents, music, photos, videos, and frequently used web pages right on the desktop – delivering easy access to files and fun. Stage also includes SyncUP powered by Nero, which synchronizes content across other supported devices in your home network, and offers 2GB of free personal cloud storage to access and store favorite content anytime, from anywhere connected to a Wi-Fi network with browser access. Staying connected and sharing experiences with family, friends and schoolmates is both seamless and enjoyable.  Technical Information			- Processors: 2nd generation Intel Core i5 and i7			- Display: 23" WLED with 1920 x 1080 (Full HD) resolution standard (Touch Optional)			- Memory: 6GB DDR3 Memory (Standard) up to 8GB DDR3 Memory1			- HD Webcam			- Optional remote			- Hard Drive options: 1.0TB SATA 3.5" (Standard) Up to 2.0TB3 SATA 3.5"			- Graphics: On-processor Graphics (standard) up to nVidia GeForce GT 525M discrete graphics1			- 8:1 Media Card Reader			- Optical Drive Options: DVD+/-RW (standard) up to BluRay Combo BD-RE			- USB mouse and keyboard as standard with wireless keyboard and mouse options			- Audio: Integrated HD Audio w/SRS and optional JBL-branded speakers			- Dimensions: Width 567mm (22.32"), Height 397mm (15.6"), Depth 68mm (2.67") Touch and 66.5mm (2.62") non-touchscreen  Availability and Pricing			The Inspiron One 2320 is available beginning today on www.dell.com/inspironone starting at $949.99 with an Intel Core i5 processor and multi-touch display. The Inspiron One 2320 will also be available in select retail locations across the United States. 
 