
 
Dell's given its Inspiron lineup a new back-to-school paint job, dubbed as the new R series, with a heavy emphasis on gloss and Dell's forward-positioned hinge designed (thrilling, we know). The lineup has mainly the same internals as the existing Inspirons, with Core i3 and Core i5 processors, but the optional Intel Wireless Display is a nice addition. Prices start at $449, with models coming in 14, 15, and 17-inch sizes, and you can configure these things to your heart's content -- including your choice of Mars Black, Promise Pink, Tomato Red, and Peacock Blue. The laptops should are available today at retail and on Dell.com, and you can find a fancy press release after the break. 






Show full PR textGORGEOUS, INTUITIVE AND ENTERTAINING, SAY HELLO TO THENEW INSPIRON R LAPTOPS FROM DELL     Dell's Most Popular Laptops Designed to Keep Families Organized and EntertainedAvailable at Dell's Newest U.S. Retail Partner, Fry's Electronics on June 25ROUND ROCK, Texas, June 21, 2010 – Today, more than ever, families are looking to technology as an extra set of hands – one that helps them stay connected, quickly cross items off daily 'to-do' lists, and keep them entertained. The new Inspiron R laptops were designed with this in mind - making it easier than ever to access personal files and securely share photos and videos wirelessly, as well to enjoy the ideal mobile personal entertainment hub, offering smooth video playback, surround sound and a built-in Webcam.Wrapped in curvy edges, smooth lines and available in four unique colorful finishes with chrome accents, the Inspiron R laptops are as beautifully designed as they are useful. With several display sizes ranging from 14-inch models that fit perfectly in a messenger bag, to home and dorm room-friendly 15- and 17-inch versions, the Inspiron R boasts a contemporary and sleek appearance that will make anyone feel good about bringing it out in the classroom or the local coffee shop. Dell also built in unique features and timesavers like the Dell Dock, which reduces time searching applications and files - photos, videos and most commonly used apps are placed right at the top of the screen. For those who choose the optional Intel Wireless Display* feature, the Inspiron R makes it easy to project what is on the laptop display on a nearby HDTV without the need for cables. Students have the option to purchase any version of Microsoft Office 2010 pre-installed on their Inspiron R laptops, to ensure they have the tools they need to kick off the school year. "The Inspiron R takes the rock solid Inspiron line and amps up the cool factor with a sexy and practical machine for entertainment, and social networking along with all the usual home, school and work functions," said Glen Robson, vice president, product marketing, Dell. "Photos, videos and personal files can also be securely stored and shared with DataSafeOnline for peace of mind right out of the box. This is a laptop that moms will love and youths will ask for." Designed to stand up to the rigors of active families and students on the go Inspiron R models feature smudge-resistant palm rests, a full-size, comfortable keyboard and a stiffer frame for a solid, quality feel. Available Intel Core i3 and Core i5 processors and optional ATi graphics ensure great performance today and tomorrow. Prices for Inspiron R laptops begin at $449 at www.dell.com. For students and families who need a laptop as soon as possible, popular configurations of the new Inspiron R are also available via Dell's FastTrack* program, which can ship systems within 24 hours. By upgrading to next business day shipping,* new Inspiron R systems can arrive within 48 hours. The new Inspiron R laptops are also available through authorized retailers, including Dell's newest retail partner in the U.S., Fry's Electronics. Select Inspiron R laptops will be available in all 34 Fry's Electronics stores starting June 25. Common Technical Highlights for the Inspiron 14R, 15R and 17R: Intel Core i3 and i5 mobile processor options for outstanding everyday performance with Microsoft Windows 7 Choice of models offering bright 14-, 15-, and 17-inch displays, with high definition (HD) resolution offered on all systems Choice of optional colors on select models : Mars Black, Peacock Blue, Tomato Red and Lotus Pink Built-in wireless connectivity Optional Intel Wireless Display that allows for a cable-free connection to most HDTVs when paired with a separate third party Intel Wireless Display TV adapter SRS Premium Sound provides an excellent stereo surround soundstage Built-in media card readers speed up transferring photo and video files. Optional 1GB ATi graphics provide realistic video effects Up to 640GB* hard disk drives on select models for storing large photos, music and video collections Up to 8GB* DDR3 memory performs tasks quickly and seamlessly Built-in Webcam enables Web chats on the go Touchpad with integrated scrolling and gestures makes using the laptop more intuitive and simple to use Dedicated 10-key number pad on the 15-and 17-inch systems that gives gamers additional keys for more shortcuts Dell Dock organizes music, videos and photos and puts most commonly-used apps right up top DataSafeOnline data backup & recovery keeps data & memories secure outside of the system DataSafeLocal, a secure, simple and reliable way to create backup copies of the factory imageAbout DellDell (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to its customers and uses that insight to make technology simpler and create innovative solutions that simplify daily activities and help people stay, entertained, connected and in touch. Learn more at www.dell.com. Offers subject to change, not combinable with all other offers. Taxes, shipping, handling and other fees apply. U.S. Dell Home and Home Office new purchases only. Dell reserves the right to cancel orders arising from pricing or other errors.Intel Wireless Display: Available Intel® Wireless Display: Requires a system configured with Intel® HD Graphics, Intel® WiFiLink 6200 and NetgearPTV1000 (sold separately) connected to an HDMI-enabled display.FastTrack: Limited quantities available. Our FastTrack systems typically ship out from our warehouses the next business day. Your FastTrack order may be delayed by a variety of factors including the depletion of our supply of your selected system or the time it takes to process your payment authorization. Note that the delivery date of your FastTrack order is dependent on the shipping method you choose, as well as the day and time of your order. Shipping: Customers who choose Next Business Day Shipping for an additional charge starting at $69, and place their order by 5:59pm CT Sunday through Wednesday, will usually receive their order in 48 hours. Electronics and accessories are not included; these may ship separately and for an additional charge.Memory: Significant system memory may be used to support graphics, depending on system memory size and other factors. Hard Drive: GB means 1 billion bytes and TB equals 1 trillion bytes; actual capacity varies with preloaded material and operating environment and will be less.
 