
 

Dell's XPS 11 might be all new and foldable, but the company hasn't forgotten its old workhorses, the XPS 13 and 15, both of which are receiving refreshes. Having already received a sharper display option earlier this year, the XPS 13 is now getting a 1080p touchscreen covered in Gorilla Glass NBT. And -- surprise, surprise -- Intel's Haswell processors (Core i3 / i5 / i7) are now part of the package, with battery life rated at up to 10 hours. As you'd expect too, the graphics have also received a bump: moving to Haswell also means stepping up to Intel's HD 4400 chipset.


The XPS 15 (pictured above) has received an even more dramatic upgrade: it now sports a seriously pixel-dense 3,200 x 1,800 touch display "based on IGZO technology." You have the option of either Core i5 or i7 Haswell chips, "next-gen" NVIDIA graphics and up to 1TB of hard drive space, along with a 32GB SSD. You could just opt for a single 512GB solid-state drive instead, budget permitting, and you'll also have a choice of "voice and NFC options" (not that Dell was very specific about the voice part). The XPS 15 will arrive first, on October 15th, with a starting price of $1,500 (hey, 3,200 x 1,800 displays don't come cheap). If it's the XPS 13 you're after, that will go on sale sometime in November, starting at $1,000.








Show full PR textDell Introduces New Line of Tablets and Updated XPS Laptops: Create, Share and Access Content from Virtually Anywhere
New Dell Venue tablets offer the ability to connect, share, and access content with easeXPS 11 is the world's thinnest, lightest and most compact 2-in-1 in the world with the world's first Quad HD display on an 11.6-inch 2-in-1
XPS 15 powerhouse laptop offers the world's first 15.6-inch Quad HD+ display for jaw-dropping visuals and the ultimate experience
New York, Oct. 2, 2013 - Dell today took a bold step in unveiling a new family of tablets and new laptops, including a 2-in-1 Ultrabook. The Dell Venue line of tablets is comprised of four new ultrathin models designed to address the changing way people live and work today. Dell's "damned sexy" tablets, as described by leading Enderle Group analyst, Rob Enderle, deliver leading performance and quality, backed by Intel processing technology. With compact designs that make it easy to stay connected on the go, the Dell Venue tablets have an exquisite fit and finish.
In addition to the versatile new Dell Venue tablets, Dell is introducing new XPS laptops, each with breakthrough displays for a phenomenal viewing experience with vibrant, crisp images in any available screen size. The new XPS 11, the thinnest, most compact 2-in-1 in the world, also features the first Quad HD (2560 x 1440) display on an 11.6-inch 2-in-1. The XPS 15 multimedia powerhouse boasts a stunningly thin design, and offers as an option the first 15.6-inch Quad HD+ (3200 x 1800) display in the world, which is the highest resolution available on a laptop of that size. Dell is also refreshing its award-winning XPS 13 Ultrabook with faster processors, touch Full HD (1920 x 1080) display and improved battery life. With these three laptops, Dell is leading the industry with the highest resolution displays possible.
"People today expect the best experience possible from their technology – they are counting on it to keep them connected and move with them, wherever they are," said Sam Burd, vice president Dell Personal Computing Group. "The new Dell Venue tablets and XPS laptops give customers the stellar experience they expect from us, with performance that allows them to work how they want, when they want, in a design they'll be proud to show off and own."
Dell Venue Tablets: Connect, Share and Access Content with EaseDell Venue tablets are designed to give people on-the-go a wide-selection of sizes and options to meet their varying needs. From 8 and 11-inch Windows-based tablets complete with keyboard and stylus options, to the 7 and 8-inch Android tablets, Dell has created a dedicated brand of tablets to meet the needs of customers who are the epitome of the evolving workforce.
The Dell Venue 8 Pro and Dell Venue 11 Pro Windows 8.1-based tablets combine the level of performance, design and responsiveness end-users love while giving IT departments what they need - the ability to integrate into an existing corporate environment with full compatibility with current Windows applications and Microsoft Office integration. Both tablets feature optional advanced security features and services such as TPM and Dell Enterprise Services.
The lightweight Dell Venue 8 Pro runs Windows 8.1, has a bright HD IPS display, advanced connectivity options and provides long battery life so range anxiety is no longer an issue. People can also stay productive with Office 2013 Home & Student, included with the device, and the optional Dell Active Stylus.
The Dell Venue 11 Pro, also based on Windows 8.1, provides ultimate 2-in-1 flexibility with the power of an Ultrabook, convenience of a detachable keyboard and experience of a desktop. Unlike competitive tablets, it has a user removable/replaceable battery, and its large, Full HD display with wide viewing angles makes it easy to read and create content while staying mobile. It is also available with a variety of keyboard and stylus options:
Dell Active Stylus makes it easy to annotate, draw or take notes.Dell Slim Keyboard, designed for travel, also serves as a cover for the screen when folded up.Dell Mobile Keyboard with integrated battery provides all day productivity with a full-sized keyboard while extending the battery life.
Dell Tablet Desktop Dock delivers full productivity on a desk with USB 3.0 ports, and dual display out ports for display extension.
The Dell Venue 7 and Dell Venue 8 Android-based tablets are affordable, feature-rich tablets for people who want to be constantly connected wherever they are. Both tablets have an upscale fit and finish, and are designed with longevity in mind with the right components so that customers will be just as delighted with their tablet one year from now, as they are on the day they take it out of the box.
All Dell Venue tablets are based on Intel processing power for speed, responsiveness, and battery efficiency. The Dell Venue 7 and Dell Venue 8 feature Intel Atom Z2760 ("Clover Trail") processors, while the Dell Venue 8 Pro and Dell Venue 11 Pro feature the new Intel Atom quad-core processors, code named "Bay Trail." The Venue 11 Pro offers up to 4th Generation Intel Core i3 and i5 processor options and Intel vPro for manageability.
Dell XPS Laptops and 2-in-1: The Ultimate Experience with Gorgeous DisplaysDell's award-winning XPS laptop line just got even better with the new XPS 15 powerhouse laptop, the introduction of the XPS 11 2-in-1, and an update to the flagship XPS 13 Ultrabook. In keeping with the XPS tradition of offering the best computing experience in any product category, the XPS laptops and 2-in-1 feature machined aluminum, carbon fiber, vibrant displays, and Corning Gorilla Glass NBT for performance, durability and the ultimate experience.
Starting at 2.5lbs[i] and just 11-15mm thin, the XPS 11 is the world's thinnest, lightest and most compact 2-in-1 Ultrabook available today, offering a tablet-first design with laptop functionality. It easily transitions from tablet to laptop with a 360 degree rotating hinge design, and an innovative solid surface backlit touch keyboard that provides a superb experience from lap to bag. With a Quad HD (2560 x 1440) display, the highest resolution display in an 11.6-inch 2-in-1 today, the XPS 11 has a bright, crisp viewing experience. The display also features True Color viewing powered by eeColor, which enables customers to enjoy true, rich consistent color in nearly any lighting environment.
The XPS 15 continues to be a multimedia powerhouse delivering the highest resolution in its class, and incredible power in an ultra-thin, light wedge design, starting at 4.44lbsi. The XPS 15 is the first 15.6-inch laptop in the world to feature a Quad HD+ display, and also available with a touch option, boasts over 5.7 million pixels – five times the amount of standard HD – for jaw-dropping resolution. Designed for creative enthusiasts, the XPS 15 packs 4th Generation Intel Core i5 and i7 quad core processor options and NVIDIA discrete graphics options. Every XPS 15 boots and resumes within seconds with hard drive configuration options from 500GB to 1TB[ii], both with a 32GB mSATA SSD, to a 512GB solid state drive, all including Intel Rapid Start Technology[iii].
The award-winning XPS 13, with its 13.3-inch, edge-to-edge display that innovatively fits into a footprint similar to an 11-inch laptop, is razor thin and light, starting at under 3lbsi. It is now even faster with 4th generation Intel Core processors, Intel HD 4400 graphics, and has longer battery life for the mobile professional who values a sleek design, responsiveness and ultimate mobility. Its Full HD display provides a brilliant viewing experience and is now even more versatile with a touch option.
"Dell appears to have its innovative mojo back," said Tim Bajarin, President of Creative Strategies. "These new products clearly emphasize Dell's commitment to create innovative mobile solutions for businesses and consumers and I believe represent some of the best products they have made in many years."
Personal and Professional Content Anytime, AnywhereThe Dell PocketCloud application is pre-installed on all XPS and Venue products, helping users build their own "personal cloud" and remotely manage personal and professional content. By combining PocketCloud with the portability of the new Venue tablets and XPS laptops, mobile workers will be able to enjoy an easy and connected experience with access to all of their apps and content from virtually anywhere.
Get the Most Out of Your Technology with Dell ServicesDell customers can get the most out of their technology with Dell Services, dedicated to keeping them connected and productive, whether they're using their Dell Venue tablet or XPS purchase for work or home. In addition to the Dell Limited Hardware Warranty, consumers can elect to include additional protection such as Accidental Damage Service[iv], Premium Phone Support and Rapid Return for Repair after Remote Diagnosis[v], which means that their system will be repaired and returned to them within 3-5 business days after remote diagnosis. Likewise, business customers can be rest assured that their devices will fit seamlessly and securely into their corporate IT environment with Dell Enterprise Services like ProSupport[vi] on the Dell Venue 8 Pro and Venue 11 Pro tablets.
Availability and PricingThe Dell Venue 7, Venue 8, Venue 8 Pro, and new XPS 15 will be available from October 18 on www.dell.com in the United States and select countries around the world. The Venue 11 Pro, XPS 11 and the updated XPS 13 with touch will be available in November. Starting prices are as follows:
Venue 7: $149.99Venue 8: $179.99Venue 8 Pro: $299.99Venue 11 Pro: $499.99New XPS 15: $1,499.99XPS 11: $999.99New XPS 13: $999.99

