
       
Dell's finally run its finger along the edge and unhinged the last bit of details for its enigmatic, 0.4-inch-thin Adamo XPS. As it turns out those leaked specs weren't entirely off. We're looking at a LED-backlit 13.4-inch, 720p widescreen display, 1.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo ultra-low voltage processor, GS45 integrated graphics, 4GB of DDR3 RAM, a 128GB thin-micro SSD, and Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bit. In terms of connectivity, there's 802.11a/g/n WiFi, Bluetooth 2.1, location awareness, DisplayPort, two USB 2.0 ports (one on each side). The 20WHr Li-Ion battery can last up to 2 hours and 36 minutes, or you can get the optional 40WHr version instead for 5 hours and 17 minutes of claimed, lab-tested use. Other packaged goods include dongles for ethernet and VGA / HDMI, and for an added fee you can nab a DVD+/-RW drive, a Blu-ray drive, or an external hard drive measured at 250GB or 500GB in capacity. 

At $1,799, the price isn't as bad as originally thought, but it's still far from great if performance takes any precedence for you over style. Earlier this week, we got to spend some time with the ultra-thin chez Dell's PR firm -- not enough to really get a feel for how it performs, but enough to admire the hardware and enjoy unboxing what we're told is the final retail packaging. We saw an expected launch date listed for this month, but a rep was quick to note the current line is officially "in time for the holidays" -- just in case the company misses Black Friday, of course. Read on for some more impressions and video unboxing / hands-on!







Show full PR textDELL ANNOUNCES ADAMO XPS, A DAZZLING GIFT IDEA FOR STYLE-MINDED THIS HOLIDAY SEASON World's Thinnest Laptop is 0.4-inch thin Adamo XPS Reinforces Dell's Commitment to Craftsmanship and Design Advanced Head-Turning Design Offers Full Feature Set for On-The-Go ComputingROUND ROCK, Texas, Nov 5, 2009 ... Last spring Dell set the computing industry abuzz with the introduction of its Adamo brand, and along with it the world's thinnest laptop PC. Today, the world meets a new champion of thin: The Dell™ Adamo XPS™, measuring 9.99mm or just four-tenths of an inch. Both laptops set new standards for craftsmanship, design and engineering excellence. Adamo XPS is a stunning laptop whose design provides a unique experience. With the swipe of a finger, the keyboard appears from under the display as the system is open. The feature set challenged engineers to build the latest technology into a compact space, including: 4GB* DDR3 800 memory; Intel Core 2 Duo (1.4Ghz) ultra-low voltage processor; Thin 128GB SSD for faster, cooler, quieter and more durable storage than traditional hard drives; A13.4-inch high-definition display.The attention to detail is apparent in the black, jewelry box-like packaging that is as striking as the laptop itself. A tug on a cloth loop reveals the Adamo XPS and assorted accessories that accompany the system. The Adamo XPS was recently recognized as the hottest Windows 7 product by leading technology analyst Rob Enderle with Digital Trends. Adamo, derived from the Latin word meaning "to fall in love," is a flagship in a line of products created to disrupt the personal computing space with the combination of new design aesthetics, personalization choices and sought-after technologies. The Adamo by Dell brand was launched last March with the first Adamo laptop, which combined high-performance technologies in a finely-machined aluminum case only .65-inch thick. The pencil-thin Adamo XPS weighs just over 3 pounds** and measures 13.39 x 10.71 inches. Dell expects to begin taking orders and shipping the Adamo XPS with Microsoft® Windows® 7 pre-installed in time for the holidays. The Adamo XPS is priced starting at $1799. More information is available at www.adamobydell.com . The News: Adamo XPS is the thinnest laptop PC ever, at about 0.4-inch thin. When opened, the body of the Adamo XPS is raised so the keyboard is angled to enhance cooling. Capacitive latching device – one finger swipe opens the latch. Built-in location awareness to provide real time local maps to show people where they are. Replaceable battery, with optional higher-capacity battery available. Full size keyboard with aluminum keycaps; touchpad with gestures. Built-in 802.11n wireless. High Definition (720p) 13.4-inch WLED display. I/O: display port, 2xUSB 2.0, audio, Ethernet (via included dongle). Operating system: Windows 7 64-bit edition.Quotes:"Our engineers and designers are breaking new ground and throwing away the old rules with the introduction of Adamo XPS," said Alex Gruzen, senior vice president of Dell consumer products. "We think the Adamo XPS will inspire an emotional connection with anyone who sees it." Links:www.dell.comwww.adamobydell.comwww.dell.com/home/laptopswww.Flickr.com/photos/dellphotos*Shared Memory (SDRAM) - (under 4GB) - Significant system memory may be allocated to support graphics, depending on system memory size and other factors. **Weights vary depending on configuration and manufacturing variability.For such a sleek device, the box it comes in is rather huge and bulky. It's also quite elaborate, and if it's any consolation for how much you paid, in a second life it might make for a sturdy storage container. We did notice the viewing angle on the screen being somewhat restrictive, and of course with its glass overlay we're constantly looking at ourselves with enough light in the backdrop. Our major concern here is the capacitive touch-sensitive case latch -- it works great in theory, but once the battery's drained, it's stuck closed. That's fine and all, but what happens if there's some technical failure? Is there any fail-safe option in case the lock is on the fritz? Unfortunately Dell didn't have an answer, and we couldn't find any indication of one ourselves. The full chiclet keyboard is very comfortable to use, the touchpad does support Windows 7 gestures, and it is indeed very comfortable in your lap, despite the untraditional hinge placement. We'll reserve final judgment for when we actually get some quality, at-home time, but we obviously can't say this enough: you won't be buying this for its specs, price tag, or anything other than its unique form factor. This is a quintessential aspirational product, and while Dell wouldn't give any indication of its sales projections, they certainly can't be high. That said, it's an exciting little number, one that the company hints is the first in a series to come, and we're looking forward to hopefully getting more time with it very soon.  See more video at our hub!
 