
 

We've got very little information here, but Dell's just announced that it's planning to bring a 10-inch Windows 7 tablet to market later this year. According to the press release, it will be aimed at commercial and enterprise markets. Sound familiar? Yep, it sounds like a HP Slate in the making, but let's hope this one is faster and sticks to its shipping schedule. We've got no other details for now, but we're hoping to dig up more at the "Dell Means Business" event, which should be starting any moment now. Stay tuned...

Update: Well, that was a letdown -- Dell didn't share any additional details at the event, but CNET did snap the shot above of a plastic mockup that was shown off. Wondering how much of a mockup it is? We are told by our guys on the ground that it is like a "fake IKEA TV." Hit the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textDell Unveils New Solutions for the Evolving Workforce· Company's largest-ever business computing portfolio update improves access, manageability and security for organizations of all sizes· Additional plans include an expansion to existing tablet portfolio with a 10-inch, Windows 7-based commercial tablet later this year· Dell Services help customers efficiently deploy and manage corporate devicesROUND ROCK, Texas, Feb. 8, 2011 - To address the needs of an evolving workforce that demands anytime, anywhere access to business applications and data, Dell today announced 24 new business computing solutions and form factors, including laptops, tablets, desktops and workstation computers in one of the largest-ever introductions in the company's history and part of 39 new solutions launching in the next year. The way workers connect to and access business data and applications is rapidly changing, providing them unprecedented levels of productivity and knowledge. Additionally, the workforce is becoming more dispersed and global. IDC estimates that one-third of the world's workforce will be mobile by 2013.¹ The new Dell solutions give businesses the Power To Do More and raise the bar in terms of design, manageability and security and are engineered from the ground up to make end-users more efficient while providing the right level of control for IT.New offerings include the Dell Latitude E5420, E5520, E6220, E6320, E6420, E6520, E6420 ATG laptops and XT3 convertible tablet. Additionally, Dell is introducing the Dell OptiPlex 990, 790 and 390 desktops as well as an OptiPlex Small Form Factor All-in-One Solution. Dell also announced the Dell Precision T1600 desktop workstation and Dell Precision M6600 and M4600 mobile workstations. Additionally, Dell plans to extend its existing tablet portfolio with a 10-inch, Windows 7-based business-ready tablet later this year. The upcoming tablet is designed for end-users who need greater mobility, as well as IT organizations that demand control, security, manageability and integration with existing infrastructure investments. Dell's tablet will empower a more mobile workforce in a way that offers customers the business applications and corporate data they need, while meeting regulatory mandates and IT requirements. Dell Latitude E-FamilyThe entire Latitude E-Family has been refreshed with the Latitude E5420, E5520, E6520, E6420, E6320, E6220, and E6420 ATG laptops and Latitude XT3 convertible tablet. The new Latitude family of laptops includes more than 100 design improvements and a range of new features to meet evolving business needs, including an increasing demand for security and manageability. New additions to the Dell Latitude family support a range of usage needs:· The Latitude E5420 and E5520 laptops are ideal for professionals looking for a budget-conscientious blend of mobility and at-your-desk computing. · The Latitude E6220, E6320, E6420, E6520 and E6420 ATG business-rugged laptops are designed for the most demanding conditions, with hard-wearing MIL-STD tested Tri-Metal™ casing and highly durable displays. The new Latitude laptops offer the following:• Completely new design from the ground up;• Enhanced security– Dell Data Protection, Remote Data Delete and Free Fall Sensor to protect against drops;• Planned support for pre-integrated Citrix and VMware remote desktop clients;• Latitude commonality across 26 models – 1 dock, battery, keyboard footprint – making the management of systems much easier;• Still the only enterprise platform with a backlit keyboard options for productivity anywhere; and,• Intel® 2nd generation Core™ processors and new graphics and memory.Dell OptiPlex FamilyDesigned to be the most secure, flexible and manageable desktops, the OptiPlex family provides day-to-day productivity of critical business tasks. The new family includes the OptiPlex 990, 790 and 390 desktops and offers the following:• Common, stable image for all chassis - tool free access to system components;• Small footprints and more chassis options;• Planned compatibility with desktop virtualization lineup; and,• New Intel® vPro™ processor technology and new graphics and memory.Dell Precision FamilyDell Precision workstations are purpose built for high performance and high scalability. The systems are specifically designed for professional users who run graphics and compute-intensive applications for engineers in design and analysis, scientific exploration, special effects, animation, digital imaging, professional audio and economic and financial modeling.Dell today announced the Dell Precision T1600 workstation and features the following:• Single-socket, entry-level workstation designed for professional 2D and entry-level 3D applications;• ISV certification on AutoCAD, Pro/ENGINEER and other select software applications;• Intel® 2nd generation Core™ and Xeon™ processors, Intel HD or add-in professional; graphics from AMD and NVIDIA; and,• Just-right-size toolless chassis.Also announced today, the Dell Precision M6600 and M4600 mobile workstations are designed for users who need raw horsepower, superior design and usability, world-class scalable performance and certified-operation. More details on Dell's mobile workstations will be available in the coming months.Dell Management & Security SolutionsTo help companies quickly deploy and manage new business computing solutions, Dell KACE appliances automate time-consuming manual IT tasks from initial computer deployment to ongoing management and retirement. Providing hardware and software inventory, software distribution, patch management, and OS and application imaging, Dell KACE appliances offer easy-to-use, comprehensive management for local and remote systems.Available with Dell's new business computing solutions, Dell Data Protection | Encryption is a flexible, manageable and auditable endpoint encryption solution that helps customers simplify data protection and comply with security regulations. The solution is designed to help companies protect endpoint devices, which serve as the "front door" to sensitive information. Dell ServicesDell offers a comprehensive set of services that help customers automate the deployment and management of commercial laptops, mobile devices and desktops, as well as the ability to securely dispose of outdated or retired assets. Examples include: · Deployment Services - Designed to simplify and accelerate the customization and utilization of new systems. Dell Deployment Services include everything from order consolidation to coordination of deployment resources.· ProSupport Services - Designed to minimize disruptions and maintain high levels of productivity across end-user PCs. Dell Support Services protect client investments and free businesses from IT maintenance so they can focus on running their business. Quotes"As a leader in providing business solutions to organizations around the world, we are proud to announce this new portfolio of products that deliver secure, manageable and reliable solutions along with great new designs," said Steven Lalla, vice president and general manager of Commercial Client Product Group, Dell. "As the workforce continues to evolve, so will Dell, with the solutions both end-users and IT organizations need to improve efficiency and productivity regardless of the device they choose." "As mobility continues to play a key role in enabling companies to achieve greater productivity worldwide, we expect the global mobile worker population to pass the one billion mark this year," said Bob O'Donnell, program vice president, Clients and Displays, IDC. "As the workforce transforms, becoming more mobile and increasingly global, organizations require PC solutions that meet employees' needs for increased flexibility and access while also meeting IT's requirements for manageability and security. "Pricing and Availability:· The Dell Latitude E5000 series starts at $859 USD.· The Dell OptiPlex 390 pricing starts at $650 USD.· The starting price for the Dell Precision T1600 workstation is $840 USD.Availability information and pricing for additional systems will be released in the coming weeks.
 