
 
 Round Rock just rolled out some new consumer machines this week, so it comes as no surprise that it's doling out some fresh computing goodies to the enterprise as well. First up is the new Dell Latitude E series laptops that come with a variety of ports for your connecting pleasure: one eSATA/USB combo, two USB 3.0 ports, a serial connector, 3.5mm headphone jack, plus HDMI and Gigabit ethernet. All those sockets come embedded in a chassis made of magnesium alloy that's been powder-coated on the bottom, giving it a lightweight, yet sturdy look and feel. In keeping with the tough-but-light theme, the top of these Latitudes are sheathed in aluminum, and the hinges are made of steel. Additionally, though it's a new machine, it's backwards compatible with many previous-gen Latitude docks and batteries




 The E series comes with a variety of Sandy or Ivy Bridge silicon packing Intel's latest vPro technology to make it easy for IT folks to keep company machines up and running. Up to 8GB of memory's available, as is up to a 750GB HDD, or 256GB SSD if spinning storage doesn't suit you. A DVD-burner is another option for those who still need an optical drive, and discrete graphics will also be on offer whenever the E series lands -- unfortunately Dell's not telling when the Latitudes will arrive, nor how much they'll be when they do. We do know that there are two lower end E5 laptops sporting 14- and 15.6 inch displays and packing Sandy Bridge CPUs, while there's six of the higher-end E6 series models. They range in size from 12.5 inches to 15.6 inches, plus there's a ruggedized ATG version (think Panasonic's Toughbook) and a E6430s model that packs a 14-inch panel in a 13.3-inch chassis. You can get a gander at the E6430s in our gallery below.

 As for desktops, Dell's making its inaugural AIO for the enterprise with the new OptiPlex 9010 All-in-One. As you can see in the gallery below, it's virtually identical on the outside to it's recently revealed Inspiron cousin. It comes with a 23-inch 1920x1080 LCD on the front, plus four USB 3.0 ports, HDMI, VGA-out, and Gigabit Ethernet ports round the back. Up to 1TB of spinning storage is available, along with up to 16GB of memory, which'll come in handy if you add the optional Blu-ray drive. Naturally, the AIO is joined by a refresh of the entire OptiPlex desktop line, and if you're itchin' for more, check out our galleries below, and the PR after the break.



