
 
It's baaack. Okay, to be fair Dell's XPS brand never really went away -- there's been the Studio XPS and Adamo XPS -- but as of today, the company's refocusing its efforts and bringing back the tried and true multimedia laptop brand. Just like we'd heard, the new 14-,15.6-, and 17-inch machines will be available across the board with NVIDIA GeForce 400M GPUs (with Optimus / 3D Play support) and Core i5 / i7 processor options, but there's more to these than just internal oomph -- it'll be one of the first laptops to ship with a Skype-certified HD webcam and they're also equipped with high-fidelity JBL speakers. In terms of aesthetics, the machines pull in some styling from the new Inspirons with the wider battery base, however, instead of plastic, the lids are coated in anodized aluminum. (Of course, Dell wouldn't be Dell without making the models available with Design Studio customization options -- aka with crazy pattern options.) So, what's the deal with pricing? The entry level systems -- the $899 XPS 14, $849 XPS 15, and $949 XPS 17 -- are all configured with Intel Core i5 460M processors, 1GB NVIDIA 420M graphics, 500GB 7,200rpm hard drives, 4GB of RAM and pack Intel WiDi. That's not too shabby, but, of course, you'll be able to configure 'em all with Blu-ray drives, more storage, memory, etc. Our review unit just arrived so expect a full work-up of the 14-inch system soon, but until then we leave you with the images and press release below. 



 


Show full PR textDELL RE-IMAGINES HIGH-DEFINITION ENTERTAINMENT WITH NEW FAMILY OF XPS LAPTOPS• Turn the Volume Up to 11 with JBL and Waves Sound Design and Catch a Cinema-like Experience with High-Definition NVIDIA Graphics• Stay Close to Family, Friends with the Industry's First Skype-Certified Laptops that Support HD Video Streaming• Watch Eye-popping 3D Movies, Games and Photos on Big-screen 3D Televisions1ROUND ROCK, Texas, Oct. 21, 2010 – Providing the ultimate mobile entertainment experience, Dell's family of new XPS laptops deliver pulse pounding JBL and Waves sound design, a cinema-like HD video experience featuring cutting-edge graphics from NVIDIA, and the industry's first Skype-certified laptops with HD video streaming webcams so you can stay close to friends and family.In addition, the new family of laptops -- which come in 14-, 15- and 17-inch screen sizes -- are all 3D TV ready and include NVIDIA's 3DTV Play software which allows users to connect their Dell XPS notebooks to new 3D HDTVs and play hundreds of popular PC games in 3D, watch Blu-ray 3D movies, and browse 3D photos and videos in immersive, stereoscopic 3D.Featuring exceptional sound, video and now 3D-capabilities, the new premium systems mark the return of the highly regarded XPS brand, which blends classic style, world-class features and premium performance in products that stand up to rigorous standards. The XPS brand joins the Inspiron and Alienware families in rounding out Dell's overarching consumer portfolio -- just in time for the holidays.The XPS laptops were designed for creative explorers -- individuals who are passionate about art, film, photos, and value an immersive entertainment experience. Their daily lives are multimedia experiences that they share with each other, whether it's uploading photos, watching streaming video or listening to their favorite band play a concert on the other side of the world.The stylish laptops come standard with silver anodized aluminum display back and palmrest, or can be personalized with one of more than 200 original designs from Dell Design Studio, including the new Susan G. Komen collection, which generates a $10 contribution in the fight against breast cancer."We're pushing the limits once again -- this time with our new line of XPS laptops, which offer pulsing audio from JBL and Waves, new high-definition screens driven by NVIDIA technology and the industry's first Skype-certified laptops with the first webcam allowing HD video streaming," said Sam Burd, vice president, Dell Consumer, Small and Medium Business Product Group "The XPS brand has always been the standard-bearer for outstanding performance from Dell, and the new line of laptops is no exception. No laptop PCs have ever sounded or looked so great."Turn It Up to 11Built-in JBL designed and certified speakers with integrated Waves MaxxAudio® 3 processing technology rock the loudest, clearest and best laptop sound Dell has ever produced, including best-in-class bass with 12-watt subwoofers on the 15- and 17-inch models. Boasting up to 22W peak audio performance, this incredibly clean and clear sound helps deliver a superb audio experience.A Cinema-like ExperienceHigh-performance 1GB to 3GB NVIDIA graphics options power eye-catching HD video capabilities on the 14-, 15- and 17-inch High Definition LED displays. For the ultimate entertainment experience, the new Dell XPS laptops are all 3D-capable with NVIDIA's 3DTV Play software. With the available Blu-ray Disc drive option families can enjoy immersive 3D Blu-ray Disc movies on a big 3D HDTV screen in their own living room.1Video Stream in HDThe XPS laptops boast the first integrated webcams capable of HD video streaming. The webcams are designed to provide crystal-clear full screen video chats and are also the first laptop PCs to be Skype-certified.The Dell XPS brand is renowned for delivering the latest, world-class technology, and that legacy continues in the new models, which feature Intel Core i processors and the latest NVIDIA GeForce 400 series graphics with Optimus technology. With more performance capabilities than many desktop PCs, XPS laptops are the perfect choice for people who demand high performance, premium technology and the best entertainment experience. Over the years, Dell has incorporated many evolutionary product refinements to its XPS models, including some that are the result of customer suggestions. For example, customer feedback has helped Dell improve heat dissipation, power supplies and chassis strength in this new generation of XPS models, making them among the most reliable and durable XPS laptops Dell has ever offered.Dell is an industry leader in delivering a great shopping experience, featuring an online concierge shopping service that helps ensure you get exactly what you want: the latest technology designed for your needs. Dell is committed to delivering reliable products that you can count on, with access to immediate and reliable support anytime, anywhere you need it.Dell Design StudioDell Design Studio is an immersive online shopping experience similar to touring an art gallery. Shoppers can interactively view and select from hundreds of designs, artists, colors and patterns that can turn a Dell Mini or Dell laptop PC into a personalized accessory. Individuals who want to personalize their laptop can choose from categories that include unique, eye-catching designs representing popular OPI shades, bold Major League Baseball team designs, community favorites Threadless graphic art, special (PRODUCT) RED™ signature artwork, and a variety of edgy designed-for- Dell artwork.Availability & PricingThe new Dell XPS laptops are available beginning today directly from www.dell.com. Models, configuration and options may vary by global region and retailers. Starting prices for the new XPS laptops are: $899 for the XPS 14; $849 for the XPS 15; and $949 for the XPS 17.Links www.dell.com www.dell.com/xps NVIDIA Optimus TechnologySkype Video CallingWaves MAXX Audio 3Dell Design StudioAbout Dell Dell (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to its customers and uses that insight to make technology simpler and create innovative solutions that simplify daily activities and help people stay, entertained, connected and in touch. Learn more at www.dell.com.
 