
 Our next stop on the Windows 8 announcement train is Dell, which today unveiled the XPS 10, a Windows RT hybrid device that runs Microsoft's latest OS on a 10-inch touch-enabled display. Dell says you can expect up to 20 hours of battery life, though the company didn't touch on CPU and storage specs.

 Dell also unveiled the XPS Duo 12, which sports a 12.5-inch touch display. When closed, it looks like any old XPS laptop, complete with a backlit keyboard, machined aluminum built and carbon fiber surrounding the display. To enter tablet mode, you literally flip the Duo 12's display around and close it over the keyboard. The design is intriguing (and it looks pretty awesome, we have to say), but based on our short hands-on time the hinge feels rather flimsy. Processor options will go up to Core i7 (Qualcomm also told us its Snapdragon S4 chip will power the device). Both the XPS 10 and the Duo 12 will be available later this year after the official Windows 8 launch. 



 
  Show full PR text   BERLIN, Aug. 30, 2012 – Today at the Internationale Funkausstellung Berlin (IFA) conference, Dell unveiled three powerful additions to its industry-leading XPS brand of computers. Joining the award-winning XPS 13 Ultrabook, and the XPS 14 and XPS 15 laptops, the new XPS computers enable both consumer and business customers to do more with their technology – from multimedia, entertainment and creation to full business productivity to transition seamlessly from home to office.   The new products include the XPS 10, a 10-inch tablet built to support WindowsRT; the XPS Duo 12 convertible that combines two devices in one, a powerful Ultrabook plus full featured tablet; and XPS One 27 all-in-one PC, which offers a stunning Wide Quad HD display, and will soon be available with touch functionality. The XPS brand has a distinguished heritage of delivering the latest technology and thoughtful design for performance and craftsmanship without compromise. Each product in the XPS portfolio is tailored for very specific customer needs, and the new products unveiled today are designed to take advantage of emerging software and technology, with the same XPS brand attributes that customers expect from Dell.   In today's always-on, constantly-connected world, people want one device that enables them to combine their personal and professional lives. As a result, the technology industry is undergoing an unprecedented change from the home to the workforce, giving rise to the Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) movement. From tablets to notebooks to the desktop, Dell is answering the call and today unveiled an expanded XPS portfolio that will help users and businesses successfully navigate this new landscape. Dell's new XPS solutions have both the performance and design desired by consumers, and the security and manageability features required by businesses.   "The XPS 10, XPS Duo 12 and XPS One 27 represent the culmination of a deep understanding of the 'Bring Your Own Device' movement and insights gained from both our consumer and business customers," said Sam Burd, global vice president, PC product group at Dell. "The new set of products Dell unveiled today represents a milestone in our design and approach to user experience. Our vision for our XPS line of computers is not just about the device or technology, it's about achieving the perfect balance of amazing design, end user productivity and IT enablement."   Dell XPS 10: Combining Productivity, Mobility and Long Battery Life  The Dell XPS 10 embodies the intersection between work and play with intuitive touch capability, long battery life and mobile keyboard dock for enhanced content creation and business productivity.   Dell's ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions using ARM processor architecture and the WindowsRT operating system means businesses can be assured that they will be able to manage and secure the XPS 10 on their networks.  XPS Duo 12: Two Devices in One Package - Powerful Ultrabook Plus Full Featured Tablet  Dell tapped its heritage of offering unique and innovative solutions to create the XPS Duo 12. The product features a novel and elegant flip hinge touchscreen display designed to take advantage of the upcoming operating system advances for touch interaction. The result is two products in one, providing the full functionality of an ultraportable laptop with keyboard plus the convenience of a tablet.   The innovative flip hinge design can easily transition from laptop to tablet to laptop and features a Full HD screen that provides 97 percent more pixels than a standard HD display. The result is an exceptionally crisp reading, photo and video viewing experience. The XPS Duo 12 features thoughtful design, attractive aesthetics, and is crafted from premium materials such as machined aluminium and carbon fibre, as well as Corning Gorilla Glass for durability.  XPS One 27: Delivering Nearly Twice the Pixel Density of Any Other 27-inch AIO PC  As All-In-One (AIO) computers continue to see wider adoption for their big screen and clean design, Dell is continuing to evolve its All-In-One offering to take advantage of new software advances.   The award-winning XPS One 27 AIO is designed for creative professionals who require advanced technology including a crisp, super high resolution display and performance graphics for multimedia creation and entertainment. The gorgeous, space-saving design features a vibrant, 27-inch Wide Quad HD Display, providing one of the best experiences in an all-in-one today. The XPS One 27 is not just for work, but also for entertainment with its Infinity Premium speakers and Waves MaxxAudio 4 audio technology that delivers deep, rich sound, complete with an expanded stereo field.  The Right Approach for Today's Hurdles  Many businesses are grappling with how to empower their users to work on the devices and technology they prefer while at the same time ensuring critical corporate information and content remains secure and protected. In recent research on the Evolving Workforce which surveyed more than 8,000 respondents worldwide, 60 percent of workers around the world would enjoy work more if they had a say in their workplace technology. As part of its unmatched end-to-end solutions, Dell XPS devices intersect the needs of consumer design preferences and powerful performance tools, while still helping to meet the needs of IT with business-friendly features.

   "With the growing trend of BYOD, we're seeing traditional corporate policies on personal computer and application usage, as well as data security being turned on their head. Customers are looking for alternative computing solutions that help employees be more productive," said Aongus Hegarty, president, Dell EMEA. "By enabling flexible working practices and providing companies with the right tools, Dell is delivering this solution through a seamless, secure and manageable end user experience that provides connectivity anywhere, anytime-and access to work and life."

    Availability:  The Dell XPS 10, XPS Duo 12 and XPS One 27 will be available for sale when Windows 8 is available at the end of October. More details on pricing will be announced when available.

 
