

The competition for Dell is heating up again today, as CEO Michael Dell and investment outfit Silver Lake have increased their buyout offer for the company. The new agreement raises the per share price to $13.75, provides for a special dividend of 13 cents per share, as well as an 8 cents per share dividend in the third quarter. Basically, these revised terms add, at the most, $470 million to the previous proposal that valued the company at around $24.4 billion. In order to give shareholders a chance to mull it over, the date when deciding votes will be cast has been pushed to September 12th. Plenty of time for the next counter-offer to come through, then.


 
Show full PR textMichael Dell and Silver Lake Agree with Dell SpecialL Committee to Increase Purchase Price to $13.75 Per Share, Provide for Company to Pay Special Dividend of $.13 Per Share and Guarantee Payment of Third Quarter Dividend of $.08 Per Share
Date : 8/2/2013Round Rock, Texas

 Revised Agreement Brings Total Consideration to at Least $13.88 per Share, Increases Aggregate Value to Unaffiliated Shareholders by at Least $350 Million and Requires Approval of Majority of Disinterested Shares Actually Voted Special Committee Will Reset Record Date to August 13 and Adjourn Special Meeting to September 12The Special Committee of the Board of Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) today announced that it has entered into a revised definitive merger agreement with Michael Dell and Silver Lake Partners that increases the aggregate value to unaffiliated shareholders by at least $350 million, as follows:

 Increases the purchase price to $13.75 per share from $13.65 per share Provides for payment of a special dividend at or before closing of $0.13 per share Guarantees that the third quarter dividend of $0.08 per share will be paid at or before closingThe effect of the guarantee of the third quarter dividend is to potentially increase the total consideration payable to unaffiliated stockholders by an additional $120 million depending on whether the closing would otherwise have occurred prior to the record date for that dividend.

In return for the increased value to shareholders, the voting standard has been modified such that the improved transaction will require approval by the majority of disinterested shares actually voting on the matter.

The Committee intends to establish a new record date of August 13, 2013 for shareholders eligible to vote on the transaction at the Special Meeting which will be adjourned from August 2, 2013 to September 12, 2013 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time.

The amended transaction also includes a reduction of the breakup fee that would be payable in the event the merger agreement is terminated and within 12 months thereafter the Company effects a recapitalization transaction that does not result in there being an absolute majority stockholder of the Company. That fee is reduced from $450 million to $180 million.

Alex Mandl, Chairman of the Special Committee, said, "The Committee is pleased to have negotiated this transaction, which provides as much as $470 million of increased value, including the next quarterly dividend that will now be paid regardless of when the transaction closes."

Mandl continued, "We believe modifying the voting standard is in the best interests of Dell shareholders, both because it has enabled us to secure substantial additional value and because it provides a level playing field for the decision facing shareholders. The original voting standard was set at a time when the decision before the shareholders was between a going-private transaction and a continuation of the status quo. Since then, the nature of the choice facing shareholders has changed because of the emergence of an alternative proposal by certain stockholders. In the context of the current decision, the Committee does not believe it is appropriate to count shares that have not been voted as having been voted in support of any particular alternative. Accordingly, we have changed the voting standard to require that the going-private transaction receive the approval of a majority of the disinterested shares that are actually voted. By resetting the record date and providing abundant notice of the new meeting we are ensuring that all disinterested shareholders, including those who have acquired their shares since June 3, have ample opportunity to vote for or against the transaction. We urge all shareholders to support this transaction."

The revised definitive merger agreement has been approved by Dell's Special Committee and by the independent members of Dell's Board of Directors.


