
 Government agencies need some tablet love, too. Dell knows this, and the company's looking to make some headway in that space, along with other areas like healthcare companies and financial institutions that require a high level of protection on their CE devices. The enhanced security version of the Latitude 10 Windows 8 slate features all manner of safe-keeping technologies, including dual-authentication with a smart card and fingerprint reader. There's also a Trusted Platform Module, BitLocker Drive Encryption, Computrace Support and a Noble Lock Slot. All of those security measures help the device comply with regulations like Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and Federal Information Processing Standard. You can pick up all that security, along with a dual-core Atom processor today for $779.



  Show full PR text   Dell Latitude 10 Enhanced Security Tablet Meets the Security, Manageability and Reliability Needs of Government Agencies, Financial Institutions and Healthcare Organizations
  Dell today introduced the Latitude 10 enhanced security configuration, a business-ready tablet designed to address the costly and time consuming management and security challenges faced by organizations deploying tablets. The Dell Latitude 10 is ideal for highly regulated industries such as government agencies, financial institutions and healthcare organizations and builds upon Dell's heritage of delivering trusted business PCs with industry-leading manageability, security and reliability.
  Study Reveals Multiple IT Challenges of Deploying Tablets in Enterprise Settings  A recent Dell and Intel-commissioned Harris Interactive online survey [2] of 204 U.S. healthcare IT decision makers highlights the tablet management challenges faced by organizations today. The results show that tablets are increasingly becoming a standard IT device (51 percent of the healthcare organizations surveyed have deployed them). However, other studies show tablets can cost significantly more time and money to manage than other standard Windows-based devices such as laptops and desktops. According to the results of the Harris survey:
  On average, those institutions managing tablets spend an estimated $2,235.20 configuring these devices to work within their organizations. These costs are often several times more than the actual expense of acquiring the device.  Fifty-one percent of tablet using institutions report that the devices required additional software or tools beyond what is used to manage laptops and desktops.  Forty-two percent of IT decision makers in tablet using organizations spent between 10 and 29 minutes per tablet to achieve the same level of security inherent in Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chips.  Forty-four percent of those in tablet using organizations reported that there are applications that are currently used in their organization on desktop and laptop computers that cannot currently be accessed on tablets.
  These results demonstrate that the introduction of tablets into enterprise environments has created a more expensive and difficult management process for IT managers in multiple industries. The Dell Latitude 10 was designed to overcome these challenges by combining a great user experience with ease of management and deployment by IT. The Latitude 10 fits easily and securely into existing IT environments to help improve IT efficiency and decrease total cost-of-ownership. Because it is managed like any standard Windows-based laptop, the Latitude 10 is significantly easier to deploy and manage than the Apple iPad in large scale enterprise implementations. According to third-party testing performed by Principled Technologies [1], when compared to the iPad the Latitude 10 tablet is:
  Up to 17 times faster and 94 percent less expensive to deploy saving approximately 580 hours in system prep and applications installation.  Up to 99 percent faster for software updates, saving approximately 197 hours with automated updates.  Up to 85 percent cheaper per device to maintain over a three-year period.
   Industry-Leading Tablet Security  The Latitude 10 tablet, powered by the dual core Intel® Atom™ processor Z2760, delivers more hardware, authentication, data protection, tracking and recovery security features than any other tablet device on the market today and is ideal for organizations that must comply with stringent regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS). The Latitude 10 enhanced security configuration is the only dual-authentication Windows 8 tablet with both an integrated smart card and fingerprint reader, in addition to the Latitude 10's already robust security features that include:
  Dell Data Protection|Access providing an integrated end point security management suite that utilizes the fingerprint and smart card reader in the Latitude 10 as well as third-party security devices. A Dell wizard provides simple setup.  Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 1.2 hardware to allow networks to check device integrity and to assign full trust.  Microsoft® BitLocker Drive Encryption.  Computrace Support for stealth tracking software to allow the recovery of lost or stolen devices.  A Noble Lock slot for added hardware security.
  Quotes  "Other tablets being deployed in business environments can cause more harm than good in the long run with unforeseen management costs and unsecure data protection and access," said Neil Hand, Vice President of Tablets and Performance PCs, End User Computing, Dell. "With Latitude 10 enhanced security configuration, our customers will be able to give their workers the mobility and productivity they want while having the peace of mind they can easily enforce and adhere to some of the most rigorous security regulations."  "While tablets can improve access to patient information for clinicians at the point of care, healthcare IT decision-makers should be informed about potential side-effects," said Andrew Litt, M.D., Dell's Chief Medical Officer. "The time and expense to connect, manage and secure these devices could be nearly five times the device's purchase price2, which can be a significant concern for most healthcare institutions. Dell's Latitude 10 tablet and integrated solutions like Mobile Clinical Computing address these concerns by simplifying device management and ensuring that information is both secure and accessible for patient care."
  "In our testing and analysis we found substantial advantages in managing the Dell Latitude 10 over an Apple iPad in an enterprise SCCM environment," said Bill Catchings, co-founder of Principled Technologies. "Our analysis found that these advantages would translate to significant cost savings, especially when managing large numbers of these devices."
 
