
 
 Delphi has allied itself with Verizon to launch a new Vehicle Diagnostics service. It works through a cloud system that connects your four-wheeler to your smartphone (or internet browser), showing precisely where your car is, as well as options to secure it and check its vitals. Delphi promises the new system will work in most vehicles sold in the US since 1996 and users can pick up alerts for driving and vehicle performance issues, as well as setup geo-fences to monitor if your car goes outside specified zones. Connecting your phone to the car is done through Bluetooth and adds access to key fob commands including remote door control. The compatible smartphone app will arrive on devices running Android 2.2 or later and iOS 5.0 onwards, while the Delphi Web portal works on Internet Explorer 7, with Firefox, Chrome and Safari versions still in the works.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Delphi Introduces Unique Plug-and-Play Connectivity Service - Consumers Can Quickly Lock & Unlock Doors, Locate, Track, and Monitor Vehicles via Mobile Devices
   LAS VEGAS-Delphi today announced the release of its innovative new cloud-based automotive connective service for consumers. At the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), they will be demonstrating Vehicle Diagnostics by Delphi, a device that provides a groundbreaking car-to-cloud/cloud-to-car connectivity service. Drivers can mimic their key fob functions to control their car, track, locate, access, secure and monitor their vehicles anywhere at any time with a smartphone or browser. The first-in-its-class device works in most vehicles sold in the U.S. from 1996 onward.

   The Delphi car connectivity service enables drivers to carry out any of the following features remotely:  • Use smartphone, laptop or tablet as a key fob for your car regardless of where you are to help when accidently locked out  • Connect your smartphone to your car via Bluetooth for key fob commands when in locations like a parking garage  • Easily locate and access your family cars anywhere and anytime without having to remember to tag your vehicle's original location  • Monitor overall vehicle status  • Diagnose the vehicle's engine health  • Receive alerts for driving behavior and vehicle performance issues  • Set up geo-fences and receive alerts for entry and exit  • Live tracking  • Automatic trip logs to help with things like expense report records  The system operates through a downloadable Delphi smartphone app, available for Android 2.2 and later and Apple iOS 5.0 and later devices, as well as a Delphi Web portal that is compatible with Internet Explorer 7 and later, Google Chrome, Apple Safari and Firefox browsers. Data transmitted through the Delphi connectivity system remains secure and encrypted over the Verizon Wireless network.  "Drivers can now easily buy a connectivity device that plugs into most vehicles produced over the past 16 years, instantly furnishing seamless interaction and connectivity inside and outside the vehicle," said Jeffrey J. Owens, Delphi chief technology officer. "Our device will help keep vehicles secure and operating optimally."  The Delphi connectivity system's key fob service operates over the Verizon Wireless network or via Bluetooth to remotely lock or unlock doors, open the trunk, start or stop the engine and operate a panic horn on select vehicles.  The Delphi Connected Car App and the Connected Car Website will display the last location where a vehicle was parked; the address and coordinates where it is situated; and a map with directions to the vehicle.  To help families stay aware of their drivers whereabouts , the system will designate up to six circular "fences" around locations where drivers are permitted to travel and will issue alerts when the vehicle enters or exits a fenced area.  The system's Live Tracking feature enables real-time vehicle tracking with five-second updates, showing vehicle speed and heading.  The system also will report on the vehicle's condition and display a list of any issues found.  The trip-logging feature provides a summary of all trips from engine start to engine stop, as well as such detailed information on recent trips as:  • Total Distance  • Start date/time  • Start location  • End date/time  • End location  • Engine idle time  • Map view of trip start and end locations  Among the alerts that can be generated by the connectivity system are:  • Check engine light  • Battery voltage  • High RPM (greater than 4000 for 5 sec.)  • Geo-fences entry and exit  • High speed (over 75 mph for 5 sec.)  • E-mails for geo-fences and high-speed alerts  The Vehicle Diagnostics by Delphi will be available online and in Verizon Wireless stores in the coming weeks. To see more about the device, please visit connectedcar.delphi.com. The device will be on display at both the Delphi and Verizon booths at CES. The Delphi booth can be found at the Las Vegas Convention Center, North Hall, Booth #730 and the Verizon Wireless booth can be found at the Las Vegas Convention Center's South Hall, Booth #31400.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

