
 
 Delta Airlines isn't a stranger to offering WiFi on many of its domestic US flights, but using Gogo's air-to-ground connection setup has essentially kept it from taking off over the seas. That's all set to change come 2013, however, as 150 of Delta's long-haul aircraft will make use of all those high-bandwidth Ku-band capacity satellites that Gogo has been acquiring over the past few months. The updated setup will ensure that you can update your Facebook status over the likes of the Atlantic, but it won't be fully rolled out until about 2015. By that time, the airline estimates it'll be operating around 1,000 Gogo-equipped aircraft worldwide -- not too shabby. If anything, the wait to hit 10,000 feet is surely going be more interesting for all the international work-a-holics out there. Hit up the press release after the break for more details in the meantime.



  Show full PR text   Delta Expands World's Largest Wi-Fi-Equipped Fleet to Include International Aircraft
  Partnership with single provider will offer global connectivity with Gogo Inflight Internet service
  Customer feedback highlights importance of fleet-wide connectivity on two-class regional jets, mainline domestic aircraft and international flights
  ATLANTA, June 28, 2012 – Delta Air Lines (NYSE: DAL) will begin offering in-flight Internet service on its long-haul international fleet of more than 150 aircraft, which includes Boeing 777, 767, 747, Airbus 330 and transoceanic Boeing 757 aircraft in early 2013.
  The expanded Wi-Fi service will use satellites to provide coverage internationally and will complement the existing air-to-ground service already provided by Gogo for aircraft flying within the domestic U.S.
  Delta already operates the world's largest Wi-Fi-equipped fleet of aircraft with more than 3,000 flights daily, including its entire fleet of 550 domestic mainline aircraft. More than 800 Delta aircraft, including all Delta Connection two-class regional jets, are equipped with in-flight Wi-Fi service offering more than 400,000 customers per day access to the internet above 10,000 feet.
  The international service will use high-bandwidth Ku-band capacity satellites to provide global coverage..When complete in 2015, Delta will operate approximately 1,000 Wi-Fi-equipped aircraft in its worldwide fleet.
  "Delta's advancements in technology have been a key component to our improvements in the customer travel experience and have been cited by J.D. Power and Associates and PC World magazine as important aspects of travel," said Tim Mapes, Delta's senior vice president – Marketing. "With our expansion of international Wi-Fi options across our fleet, Delta customers will be able to stay connected throughout their journey."
  The expansion of in-flight Wi-Fi to Delta's transoceanic fleet is the latest in the airline's more than $3 billion investment in enhanced global products, services and airport facilities through 2013. In addition to Wi-Fi improvements, Delta has added more First Class seats and in-flight entertainment to its domestic product; offering full flat-bed BusinessElite seats on its entire international widebody fleet; recently completed the system-wide roll-out of Economy Comfort on all two-class aircraft; adding personal, in-seat entertainment for both BusinessElite and Economy class customers on all long-haul international flights; updating Delta Sky Clubs throughout the system; and upgrading new terminal facilities for international customers at its two largest global gateways – the new international terminal in Atlanta now open and the expanded international terminal opening next May at New York-JFK.
  Delta Air Lines serves more than 160 million customers each year. During the past year, Delta was named domestic "Airline of the Year" by the readers of Travel Weekly magazine, was named the "Top Tech-Friendly U.S. Airline" by PCWorld magazine for its innovation in technology and won the Business Travel News Annual Airline Survey. With an industry-leading global network, Delta and the Delta Connection carriers offer service to nearly 350 destinations in 65 countries on six continents. Headquartered in Atlanta, Delta employs 80,000 employees worldwide and operates a mainline fleet of more than 700 aircraft. A founding member of the SkyTeam global alliance, Delta participates in the industry's leading trans-Atlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia. Including its worldwide alliance partners, Delta offers customers more than 13,000 daily flights, with hubs in Amsterdam, Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-LaGuardia, New York-JFK, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Salt Lake City and Tokyo-Narita. The airline's service includes the SkyMiles frequent flier program, a world-class airline loyalty program; the award-winning BusinessElite service; and more than 50 Delta Sky Clubs in airports worldwide. Delta is investing more than $3 billion through 2013 in airport facilities and global products, services and technology to enhance the customer experience in the air and on the ground. Customers can check in for flights, print boarding passes, check bags and review flight status at delta.com.
 
 
