
 
 Load and start track A. Load, and start track B on the next down beat. Adjust pitch / speed of track B to keep in time with track A. Now you know the very basics of DJing, you might want some hardware to practice it on. Fortunately, for you beginners, Denon has just released the MC2000 DJ controller. An entry-level device that should get you (and your tracks) up to speed. Along with the plug and play USB device, you'll get a copy of Serato's DJ Intro mixing software (for which it was specifically designed) to get you started. If that's not for you, or perhaps you've already earned your spinning stripes, and are looking for something compact, no problem -- full MIDI output means this can work with other software options too. There's a basic two-channel mixer snug between the pair o'wheels, and all the usual buttons for hot-cues and loops etc. As is fast becoming standard, the audio interface is built-in, making the hook-up at parties and gigs a much simpler -- and less computer-bothering -- affair. If has ticked your boxes, it'll be available from October, commanding an estimated £269 / €325 / $299 out of your record budget when it does so. In the meantime you can cue-up the promo video after the break.




 
  Show full PR text   Press Release Denon DJ MC2000
   Category: DJ Controller

   In-Store Release Date: October 2012

   Suggested Retail Price: circa €349/£299 inc VAT

   • Designed specifically for 'Serato DJ intro' Software (included)  • Plug & Play – USB Bus Powered  • Full MIDI Output – Map to other DJ Software  • Denon DJ 'Professional Grade' Construction  • Intuitive File Browsing Controls  • Built-in Audio interface  • MIC Input /Line Input

   Now is the chance to step-up from the dance floor to the DJ Booth and 'own the party'.  Denon DJ has been rocking crowds and owning dance floors since the dawn of DJing so we know how to capture your desire for music and offer you the very best gear for bringing any party to life.

   The brand new MC2000 brings, for the first time, the very best in Denon DJ professional quality and technologies, then integrates them it into a product that's accessible to everyone. From the 'plug and play' link up with Serato DJ Intro to the intuitive layout and controls on the deck, now is your time to join the new generation of DJ Superstars.

   Mix like a Pro.

   DJ equipment can make or break a performance. There are many choices to make when you first lay down a mix on your first deck, first mixer or first controller and it's easy to get lost amongst sub- standard gear or controllers designed to be used at home in the bedroom.  With the MC2000, DJing has hit the masses with one single controller that is as much at home being used day-to-day to practice as it is being taken to a gig and used effortlessly in front of screaming crowds.

   With an inbuilt professional-grade USB Audio Interface there's no need to use your computers processing power just to output sound or buy extra gear to get club-quality audio from your speakers. The inbuilt interface gives the option of running true high quality audio out of the MC2000 to a serious speaker set-up wherever you are; in a club, at a gig, or just at home setting up for a night of mashing-up tracks.  ￼￼￼  Plug & Play.

   Fresh DJing relies on relentless practice and knowing your music so why should you wait to get home to start dropping beats? The MC2000 doesn't need to be plugged into a mains power supply for you to get thrashing out tunes – it's USB Bus powered which means if you're hanging with friends and want to show off your latest mix then you simply need to power up your laptop and plug in the MC2000 with a USB cable (supplied). It's as easy as that because the MC2000 has been designed with Serato DJ Intro software in mind, complete with a layout which reflects exactly what you are doing on the laptop screen. Serato DJ Intro detects the controller automatically and is ready to work from the moment you take out of the box and plug in – giving you true 'plug & play' functionality*.  Serato DJ Intro Software.

   Serato DJ Intro is the newest piece of software to join Serato's illustrious DJ range, which includes popular professional DJ solutions, Scratch Live and ITCH. With over 10 years' experience in software development, Serato bring their unique approach to this new plug-and-play system.

    "We've been very fortunate to work with the world's top DJs", says Sam Gribben, C.E.O. of Serato Audio Research. "We're looking forward to offering a whole new generation of DJs the chance to discover the tools that professionals around the world have trusted for years."  Serato DJ Intro allows for traditional two deck mixing of digital music files from a computer. Large music collections can be managed with the Serato Crate system, plus advanced iTunes® integration allows for instant access to existing library and playlist information.

   Design & Build.

   With its portable design and solid build; the MC2000 is the ultimate weapon in your DJ bag, completely redefining the quality and usability of its class. With every single detail aimed at improving value and retaining simplicity without compromising features and sound quality.  The layout takes the very best from the already successful MC6000 and MC3000 platforms and puts it into an even more compact unit that's tweaked especially to work seamlessly with Serato DJ Intro and similar DJ software.

   The jog wheels and faders are lifted straight from the MC6000 Professional DJ Controller to retain the professional grade and high-quality feel that Denon DJ customers have come to expect. Built to take even the most enthusiastic mixing and hard-core techniques, the MC2000 stands tall amongst the competition as the only true professional grade product that inspires even the freshest of newcomers to pick up and join the DJing community.

 
