
 
We knew that Denon and Marantz receivers components would be the first to get upgraded to support AirPlay, but we didn't think it would take quite this long. The patch to add AirPlay support to nine network-enabled receivers and other devices. It was also supposed to be free until November 7th. Well, it didn't get out by then, and sure doesn't look free now, but it is at least available, a $49.99 patch downloadable for the following devices:

Denon AVR-4311CI
Denon AVR-3311CI
Denon AVR-991
Denon AVR-A100
Denon N7 Networked CD Receiver and 2.0 Channel Speaker System
Marantz SR7005 A/V Receiver
Marantz AV7005 A/V Preamplifier
Marantz NA7004 Network Audio Player
Marantz M-CR603 Networked CD Receiver

Full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textAIRPLAY CAPABILITY NOW AVAILABLE ON DENON AND MARANTZ COMPONENTS-- Users Can "Unleash Their iTunes® Music Libraries," Stream Songs from iPhone®, iPad™ or iPod Touch® Devices to Denon or Marantz Systems --Las Vegas, NV, January 6, 2011 - Denon Electronics, a premier manufacturer of high-quality home entertainment components celebrating 100 years of innovation and technology leadership, and Marantz America, a world leader of advanced home entertainment solutions, are proud to announce the availability of AirPlay music streaming capability on nine network-capable audio/video components in their respective lineups, making the A/V receivers the world's first to include AirPlay capability. Given the availability of the newly launched Apple iOS 4.2 update to its mobile operating system, owners of AirPlay compatible Denon and Marantz components may now stream songs directly from their iTunes music libraries, as well as music stored on their mobile devices, though their Wi-Fi enabled networks from their iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch devices.* The AirPlay upgrade is available at both the Denon and Marantz websites for $49.99.Denon® A/V receivers that are AirPlay capable include the AVR-4311CI (SRP: $1,999), AVR-3311CI (SRP: $1,199) and AVR-991 (SRP: $999), as well as the company's new 100th Anniversary Product Collection Model AVR-A100 (SRP: $2,499) and its N7 Networked CD Receiver and 2.0 Channel Speaker System, consisting of the new RCD-N7 CD Receiver (SRP: $599) and SC-N7 Stereo Loudspeakers (SRP: $199/pair). In addition, all of the new, IP-based Marantz® products, including the Model SR7005 A/V Receiver (SRP: $1,599), AV7005 A/V Preamplifier (SRP: $1,499), NA7004 Network Audio Player (SRP: $799) and M-CR603 Networked CD Receiver (SRP: $699) will work with the new AirPlay feature.Unleash Your iTunes Library and "Give Your Home a Soundtrack!"With AirPlay, users can literally "give their home a soundtrack" by unleashing their iTunes music libraries whether from Mac or PC and streaming all their favorite iTunes songs, as well as music stored on their Apple mobile devices, to select Denon and Marantz components through their Wi-Fi enabled networks from iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch devices. Users do not even need to be in the same room as their Denon or Marantz components to play, pause, skip, and stop the songs in their iTunes libraries. Users may even view iTunes music information, including album art, track titles, and artist info on Apple compatible devices or with their Denon and Marantz components with video output.Noted Bob Weissburg, President of D&M Holdings NA: "Denon and Marantz both share a commitment to providing consumers with the most advanced lifestyle enhancing features and capabilities that allow them to get closer to the entertainment they love – simply and easily. Maximum compatibility with all of today's home entertainment content and source components is a top priority, including the iPod and iPhone, and now AirPlay capability. AirPlay adds yet another great dimension to content enjoyment and enhances the overall home entertainment experience. This is yet another example of how both the Denon and Marantz brands utilize ahead-of-the-curve innovations and technologies to take home entertainment to the next level."For more information on Denon, visit http://usa.denon.com. For Denon 100th Anniversary and other news, visit http://www.denon100.com and http://usblog.denon.com. Become a fan of Denon on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/denonusa or follow Denon on Twitter at http://twitter.com/denonus.For more information on Marantz, visit http://us.marantz.com. Become a fan of Marantz on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/marantzamerica or follow Marantz on Twitter at http://twitter.com/marantzamerica.*A home Wi-Fi network, connected computer and iTunes account are required to configure the streaming feature.About Denon ElectronicsDenon celebrates its 100th Year Anniversary in 2010, carrying on its tradition of excellence with a renewed commitment to the highest quality home theater, audio and software products. Denon is recognized internationally for innovative and groundbreaking products and has a long history of technical innovations, including the development and groundbreaking commercialization of PCM digital audio. Denon Electronics is owned by D&M Holdings Inc.About MarantzMarantz America is committed to upholding the tradition of technological superiority initiated by founder Saul Marantz. In keeping with this emphasis on quality, Marantz audio and video components are carried only by the nation's premier audio/video specialty retailers. Additional information is available at www.us.marantz.com and www.facebook.com/marantzamerica. Marantz America is a wholly owned subsidiary of D&M Holdings Inc.About D&M Holdings Inc.D&M Holdings Inc. is a global operating company providing worldwide management and distribution platforms for premium consumer, automotive, commercial and professional audio and video businesses including Denon®, Marantz®, McIntosh® Laboratory, Boston Acoustics®, Snell Acoustics, Escientâ, Calrec Audio, Denon DJ, Allen & Heath, D&M Professional and D&M Premium Sound Solutions. Our technologies improve the quality of any audio and visual experience. All product and brand names with a trademark symbol (except for "iTunes," "iPhone," "iPod Touch" which are registered trademarks of Apple Inc.; and "iPad" which is a trademark of Apple Inc.) are trademarks or registered trademarks of D&M Holdings, Inc. or its subsidiaries. For more information visit www.dm-holdings.com.DISCLAIMERStatements in this news release that are not statements of historical fact include forward looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are just predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. Forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties surrounding competitive and industry conditions, market acceptance for the company's products, risks of litigation, technological changes, developing industry standards and other factors related to the company's businesses. The Company reserves all of its rights.
 