
       
Right on time, Denon's dropped the details on its hardware for 2010 on us. Taking top honors are two Blu-ray players: the DBP-2011UDCI ($799, August, not pictured) and the DBP-1611UD ($399, June, pictured above) that are touted as "true universal players"; with DVD-Audio and SACD playback out of the box and Blu-ray 3D on the way in a fall firmware update the company's confident they'll play most any 5-inch optical media you may be able to get your hands on. If you're past discs don't worry, Netflix, DLNA and YouTube streaming is also part of the deal. 

Those should pair well with any of the slew of receivers due up including the AVR-991 (SRP: $999, July), AVR-891 (SRP: $799, May), AVR-791 (SRP: $499, May), AVR-591 (SRP: $349, May) and the AVR-391 (SRP: $249, July); or the custom install-focused AVR-4311CI (SRP: $1,999, Sept.), AVR-3311CI (SRP: $1,199, June), and AVR-2311CI (SRP: $899, June). All of the above bring HDMI 1.4a repeaters for 3D compatibility, onscreen displays through HDMI, and some include web browsers plus music streaming from Pandora or connected PCs. Check the press releases after the break for all the details including a few new headphone models, though we recommend taking it in just a bit at a time -- the threat of overdosing on this much info is high.





Show full PR textDENON® EXPANDS ITS ADVANCED UNIVERSAL BLU-RAY LINEUP WITH TWO NEW 3D-READY HIGH-PERFORMANCE MODELS --BD Live, 3D-Ready Players Include Netflix, YouTube Streaming and 1GB On-Board Memory--Mahwah, NJ, April 26, 2010 – Denon Electronics, a premier manufacturer of high-quality home entertainment components celebrating 100 years of innovation and technology leadership in 2010, is providing discriminating consumers the opportunity to enjoy an enriched Blu-ray experience with the addition of two new 3D-Ready Universal Blu-ray players to its lineup. The new models, with expected SRP and availability in parenthesis, include the DBP-2011UDCI (SRP: $799, Aug.) and the DBP-1611UD (SRP: $399, June) that will join Denon's DBP-4010UDCI (SRP: $1,999) and critically acclaimed DVD-A1UDCI (SRP: $4,499) Universal Blu-ray Disc Players in the company's line of Blu-ray components, which also includes the S-5BD BD/Receiver (SRP: $1,799), a single-component that combines a 5.1-channel surround sound receiver with an advanced Profile 2.0 Blu-ray player. 3D-Readiness, Ultimate Quality Audio, True "Universal" PlayersDenon's Blu-ray players represent the leading edge in performance and features for the fast-growing high-definition format. The "universal" Blu-ray models provide superior playback of virtually all 5-inch silver discs. To ensure total future-readiness, an upcoming firmware update is scheduled to be available in the fall for 3D capability in the new Blu-ray players. In addition to their ultimate-quality video reproduction, all Denon players reflect the company's longstanding heritage as an audio leader, offering impeccable high-resolution sonic playback, including DVD-Audio and SACD.Exciting New Content Opportunities, More On-Board MemoryBoth new Universal Denon Blu-ray players provide easy and straightforward access to the Internet, opening up new content and networking opportunities. For instance, both offer Netflix* and YouTube streaming and are DLNA 1.5-certified for audio/video/photo streaming with other DLNA certified products across a network. In addition to their many innovative interactivity features, including built-in BD Live and "Bonus View" functionality, they offer leading-edge Web access features with 1GB** of on-board memory for BD-Live playback and a USB connector for additional external memory for media and BD-Live content. The players are designed to enhance a consumer's total home entertainment experience with features such as Kodak Picture CD compatibility, as well as DivX HD+, MP3 and WMA playback (all via either recordable DVD/CD or external memory). Noted Phil Cohn, Sr. Vice President, Sales & Marketing, Denon Electronics: "As we celebrate our centennial this year, Denon is reaffirming our core principle to provide customers with the best possible options for elevating their home entertainment experience. With our new Universal Blu-ray products, we now offer consumers the best that this exciting new format has to offer, delivering all the audio and video power intended by content providers, as well as a greater level of interactivity and Internet access."In the new Denon Blu-ray players, ultimate quality audio and video playback is assured. Notably, the new DBP-2011UDCI features inclusion of the very latest Anchor Bay Technologies decoding Engine and Scalar, as well as all-new Burr-Brown 32-Bit, 192-kHz Audio DACs on all channels for unprecedented high-definition audio playback. For ultimate-quality image resolution, both new players feature HDMI v1.4a outputs with 3D and CEC (Consumer Electronics Control) capability and 36-Bit Deep Color. Further enhancing performance, they feature independent pathways for interlaced and progressive display, plus the DBP-2011UDCI has a full complement of advanced decoding circuitry, with decoding of all the latest HD audio formats from Dolby and dts. Not only do both the new Denon models feature the capability to stream content from the Internet, they join all other players in the company's Universal Blu-ray lineup that are able to utilize their onboard Ethernet ports for BD-Live and firmware update access. Designed as an ideal solution for custom installation, the DBP-2011UDCI includes an RS-232 port for third-party controllers. ____________________DENON® REAFFIRMS LEADERSHIP IN ADVANCED A/V RECEIVERS WITH TEN NEW HIGH-PERFORMANCE MODELS -- Upgraded Line Offers A/V Enhancements and More Advanced Technologies at Lower Price Points; Ideal Home Entertainment Solutions for Every Consumer Need and Budget-- Mahwah, NJ, April 26, 2010 - Denon Electronics, a premier manufacturer of high-quality home entertainment components celebrating 100 years of innovation and technology leadership in 2010, today announced its new line of advanced audio/video receivers with ten state-of-the-art offerings. The lineup features five new affordable, fully featured priced models in the company's popular Retail Home Theater Series line, with expected SRP and availability in parenthesis, including the AVR-991 (SRP: $999, July), AVR-891 (SRP: $799, May), AVR-791 (SRP: $499, May), AVR-591 (SRP: $349, May) and the AVR-391 (SRP: $249, July).  These join two new, more advanced 7-channel Models, the AVR-1911 (SRP: $599, June), and AVR-1611 (SRP: $399, June). Also announced are Denon's three new "CI-class" receivers (see separate release) geared toward custom integrators, including the AVR-4311CI (SRP: $1,999, Sept.), AVR-3311CI (SRP: $1,199, June), and AVR-2311CI (SRP: $899, June). The new models will join Denon's AVR-4810CI (SRP: $2,999) and flagship AVR-5308CI (SRP: $5,500) in the company's renowned line of A/V receivers, as well as the company's advanced CI separates including the AVP-A1HDCI (SRP: $7,500) 12 Channel A/V Preamplifier and POA-A1HDCI (SRP: $7,500) Fully Balanced Power Amplifier. Major Enhancements Throughout the LineAmong the significant enhancements made to all new Denon receivers is the inclusion of HDMI v1.4a Repeater Inputs with 3D (all mandated formats), Audio Return Channel and CEC (Consumer Electronics Control) support. All models, except the AVR-391, feature analog-to-HDMI conversion and HD Audio decoding from Dolby and dts, and many feature advanced multi-zone networking capabilities. Simple one-cable HDMI connections add to simplicity of use, and Dolby Pro Logic IIz decoding on all models provides for the enhanced audio experience of front height channels. The new receivers are also engineered throughout to provide consumers with all the features and capabilities they need to enjoy maximum compatibility with today's home entertainment source components. For example, iPod connectivity is featured in all models throughout the line, with the AVR-1911, AVR-791 and higher models adding iPod Digital Direct via USB, which is also 'Works with iPhone' certified.All models feature an updated easy-to-use graphical user interface (GUI) or On-Screen Display that make the steps of system setup, operation and displaying other important information much easier for the end user. Notably, the new models all feature on-screen display (OSD) or GUI overlay via the HDMI connection – eliminating the frustrating necessity of additional cable switching or programming interruptions when making adjustments, such as volume, while watching HD content. Further enhancing ease-of-use, all models feature Source/Quick Select Power On and Quick Select options on the front panel and remote control to give end users one button source, surround mode selection.In keeping with Denon's commitment to eco-friendly engineering throughout its product line, the standby power of all new receivers is below 0.1 watts, helping eliminate unnecessary power usage.Denon A/V Receivers: The Culmination of 100 Years of InnovationThe audio/video receiver is at the heart of Denon's ongoing mission to enhance and expand the home entertainment experience for discriminating consumers. Noted Phil Cohn, the company's Sr. Vice President, Sales & Marketing: "Denon's 100-year legacy has been distinguished by breakthrough technological innovation at virtually every stage of the evolution of home entertainment, particularly in our advanced audio/video receivers. This year's product line expresses our expertise and drive for innovation, giving people new ways to experience their entertainment, from a dramatically enhanced surround sound experience to interactive web access, multi-zone networking and more. Importantly, our receivers also give content creators inspiring ways to reach audiences with their artistic creations as they were intended to be experienced, including music, movies, games and more."New Retail Home Theater Series Models: High-Value, High-PerformanceDenon's Retail Home Theater Series line for 2010 provides discriminating consumers with a host of upgraded features and capabilities at affordable prices. The line now features three 7-channel models (AVR-791, AVR-891, AVR-991), as well as two 5-channel models (AVR-591, AVR-391). All five offer many of the same high-quality features and capabilities that distinguish Denon receivers in the marketplace, including some of those found in the company's CI models. Notably, the AVR-991 features Audyssey DSX with Front Height or Width Channels with Sirius Satellite Radio Ready capability, as well as being the least expensive Denon AVR with advanced networking that adds an RJ-45 Ethernet Port for third-party controllers, Mac/PC audio streaming, Internet Radio, Pandora, Flickr, a Web browser function and more. All models feature 24-bit/192-kHz Analog Devices DACs, and Audyssey Dynamic Volume, Audyssey Dynamic EQ and Audyssey MultEQ. All include analog-to-HDMI video conversion, while AVR-791 and higher feature 12-bit video processing and scaling from Anchor Bay Technologies (ABT).Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD Master Audio decoding in the new Retail Home Theater Series models allow for stunning delivery of today's most advanced high-definition audio programming. Model AVR-991 features Anchor Bay Technologies advanced video deinterlacing and upscaling, converting SD sources to HD. And thanks to the dedicated Denon iPod dock accessory control port on all models, users may connect and control their iPod/iPod Touch or iPhone using one of Denon's available iPod/iPhone docks, which provides on-screen artist, album and song information. AVR-1911 and AVR-1611: Multi-Zone Functionality, HD Radio and MoreDenon's AVR-1911 AVR-1611 7-channel receivers represent the leading edge of today's revolution in home entertainment system building. Both offer full two-zone A/V distribution capabilities, allowing users to enjoy a movie in full surround sound in the living room while listening to music distributed to a den or bedroom.* The AVR-1911 adds the advanced capability of a built-in HD Radio tuner, as well as iPod Direct Connectivity via USB and the most advanced Anchor Bay Technologies video deinterlacing and upscaling chipset for converting SD sources to HD. _____________________DENON® DEBUTS SIX NEW HEADPHONES THAT COMBINE ENHANCED AUDIOWITH GREATER iPHONE / iPOD COMPATIBILITY, COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE -- New Noise-Canceling Model, Easy iPod Control, Plus "Human Factor" Engineering for Ultimate Comfort and Fit, Models for All Tastes and Budgets --Mahwah, NJ, April 26, 2010 – Denon Electronics, one of the world's premier manufacturers of high-quality home entertainment components, today introduced six high-performance headphones, bringing the total number of models in the company's line to 14. The additions include, with expected SRP and availability in parenthesis, the new AH-NC800 (SRP: TBD, August) noise-canceling headphones, as well as the over-ear Models AH-D1100 (SRP: $199, Sept.), AH-D510R (SRP: $99, August), AH-D310R (SRP: $69, August), and the in-ear Models AH-C560R (SRP: $99, June), AH-C260R (SRP: $49, June) . In addition to a host of leading-edge audio technologies for an optimum music listening experience, Denon's new line of headphones places a strong emphasis on simple, "one-touch" iPhone/iPod compatibility and convenience, providing users a new level of voice and music control. Notably, four new models (AH-D510R, AH-D31OR, AH-C560R and AH-C260R) all feature a specially designed three-button remote control/microphone that provides easy access to both voice and music control, and is compatible with Apple Voice Control, for Apple iPhone 3GS, iPod Touch 2G and the latest generation Shuffle. These also control the new iPad.Noted Phil Cohn, the company's Sr. Vice President, Sales & Marketing: "Headphones are one of Denon's top priorities in 2010. Our comprehensive line of high-performance models provides consumers with the ideal choice for every taste, musical listening preference and budget. Now that music has truly 'gone mobile,' there is increasing demand among discriminating consumers for a dramatically enhanced audio experience, as well as total comfort and the convenience of easy iPod/iPhone control and command. Denon is committed to meeting this consumer demand, and setting new headphone standards for performance, comfort and value."Critically Acclaimed Comfort and Style, "Human Factor" Engineering All new Denon headphones are engineered for total comfort and style, with advanced audio technologies for optimum sound. Notably, in order to ensure maximum comfort for all wearers, the company's new over-ear headphones all benefit from a unique R&D initiative based on precise scientific modeling and anatomical measurements of the human head. The result is a new type of headphone band that is engineered with a "human factor," leaving virtually no gap between the band and the wearer's head. In addition, all new Denon over-ear headphones feature newly developed 3D draping soft skin and foam cushion ear-pads for superb comfort and hours of enjoyment without "listening fatigue." The solid aluminum housing construction of the AH-NC800, AH-D1100 and AH-D510R models adds yet another level of rock solid construction for added durability and style.Noise-Canceling AH-NC800s Reduce Ambient Noise by 99% Denon's luxury-class AH-NC800s headphones feature newly developed dual noise-cancelling technology (feed-back and feed-forward) that reduces ambient noise by 99% for a new level of quiet and music enjoyment. In addition, the sophisticated headphones feature Denon's proprietary Compressed Audio Restorer, an audio-enhancing technology that restores musical nuances and subtleties, reproducing music the way the recording artists and producers intended it to be heard. Previously only available in the company's advanced audio/video receivers and AH-NC600 in-ear headphone, this leading-edge circuitry improves the dynamic range and sound quality of compressed audio sources. Superior audio reproduction is further enhanced by high-quality 40mm drivers, as well as OFC cables with gold-plated straight plug connector. The new headphones come with a new specially designed low-profile carrying case for easy portability of the phones and all accessories.In-Ear Models Feature Ergonomic Design, Sound Isolation TechnologiesDenon's new in-ear headphone models all feature an ergonomic design that isolates the ear more steadily and comfortably, and also decreases mechanical vibration. A newly developed Hybrid (metal or plastic combined with Elastomer) housing ensures clean sound, and a Radial Cascade Damper (in models AH-C260R and AH-C560R) reduces noise from touched cables. For total flexibility, all models come with multiple sizes of comfortable ear tips, extension cables and ear clips to ensure perfect fit for every listener. The AH-C560R headphones include not only three sizes of silicon ear tips, but also a special "soft-foam" earpiece for added comfort and luxury, while the AH-C260R comes with 4 sizes of silicon ear tips, one being an extra small to fit younger users. They also come with a new specially designed carrying case that features cable management, as well as OFC (oxygen free copper) cables for enhanced sonic performance. Denon's Full Line of Advanced HeadphonesThe new headphones will join Denon's Models AH-NC600 (SRP: $199) in-ear noise cancelling headphones, AH-C710 (SRP: $149), AH-C452 (SRP: $69) and AH-C360 (SRP: $49) "earbud" in-ear models and the compact on-ear model AH-P372K (SRP: $59); as well as three state-of-the-art over-ear models, the AH-D7000 (SRP: $999), the AH-D5000 (SRP: $699) and AH-D2000 (SRP: $349)._________________________________________DENON® HOME ENTERTAINMENT COMPONENTSRECEIVE CONTROL4 CERTIFICATION-- Control4 Certification Underscores Denon's Leadership In Sophisticated, Easy-to-Use Products That Integrate Seamlessly With All Leading Home Automation and IP Control Systems --Mahwah, NJ, April 26, 2010 – Denon Electronics, one of the world's premier manufacturers of high-quality home entertainment components, is proud to announce that 13 of its advanced home entertainment components have earned Control4® certification, ensuring compatibility and smooth integration with all Control4 IP-based home automation and entertainment systems. Denon's Control4 Certified products, with expected SRP and availability in parenthesis, include the A/V receiver Models AVR-5308CI (SRP: $5,500, current), AVR-4810CI (SRP: $2,999, current), AVR-3311CI (SRP: $1,199, June) and AVR-2311CI (SRP: $899, June), as well as the DVD-A1UDCI (SRP: $4,500) and DBP-4010CI (SRP: $1,999) Universal Blu-ray Disc players and the AVP-A1HDCI (SRP: $7,500) A/V surround sound and video processor. Other previously introduced Denon products that also meet Control4 certification requirements include the A/V receiver Models AVR-4310CI, AVR-3310CI, AVR-2310CI, AVR-990 and AVR-890, as well as the DBP-2010CI Profile 2.0 Blu-ray player. As part of its commitment as a member of the Control4 certification program, Denon looks forward to introducing future products that also meet Control4 certification requirements.All components earning Control4 certification must pass rigorous interoperability tests in Control4 labs. Along with this important certification, Denon's wide range of home entertainment components are fully compatible with several other leading home automation providers with which Denon shares Integration Partner status, including Crestron, RTI, Universal Remote Control, AMX and Savant. Integration Partner status ensures the CI channel that Denon is working closely with these companies to make integration between the products easy, reliable and cost effective.Noted Jeff Talmadge, Director, Product Development & Systems Integration, Denon Electronics: "Control4 Certification is yet another indication of Denon's commitment to our valued custom integrator customers and to providing them with the advanced solutions they need to offer their clients fully integrated, easy-to-use home automation and entertainment systems. From our industry-leading A/V receivers, Blu-ray players and other IP/232 controllable products, Denon is committed to utilizing all of our engineering expertise and experience to bring our integrator customers all the benefits of a truly connected and automated digital home.""Denon is one of the first companies to complete Control4 certification testing, which demonstrates their commitment to providing seamless integration with Control4® systems," said Jeff Dungan, Vice President of Supply Chain and Manufacturing at Control4, "With Denon in the growing Control4 Certified partner ecosystem, Control4 continues to provide our dealers and their customers robust and easy-to-use systems for homes."All Denon components with Control4 certification include RS-232C connection capability for third-party system control and/or IP control remote in/out connection for custom installation convenience. _________________________________________DENON® STRENGTHENS ITS COMMITMENT TO CUSTOM INEGRATORS WITHINNOVATIVE NEW ADDED-VALUE PROGRAMS AND SYSTEM-BUILDING SOLUTIONS-- Expanded CI Certification Program, Additional Back-End Support, In-House Designed Control Modules and Three New CI Receivers with More Integration Functionality -- Mahwah, NJ, April 26, 2010 - Denon Electronics, a premier manufacturer of high-quality home entertainment components celebrating 100 years of innovation and technology leadership in 2010, is building on its longtime commitment to professional custom integrators this year, expanding its highly successful CI Certification program, providing more back-end support services and debuting three new "CI class" A/V Receivers. The Denon CI receivers being announced today include, with expected SRP and availability listed in parenthesis: the AVR-4311CI (SRP: $1,999, Sept.), AVR-3311CI (SRP: $1,199, June) and AVR-2311CI (SRP: $899, June). They will join Denon's AVR-4810CI (SRP: $2,999) and flagship AVR-5308CI (SRP: $5,500) in the company's acclaimed line of CI A/V receivers, as well as the company's advanced CI separates including the AVP-A1HDCI (SRP: $7,500) 12 Channel A/V Preamplifier and POA-A1HDCI (SRP: $7,500) Fully Balanced Power Amplifier.Industry-Leading Initiative to Help Custom Integrators Best Serve Their Clients Denon is launching more initiatives in support of professional integrators, and at its heart is the company's expanded CI Certification and training program, which includes a uniquely valuable CI Web information portal for certified integrators that now includes over 3,000 registered members and growing. Further reflecting its CI commitment, Denon is also announcing that integrators will now be able to benefit from a longer 3-year warranty with the new Denon receivers from the AVR-2311CI and up.Noted Jeff Talmadge, Director, Product Development & Systems Integration, Denon Electronics: "Custom integrators are a top priority for Denon, and through our CI certification and training program, supported by our innovative products and comprehensive support services, we are 100% committed to helping our CI customers build their businesses and to helping grow the entire channel. As part of our effort to serve custom integrators with the added-value tools and services they need to succeed, all of our CI products have been designed from the ground up based on feedback from professional installers and the features and capabilities they've requested. Our focus is on creating solution-based, innovative and reliable products that custom integrators can depend on to perform year in and year out – and through our advanced training program to ensuring that all our CI customers fully understand how to maximize the benefits for their clients."New A/V Receivers: Industry-Leading Control Capabilities and MoreThe company's three new CI receivers offer the advanced performance, reliability and ease-of-use that is vital to custom integrators. Responding to integrators demands for receivers that offer easier and more comprehensive connectivity and control, all three feature a host of leading-edge "connected home" capabilities made possible through Denon's partnerships with control manufacturers such as Crestron, AMX, Control4, Universal Remote Control and RTI. Notably, in a first-of-its-kind move for the company, Denon will be creating its own Crestron remote control modules, allowing installers to quickly and easily open a control interface and simply "drag and drop" the specific programming tools they need to create fully connected total home systems. Additionally, Denon's new CI-class receivers all feature Control4® Certification, ensuring compatibility and smooth integration with all Control4 IP-based home automation and entertainment systems. (Denon's existing AVP-A1HDCI, AVR-5308CI, AVR-4810CI, AVR-4310CI, AVR-3310CI and AVR-2310CI have also received Control4 certification.) Further reflecting the importance Denon places on leading-edge Web access, all the company's new receivers, as well as the company's continuing AVR-4810CI, AVR-4310CI and AVR-3310CI, are officially "Compatible with Windows 7," ensuring full compatibility with the updated 'Play To' functionality of the new Microsoft operating system. Custom integrators will especially appreciate the Ethernet connectivity in AVR-3311CI and 4311CI models, which offer them IP control as well as the ability to efficiently conduct system setup and maintenance from a remote location – even allowing Denon's CI-certified custom integrators to potentially diagnose and fix a customer's problem from their office. Furthermore, responding to the growing consumer demand for ways to incorporate more personal content and content from Internet sources into their home entertainment systems, Denon's AVR-4311CI and AVR-3311CI receivers now allow users to stream both the free Pandora and Flickr services, as well as stream audio and photos directly from their PCs, choose from over 7,500 Internet radio stations and connect to the subscription-based Rhapsody and Napster music services.* Users can also stream and listen to music stored on a Windows PC, Mac and media server products or NAS devices supporting the DLNA standard. Maximum compatibility with today's home entertainment source components is a priority in all Denon CI receivers, including the Apple iPod and the iPhone. For example, all three models feature iPod Digital Direct via USB, which is also 'Works with iPhone' certified. Recognizing the demand for receivers capable of delivering audio and video to multiple zones within the home, all CI receivers feature at least two-zone, two-source capability, and the AVR-4311CI and AVR-3311CI both offer three-zone, three-source capability.** Other key custom-integration features included in all Denon CI receivers are RS-232 for 3rd Party control and assignable high current DC trigger outputs. Both models also offer Audyssey MultEQ Pro Calibration, providing custom integrators with the ultimate tool for tailoring the sound to the specific acoustical need of any room.AVR-4311CI: Leading-Edge Features and Capabilities Leading off Denon's new CI-class receiver line is the 9.2-channel AVR-4311CI. New features include the latest Audyssey MultEQ Room Correction system and Dolby Volume. The AVR-4311CI includes seven HDMI inputs and two parallel HDMI outputs, including a single front-panel HDMI input for added convenience. The highest resolution audio decoders are provided, including Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD Master Audio for the ultimate in audio fidelity. Analog and digital video sources are upconverted via Anchor Bay Technologies VRS processing to HD quality (up to 1080p/24/60). All new CI models feature built-in HD Radio for dramatically improved fidelity. The AVR-4311CI also incorporates the advanced DENON Link 4th, featuring HDMI Clock Control – when using the HDMI interface for A/V output for Blu-ray playback in combination with Denon Link, Clock Jitter Control gives the Master Clock and Jitter reduction to be handled by the connected Denon A/V Receiver/Processor.
 