
 
 Blizzard Entertainment's Chris Metzen announced tonight that Diablo 3 is headed to both the PlayStation 3 and 4. He announced as much during Sony's big PlayStation 4 reveal event this evening, noting that it's part of a "strategic partnership" between the two companies. He didn't say anything about how it'll change, but he did say that fans will get a chance to check out the new version at PAX East this March.

 Check out our liveblog of Sony's event to get the latest news as it happens!


  Show full PR text   The Lord of Terror to Unleash the Fires of the Burning Hells on PlayStation® Gamers Worldwide
  Blizzard Entertainment announces Diablo® III for PS3™, confirms franchise coming to PS4™
  World-first hands-on set for PAX East, March 22–24
  PAX East 2013  IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The fate of Sanctuary will soon rest in the hands of PlayStation gamers around the world. Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. today announced that it is developing Diablo® III, the latest entry in its award-winning action–role-playing-game series, for the Sony PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system. The company also today confirmed plans to adapt the game for Sony's newly announced PlayStation®4, its next-generation computer entertainment system.
  "Diablo III looks and plays great on the PlayStation"  The PS3™/PS4™ version of Diablo III will be based on the critically acclaimed core experience of the PC version, including all of the latest upgrades, such as the Paragon leveling system, customizable Monster Power, Brawling, and epic Legendary items. In addition, Blizzard is designing an all-new user interface, including an intuitive control scheme and a new dynamic camera perspective, that will make questing and combat in the world of Sanctuary feel like second nature on PlayStation platforms. Players will be able to battle their way through the story in single-player mode and also experience the hack-and-slash joy of destroying demons and collecting loot together with their friends via seamless four-player online and local co-op modes.
  Blizzard also announced today that the PS3 version of Diablo III will be shown live at PAX East, taking place at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center from March 22–24. Attendees there will be the first in the world to pick up a controller and experience the fast-paced action and visceral gameplay of Diablo III via the new custom-designed interface.
  "Diablo III looks and plays great on the PlayStation," said Mike Morhaime, CEO and cofounder of Blizzard Entertainment. "We put a lot of care and thought into the PlayStation version to make sure it would deliver an authentic Diablo gaming experience, and we're really pleased with the results. We can't wait for players to try it out at PAX East."
  Diablo III continues the epic Diablo storyline, with players taking on the role of one of five heroic characters-barbarian, witch doctor, wizard, monk, or demon hunter-and embarking on a perilous quest to save the world of Sanctuary from the corrupting forces of the Burning Hells. As players adventure through rich and varied settings, they'll engage in pulse-pounding combat with hordes of monsters and challenging bosses, grow in experience and ability, acquire artifacts of incredible power, and meet key characters who'll join them in battle or aid them along the way. Diablo III was originally released for Windows® and Macintosh® PC on May 15, 2012 and within 24 hours became the fastest-selling PC game of all time. As of December 31, 2012, Diablo III had sold through more than 12 million copies worldwide.*
  * According to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and internal company estimates.
 
