
 Merely days ago, Digeo trumpeted a number of Moxi-related partnerships and simultaneously failed to give us any additional details as to when we could expect either of its standalone HD DVRs. Now, we could have a reason why. According to a breaking report from The Wall Street Journal, the firm is axing 50-percent of its staff (leaving 80 employees) and Mike Fidler, CEO, is handing over his position to Greg Gudorf, the company's current president and chief operating officer. As if that weren't enough, the report also claims that Digeo will "not release two digital media recorders that had been planned," and rather, it will "focus on a [single] next-generation consumer model." Notably, we aren't told whether or not said model is the HD DMR that's already out in beta testers' hands, but we suppose only time will tell. [Warning: read link requires subscription]Update: We've now learned that the oft delayed Moxi Multi-Room HD DMR and the Moxi Home Cinema Edition DMR will not be released. Additionally, we're told that details about the firm's upcoming consumer DMR (which will be released) will be "announced later in the year." Full release posted after the jump.
      

 

Digeo Streamlines Retail Product Strategy, Builds New Corporate StructureCompany Reduces Workforce and Prioritizes Next-Generation RetailProduct DevelopmentKIRKLAND, Wash - January 15, 2008 - Digeo, Inc., makers of the Emmy(R)Award-winning Moxi(R) digital media recorder (DMR), today announcedthat the company will focus its product development on fewer platformswhile eliminating some previously announced retail products. As aresult, the company will reduce its workforce by nearly one-half,mainly in positions that are not critical to development of the newproducts.Mike Fidler, the company's CEO, will help to implement the newstrategy to insure a smooth transition. As part of the transition,Greg Gudorf, current President and COO of the company, will assume theCEO role. The two have worked closely as an executive leadership teamat Digeo since late 2005."With our revised product strategy, it made sense to realign ourleadership team as well," stated Fidler. "I remain very enthusiasticabout Digeo's mission, its Moxi products, our partnerships and Greg'sleadership capabilities. While the new strategy is absolutely theright thing to do for Digeo's business, Greg and I both profoundlyregret the personal consequences of this action for our employees whowill be affected."As a result of its updated product development direction, Digeo willnot release some retail DMR products it had previously announced,including the delayed Moxi Multi-Room HD DMR and the Moxi Home CinemaEdition DMR. Instead, Digeo will focus on its next-generation consumerDMR, which Digeo has been developing at the same time as the cancelledprojects. Details about Digeo's new retail product will be announcedlater in the year.Another announced product, the Moxi HD DVR for Cable, is Digeo's newproduct for the cable industry. This product is successfully in trialnow and will be released as planned. All of the company's currentcontent and development partnerships, including its uniquerelationship and product collaboration with Monster Cable will remainin place for the more tightly focused product strategy.In other changes, Digeo will re-structure its development team as partof the new strategy to focus its team on fewer projects and to flattenthe structure of the development organization. Three new engineeringgroups will now report directly into the office of the CEO to ensuregreater accountability and transparency."As we assessed our situation, it became clear that the best actionfor Digeo was to focus our work on the next-generation product for theretail market," said Gudorf. "Building the software and hardware forthis category is a complex endeavor, with dynamic technical standards,regulatory issues and content considerations. Previously, we werespreading our energies across too many platforms. This focusedstrategy promises to bring a set of advanced and compelling DMRfeatures to consumers, at the right cost and at the right time. Weremain committed to bringing the best television experience to ourcustomers and we are confident that we'll emerge even more successfulas a result of this focusing effort."About Digeo, Inc.Digeo, Inc. creates state-of-the-art home entertainment technologies,including digital media recorder (DMR) platforms and services. Thecompany's mission is to enable the best consumer experience inhigh-definition entertainment for the connected home.Digeo's flagship product - the two-time Emmy(R) Award-winning MoxiMedia Center - serves as a hub for whole-home distribution of digitalentertainment and more than 400,000 units have been shipped to morethan 100 markets by eight cable operators nationwide. The company alsolicenses its technology to third-party companies as the userinterface, application or customer connection portal to drive theirproducts or services. Backed primarily by Paul Allen's Vulcan, Inc.,Digeo is based in Kirkland, Wash. For more information, please visitwww.digeo.com. For a virtual demo of the Moxi Menu, please visitwww.moxi.com.

       

 