
  Dear rig builder, before you go shopping for your next PSU, Digital Storm would like a word. The company's new line of Vanquish PCs is aimed at gamers who want the price of a self-build, but without the worry that they've mistakenly jammed a 12V ATX cable into a Blu-Ray drive. The base unit offers up an AMD FX-4300 with 8GB RAM, 1TB HDD, a Radeon HD 7750 and Windows 7 for $699 -- just $38 more than the company claims you could snag those unassembled parts on NewEgg. Alongside the professional build, Digital Storm will provide lifetime in-house tech support and a three-year warranty, so if you'd like to learn more, there's PR and video after the break.



 
  Show full PR text   Digital Storm Ends the Pre-Built vs. DIY Debate with VANQUISH Line of Gaming PCs
   For $23-$58 more than the retail cost of components, customers get a fully tested and configured system ready to game out of the box.

   FREMONT, Calif. - (April 24, 2013) – Digital Storm put an end to the age old debate of pre-built systems vs. DIY (do-it-yourself) with the launch of the VANQUISH line of gaming PCs. For years, enthusiasts have claimed they could build systems with the same high-end components Digital Storm configures for significantly less. The VANQUISH line narrows that gap to a mere $23-$58 difference making the decision a no brainer – DIY is simply not worth the hassle.

   Like all Digital Storm systems, the VANQUISH line of PCs feature a carefully optimized selection of brand name, high-performance components to deliver a fluid smooth game playing experience. Digital Storm's team of engineers meticulously review every tiny detail to provide customers with the peace of mind an average "do-it-your-self" cannot match.  Digital Storm VANQUISH systems are pre-built, pre-tested, and ready to ship immediately after an order is placed, eliminating the delays of traditional built-to-order systems. By building an inventory of all four VANQUISH models, Digital Storm can run its industry leading 72-hour stress test and benchmarking to ensure customers experience zero performance bottlenecks and get the most out of their hardware.

   "When we decided to take on the DIYers we knew we had to offer impressively built systems that could compete in terms of performance as well as price," said Rajeev Kuruppu, Digital Storm's Director of Product Development. "For just $23-$58 more were giving customers a fully optimized system featuring the latest chipset platform and next gen-graphics. This allows them to focus on demolishing the competition instead of worrying about the reliability of their PC."

 
