
 What's the price for glory? Digital Storm's just launched its latest flagship PC gaming platform, the Hailstorm II, letting serious players part with anywhere between $2,700 and $8,000-plus. A sequel to the original Hailstorm PC, the integrator claims its new platform is the first to take advantage of the Corsair Obsidian Series 900D case, letting it accommodate up to quadruple GPU and dual CPU configurations. In order to keep those setups chill, the case can accommodate up to two power supplies, four radiators and 15 total fans, allowing for overclocking speeds of up to 4.8GHz. The top level 4 configuration will include three NVIDIA GeForce GTX Titan 6GB graphics cards, an Intel Core i7 Extreme Edition 3970X CPU, 16GB of RAM, a 1200-watt power supply, "custom exotic liquid cooling" and a 240GB SSD / 1TB HDD combo, all for the cool sum of -- wait for it -- $8,085. Lesser configurations bring the price down considerably, but if you care less about dollars than FPS, hit the PR after the break for more.



  Show full PR text   Digital Storm Unleashes Hailstorm II – An Enthusiast's Monstrous, Dream Machine
   Digital Storm is first system integrator to offer the highly anticipated Corsair  Obsidian Series 900D

  FREMONT, Calif. - (March 19, 2013) – Enthusiasts looking to quench their thirst for a benchmark crushing components and bone chilling liquid cooling need look no further than the Digital Storm Hailstorm II. With space for up to four radiators (ranging from 140mm to 480mm sizes) and a quadruple GPU and dual CPU configuration, enthusiasts can achieve the ultimate level of performance and customization with the Hailstorm II.The Hailstorm II pairs an advanced liquid cooling system with a blustery current of cold air driven by three front intake fans and a large rear exhaust fan. With the ability to include up to 15 fans total, the Hailstorm II encompasses one of the most powerful airflow designs available, providing prolonged stability and ensuring every component operates at peak performance with zero heat related bottlenecks.

   "When we (Digital Storm) set out to redesign Hailstorm we knew it would be a challenging to improve on a system capable of handling nearly any high-end configuration an enthusiast could dream up" said Rajeev Kuruppu, Digital Storm's Director of Product Development. "This meant the search was on for the biggest and baddest chassis available. When we saw the Corsair 900D at CES we knew we had the enclosure we needed to make the original Hailstorm look like a small mid-tower system and not the bad ass high performance system it really was." The sleek brushed aluminum front panel peels back to reveal a vast interior with room for ten expansion slots, up to nine hard drives or SSD with three hot-swap mounts, four 5.25" optical drive bays, and both 2x USB 3.0 ports and 4x USB 2.0 ports for maximum expandability. Themost impressive feature of the massive system is its ability to install two power supplies, giving enthusiasts an unlimited level of power to handle the most intense hardware configurations.

   Prior to shipping to the customer, each Digital Storm system undergoes a rigorous 72-Hour Stress-Test. Digital Storm technicians stress-test and benchmark the system via industry standard testing software coupled with a proprietary testing process that detects components which can be prone to future failure.

   Digital Storm's Hailstorm II: http://www.digitalstormonline.com/Hailstorm-II.asp

 
