
 Attempts to create truly small gaming desktops usually involve at least some kind of performance hit. Even HP's category-bending Firebird, one of the few stand-out examples, had to use toned-down graphics to succeed in a tiny enclosure. Digital Storm might have broken the trend towards sacrifice with its new Bolt desktop: although it's just 3.6 inches wide and 14 inches tall, the Bolt can cram in as much as a GeForce GTX 680 and will even let gamers upgrade the graphics like they would in a full-size PC. The seemingly logic-defying (if also finger-defying) case still allows room for as much as an overclocked 4.6GHz Core i7, 16GB of RAM and storage options that meld a spinning hard drive with up to two SSDs and a DVD burner. Digital Storm isn't even setting an absurd base price, but it's in the cost that we finally see the catch to the miniaturization tricks. The $999 entry-level Bolt carries a modest 3.1GHz Core i3, 8GB of RAM, a 1TB hard drive and GeForce GTX 650 Ti, while it takes a staggering $1,949 to get a fully decked-out Core i7 system with a GTX 680. Those prices might be worthwhile for anyone who has ever strained while lugging a traditional tower to a game tourney. 




  Show full PR text   Digital Storm Unveils Bolt – The World's Thinnest, Most Powerful & Future-proof Gaming PC
  Custom designed chassis provides thin form factor and future upgradability; while a 4.6GHz overclocked CPU delivers furious performance
  Fremont, Calif. - (October 23, 2012) – Digital Storm, the predominant name in computer system integration and engineering, proudly introduces its slimmest custom designed gaming computer ever - Bolt. With Bolt, Digital Storm gives gamers exactly what they've craved: a powerful and affordable gaming PC without the need of a bulky desktop tower.
  When conceptualizing the Bolt, Digital Storm engineers found no chassis on the market that met their design criteria, so they designed their own brand new chassis from the ground up. Every aspect of the Bolt from: cooling, performance, and upgradability were ingeniously designed to the highest possible standards. The Bolt boasts a slim yet aggressive profile that is only 3.6" wide and 14" tall. The Bolt's thin chassis is designed to effectively dissipate heat allowing it to house the latest and fastest components on the market, bucking the trend of sacrificing performance for a smaller footprint.
  No other thin form factor tower houses as much power as Bolt because no other system can handle the type of bleeding edge hardware and overclocking that Bolt does. Bolt's high performance CPU cooling solution, with five copper heat pipes, unlocks even more gaming performance with processor overclocks of up to 4.6 GHz with Intel's i7 3770K CPU. Bolt also supports up to 3 hard drives: 2 SSDs and 1 mechanical for incredible storage flexibility.
  "Gaming PCs have always been housed in massive towers, but we've seen that more and more consumers are moving towards smaller and more efficient machines," said Rajeev Kuruppu, Digital Storm's Director of Product Development. "We wanted to develop a slim affordable gaming PC that could play the latest titles, while still being a powerful desktop PC that kept future upgradability in mind."
  Prior to shipping to the customer, each Digital Storm system undergoes a rigorous 72-Hour Stress-Test. Digital Storm technicians stress-test and benchmark the system via industry standard testing software coupled with a proprietary testing process that detects components which can be prone to future failure.
 
