
 
It's time to step up to triple-screen 3D gaming, son. NVIDIA has been teasing us with 3D Vision Surround capability in its GPUs for months, and now Digital Storm wants to put it on your desk with its latest Black|OPS line of gaming rigs. For a starting price of $2,670 you can get yourself a rig with dual NVIDIA GeForce GTS 250 graphics cards in SLI powering three 23-inch 3D LCDs from Asus. Naturally, though, the price goes way up from there with just a few clicks on those customization boxes. Can you resist their siren call?
      

 

Show full PR textDigital Storm's Black|OPS & NVIDIA's 3D Vision™ Surround Technology Deliver the World's Most Immersive Gaming Experience3D HD multi-display gaming powered by NVIDIA's GTX 400 Series GPUs gives players an unparalleled gaming advantageFremont, Calif. - (August 2, 2010) – Digital Storm, the predominant name in computer system integration and engineering, proudly ushers in the future of total immersion gaming with 3D Vision™ Surround Technology and the ultimate gaming PC - Black|OPS. For the first time ever, NVIDIA's 3D Vision™ Surround Technology expands gaming real estate across three monitors in full HD 3D for the most immersive gaming experience ever. With this breakthrough, gamers can expand their view of in-game action, allowing them to see enemies sooner, get a complete survey of strategy games, and race their cars even faster than before.Those who have never played on a 3D gaming system across three 1080p displays should be prepared to have their breath taken away. NVIDIA's GeForce GTX 400 GPUs generate the graphics horsepower to drive 750M pixels/second for 3 screens in full HD 1080p 3D Vision gaming for an incredible 5760x1080 experience. In terms of compatibility, NVIDIA's intelligent software automatically converts over 425 games to stereoscopic 3D without the need for special patches.Setting up a Black|OPS machine with 3D Vision™ Surround Technology is simplified thanks to NVIDIA's multi-display software. No adaptors are required as 3D Vision works with standard monitor cables and a setup wizard guides gamers through setup and allows bezel correction to enable a seamless display experience. Further, advanced GPU synchronization ensures seamless support and maximum frame rate."The total immersion one experiences when gaming on a multi-screen 3D system is the most remarkable gaming experience, words do it no justice," commented Rajeev Kuruppu, Digital Storm's Director of Product Development. "For first-person shooters and strategy games, multi-screen 3D gives gamers a Pentagon-grade gaming experience that is vastly superior to anything else on the market. 3D technology represents the future of gaming and Black|OPS systems are the perfect platform to experience it on."Digital Storm's Black|OPS gaming PCs with 3D Vision™ Surround Technology are available for purchase at www.DigitalStormOnline.com/3dpc.asp with a base price of $2,833. For images or additional information, please contact Digital Storm Media Representative Brian Metcalf at brianmetcalf@maxborgesagency.com or 305-576-1171 x11. To learn more about Digital Storm's complete product offerings, please visit www.DigitalStormOnline.com
 