
 
Mmm, overclocking. If you've been looking to treat yourself this holiday season, there's hardly a better way than with a shiny new gaming PC. Better still, a shiny new gaming PC with a liquid-chilled processor... one that just so happens to be warrantied with a 4.6GHz clock speed. Digital Storm's Hailstorm desktop is now available with a so-called Sub-Zero cooling system, which is described as a series of TEC peltier coolers that work in conjunction with other high-end liquid cooling components to keep Intel's Core i7-980X from boiling over. On the high-end rig, you'll also get 6GB of DDR3 memory, a trio of NVIDIA GeForce GTX 580 (1.5GB) GPUs, a 1200-watt power supply and a bank-breaking $6,903 price tag. Cost-conscious consumers can opt for two lesser systems, with a $4,390 build being equipped with a Core i7-950 and the $3,899 unit creeping by with only a single GTX 460 GPU. But hey, what's a few grand among friends? Promo vid is after the break. 






See more video at our hub!Show full PR textDigital Storm Debuts Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled SystemInnovatively designed cooling apparatus pumps a deluge of below 0ºC freezing liquid enabling overclocks of 4.6GHz & beyondFremont, Calif. - (November 22, 2010) – Digital Storm, the predominant name in computer system integration and engineering, proudly debuts the Formula 1 of high-performance computing: the Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System. With this new system, Digital Storm offers an unrivalled PC gaming experience that unlocks overclocks of Intel's i7-980X CPU up to 4.6GHz, while idling the processor below 0ºC.Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled SystemThe Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System delivers freezing liquid to the CPU, completely smothering any heat it encounters. Designed and tested over months of research by the industry's most performance focused engineering team, the Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System is specifically designed for enthusiasts and hardcore gamers who are driven by the pursuit of more performance and power.At the core of the Sub-Zero is a series of TEC peltier coolers that work in conjunction with other high-end liquid cooling components. Previously, enthusiasts were relegated to bulky phase change systems to achieve radically low temperatures to maximize performance. Now enthusiasts can achieve unmatched overclocking potential with increased reliability since the core of Digital Storm's Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System has no moving parts."The R&D conducted on this liquid chilled system has been the most labor intensive, but rewarding initiatives ever attempted by our engineers," commented Rajeev Kuruppu, Digital Storm's Director of Product Development. "With constant innovation happening in the hardware space, the demands on our engineers to design systems that optimize these components are unyielding. The Hailstorm gaming computer with the new Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System fully maximizes the potential for each component like no other system we've ever built."Digital Storm's Hailstorm gaming PC with the Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System is available for purchase at www.DigitalStormOnline.com. The base configuration for the Sub-Zero Liquid Chilled System configuration has a starting price of $3,899.
 