
 We're very happy that 2012 ended up being the year of whole-home DVRs. We reviewed Dish Network's Hopper earlier this year and now we've spent some quality time with DirecTV's Genie -- can't say we expected the cute names. Capable of serving up to eight rooms in your house (but only four at once), the Genie system works with a variety of setups, including being built into some newer Samsung TVs. Only available as part of DirecTV service, the Genie can be had for free by some new DirecTV customers who are willing to sign a term agreement and select the right package, and available to existing customers as an upgrade for $300 depending on the circumstances. If DirecTV didn't already have you at five tuners, 1TB and up to eight rooms, then click through for a full rundown on the latest the original direct satellite broadcast TV provider has to offer.




 Standard DVR disclaimer  Any time we write a DVR review we have to remind ourselves that the world we live in doesn't afford most people the luxury of choosing a DVR. What we mean is that usually DVRs and their software are tied to specific providers, and thus aren't available to everyone. So our questions in a DVR review are two-fold: would we switch to a provider who offered this DVR? And how does it compare to third-party options like Windows Media Center or TiVo?

 Hardware 
  The center of the whole-home Genie DVR is the HR34, a box that has already been available for a year. Capable of recording five shows at once to its 1TB hard drive, the HR34 will typically connect to the main TV in your house. If you want to connect other sets, you'll either need an RVU-capable Samsung HDTV or have a C31 Genie Mini Client attached. At 3.25 x 15.75 x 11.85 inches, the HR34 isn't small, but it does fit right in with other home theater gear. The design is mostly plastic, with a glossy front panel sporting the essential controls and blue LED lights. The lights are pretty bright out of the box, but all -- except for the record indicator LED -- can be dimmed or disabled by pressing both the right and left direction buttons on the box. Between the lights and the glossy black face, the HR34 is a looker.

  The lights are pretty bright out of the box, but can be dimmed or disabled

 On either side of the front main panel is a door, with the right side revealing the conditional access card, and the left hiding a USB port. While most users will only attach a standard two-prong power connector, HDMI and a coax running to the satellite, there are a number of other connectors out back. In addition to the component, composite, S-Video and coaxial digital found on most set-top boxes, there is also an eSATA port for external storage, USB for accessories, IR input and a phone jack. You might miss the lack of a Toslink option for optical digital audio -- and there's also no ATSC tuner, which can come in handy if DirecTV doesn't offer every local channel in your market via satellite. Still, there's an optional AM21n that can be had for $50 to fill that void.

 A whole-home DVR is not an island unto itself; it leverages the RVU protocol to extend its service into the other rooms of your house. While RVU is now part of DLNA, there isn't much compatible hardware on the market. DirecTV included a few Genie Mini Clients (C31) for us to review, but as mentioned earlier, there are also a few compatible Samsung TVs (2011's D6000 and most 2012 models).

 
 Although it would be ideal to have no box at all on your wall-mounted TVs, the Mini Client is a pretty decent compromise, at less than a hundred dollars. While not as tiny as some modern media extenders, the C31 is still pretty small. We wish a mount was included to make it easier to hide, especially since there seem to be holes on the bottom to facilitate one. Up front is a single power button, a blue network status LED and a hidden IR sensor. On the back you'll find a coax input, HDMI, USB, coaxial digital output, power connector and a multi-AV output that can be used with the optional component and composite dongle -- there's no network interface as it uses DECA to connect to the HR34 via coax. Speaking of power, it is of the in-line brick (as opposed to the wall-wart) variety, and interestingly, has holes to make it easily wall-mountable.

 Like the HR34, the Mini is sometimes offered for free to new customers who are willing to sign term agreements and subscribe to the right package, but existing customers who want to expand the system they already have can acquire it for $99. (DirecTV doesn't actually sell its hardware, so we say acquire because it's technically a lease.)

 Remote 
 The remote is a sticking point in nearly all of our home theater reviews, and while the DirecTV controller won't win any innovation awards, it's familiar in all the right ways. The directional pads and navigation shortcuts are conveniently located in the center of the remote, with the transport controls at the top and the number keys at the bottom. Just about every button is exactly where you'd expect, with the exception of the discrete on and off commands at the top. Typically, separate buttons for on and off rub us the wrong way, but in this case they are useful. When you press on, for example, it turns both your TV and the DirecTV set-top box on -- this would be difficult to do with a power toggle button, as the two devices might find themselves in opposite states, which would be very frustrating. Up top is a format button for easily controlling how the box outputs standard-definition video on an HDTV, as well as a TV input button that lets you tune the TV to the correct input for DirecTV without searching for another remote.

 DirecTV remotes are available with RF for an extra $20, which, in addition to making it easier to program via on-screen menus, also ensure the remote can control without having a line of sight to the box. Our DirecTV installer provided one RF remote for the main room and IR-only remotes for the two Genie Minis.

 The included remote isn't the only method for controlling the DirecTV experience. In addition to the mobile apps (more on those later), the main HR34 features more than one way to interact with other systems, including Home Automation. The most useful is the IP interface that can provide two-way control with feedback and will be essential if you have high-end Home Automation. There are other apps that can take advantage of this or you can type in carefully crafty URLs into your favorite browser to interact with the HR34. If your control system can't leverage IP control, you also have the option to use a USB to RS-232 adapter. The bad news is that neither RS-232 nor IP control are options on the Genie Mini, but we certainly hope they are coming.

 User interface 
  Although many of us have been enjoying high-definition television for more than 10 years, a good deal of set-top boxes still don't feature HD user interfaces. DirecTV started upgrading its UI to HD about a year ago and brought it to the HR34 (and its clients) more recently. The interface is predominately blue and black, and is heavy on cover art. The main menu is broken up into five main sections: My DirecTV, Search & Browse, Recordings, Extras and Settings & Help. My DirecTV provides a quick glance of what is on tonight as well as the latest recommendations from Genie via eight box art icons. Search & Browse provides a single search interface that can return results from future programs, on-demand and even YouTube.



