
 

Last year DirecTV started offering NFL Sunday Ticket To-Go access even to those who couldn't / wouldn't get their satellite packages, and it's upping the ante this year by bringing its slate of football games to the PlayStation 3. NFL Sunday Ticket To-Go is still a $50 add-on that adds HD streaming access on PCs and mobile devices, however this year there's also an app for the Motorola Xoom and Samsung Galaxy Android tablets. PS3 owners can get in on the action either by adding the To-Go option or paying a flat $339.95 without DirecTV service. Of course, it's still interested in enticing people to switch to the dish by offering Sunday Ticket at no additional charge for new subscribers -- just ask fairy Deion Sanders after the break. No word on any apps for Boxee, Roku and the rest, but other new additions for the 2011 season (now that the lockout is resolved and it's actually happening) include a new four channel mix with larger cells for those late afternoon games, and integration with NFL.com Fantasy Football that lets viewers keep up with their scores and players right on the TV.

Update: Looking for the online only package for PCs and mobile devices from last year? It will become available September 1st, for the same $350 price as in 2010.
      

 

  		Show full PR text  DIRECTV's Playbook Includes New Options For Its Exclusive NFL SUNDAY TICKET™ Service 		Popular Sports Subscription Service Available On More Portable Devices; Fans to have On-Screen access to NFL.com Fantasy Football TV App; New Mix Channel to Debut 		EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- With the NFL season just weeks away from kickoff, DIRECTV is making its exclusive NFL SUNDAY TICKET™ service available to even more fans and has added new features to its most popular sports subscription package that will make the experience of being able to watch every out-of-market game every Sunday better than ever. 		DIRECTV customers in the U.S. will continue to enjoy live streaming games with NFL SUNDAY TICKET To-Go on more mobile platforms including for the first time, Motorola's XOOM and Samsung Galaxy tablets; Motorola's Android phones; the iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Blackberry devices with 3G or wifi, Palm Pre/Pixi, and other Droid-branded phones. 		New this year, both current DIRECTV NFL SUNDAY TICKET customers and fans who can't get DIRECTV will have the option of watching their favorite team play every Sunday on TV through the PlayStation® 3 computer entertainment system. 		Also new this year, DIRECTV is partnering with NFL.com to launch an NFL.com Fantasy Football TV app that will allow NFL.com fantasy players with connected set-top boxes the unprecedented opportunity to view their NFL.com Fantasy Football teams and scores directly on their TV screen while watching every game every Sunday afternoon on DIRECTV. 		Fans can view their fantasy lineups and review their head-to-head fantasy scores - all on their TV screen. And by selecting an on-screen "Watch Now" icon assigned to their fantasy player, the viewer can jump to that player's game in progress. 		Also this season, fans can tune to a new Mix Channel format for late afternoon games. DIRECTV will continue to display its innovative eight-channel Mix when there is a full schedule of Sunday games, but when there are four or fewer games in the afternoon TV window, DIRECTV will display a new four-channel mix featuring larger video cells for enhanced viewing. For more information on NFL SUNDAY TICKET visit www.directv.com/nfl. 		"We are constantly looking at new ways to enhance the NFL viewing experience and create more value for the loyal fans who continue to make this our most popular and dynamic sports subscription service," said Tony Goncalves, senior vice president, Product Management for DIRECTV. "With the growth in mobile and connected consumer electronics devices, we believe it makes sense to enable viewers to watch their favorite team on more of those devices, like gaming consoles, whose users include legions of NFL fans." 		With NFL SUNDAY TICKET To-Go, fans will be able to watch their favorite team's out-of-market games every Sunday, no matter where they are. The browser service is available through directv.com, and is compatible with PC and Mac computers. In addition to live streaming video of up to 14 NFL SUNDAY TICKET games every Sunday, the broadband service will also offer DIRECTV's RED ZONE CHANNEL®, game highlights and detailed stats. 		About DIRECTV: 		DIRECTV (NASDAQ: DTV) is one of the world's leading providers of digital television entertainment services delivering a premium video experience through state-of-the-art technology, unmatched programming and industry leading customer service to more than 30 million customers in the U.S. and Latin America. In the U.S., DIRECTV offers its 19.4 million customers access to more than 170 HD channels and Dolby-Digital® 5.1 theater-quality sound, access to exclusive sports programming such as NFL SUNDAY TICKET™, Emmy-award winning technology and higher customer satisfaction than the leading cable companies for ten years running. DIRECTV Latin America, through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia, and other Latin American countries, leads the pay-TV category in technology, programming and service, delivering an unrivaled digital television experience to more than 10.6 million customers. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three Regional Sports Networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 60 percent interest in Game Show Network. For the most up-to-date information on DIRECTV, please visit www.directv.com. 		Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6833684&lang=en
 