
 
This is the last summer for Discovery HD Theater as it will be replaced by Velocity starting September 25th. The new channel focuses on reaching an "upscale male audience" that digs shows like Cafe Racer, Inside West Coast Customs and Mecum Auto Auctions while still promising to keep up HD Theater's rep for high quality production and picture quality. We're sad to see HD Theater fall by the wayside -- Sunrise Earth, never forget -- but if this means we can get a few new episodes of Rides it may not be a bad thing after all. On the other hand, we also remember how well this exact plan failed to save INHD / Mojo years ago. Check out a trailer (that's unfortunately low-res but is the best we could do) and press release for the new network after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textDISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INTRODUCES VELOCITY-A TURBOCHARGED NETWORK FOR AN UPSCALE MALE AUDIENCEComing in Late 2011, Velocity Upgrades HD Theater's Car Programming With Diverse New Original Series and SpecialsApril 14, 2011(Silver Spring, Md.)-Discovery Communications today announced plans to rename its HD Theater cable network to Velocity, effective fourth quarter 2011. The all-HD network will be available in approximately 40 million homes at the time of its introduction, and will be found at the channel location currently occupied by HD Theater.Velocity, an upscale male lifestyle network, will feature more than 400 premiere hours of new and returning series and specials showcasing the best of the automotive, sports and leisure, adventure, and travel genres. Hit series currently on HD Theater; including INSIDE WEST COAST CUSTOMS, MECUM AUTO AUCTIONS, CAFÉ RACER and CHASING CLASSIC CARS, will be pillars of the Velocity primetime lineup. By offering world-class production values and picture quality, Velocity will continue HD Theater's reputation for stunning visuals, established when it became the first-ever all-HD network in 2002."Velocity continues Discovery's tradition of maximizing the value of each of its cable platforms. It is going to be a game changer when it officially joins our portfolio of U.S. networks later this year," said David Zaslav, President and CEO of Discovery Communications. "As the first network devoted to the upscale men's market, Velocity will be a hub for viewers within this key demographic, as well as the wealth of advertisers that target them."Velocity's programming will be character-driven, dramatic and engaging. From multimillion-dollar auctions and incredible auto makeovers to high-stakes gaming and insider guides to "the good life," Velocity will touch on all the subjects that appeal to the upscale man. The on-air look and feel of Velocity will be both timeless and timely, from its neoclassic logo and graphics package to its prominent usage of rock and roll music. "In the same way that a car once defined the person who drove it, Velocity will define the viewer who watches it," said Robert S. Scanlon, Senior Vice President of Velocity. "Whether you are a car aficionado or just someone who prefers fast-paced, high-stakes television, Velocity will become a must-have entertainment destination."For more information on Velocity, please visit DiscoveryCommunications.com or facebook.com/velocitytv or on Twitter @VelocityTV1About Velocity:Velocity, a division of Discovery Communications, Inc. (Nasdaq: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK), is the upscale men's cable network that provides high-octane programming for its viewers. Velocity Network programming is diverse, intelligent and engaging, with series geared toward events, with live auctions and world rally championships, real-life adrenaline-pumping shows, and historical and biographical programming. Formerly HD Theater, the fully HD network is available in approximately 40 million homes. For more information on Velocity, please visit DiscoveryCommunications.com.About Discovery Communications:Discovery Communications (Nasdaq: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) is the world's number one nonfiction media company, reaching more than 1.5 billion cumulative subscribers in over 180 countries. Discovery empowers people to explore their world and satisfy their curiosity through 100-plus worldwide networks, led by Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel, Investigation Discovery, Planet Green and HD Theater, as well as leading consumer and educational products and services, and a diversified portfolio of digital media services, including HowStuffWorks.com. For more information, please visit www.discoverycommunications.com.
 