
  We're still not sure what inspired Dish Network to choose a kangaroo theme for its new multiroom DVR setup -- going as far as bringing out a live baby 'roo during its CES 2012 unveiling -- but if there's room in your home and heart for the Hopper (XiP813) and Joey (XiP110) boxes, they're available now. As we saw in our hands-on in January, they have a UI similar to the previous 922 boxes, with a few new screens added for new features and icon-based tile navigation. The Hopper DVR itself packs a 2TB drive which is put to use by PrimeTime Anytime, a feature that records three hours of network programming every night (using only one of its three tuners, thanks to the magic of satellite transponders) and stores them for eight days, just in case you missed something. The Joey multiroom extender boxes bring the video to other spots in the house and can be wired up over the existing coax thanks to MoCA technology. The price for all of this is a whole home DVR fee of $10 per month for the Hopper, and $7 per month for each Joey, while subscribers on the America's Top 200 plan or higher can get a free installation with up to three extenders. The folks over at SatelliteGuys.us got some early hands-on time and have posted detailed impressions, hit the link below for those or check out the press release and our CES video demo after the break. Oh, and the Exede-powered satellite broadband package that was announced at CES? We're hearing that's still on the slate for this summer, although the potential LTE portion may have to wait a while.[Thanks, Mr. Brightside]
      

 

   Show full PR text  Hopper Whole-Home HD DVR System Now Available From DISH ENGLEWOOD, CO--(Marketwire - Mar 15, 2012) - (NASDAQ: DISH) -- DISH Network L.L.C., the nation's third largest pay TV provider, announced today the availability of the Hopper™, the fastest, most powerful, technically advanced whole-home high definition DVR entertainment system.  The Hopper was first introduced at the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show where it was awarded the Popular Mechanics "Editors' Choice" Award, recognized as a finalist by CNET, and honored with a CES Innovations 2012 Design and Engineering Award.  The Hopper system lets viewers share DVR content on TVs throughout the home. Customers can pause, play and rewind both live and recorded HD programs in up to four rooms using a Hopper and small units called "Joeys™" that work in tandem with the main Hopper unit.  Other Hopper highlights include the following:  Two-terabyte hard drive for up to 2,000 hours of entertainment PrimeTime Anytime™ - customers, with a single click, can enable recordings of four primetime HD network channels, where available, and store them for up to eight days Record up to six HD shows at once during primetime hours Ability to watch HD programs and control the DVR in up to four rooms The Hopper system is available through the DISH lease program. New DISH customers who subscribe to DISH's America's Top 200 or DishLATINO Dos programming packages or greater can receive one Hopper and up to three Joey units for free, including a standard professional installation. The Hopper system requires a whole-home DVR fee of $10 per month and $7 per month for each Joey.  "Whether watching your favorite primetime network show or the men's college basketball championship games, there's no better way to enjoy TV than 'jumping' from room to room using the award-winning Hopper and Joey," said DISH Network CEO Joe Clayton. "The Hopper, named after DISH's new kangaroo mascot, delivers network TV shows on demand and thousands of movie choices streaming or delivered to the hard drive; it's a slam dunk in providing the most entertainment options for the entire family."  DISH is promoting the Hopper through national TV advertising starting today. Visit here or www.youtube.com/dish to watch a TV spot.  New Must-have Feature -- PrimeTime Anytime™  The Hopper's unparalleled feature, called PrimeTime Anytime, allows customers, with a single click, to enable recordings -- using a single tuner -- of all primetime TV shows on ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC. PrimeTime Anytime records three hours of network programming in high definition, where available, every night from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. ET Monday through Saturday and from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. ET on Sunday. The Hopper stores the primetime programs for eight days after they have aired. This creates an on-demand library of approximately 100 hours of primetime TV shows, making it easy to catch up on missed episodes.  For Internet-connected customers, The Hopper's on-demand capabilities give access to DISH's Blockbuster @Home™ for $10 per month, providing thousands of movies and TV shows streaming to the TV.  The Ultimate TV Everywhere Experience  The Hopper offers the ultimate TV Everywhere experience. Customers can manage their Hopper's DVR and timers via the Internet at www.dishonline.com or from the DISH Remote Access app available for tablets, smartphones and computers. Connecting the Hopper with the DISH Sling® Adapter provides customers the ability to watch and control all live TV channels and their DVR from their tablet, smartphone and computer wherever they go.  For more information about the award-winning Hopper and Joey by DISH, including technical specifications, please visit www.dish.com/hopper.
 