
 A new DVR with a never-before-seen feature doesn't come around every day, and if it's the sort of amenity that works in every room of the house, without compromise, then we just have to review it. What would make the list? Try the Dish Hopper whole-home DVR, which can record six shows at once. Of course, there are specs and marketing claims, and then there's real-world performance. Is this set-top box everything we could have dreamed of? There's only one way to find out: you'll have to meet us past the break and take a walk through our full review.




 Standard DVR disclaimer Any time we write a DVR review we have to remind ourselves that the world we live in doesn't afford most people the luxury of choosing a DVR. What we mean is that usually DVRs and their software are tied to specific providers, and thus aren't available to everyone. So our questions in a DVR review are two-fold: would we switch to a provider who offered this DVR? And how does it compare to third-party options like Windows Media Center or TiVo?

 Hardware 
 The Hopper is a good-looking and solidly built box, with just about every input and output on the back you'd expect on a DVR. Only a single coax input is required from the satellite, and there's an eSATA port for adding external storage to complement the 2TB of built-in space (half of which is for your use). As it happens, that internal drive can also be used to transfer recordings from your old Dish DVR. There are both HDMI and component HD outputs here, as well as the old-school red, white and yellow for the Luddites. For whatever reason, the designers stuck two Ethernet jacks on here. Finally, as with most DVRs, the power supply is internal.

 Overall, the Hopper is exactly what you'd expect a DVR to be: about the same size and weight, and adorned with a glossy finish that will easily blend into your home theater setup. On one end there's a USB port (with two more 'round back) and on the other is a door, behind which you'll find a smart card slot and a few essential buttons like power and reset. Finally, two LEDs sit in the center to indicate when the box is on or if it's recording. Thankfully, neither of these is distracting or crazy bright. There are still a few hardware features yet to be explored, like Bluetooth for headphones and Zigbee for remote control (currently that feature only works with the included remote). There's an IR input for legacy programmable remotes, but no HDMI-CEC to simplify setup or IP control to integrate with home automation controllers. The other hardware feature coming soon is an optional over-the-air tuner, which we consider a requirement for anyone who watches PBS (Dish doesn't carry PBS HD in all markets, don'tcha know).

 
 The little multi-room client, known as the Joey, is just what you'd want in a streamer: compact, lightweight and replete with various mounting options. Its small removable base has holes perfect for wall-mounting or to wire tie it to the back of an HDTV. The base can be attached to the Joey vertically or horizontally, and can be attached after the mount has been fastened to make the installation easier. The outputs are much more sparse than on the Hopper, but while component HD outputs are missing, optical audio, HDMI and Ethernet are all there. Unlike the Hopper, the Joey has a wall-wart power supply. The coax is used to stream content from the Hopper for multi-room viewing, but an Ethernet connection to your network is still required for things like DLNA, some video on demand services and interacting with the smartphone and tablet app remotes. If you can't connect the Ethernet, you can buy the optional Hopper Internet Connector to bridge the IP between MoCA to Ethernet since the Hopper can't do it; standard MoCA bridges aren't compatible. One last feature worth mentioning is SRS TruVolume (also offered on the Hopper), which helps spare you the pain of loud commercials.



