
 
We heard way back in May of last year that DISH Network's next major wave of DVRs would have hints of Sling all over. Guess that played out alright, huh? The company has just announced its first SlingLoaded DVR, the ViP 922 HD DuoDVR. For those still scratching their heads, here's the skinny: this is the industry's first high-definition digital video recorder that incorporates placeshifting technology. The device packs five video sources including satellite, broadband and optional OTA tuners, and the 1TB HDD can hold up to 1,000 hours of content before tapping into external drive space. The box comes bundled with an innovative touchpad remote, and it can be controlled using the all new SlingGuide, which enables users to control their TV viewing experience over the web. No word on a price or release date, but boy, it'll be hard to resist regardless. The full release for both the DVR and the SlingGuide are just after the break.





DISH NETWORK® INTRODUCES WORLD'S FIRST "SLINGLOADED" HD DVR AT 2009 CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW  New 1 Terabyte High Definition DVR with Integrated Slingbox, Touchpad Remote Control and Tile-based User Interface  Las Vegas, Nev., Jan. 8, 2009 – DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH), the nation's third largest pay-TV provider and the digital transition leader, today unveiled the world's first  SlingLoaded™ HD DuoDVR™, the award-winning ViP® 922. The ViP® 922 is the first high definition digital video recorder that incorporates placeshifting technology.   The ViP® 922 was built by EchoStar Technologies L.L.C., a wholly-owned subsidiary of EchoStar Corporation (NASDAQ: SATS), and developed for DISH Network as an entertainment centerpiece that – combined with the only 1080p Video on Demand and 100 percent, all-HD suite of programming packages available today – will revolutionize the way consumers watch and enjoy their favorite programming. DISH Network will offer the ViP® 922 to customers in Spring 2009.  "DISH Network is pleased to add another award-winning product to our suite of MPEG-4 HD DVR ViP receivers: a groundbreaking set top box that offers consumers the true experience of TV everywhere," said DISH Network Chairman, CEO and President Charlie Ergen. "By integrating Sling Media's Slingbox technology into our industry-leading HD DVR, DISH Network is providing even more ways for our subscribers to view their TV programming – through their television sets, their desktops at home, their laptops on the road, and their smartphones including Blackberrys, iPhones and more."  The ViP® 922 allows TV enthusiasts to watch and control their favorite TV shows and sporting events from anywhere in the world via a broadband Internet connection on their laptop or mobile phone. With five video sources, including satellite, broadband and optional over-the-air tuners, viewers will never run out of shows to watch. The ViP® 922 also features a multi-tuner DVR with up to 1,000 hours of recording time and supports connecting external hard drives for even more storage capacity.  An innovative touchpad remote control accompanies the ViP® 922, which eliminates half the buttons of a standard remote control and provides cursor-like navigation on a TV screen. With a slide of the thumb, viewers experience scroll-over activation of the new user interface: on-screen widget-like tiles and pop-up menus. All features are selectable by an underside index finger trigger selection on the radio frequency-controlled remote, which offers two-way learning of codes from other AV equipment remote controls.  The ViP® 922 can also be controlled using SlingGuide™, a new way for consumers to control their TV viewing experience over the Internet. SlingGuide features a powerful search engine for the TV along with the ability to schedule the ViP® 922 DVR timers remotely.  Other ViP® 922 features include: ∑ News feeds located on the home screen, giving viewers instant access to national news, weather, sports, and stock quotes. ∑ Ability to organize channels by channel name or number. ∑ 1080p, 1080i, 720p, 480i and 480p support. ∑ Internet-delivered DISH On Demand including 1080p content. ∑ Ability to move one day in the guide while browsing full screen EPG or partial EPG. ∑ Connections to home networks via Ethernet, HomePlug Turbo (the next generation of HomePlug that allows for faster in-home transfer of content using home power lines), or WiFi (with optional WiFi adapter). ∑ Powerful search capability across all available video sources, including IP, VOD, satellite or DVR. ∑ Intuitive timer creation and DVR management, allowing users to categorize programming by groups (video source, title, genres) or by content description (date, length, ratings and more). ∑ Ability to load photos, MP3s and selected Internet content. ∑ Future upgrades such as photo sharing, movie ticket purchases, family calendars, instant messaging, streaming audio, and the ability to transfer content within a home network.  EchoStar's new user interface and remote control for the ViP® 922 were selected as CES Innovations 2009 Design and Engineering Award honorees. Demonstrations of the ViP® 922 will be available at DISH Network's Booth No. 14438, located in the Central Hall at the Las Vegas Convention Center, Jan. 8-11. For more information about DISH Network, visit www.dishnetwork.com or call 1-800-333-DISH (3474).  Sling Media introduces SlingGuide: Redefining Search and Discovery for Satellite, Cable and Terrestrial Broadcast Programming  With powerful browse and search to add recordings, smart DVR space management and complete recording priority control, SlingGuide unlocks the power of your DVR from anywhere – on your PC, Mac or iPhone.   Las Vegas - International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) - January 8, 2008 - Sling Media, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of EchoStar Corporation (NASDAQ: SATS), today introduced SlingGuide, a new web-based way to easily find, watch and record your favorite television programming from anywhere. SlingGuide allows consumers to browse, search and record programs on their DVR from any PC, Macintosh or compatible mobile phone. In addition, if the DVR is SlingLoaded™ or has a Slingbox™ connected to it, consumers can also watch live or recorded programs off their DVR through a web-based version of the SlingPlayer software that is integrated into SlingGuide. SlingGuide will be available first to DISH Network subscribers when it launches in spring of 2009. For more information, go to http://www.slingmedia.com/go/slingguide.  "SlingGuide revolutionizes the way we search and discover traditional TV programming from satellite, cable and terrestrial broadcasts," said Blake Krikorian, co-founder and CEO of Sling Media. "As avid couch potatoes, we were frustrated with the existing methods for finding what to watch and record from our satellite and cable TV sources. Meanwhile, for the much larger universe of Internet-based content, we were able to enjoy amazingly quick, easy and precise search tools. 'What regional sports station is that ball game on? Why does it take me so many steps to set a recording for a show on next week?' In other words, why can't I simply 'Google' my TV? SlingGuide, our answer to this frustration, makes it easy for you to find, watch and record the programming that matters most – from anywhere."   For DISH Network customers with select DVRs, SlingGuide will provide a personal, integrated and centralized view of everything you want to watch or record on DISH Network including programming from hundreds of channels, thousands of programming choices, and even internet video from Sling.com.  The following is a list of DISH Network DVRS that are expected to be compatible with SlingGuide at launch.*  HD DuoDVRTM SlingLoadedTM ViP® 922 (Just Announced) DuoDVR™ ViP® 722k  DuoDVR™ ViP® 722  DuoDVR™ ViP® 622   *Receivers require a broadband network connection to use SlingGuide.  Beyond the Grid Current program guides on your TV can limit a consumer's view of what is really available to watch at present and in the future. For that reason, consumers watch only a handful of channels or programs at most. SlingGuide's powerful search technology makes it easy to watch and discover new programming you may never have known existed using the power of your PC, Mac or mobile phone. With SlingGuide you can search for shows by title, genre, network, keyword or actor.   A Better Remote Control Using the web browser on an iPhone or iPod Touch, DISH Network customers can put the power of SlingGuide in the palm of their hand. Sitting in front of the TV, SlingGuide turns your iPhone or iPod Touch into an intelligent remote control capable of quickly browsing and searching the program guide, scheduling and managing DVR recordings, and more. SlingGuide on the iPhone or iPod Touch works with the DISH Network DVR to do this all in the background without disturbing the television picture displayed on the TV.  SlingLoaded or Slingbox-Enabled While a Slingbox is not required to enjoy SlingGuide, those customers who have a Slingbox connected to one of the supported DISH Network DVRs or are lucky enough to be one of the first to enjoy the DISH Network HD DuoDVRTM SlingLoadedTM ViP® 922, SlingGuide also gives you the ability to watch live TV or DVR recordings on your PC, Mac or compatible mobile phone, around the home or around the world.  SlingGuide Features at a Glance ∑ Personalized, integrated view of everything you want to watch or record in a simple visual interface on your PC, Mac or iPhone/iPod Touch ∑ All the features of your DVR's remote control plus the seamless ability to browse, record or watch from anywhere. ∑ Watch your shows anywhere (with a SlingLoaded DVR or Slingbox attached) ∑ Discover new programming you never knew you had ∑ Easy, comprehensive search instead of your old remote control ∑ One click to record  ∑ Search and record shows from your iPhone or iPod Touch ∑ Integration with Sling.com for clips, trailers, etc. of your favorite shows  Pricing and Availability SlingGuide will be free to DISH Network subscribers who have a network-connected, compatible DVR. Sling Media will make SlingGuide available to DISH Network customers in spring of 2009. A limited beta of SlingGuide is already under way. For an opportunity to participate in the beta program, go to www.slingmedia.com/slingguide.   About Sling Media Sling Media, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of EchoStar Corporation (NASDAQ: SATS), is a leading digital lifestyle company offering consumer services and products that are a natural extension of today's digital way of life. Sling Media's product family includes the internationally acclaimed, Emmy award-winning Slingbox™ that allows consumers to watch and control their living room television shows at any time, from any location, using PCs, Macs, PDAs and smartphones and the revolutionary new SlingCatcher™, a universal media player that seamlessly delivers broadcast TV, Internet video and personal content to the TV. Sling Media is also the company behind the video entertainment web site, Sling.com, offering consumers a wide variety of popular TV shows, movies and other entertainment free for viewing online or on the TV using SlingCatcher. For more information on Sling Media, the Slingbox or the SlingCatcher, visit www.slingmedia.com. To watch your favorite TV shows and movies, check out www.sling.com.
 