
 

At its "a stream come true" event today, Dish Network finally revealed its plans for a subscription video service called Blockbuster Movie Pass, due to launch October 1st. That includes access to discs (movies and games) by mail, streaming video to the TV and PC, and linear TV service from Dish, all in one package. Blockbuster Movie Pass is clearly being pitched a Netflix / Qwikster competitor, however it's currently only available to Dish Network subscribers for $10 / month. That tie to pay-TV makes it a TV Everywhere play pulling Dish's various properties under one umbrella, but doesn't significantly shift the online video landscape. New subscribers to the America's Best 200 package will get free access to a year, while those schlubs stuck on cable or without pay-TV service can simply look on with envy. The last slide shown does invite non-Dish subscribers to "stay tuned," so if you're really looking for a Netflix alternative... stay tuned. Check the gallery to see the slides for yourself, well update with more press materials once they're available -- now included with all the details after the break.

Update: The new page is accessible right now (Thanks Alex!) as seen in the screenshot above. It features all you can eat access to streaming movies and a few TV shows culled from Starz (as rumored), Epix, Sony Movie Channel, Hallmark and Blockbuster's own VOD library. We're sure the folks at Netflix are absolutely crying their eyes out over losing access to some of Cuba Gooding Jr.'s finest flicks like Ticking Clock and The Hit List (Toy Story 3 however, could be a real loss). Check below for the link, as well as another one to sign up for the service now.






 		Show full PR text 		Sep 23, 2011 13:54 ET DISH Network Introduces Blockbuster Movie Pass, Featuring First Subscription Streaming Movie Service Bundle in Pay TV Industry 		First Year of Blockbuster Movie Pass Included with DISH Network Subscription 		ENGLEWOOD, Colo., Sept. 23, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- DISH Network L.L.C. and Blockbuster L.L.C. announced today Blockbuster Movie Pass, the most comprehensive TV entertainment programming package ever delivered by a multichannel pay TV provider. 		Beginning Oct. 1, 2011, Blockbuster Movie Pass is available for DISH Network customers, starting at $10 per month, combining the best of TV with the best of movies and games. It features a pay TV industry first: a subscription streaming movie service bundle available on the TV or PC. This programming package is unmatched by any other cable, satellite, telco or online streaming movie service. 		Blockbuster Movie Pass includes the following: 		Mail It! – More than 100,000 DVD movies, TV shows and games available by mail. No additional charge for high definition Blu-ray™ movies. One, two or three disc plans available. Queue management made conveniently from a link at www.dish.com.		Stream it! – Stream more than 3,000 movies to the TV. Stream more than 4,000 movies to the PC. Watch hundreds of on-demand TV shows.		Play it! – More than 3,000 video games by mail for XBOX®, XBOX 360®, Playstation2™, Playstation3™, and Nintendo Wii™.		Exchange it! – Unlimited exchanges of DVDs and video games at participating Blockbuster stores.		Watch it! – More than 20 premium entertainment movie channels from studios like MGM, Epix, Sony Movie Channel, PixL and more. 		"With millions of Internet-enabled DISH Network set-top boxes deployed in U.S. homes and our ability to offer services from the iconic Blockbuster brand, we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of the myriad of ways consumers seek access to their favorite movies, TV shows or games," said Joe Clayton, CEO of DISH Network. "When you combine Blockbuster Movie Pass with a DISH Network subscription, you get endless entertainment options and convenient access to the content you want, when you want it. And unlike other companies, we offer the simplicity of one company, one bill and one connection." 		From Oct. 1 through Jan. 31, 2012, DISH Network is offering new customers Blockbuster Movie Pass included with their DISH Network subscription for one year when they subscribe to DISH Network's America's Top 200 programming package or greater and commit to 24 months of DISH Network service. This is up to $360 in savings. 		Blockbuster Movie Pass is also included for three months for new DISH Network customers who subscribe to America's Top 120 programming package. After the promotional period, Blockbuster Movie Pass starts at just $10 per month. Access to the subscription streaming movie service requires a DISH Network HD DVR. 		"We've created a package that combines the best assets of the movie entertainment and video gaming industries with the convenience and integration provided by a multichannel video provider," said Michael Kelly, president of Blockbuster. "Blockbuster Movie Pass is the ultimate programming package for every movie buff. The combination of DVDs by mail and unlimited in-store exchanges provides more than 100 million people living near Blockbuster stores, which are open 7 days a week, immediate satisfaction and unmatched choice." 		Visit www.ustream.tv/dishnetwork to watch a replay of the webcast of the press conference announcing the Blockbuster Movie Pass on Sept. 23, 2011. 		Visit http://press.dishnetwork.com for fact sheets, images, b-roll and video. 		About Blockbuster 		Blockbuster L.L.C., a subsidiary of DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH), is a leading global provider of movie and game rentals and is synonymous with family entertainment. The company provides customers with convenient access to media entertainment anywhere, any way – whether in-store, by-mail, or digitally to homes and mobile devices. With a highly recognized brand and a library of more than 100,000 movies, TV shows and game titles, Blockbuster's multichannel presence serves millions of customers around the world annually. Visit www.blockbuster.com. 		About DISH Network 		DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH), through its subsidiary DISH Network L.L.C., provides more than 14.056 million satellite TV customers, as of June 30, 2011, with the highest quality programming and technology with the most choices at the best value, including HD Free for Life. Subscribers enjoy the largest high definition line-up with more than 200 national HD channels, the most international channels, and award-winning HD and DVR technology. DISH Network's subsidiary, Blockbuster L.L.C., delivers family entertainment to millions of customers around the world. DISH Network Corporation is a Fortune 200 company. Visit www.dish.com. 		SOURCE DISH Network L.L.C.  Live broadcasting by Ustream
 