
 
We saw it at CES 2009 -- and then we waited. And waited. And finally last month Dish's SlingLoaded DVR made it to the FCC. And now? We've just received word that the ViP922 should be hitting Dish Network retailers April 7 (like, tomorrow). The long-awaited device carries an MSRP of $649, although existing customers who want to work it into their lease can expect to pay closer to the $200 - $400 range. Unless, of course, you live in Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, or the US Virgin Islands -- in which case you'll have to do without altogether. That what the Dish Network calls "tough love." We'll let you know if the company changes its mind. PR after the break.
 

Show full PR textDish Network to release Slingloaded 922 TomorrowWe are excited to announce that the ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR receiver (the model ViP922), is planned to be available April 7, 2010! The ViP922 receiver will allow for a high-definition ("HD"), DVR solution for a single TV. With the model ViP922 receivers, customers can enjoy simultaneous, uninterrupted and independent TV viewing between the primary TV in the house and remote viewing on a mobile device or laptop.This next generation receiver offers the latest top-of-the-line features, including a sleek new user interface and integrated Sling™ capabilities that make it possible to enjoy TV Everywhere™! Combined with 1080p Video on Demand and stunning DISH Network HD programming, the model ViP922 receiver revolutionizes the way customers watch and enjoy their favorite programming! For more information on the model ViP922 receiver, including pricing and features, please continue reading below.ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR Receiver• Dual-tuner, one-TV receiver • Integrated SlingLoaded™ technology• SD and HD output on TV1 • 1 terabyte (TB) hard drive• Universal 32.0 UHF-2G configurable 4-componentremote control• Capacitive-touch front panel controlsAdvanced New User InterfaceThe model ViP922 receiver features a graphics-rich user interface that isboth stylish and functional. Exciting new features include:• Colorful and distinctive tile-based menus (see left) make it easy forusers to find what you are looking for with the click of a button.• Easily navigate the programming guide, DVR and TV-viewingoptions.• Quickly find your favorite channels with network logos and viewposter art for movies and TV shows.• Home Media allows users to access supported media, includingpictures and music, from equipment on their home network (excludesstreaming video).Sling Media Placeshifting Technology for TV Everywhere Customers can watch and control programming from their model ViP922 receiver on their laptop, desktop computer, or on compatible mobile devices using a high-speed broadband Internet connection. They can take their DISH Network TV service with them almost anywhere – from the backyard to across the globe!Using DISH Remote Access on their computer or SlingPlayer Mobile on compatible mobile devices, customers with a model ViP922 receiver can:• Watch live or recorded television programming withremote-viewing compatible mobile devices and PCs, andno need to purchase a SlingBox• Access their DVR's My Recordings list• Schedule DVR timersCompatible Mobile Devices – In order to view TV from the model ViP922 receiver on a compatible mobile device, customers must access their DISH Network online account at www.dishnetwork.com. Next, select the "DISH Remote Access" link, then click "Go Mobile." Once customers verify they have a compatible mobile device, they can follow the on-screen setup instructions.• For the full list of compatible mobile devices, please refer to the set up instructions under the "Go Mobile" link.• The SlingPlayer App for the iPhone™ and iPod touch® is available for download from the iTunes App Store.More Features of the ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR ReceiverThere are even more great features available on the model ViP922, the receiver that won CNET's "Best of CES 2009" in the Home Video category, including:• The largest hard drive in the industry: a dual-tuner, one terabyte (TB) DVR with up to 1,000 hours of recoding time(please note that this includes VOD content and therefore is not the total recording hours that are available for use by the customer);• Powerful search capabilities, including the ability to quickly search thousands of listings across the Program Guide, DVR and DISH On Demand with predictive search; search by program title, description or actor; and view search results as a standard list or easy-to-read graphical layout.• Outputs in 1080p, 1080i, 720p, 480p and 480i resolutions;• Supports Picture-in-Picture (PIP) in Solo mode;• DISH On Demand (VOD) and DishONLINE (IPVOD) compatible;• Intuitive timer creation and DVR management allows users to categorize programming by groups (video source, title,themes) or by content description (date, length, ratings and more); and• Like the model ViP 722k and ViP 222k receivers, the model ViP922 receiver does not include a built-in over-the-air (OTA) tuner, giving customers the option to purchase an MT2 OTA Module accessory (Part #162303; MSRP $29.99) if they wish to receive digital over-the-air broadcasts.Pricing and AvailabilityThe model ViP922 receiver will be available for both new and existing residential and commercial Public/Private customers beginning on April 7, 2010.• Not Available in Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico or U.S. Virgin Islands – Please note that at this time, the model ViP922 receiver is NOT available for activation in Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands. Please stay tuned for more information regarding the availability of the model ViP922 receiver in these areas in the future.MSRP: $649Existing Customer lease cost $200 - $400ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR Receiver Monthly Fees – Effective April 7, 2010The following monthly fees may apply to accounts with a model ViP922 receiver:• $10 DVR Service Fee – Charged in place of the standard $6 per month DVR Service fee.• $17 Additional ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR Receiver Fee – Applicable only if the model ViP922 receiver is in the secondary position on the customer's account.o Please note that although the model ViP922 receiver is a single TV solution, the amount of the Additional Receiver fee for the model ViP922 receiver is different from other single-TV HD DVR models because of the several value-added features available on the model ViP922 receiver that are not available on other current DISH receiversMore Information on Installing a ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR ReceiverPlease see below for specific installation considerations that will be applicable to customer accounts with a model ViP922receiver.• ViP922 SlingLoaded DVR Part Number #176646• Only One Leased Model ViP922 Receiver Allowed Per Account – Customers will be permitted to have only one (1) leased model ViP922 receiver on their account. Customers may purchase additional model ViP922 receivers at MSRP if they wish.• Broadband Internet Connectivity Required – To enable full functionality of the advanced features of the model ViP922 receiver, a high-speed broadband Internet connection via direct Ethernet or SlingLink is required.o SlingLink is the New Name for HomePlug Turbo – Please note that we recently changed the name of the HomePlug Turbo connectivity device to "SlingLink." SlingLink uses the power lines in the customer's home to connect equipment, such as satellite receivers, to the broadband home network, and eliminates the need to run new Ethernet cables.• Solo Mode by Default – The model ViP922 receiver is a single-TV solution, and therefore will remain in single user mode by default. The receiver will only go into Duo mode when remote viewing is in session. Once the remote viewing session has ended, the receiver will return to Solo mode. Please note that the MODE button on the front of the receiver will not be enabled and installation of the TV2 physical outputs of the receiver is not supported.
 