
 
Dish Network took another step towards its ambitious TV Everywhere plans -- not to be confused with Comcast's and Time Warner's TV Everywhere partnership -- by releasing the Android version of its Dish remote access app late last week. This nicely completes the provider's suite of mobile offerings, which have already been available on the iPhone, iPad and certain BlackBerry phones. The catch is that to take advantage of the app, Android users must own a Sling-enabled Dish device like the ViP 722 / 722k HD DVRs or the recently released Sling adapter. With the necessary hardware though, the app turns smartphones into a control freak's best friend, working as a remote control, a DVR manager, and a Sling-powered media streamer to view recorded or live programming over Wi-Fi or 3G. That's a pretty nifty feature set considering it costs a lovely low price of free, and it's certainly more robust than mobile offerings from Comcast, Time Warner, or DirecTV. In other words, when it comes to getting the most from your paid TV service while on the go, it appears the underdog satellite company can certainly dish it out.
 

Show full PR textDISH Network Introduces America's First True TV Everywhere OfferingNewly-Introduced Sling Adapter Allows Live TV Viewing on iPhone®, iPad™, Android™ and BlackBerry® DevicesNovember 18, 2010ENGLEWOOD, Colo., Nov. 18, 2010 /PRNewswire/ -- DISH Network L.L.C. today became the first pay-TV provider in America to introduce a true TV Everywhere™ offering, giving DISH Network subscribers the ability to watch all of their live and recorded television programs on compatible smartphones, tablets and laptops. DISH Network subscribers can access these features when they download and use the DISH Remote Access application in concert with their broadband-connected, Sling®-enabled receiver.(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101118/LA04649)(Photo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20101118/LA04649)"DISH Network is proud to be the first pay-TV provider to bring our customers the ability to enjoy their TV anywhere, anytime on a variety of popular devices," said DISH Network Chief Marketing Officer Ira Bahr. "Unlike mobile viewing from cable and telcos that limit access to select programs, our TV Everywhere services give consumers 24 x 7 access to all of the live and recorded content included with their DISH Network programming subscription."Introducing Sling AdapterTo enjoy the live viewing capability of DISH Remote Access, consumers need to be DISH Network subscribers and have a Sling-enabled device such as the newly-released Sling Adapter™ – a small placeshifting device that pairs with DISH Network's ViP® 722 or 722k HD DVRs. With a Sling Adapter, customers can then view their high-definition or standard-definition DISH Network programming, including live and recorded shows, on compatible mobile devices or laptops. The award-winning Sling Adapter is powered and operated through a USB connection, offering an easy, plug-and-play set-up without the need for any other wires or connectors. The Sling Adapter is available for $99 to new and current DISH Network customers.The DISH Remote Access app is free.Mobile Applications, Available TodayThe DISH Remote Access app provides the following features:* Enjoy live TV programming from all subscribed channels,* View all DVR recordings,* Manage recordings and delete shows,* Use a mobile device as a remote control. DISH Remote Access is powered by SlingPlayer Mobile™ technology for support of 3G and WiFi-enabled phones, laptops or tablets, including the following devices*:* iPhone® & iPod touch®: Watch your TV on your iPhone's Retina display. You can download the app now through the iTunes Store®.* iPad™ (TV viewing coming soon on iOS 4.2): Catch your favorite TV shows, live and in HD, on the iPad's crystal-clear 9.7 inch screen. The DISH Remote Access app is currently available through the iTunes Store and will soon be updated to provide full-screen TV viewing for the iPad. * Android™: DISH Network offers full support for the fastest-growing smartphone OS in the world. DISH Remote Access for Android devices is available for 4.3-inch display smartphones and tablets, and can be downloaded through the Android Market using your device.* Windows® & Mac® Computers: DISH Remote Access allows high-definition TV viewing on Windows and Mac systems. DISH Network subscribers can log in to DISH Remote Access at DISH Network's website to use the service.* BlackBerry®: DISH Remote Access means your BlackBerry is no longer just for business, unless your business is watching your TV anywhere and anytime. The beta app is available for Bold (Models 9700 & 9000) and Curve (Models 8520 & 8900) through the TV Everywhere section on DISH Network's website.*DISH Network will continue to expand its menu of compatible devices.For more information about the Sling Adapter, DISH Remote Access and other DISH Network TV Everywhere products, visit www.dish.com/tveverywhere.About DISH NetworkDISH Network Corporation (Nasdaq: DISH), through its subsidiary DISH Network L.L.C., provides more than 14.2 million satellite TV customers, as of September 30, 2010, with the highest quality programming and technology at the best value, including HD Free for Life. Subscribers enjoy industry-leading customer satisfaction, the largest high definition line-up with more than 200 national HD channels, the most international channels, and award-winning HD and DVR technology. DISH Network Corporation is included in the Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX) and is a Fortune 200 company. Visit www.dish.com.About Sling Media, Inc.Sling Media, Inc., an affiliate of EchoStar Technologies L.L.C., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of EchoStar Corporation (NASDAQ: SATS), is the leading provider of video placeshifting products and services for consumers and television service providers. Sling Media's product family includes the internationally acclaimed, Emmy award-winning Slingbox® that allows consumers to watch and control their living room television shows at any time, from any location, using PCs, Macs, PDAs and smartphones. For more information, visit www.slingmedia.com.SOURCE DISH Network L.L.C.For further information: Francie Bauer of DISH Network L.L.C., +1-720-514-5351, press@dish.com
 