
 
Congratulations Dish Network on announcing yourself as "the first and only satellite TV provider in America to offer this channel." Though DirecTV still has NFL Sunday ticket, if your taste run more towards Don Draper than Adrian Peterson, you won't get Mad Men in HD there, yet. Check for the new network on channel 130 in the America's Top 200 package of channels and higher, and let us know if Rubicon is worth watching -- going into these conspiracy stories blind can be tiring.
      

 

Show full PR textDISH NETWORK ADDS AMC HD TO INDUSTRY-LEADINGHD LINEUPFirst and Only Satellite TV Company to Offer AMC HDEnglewood, Colo. – Aug. 20, 2010 – DISH Network today announced the launch of AMC HD – becoming the first and only satellite TV provider in America to offer this channel to customers.AMC reigns as the only network in television history to ever win three consecutive Golden Globe awards for best dramatic series and the only basic cable network to win back-to-back Primetime Emmy awards for outstanding drama series. In addition to a diverse blend of critically-acclaimed original programming, AMC offers the most comprehensive library of popular films from every genre and decade."DISH Network continues to lead the way in offering the best collection of HD channels in the nation, and we are excited to now bring our customers the award-winning drama Mad Men in high definition on AMC HD," said Dave Shull, senior vice president of Programming for DISH Network."We're delighted that DISH subscribers can now watch their favorite films as well as AMC's critically-acclaimed original series, including Mad Men, Breaking Bad and Rubicon, all in HD," said AMC's President Charlie Collier. "DISH Network has a strong HD offering and we're excited to be joining their lineup."AMC HD is located on DISH Network Ch. 130 and is available free to customers who subscribe to America's Top 200 and above, as well as DishLATINO DOS with HD and higher.The leader in high definition programming, DISH Network offers the most national HD channels as well as local channels in high definition in 170 markets – more than any other TV company in America. For more information on DISH Network's HD programming as well as HD Free for Life, visit www.dish.com.###About DISH NetworkDISH Network L.L.C., a subsidiary of DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ:DISH), provides more than 14.3 million satellite TV customers, as of June 30, 2010, with the highest quality programming and technology at the best value, including HD Free for Life. Subscribers enjoy the most national HD channels, the most HD local coverage in the U.S., the most international channels, and award-winning HD and DVR technology including the ViP 922, the world's only DVR with built-in Sling functionality. DISH Network is first in Customer Satisfaction among all cable and satellite providers according to the 2010 American Customer Satisfaction Index survey results for the U.S. largest cable and satellite TV providers. DISH Network Corporation is included in the Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX) and is a Fortune 200 company. Visit www.dish.com.
 