
 Disney's got a huge stable of iconic characters already immortalized in plastic, but the company's looking to virtualize its lineup with today's announcement of crossplatform game / toy experience Disney Infinity. Like Activision megalith Skylanders, Disney Infinity pairs actual plastic figurines (enabled with NFC or something similar) with game consoles connected to a pad. The pad transmits those characters directly into the game, across any system the game is being played on. Unlike Skylanders, Disney Infinity's pad can apparently add up to three connections at once, allowing for character powerup additions and other in-game bonuses. The first characters available come from Pirates of the Caribbean, The Incredibles, and Monsters University (we spotted Jack Skellington and other biggies in the reveal trailer as well); Disney promises that users will also be able to create their own universes (virtually) inside the game, beyond just playing in themed environments. 20 characters are said to launch with the game when it arrives this June for Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, Wii U, 3DS, PC, and mobile. Take a look at the announcement trailer just below.



   Show full PR text    DISNEY INFINITY INVITES PLAYERS INTO ALL-NEW GAMING UNIVERSE WITH UNMATCHED CREATIVE POSSIBILITIES   For the First Time, Disney and Pixar Animation Studios' Most Popular Characters Come Together in a Magical Storytelling Experience    BURBANK, Calif. – (JANUARY 15, 2013) – Disney Interactive today unveiled its most ambitious gaming initiative ever, Disney Infinity. This all new game platform unlocks the freedom to create stories and play experiences starring beloved characters from The Walt Disney Company and Pixar Animation Studios. Disney Infinity allows players to both experience original adventures in some of their favourite Disney and Pixar worlds and to build their own worlds using the power of their imagination.   "Disney Infinity introduces a new way to interact with the best of Disney on one game platform, both now and in the future," said John Pleasants, co-president, Disney Interactive. "With this innovative approach to gaming, Disney Infinity will bring to life new characters, stories and environments from The Walt Disney Company over time in a way that will delight fans and gamers alike."   In a way that only Disney can, Disney Infinity integrates collectible character figures that come to life in the game. These figures provide experiences that are true to these characters and stories, as well as the opportunity to bring characters from various Disney and Pixar films to play together in a virtual "Toy Box." This all-new game universe will launch this summer across all consoles and will have a phased roll out across mobile and online devices throughout 2013.   Throughout each story-driven experience, called a "Play Set," players will solve challenging puzzles, battle enemies and explore iconic locations from famous Disney properties, while collecting unique characters, vehicles, and gadgets from each world and saving them to a virtual "Toy Box." Players can access their "Toy Box" and build and customize their own unique virtual world using their favourite characters, vehicles, settings and accessories. Disney Infinity allows players the opportunity to share these unique creations in the "Toy Box" mode with friends both online and off.   The Disney Infinity Platform includes:  · Disney Infinity Interactive Pieces – Initially a line of 40 collectible interactive pieces will be introduced that allow players to expand and customize their play experiences.  · Disney Infinity Interactive Character Figures – Seventeen character figures will allow players to experience a variety of their favourite characters in true to property experiences and in "Toy Box" mode.  · Disney Infinity Base – When figures are placed on the Infinity base, they unlock the world and play experiences of Disney Infinity.  · Disney Infinity Power Discs – Interactive discs can be placed on the Infinity base to power up characters and "Toy Box" with unique powers, customizations and gadgets.

   "Disney Infinity combines prominent Disney and Pixar characters and scenarios in a way that mimics how kids play in real life," said John Blackburn, vice president and general manager, Avalanche Software. "With our platform's unique gameplay mechanics and innovative approach to user generated content within the "Toy Box" mode, Disney Infinity will spark imaginations and provide endless hours of fun and creativity."   Development for Disney Infinity is being led by Disney Interactive and Avalanche Software. For additional information, please visit www.disney.com/Infinity and www.youtube.com/disneyinfinity or join the Disney Infinity Facebook Community (Facebook.com/disneyinfinity).

 
