
 

As promised a while ago, Amazon's Lovefilm service is now streaming even more Disney titles through the film studio's own Movies on Demand section. Additions include Wall-E, Lady and the Tramp and live-action flicks like the Chronicles of Narnia. And yep, even Bedknobs and Broomsticks has finally made the digital transition. The streamable back-catalogue now includes the likes of Dumbo and Ratatouille -- check the full press release after the break for more.


 

Show full PR textDISNEY MOVIES ON DEMAND ARRIVES ON AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM
LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, has today announced the launch of Disney Movies on Demand on LOVEFiLM Instant, bringing hours of entertainment and the world's most-loved Disney titles to the streaming service.

Filled with a whole host of family-friendly films, such as Disney Pixar's Academy Award® winning "Wall-E" and classic animation "Lady and the Tramp", the launch builds on the existing relationship between Disney and LOVEFiLM, whilst adding to the wealth of magical kids content already available to stream.

LOVEFiLM members can watch titles from the Disney Movies on Demand collection for no extra cost as part of their existing subscription. Titles new to LOVEFiLM and available from launch include critically acclaimed modern favourites such as "Ratatouille" and "Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian", alongside seminal Disney classics including "Dumbo", "Sword in the Stone" and "Bedknobs and Broomsticks".

Simon Morris, Chief Marketing Officer at LOVEFiLM, said:"Disney is renowned for creating world famous, quality family entertainment that parents can trust; from the earliest animations to modern classics. We are thrilled to enhance our relationship with the launch of Disney Movies on Demand, and even more excited about bringing our members so much new content in the process.""We always aim to offer families the best possible selection of Disney movies when, where, and how they want it," said Catherine Powell, SVP & GM, Disney Media Distribution, EMEA. "Working with LOVEFiLM, I'm delighted we can provide their customers with a superb range of movie entertainment and a great viewing experience."

LOVEFiLM is available on PC and Mac, or via Nintendo Wii and Wii U, Microsoft Xbox 360, Sony Playstation®3, Kindle Fire HD and Kindle Fire, Apple iPad® and a growing number of Internet-connected TV sets and Blu-ray players, giving members immediate access to a huge range of the latest films and premium TV shows from as little as £4.99 a month.


