
       
Other than amassing support from seemingly every CE device on the market, DivX's next step? Online content aggregation. Announced as a partner with LG during yesterday's press conference, the company feels it is in a position to give a more TV-like experience to internet video by extending its platform to interested content providers. The software will allow users to stream not only from the cloud, but also compatible video from their own PCs. Its pitch to OEMs claims IP streaming capability on any hardware, and with it demonstrated ability to cut a deal, expect to see DivX TV on a set-top near you very, very soon. Press release and a quick trailer are embedded after the break.
      

 

 Show full PR textDivX Launches New Internet TV Platform to Redefine the Future of EntertainmentDivX TV(TM) Receives Widespread Support from Consumer Electronics Companies and Content ProvidersLAS VEGAS, Jan 06, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX News Network/ -- DivX, Inc. (Nasdaq: DIVX), a leading digital media company, today announced the launch of DivX TV(TM), a comprehensive embedded Internet TV platform that provides access to a diverse line-up of online media content streamed directly to any connected device from any manufacturer.(Logo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20081124/LA48153LOGO)Eliminating the need for a PC or a separate, dedicated box under the television, DivX TV represents a true step forward in connected entertainment. With an elegant, user-friendly interface, unparalleled speed and performance and a broad content line-up, the DivX TV platform is easy to implement and can be supported on virtually any kind of Internet-connected consumer electronics device, including digital televisions, blu-ray players, gaming consoles, pay-tv operators set-top devices, multimedia storage devices, and even mobile phones. The DivX TV platform will also enable consumers to stream their own personal digital media content over a home network, and offers full playback of a variety of video formats, including all DivX(R) videos."DivX TV revolutionizes the television experience by giving consumers quick and easy access to a virtually limitless universe of online content, and it's as simple to operate as changing channels with a remote control," said Kevin Hell, CEO of DivX, Inc. "Our partners will also be pleased to know that DivX TV is designed specifically to work with today's mass market consumer electronics. It's easy to implement and support and new content sources can be added with very little effort. DivX TV - bringing the future of entertainment to a living room near you!"DivX has long been a pioneer in bringing high-quality Internet video to consumer electronics, with over 250 million DivX devices shipped into the market from every major consumer electronics manufacturer. With DivX TV, the company is leveraging those partnerships and its strength in embedded video technology to evolve the Internet television experience.LG Electronics was announced today as the first manufacturer to license the DivX TV platform for upcoming Blu-ray Disc players and home theater systems. The initial list of additional DivX TV partners also includes consumer electronics companies, integrated circuit manufacturers and technology companies:* ADB (Advanced Digital Broadcast)* Bluestreak* Brightcove* Broadcom Corporation* Innovative DTV Solutions* Iomega* LG Electronics* Viewsonic CorporationThe new DivX TV platform will offer a large and diverse roster of online content including Internet video, premium movies, music channels, social networking services and photo-sharing sites. There are over 70 content channels in place today from a variety of partners, with many more expected to sign on by the first launch of a DivX TV device. Current DivX TV content sources, launch partners and channels include:* Associated Press* blip.tv* Break* CNET* Roxio CinemaNow* Dailymotion* Diggnation* Pandora* Picasa* Revision 3* Rhapsody* TED* Tekzilla* The Street.com* Twitter* VBS.TV"Many consumers today are looking for a way to enjoy Internet video on their TVs but they don't want to have to connect their PC or buy a separate box to make that happen," said Norm Bogen, Vice President of Digital Entertainment Research at In-Stat. "DivX has deep relationships with both consumer electronics companies and Hollywood studios, which puts them in a strong position to offer a comprehensive Internet TV solution that can be built into connected devices at the chip level from any CE company."Dan Halvorson, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Operations for DivX, added, "The launch of DivX TV creates new future revenue opportunities for DivX and deepens our relationships with our OEM partners. Leveraging our strong global brand, we will further invest in marketing and additional product development resources in 2010 in order to capitalize on this emerging market opportunity for our business."DivX will be unveiling the DivX TV platform at a private press event at CES at the Moon nightclub at the Palms on January 7th, and demos of the platform will be shown at the DivX meeting rooms in the South Hall of the convention center. To learn more about the DivX TV platform, visit www.divx.com/divxtv.
 