
 
 Comcast, Cox, DirecTV, Orange and Time Warner Cable are already using DLNA to deliver premium content around your house, but perhaps not exactly the way you had in mind. The dream that DLNA promises has never really lived up to expectations, but we still can't help but hold on to the dream of accessing our favorite shows on every device in the home. The DLNA premium content guidelines announced last year at CES seemed to be the most promising yet, but a year has passed and evidently we didn't notice.

 According to the press release issued by the DLNA, the aforementioned TV providers have already deployed products implementing the guidelines. Unfortunately, those implementations haven't made the content universally accessible in our home -- yet. There is hope however, in the FCC IP interface requirement intended to facilitate such access. For example, Steve Necessary, VP of Cox Communications expects "more than 500,000 subscribers (will) have DLNA premium content functionality" through its Trio guide within the next year. How useful that access will really be, though, remains to be seen.



  Show full PR text   DLNA Announces Service Providers Deploying Services Using DLNA Premium Content Guidelines   INTERNATIONAL CES 2013, LAS VEGAS – January 9, 2013 – The Digital Living Network Alliance® (DLNA®) today announced that Service Providers are now using DLNA Guidelines to deliver premium services to consumer devices. Service Providers including Comcast, Cox, DIRECTV, Orange and Time Warner Cable have deployed products implementing the DLNA® premium content guidelines, a set of standards announced at International CES 2012 and developed in conjunction with the Service Provider community to create greater consumer content choices on consumer electronics devices.   "Using the current DLNA premium content guidelines, Service Providers are now allowing consumers to stream their favorite television programs and movies to products such as digital televisions, tablets, mobile phones, Blu-ray disc players and video game consoles," said Nidhish Parikh, chairman and president of DLNA. "Connected devices are a central part of today's digital home, and DLNA is continually helping consumers easily share, view and engage with premium content and services while reducing the device clutter present in so many of today's living rooms."   DLNA® Guidelines were developed with consumer connectivity in mind. DLNA premium content guidelines open up opportunities for the delivery of premium commercial services to a wide range of retail devices. The Alliance is working on several enhancements that include enabling consistent presentation of User Interfaces (UI) across devices and providing consumers with the look and feel that they have come to expect from their selected provider. DLNA Service Provider member companies remain actively involved in the ongoing expansion and support of DLNA® premium content guidelines to enable additional premium content features.   "Devices supporting the DLNA premium content guidelines can access premium services using XG1 set-top boxes with the AnyRoom DVR service that Comcast has begun deploying," said Tony Werner, EVP and CTO, Comcast Cable. "We look forward to working with DLNA vendors to enhance DLNA premium content guidelines to include HTML5, MPEG-DASH and other standard extensions that will enable offerings such as our XFINITY® Guide with enhanced access to linear programming, DVR and on demand services."   "Cox is actively deploying its Cox Advanced TV Plus video service that allows DLNA premium content devices to access Cox Whole Home DVR content," said Steve Necessary, Vice President, Video Product Development & Strategy, Cox Communications, Inc. "We expect more than 500,000 subscribers to have DLNA premium content functionality using our Trio advanced guide within a year," he added.   "The DLNA premium content guidelines used by the DIRECTV Genie allow full HD DVR functionality without the need for receivers in every room," said Romulo Pontual, executive vice president and CTO of DIRECTV. "Our customers can pause and rewind live TV, discover and record shows, and enjoy the DIRECTV Genie's simple and magical television experience directly on any of the millions of RVU-enabled Samsung Smart TVs in homes today, with more RVU-enabled devices coming throughout 2013."   "For the benefit of our new Livebox Play offer, which will provide our customers with an enhanced entertainment experience, Orange has been deeply involved in the development of key new features of the DLNA premium content guidelines," said Paul-François Fournier, Technocentre executive vice president, Orange. "The Diagnostics feature will allow our helpdesk service to guide our customers, enabling them to resolve problems quickly and easily. The Low Power feature is a must-have function in Europe for managing the power-saving modes of Orange equipment as well as consumer electronics devices over the home network."   "Today, we have millions of set-top boxes deployed capable of delivering content to DLNA premium content products using our Signature Home Service," said Mike LaJoie, EVP and CTO of Time Warner Cable. "New extensions to DLNA premium content guidelines will be valuable as we continue to extend the reach of our services to more consumer devices."

 
