
 
 Pico projectors are slowly getting better and better as the years go by, and DLP's latest chip architecture announced at CES aims to raise the bar once more. The platform, which the company is dubbing Tilt & Roll Pixel, is the same size as the current generation, but it promises that products will be able to offer twice the resolution, 30 percent higher brightness and 50 percent increase in energy efficiency. Given our fondness for products like the Samsung Galaxy Beam, we're pretty excited to see how good movies look on our living room wall. Don't get too anxious, however -- the new platform is currently sampling to manufacturers and products are expected to arrive "as early as the end of the year." We have the press release for your viewing pleasure past the break.

 Update: DLP emailed us with an updated press release to confirm the name of the new architecture. We were also informed that chips using WVGA resolution will be slightly smaller, shrinking from 0.3 inches to 0.2.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Texas Instruments Announces All-New DLP® Pico™ Chip Architecture   An expanding family of DLP Pico display solutions gives developers the flexibility to create brighter, smaller, lower power products   LAS VEGAS – January 7, 2013: Today at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Texas Instruments (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) DLP® Products (suite N115) has announced a new groundbreaking, smaller pixel architecture, called Tilt & Roll Pixel (TRP), for its market-leading DLP Pico™ technology. This advancement gives developers the ability to bring unique, robust big picture display capabilities to more devices and product categories than ever before.   Some of the key advantages for products built on the new TRP architecture will include:   - As much as 30% higher brightness, with increased efficiency  - Up to 50% less power consumption  - 2x the resolution in the same sized chip   As a result of these advancements, products integrating this capability - such as smartphones, tablets, cameras/camcorders, notebooks, eyewear, and standalone devices - will see significant performance benefits.   "The power of digital content is that it's available anytime, anywhere" said Frank Moizio, Business Unit Manager DLP Pico. "DLP Pico technology creates the largest images from the smallest devices, thus enabling users to unleash the power of their digital content, and share it in collaborative, real-world settings. Our new pixel architecture enables manufacturers to extend the reach of pico technology to new, smaller devices and new applications, with brighter images and higher efficiency."   Pacific Media Associates (PMA) has predicted a worldwide pico projector market forecast of 12 million units by 2016, pointing to the category's growing popularity. TI DLP is working with manufacturers now on integrating the new TRP architecture into products.

 
