
Jolla recently revealed its first phone, and now Finland-based carrier DNA has confirmed it will be the first operator in the world to offer the self-titled handset. Running the Sailfish operating system, these devices continue on a path blazed by Meego while also promising Android app compatibility out of the box. The Jolla phone features 4.5-inch "HD" display, dual-core CPU, 16GB storage with microSD expansion slot, LTE and an 8MP rear camera. Our hands-on demo should reveal a bit more about what it's bringing to the table (including an interesting split design that could allow future hardware augmentation), interested local residents can hit the source link to pre-order one now.



Show full PR textDNA to launch the Jolla smartphone as the first operator in the worldThis year, DNA will launch the Jolla smart phone based on the Sailfish operating system in Finland. DNA will be the first operator to offer Jolla smartphones in Finland.DNA will sell Jolla smartphones as the first operator in the world and as the only operator in Finland as soon as they enter the market. Jolla will be available in DNA Kauppa stores and DNA online, as well as at selected DNA retailers. Jolla unveiled its new smart phone in May.DNA's cooperation with Jolla is a part of the DNA partnership strategy, aimed at providing Finnish people with the most appealing equipment and services on the market. DNA is the only operator to start the Jolla smart phone sales in Finland."As a Finnish operator, we consider it important to support this new Finnish success story, in which we see enormous potential. The partnership with Jolla reflects DNA's manner of doing business and is a fantastic example of the way in which we want to be involved in interesting innovations that bring real added value to their users. We boldly apply this start-up mentality to our own operations as well," says Pekka Väisänen, Vice President for DNA's Consumer Business.DNA has also been involved in the Jolla smart phone's development from the very beginning. "In a spirit of 'co-creation' that is characteristic of Jolla, we have been able to influence the device's design and usability, allowing us to convey our customers' wishes directly to Jolla's development team, already at the design stage", says Väisänen."It is valuable to find a good operator as a partner in the domestic market. The cooperation between DNA and Jolla has been extremely rewarding, and we place particular value on the feedback regarding the wishes of customers, received from an operator that knows its clientele. Our two companies are equally enthusiastic about the launch of Jolla smart phones at DNA Stores nationwide during the last quarter," says Jolla CEO Tomi Pienimäki.The Jolla pre-order campaign started in May at jolla.com. Those interested in the new Jolla mobile and the partnership of DNA and Jolla can leave their contact details with DNA at the address www.dna.fi/jolla.


