
 Roku's media streamers have carved out a notable niche for themselves, with what started out as a Netflix box, but quickly grew to include hundreds of other entertainment options. Whatever they've lacked in style, they've always made up for with an easy-to-navigate menu and remote, not to mention low prices. In fact, they've become our default recommendation in the media streamer category, and now the company is back with its third iteration.

 Its approach hasn't changed: the Roku 3 is still a simple $99 box that brings internet content including video, some simple apps and even games to your TV. But this one is touted as the most powerful Roku ever, and the team behind it has even dared to tweak that boring, but simple menu system. There have always been some rough edges that needed polishing, along with holes in its offerings -- join us to see if it's good enough to be the best.




 Hardware 
 The Roku 3's design is but a small departure from the miniature hockey puck that preceded it.The Roku 3's design is but a small departure from the miniature hockey puck that preceded it, with a shape that bulges and flows with fewer sharp edges. It's still all black with just a small purple tag and painted-on "Roku 3" label -- something you probably won't see again once it's hidden away within your entertainment center. The grippy material on the bottom covers less area than the Roku 2's, but thanks to a slightly heavier weight, it seems to hold its placement better, where the 2 would occasionally fall victim to dangling HDMI cables and the like. One element is missing this time around: the breakout port that provided support for analog video on the Roku 2 XS has disappeared. If you're living an all-HDMI lifestyle, you'll probably never notice, but owners of older TV or visitors to such forgotten hideaways should prepare for disappointment. The SD card and USB ports remain, however the power adapter has changed slightly from the previous gen -- it looks the same, but it won't plug into older models and vice versa. The new Roku is packing dual antennas inside and we didn't have any problems connecting to home or hotel networks in our testing, although we'd never had a problem picking up a signal on the old box either. There's also an upgraded CPU, but without detailed performance specs, we'll consider it later by judging how the software runs.
 The remote is how many users will interact with their Roku, and thankfully that remains largely unchanged. The switch to WiFi Direct for communication with the box, plus a headphone-out and small volume control buttons, have not noticeably affected the size, shape or feel. That's good news for existing users, who won't have to relearn anything, and its dreadfully simple setup is easy to pick up for newbies. The d-pad is responsive when navigating through menus, and the back and home buttons still function as consistently as ever within the apps. One thing that might be nice would be the ability to control the TV's volume with those side-mounted buttons, just to cut down on any potential remote swapping. The Roku 3 still supports IR control too, so if placed correctly, your universal remote will take over without a pause. Unfortunately, there's currently no support for HDMI-CEC control for features similar to those found on the Roku Stick.

 As far as the new audio-streaming capability, we didn't have any problems listening to Netflix, Hulu or Amazon with headphones plugged into the remote's jack. The stereo sound was clear to our ears, however we suspect you'd be well-served by tossing the bundled earbuds and using any others you may have lying around. We tried running the batteries down, but despite 20-plus hours of headphone-equipped streaming plus additional regular use, we're still on the original set of AAs with no low-battery indicator in sight.

 Software 


