
 
 Sick of talking to yourself? Get ready to ride the wild voice recognition dragon. Nuance announced this morning that the 12th version of its Dragon NaturallySpeaking software will start shipping the week of August 13th. The upgrade to the fire-breathing dictation app brings 100 new features, including faster performance, a 20-percent improvement in accuracy, better adaptation to user preferences, more integration with Gmail and Hotmail and extended support for the Dragon Remote Mic app on Android. Interested parties can pre-order the latest release start today for $100. More info in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    Nuance Unveils Dragon NaturallySpeaking 12, Delivering Unprecedented Accuracy and Speed for Voice Recognition on the PC
  Nuance Communications, Inc. (NASDAQ: NUAN) today unveiled Dragon NaturallySpeaking 12, the fastest, most accurate and easy-to-use version of Dragon yet with more than 100 new features and enhancements that will let people stop typing and start talking, and get more done in less time than ever before.   Dragon NaturallySpeaking brings voice recognition to the PC, and allows individuals to simply talk to create content and command a computer. Dragon's powerful voice recognition software ignites new levels of productivity and convenience by enabling people to interact with and command their PC, cruise through email, update Facebook in seconds, surf the Web and create reports – just by speaking.   Dragon voice recognition is everywhere people look today – from PCs to mobile devices to cars and even living rooms – changing the way that people work, communicate, create and live. Dragon is already used by millions of people worldwide, and is the core technology powering an innovative portfolio of voice technologies for consumers and manufacturers, including Dragon Dictation, Dragon Go!, Dragon TV, Dragon Drive! and Dragon ID.   Dragon 12 now boasts a 20 percent improvement to out-of-the-box accuracy, faster performance and new technology that learns your preferences as you use the software. Further, Dragon 12 works better than ever with Gmail and Hotmail, and extends the free Dragon Remote Microphone App experience to Android, turning compatible Android phones into a wireless microphone for Dragon for PC.   "Dragon 12 is a remarkable leap forward in voice recognition technology. With Dragon's increased accuracy, speed and more than 100 new features and enhancements, the technology simply disappears and your ideas flow onto the screen in front of you," said Peter Mahoney, Chief Marketing Officer for Nuance and Senior Vice President, General Manager, Dragon. "Voice is transforming the way people engage with their PCs, tablets, phones, TVs and cars. And with Nuance's Dragon at the heart of it– people are experiencing faster, simpler, more natural ways to communicate with the world around them."
  
