
 Drift has updated its HD action camera to help you better document your Baumgartner-esque death defying acts. The Drift HD Ghost gets a two-inch LCD screen with a refreshed control setup and chunky, 1,700mAh battery. The company is boasting that audio on this new unit should be greatly improved (something we took issue with last time out) so the world can hear your blood-curdling screams as you plummet through the stratosphere. It's available to pre-order from today for $399, with the device set to begin shipping from November 19th. 




    
  Show full PR text   Drift Innovation Debuts the Drift HD Ghost – the First‐Ever Action Camera Equipped with Two‐Way LED Remote and Continuous Loop Video – Solving the Age Old Question: "Am I On?"
   The Drift HD Ghost packs industry‐leading features including wearable on/off remote control with LEDs displaying mode in use, continuous loop video recording, built‐in Wi‐Fi  and an integrated 2‐inch Gorilla Glass® LCD screen for instant playback and sharing

  LONDON – November 7, 2012 – Drift Innovation, the award‐winning action sports technology company specializing in the capture and sharing of digital imagery, launched the most feature‐rich and intuitive action camera yet – the Drift HD Ghost. Building upon a unique feature set, which includes an industry‐ first two‐way LED remote control with on/off indicator light, video recording/tagging capabilities in continuous loop mode, and an integrated 2‐inch Gorilla Glass® LCD screen, the Drift HD Ghost is the best all‐in‐one solution on the market.

   Unlike other point of view cameras that require aftermarket accessories and peripherals for functionality, the Drift HD Ghost includes everything action sports enthusiasts need to capture professional quality video immediately. Plus, the intuitive interface is easy to use, easy to navigate and easy to set up, so users everywhere can begin recording moments after opening the box.

   Drift Active StatusTM Two‐Way Remote with LED Lights  The Drift HD Ghost is the only action camera packaged standard with a wearable on/off remote control with LEDs and wrist strap. The strategically placed LED lights on the remote instantly communicate the mode currently in use displaying a color‐coded system indicating Video, Photo, Timelapse or Photoburst modes. The remote also streamlines functionality by allowing users to take photos and change function modes from up to 30 feet (10m) away, as well as to start and stop recording. This saves precious memory space and battery life so you can capture a full day of activities without wasting time.

   "For years, the action sports crowd has looked for a solution to the question enthusiasts hate to utter: 'Am I on?'" said John Rounds, Managing Director of Drift Americas. "Finally, Drift solves the problem with a two‐way remote control. The wearable remote features the Drift Active StatusTM LED indicator which lets you know if the camera is recording or not. Sometimes you only get one shot, and it's devastating when you miss it."  Drift FlashbackTM Video Tag/Loop

   Action sports enthusiasts can save a recorded event up to five minutes after it happens while in Video Tag/Loop mode, which records footage in a continuous loop style. The video clip is stored in the camera's memory, and will save the clip only if the user chooses to "tag" it.  Built‐In 2‐Inch LCD Screen with Gorilla Glass®

   The screen allows quick, real‐time viewing of camera angles before you even press record. It also supports instant video playback of recorded footage, making it easier than ever to edit, delete and re‐ live your favorite actions whenever, and where ever, you want. Plus, its screen is covered with Gorilla Glass® to ensure scratch‐proof performance even in the most rugged terrains.

   Drift DataLinkTM Wi‐Fi Enabled & Drift App  The Drift HD Ghost comes Wi‐Fi‐enabled to communicate instantly with smartphones. Combined with the Drift Mobile App (coming soon for both IOS and Android) you can preview and line up a shot remotely from your phone, change camera settings, shot recording, photo capture and playback, directly through your mobile device. You can even download content from the camera to your smartphone instantly and share content wirelessly across your favorite social media platforms.  Drift PowerStationTM

   The Drift HD Ghost has the longest standard battery life on the market, providing 3 hours of recording time per charge, courtesy of the included 1700 mAh rechargeable lithium‐ion battery. The Drift PowerStationTM also uniquely places the battery in the center of the camera maximizing battery life and providing an anti‐vibrational system.

   Advanced Drift PureTM Audio Technology  The microphone features digital and mechanical dynamic modulation technology which offers the latest innovations in digital signal processing and wind‐noise reduction to provide crystal clear audio. Standard in all Drift cameras are multiple sensitivity settings and an external 3.5mm microphone connector to further enhance the captured audio.

   Enhanced 7 Element Lens Design  The Drift HD Ghost boasts an upgraded lens design consisting of seven elements, ensuring optically pure performance whether filming in the Gobi desert or on top a high mountain peak. This guarantees the user high clarity, vibrantly colored, stunning HD video. While recording crystal clear HD video in a variety of resolutions (ranging from 1080p, 960p, 720p to WVGA), you can simultaneously shoot still photos without interrupting filming, so you never miss a moment.  Nine feet (3m) waterproof without any housing

   The Drift HD Ghost features an improved design allowing the camera to be nine feet (3m) waterproof out of the box. So whether surfing in Indonesia or kiteboarding on the Hood River, Drift has you covered. For deep water enthusiasts Drift offers a uniquely designed waterproof housing which allows you to capture underwater adventures up to 180 feet (60m) depth.

   The Drift HD Ghost is available for purchase for US $399 on http://store.driftinnovation.com/camera/drift‐hd‐ghost. Learn more about Drift HD Ghost specifications and features at http://driftinnovation.com, as well as Drift Innovation's full line of accessories and high‐ definition cameras, including the predecessor Drift HD awarded the prestigious Red Dot Design Award in 2012 for superlative packaging design. Follow Drift Innovation on http://facebook.com/driftinnovation and on Twitter, @DriftInnovation.

 
