
Drift Innovation has been making action cameras for some time now. Today sees its latest offering -- the Ghost S -- hit stores globally. What's new this time? Well there's the usual assortment of video improvements: 1080p at 60fps, new "scene" modes and better low-light recording. There's also a dramatically improved battery, that now offers 3.5 hours of recording at standard 1080p/30fps. Impressive. But, perhaps more significant that that, Drift is stepping forward as a brand. It's no secret this market is dominated by one major player, a situation only accentuated by the recent demise of its next best known competitor. But, while all this was going on, Drift has kept its head down and concentrated hard on continually revising its products. As the marketing parlance goes, the Drift Ghost S is its best camera yet, but also a metaphorical stone from David's sling. Are we about to see the action camera market get the all important "other option" it desperately needs? We spent some time with the Ghost S -- one of the most promising candidates yet -- to find out.





To look at, the Drift design language sits somewhere between the tubular/shotgun stylings of Contour, iON et al, and the square block of a GoPro. The design might give you the impression it leans more towards being a classic "helmet" cam, but a 300-degree rotating lens means it's still suited to a variety of situations and mount positions. It sports a regular tripod thread too, so you can use a bevy of existing equipment, including some that you might already own. As with previous Drift cameras, the Ghost S has a 2-inch LCD display on one of its sides for reviewing/previewing footage, and despite a small speaker on the opposing side, the whole unit is waterproof to nine feet, without the need for an external case. Shooting on dry land? You can pop the rear panel off and access the removable 1,700mAh battery, HDMI output, memory card slot and 3.5mm mic input. If you use these ports often, there's an included extra rear cover that has tethered rubber plugs that provide access to these ports, so you won't need to remove it each time.





