
 

Dropbox is an indispensable part of many a computer users' arsenal, including several here at Engadget. But, the company hasn't had a viable option for businesses who would have an obvious use for a tool that allows you to easily sync files between PCs, share them amongst users and always have backups in the cloud. The boys and girls at the Y Combinator startup know that there's lots of money to be made in the enterprise space and that's why they've unveiled Dropbox for Teams. The general experience is the same, but rather than individually managed chunks of storage, teams share one large repository, starting at 1TB for five users. The base plan costs $795 a year and additional users, which also includes 200GB of storage, can be tacked on for $125 annually. The business offering also includes special tools for administrators to add or delete users and dedicated phone support. Check out the full PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Dropbox Now Open for Business 		Dropbox Launches "Dropbox for Teams" With Administrative Controls and Plenty of Space 		People Are Using Dropbox in Over One Million Businesses Globally 		SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. – October 27, 2011 - Dropbox, a free service that lets people bring their documents, photos and videos everywhere and share them easily, today introduced Dropbox for Teams. More than 45 million people already depend on Dropbox, and with Dropbox for Teams, businesses can now experience the same ease-of-use along with new administrative controls, centralized billing, phone support, and plenty of space for everyone on the team. 		"People in over a million businesses around the world trust Dropbox for its simplicity and reliability," said Sujay Jaswa, vice president of business development and sales at Dropbox. "Now, Dropbox for Teams will give businesses the control and freedom to rethink how they work." 		How Dropbox for Teams Works 		Dropbox for Teams delivers the same user experience as the free Dropbox service. Adding and updating files is as easy as saving any document, photo or video to the Dropbox folder. Changes sync immediately across all devices which have Dropbox installed. Dropbox is compatible with nearly every computer and smartphone operating system, including Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android, and BlackBerry. 		With Dropbox for Teams, administrators get new features including centralized billing, phone support, and controls allowing them to add or delete users. Dropbox for Teams is priced at $795 annually for five		users, with additional seats available for $125 each. The base plan includes 1,000 GB of storage, and each additional seat comes with 200 GB. 		Like Dropbox, Dropbox for Teams is a secure solution. Files are stored encrypted on Amazon S3 in secure data centers and also remain on users' Dropbox-synced computers for added backup. 		Visit www.dropbox.com/teams for more information. 		About Dropbox 		The mission of Dropbox is to simplify life for people around the world. Dropbox lets people bring their documents, photos and videos everywhere and share them easily. The service has more than 45 million		users in 175 countries saving one billion files every three days. Dropbox was founded in San Francisco in 2007 by Drew Houston and Arash Ferdowsi and has received a total of $257.2 million in funding.
 