
 
iPhone users have been able to keep watch on their Dropcam security cameras from the convenience of a dedicated app since the Dropcam Echo launched last summer, but Android users have unfortunately been left with no other option than to simply use the standard, less-than-mobile-friendly web interface. The company's now finally corrected that oversight, however, and released a full-fledged app for Android smartphones running Android 2.2 or higher. The key advantage with a Dropcam setup -- as we noted in our review of the camera itself -- is that it's entirely cloud-based, and doesn't need to be connected to your home computer to record or share video (unfortunately, that convenience comes at quite a cost). As for the Android app, it will let you receive things like motion and audio alerts, and of course let you check in on a live stream or access recordings -- those just looking try the service can also simply access some public webcams to test it out.
      

 

Show full PR textDropcam Brings its Video Streams to Android SmartphonesCloud-cam service leader delivers unmatched video intelligence forusers on the goSAN FRANCISCO, Calif., February 2, 2011 – Dropcam, the trendsetter inintelligent wi-fi cameras and personal video streaming services, todayannounced the availability of the Dropcam App on the AndroidMarketplace. This free app allows Android smartphone users to accesstheir Dropcam cameras and keep a watchful eye on what they care aboutand never miss a moment. With the debut of its second mobile app,Dropcam continues its rise as an agent of change at the intersectionof video, data and the cloud.Peace of Mind on the GoWith the Dropcam Android App you can:● Stream Live Video: Your Dropcam cloud-based cameras streamsecure, uninterrupted live video that let you see every single minuteof action. With the app, you can watch your video streams or friends'Dropcam camera streams. Get live, smooth video playback on Wi-Fi, 3Gand 4G.● Receive Instant Activity Alerts: The Dropcam system is sointelligent it uses motion and audio detection to identify and captureactivity 'Events'. These activities are displayed as a snapshot onyour video timeline so you can check in immediately to see what'shappening. Using the Android app, quickly set up automatic emailalerts to get instant notices for motion and noise event detection.● Access Dropcam DVR: The Dropcam DVR captures every second ofwhat your camera sees and stores that video online for up to 30 days.DVR controls let you playback previously recorded events from yourpersonal video stream. You can also download video clips to archivefootage permanently.To see these features in action, please check out a video of ourAndroid app here: http://www.dropcam.com/android."It's easy for anyone to be up and running with a Dropcam system inminutes, and once installed, our users have the freedom to keep tabson the things they care about from anywhere, any time," said GregDuffy, CEO of Dropcam. "We designed our intelligent 'cloud-cam' andvideo services with the internet in mind from the beginning. We'rethrilled that our newest app extends the Dropcam experience to Androidusers and further confirms Dropcam as a pioneer in video data analysisand streaming."The Dropcam Android App is available on the Google Nexus One, SamsungVibrant (Galaxy S), Motorola Droid, Motorola Droid X, HTC DroidIncredible, HTC EVO 4G, and other Android 2.2 (Froyo) devices.Download Dropcam from the Android Marketplace today athttp://market.android.com/details?id=air.dropcam.Never Miss an Important MomentDropcam is the easiest way to use video to check in on the things youcare about from anywhere, any time, on any device. After setting upone or more Dropcam cloud-cams, the cameras' secure video feed isaccessible from a PC, iPhone or Android smartphone so you can check-inany time. Dropcam users effortlessly keep an eye on their homes, kids,pets, the nanny, the office, vehicles in the garage, a second home,and everything else they care about.Dropcam's DVR features include cutting-edge data analysis, motion andaudio sensing capabilities and instant email and push alerts - makingit effortless for users to never miss an important moment. Users alsohave the option to continually record up to 30 days ofminute-by-minute video. Video feeds from a Dropcam camera can besafely and privately shared with friends and family, or made fullypublic for everyone to watch.The Dropcam Original ($199) and The Dropcam Echo ($279) cloud-cams areavailable on www.dropcam.com. Dropcam's live streaming video serviceis free; Dropcam DVR plans begin at $8.95 per month.About DropcamDropcam, Inc. is an agent of change at the intersection of video, dataand the cloud. Its suite of products include intelligent videohardware and services that make it easy for users to check in on thethings they care about from anywhere on any device. Dropcam currentlyoffers two wi-fi video cameras, The Dropcam Original (video-only) andThe Dropcam Echo (video and audio). Dropcam also offers Dropcam DVR, aproprietary cloud-based service with cutting-edge data analysiscapabilities created so that users never miss an important moment.Angel-funded Dropcam was founded in 2009 and is based in SanFrancisco. The Dropcam iPhone App is available in the iTunes Store,itunes.com/apps/Dropcam. The Dropcam Android App is available on theAndroid Marketplace, http://market.android.com/details?id=air.dropcam.To learn more, please visit www.dropcam.com, watch our demo videos onYouTube: www.youtube.com/dropcam, like us on Facebook:www.facebook.com/pages/Dropcam/103689049317 and follow us on Twitter@dropcam.
 