
 
 After establishing itself in the Android ecosystem with a native app, modern-day nanny cam outfit Dropcam has decided to optimize its service on the iPad, too. Users of the iPad 2, new iPad or the iPad mini can now view up to four Dropcam devices simultaneously, snap still images and receive real-time motion and audio alerts via SMS. Subscribers also have access to a cloud-based DVR service, which allows them to view, store and manage their recorded videos. So, whether you're trying to catch your roommate stealing borrowing your clothes, or keep an eye on a mischievous pet, you can now grab a super-size update from the App Store.



  Show full PR text   New Dropcam iPad App Lets People Keep an Eye on the Things They Care About From Anywhere
   New App Brings Full-Motion Video and Multi-Camera Viewing to iPad

   SAN FRANCISCO – November 14, 2012 – Dropcam, Inc., makers of Dropcam HD - the award-winning Wi-Fi video camera with cloud-based monitoring and DVR service - today released Dropcam for iPad in the Apple App Store. The free app enables Dropcam users to view live video streams of up to four cameras simultaneously as well as receive activity alerts and capture photos. Subscribers of the cloud-based DVR service can access their video timelines and create and share video clips from their iPads.

   "The iPad has fundamentally changed consumer expectations of software and media consumption so it's no surprise that our users were clamoring for a native app," said Dropcam CEO and Co-Founder Greg Duffy. "An iPad paired with a Dropcam is now, short of being there, the best way to check in on the people and places you care about."

   Customers simply log into their Dropcam account on an iPad to:

   View Four Cameras at Once: The Dropcam app has a full-motion multi-camera view of up to four cameras at a time. Users can now view multiple rooms, to keep an eye on the nursery, kitchen, living room, and entryway all from one screen.  Review Events: Using cutting edge-data analysis and motion/audio sensing, Dropcam automatically sends an SMS alert or email when something happens, and users can switch to the app to see what is going on.  Snap Photos: While watching a video stream on their iPad, users can snap a photo and it is automatically saved to their iPad photo library.  Share and Save Video: DVR subscribers see a graphical timeline of events with thumbnails, so they can capture and save key moments from the family dog's latest trick to the baby standing up in her crib using My Clips. The clips can be shared via email, Facebook, and Twitter and they always reside on Dropcam's secure servers making them accessible anytime from a Mac, PC and now iPad.  Dropcam for iPad is free in the Apple App Store and supports iPad 2, the new iPad with Retina display and iPad mini. The iPad app works with all Dropcam models: Dropcam HD, Dropcam Echo, and Dropcam Original. In addition to Dropcam for iPad, there are also Dropcam apps available for Android devices, iPhone and iPod touch.

   Dropcam is the only Wi-Fi video monitoring camera that offers truly simple, intuitive and fast setup with intelligent monitoring features so people can check in on the things they care about from anywhere in the world 24/7. Dropcam utilizes bank-level security to encrypt all video and stores it securely offsite in the cloud so users can rest assured that they are the only one with access their video. Dropcam HD includes night vision, digital zoom and two-way talk back so users can respond to what they're watching as it happens. Users can also set up email and push alerts triggered by Dropcam's motion and sound sensing technology. Dropcam HD is available on Amazon and dropcam.com for $149.

 
