
Before 2012, Dropcam was a software outlet famous for integrating its camera tech into other people's hardware. However, it knew that in order to grow, the company needed to get into the hardware business as well. So, it hired some of the team behind Cisco's Flip video cameras to create the Dropcam HD -- one of a few IP shooters on the market that offered 720p video at an affordable price. Little did the Dropcam folks know, of course, that the device would be a big hit, pushing revenues 500 percent higher than it'd ever experienced.


The Dropcam Pro, then, is version two. The new unit is a considerable upgrade from its precedessor, with an entirely redesigned optical system that includes a six-element all-glass lens. This is still a rarity in WiFi cameras -- even the HD lens is mostly glass with plastic making up the rest. "There's a limit to how good of a resolution you can get with plastic... it's just not as exact as glass," CEO Greg Duffy tells us. There's more to the Pro than just the glass lens of course, and we'll detail more of what's new about the Pro and give our hands-on impressions after the break.





Another Pro improvement is that its 130 degree field of view is much wider than the 105 degree on the HD. Duffy informs us this lets the camera capture the entire room at once without the need for a motorized component to remotely pan and tilt the camera. But perhaps more important than that is the Pro's new high-sensitivity camera sensor that captures twice the light than its predecessor. This means better performance in low-light conditions of course, but it also means superior image quality in general. We tried it out in our home, and were impressed by the clarity and sharpness of the images, even at night. As you might imagine, night shot mode greatly benefits from the new sensor as well.

Combine the glass lens and the new camera sensor together, and the Pro is able to churn out some of the highest video quality we've ever seen from a WiFi camera. During our extensive hands-on time with the Pro and Dropcam's new iOS app, we were able to not only zoom into a particular area of a live video, but also select an "enhance" button that kicks up its resolution. "The communication tells the camera to enhance the resolution of that particular point," Duffy tells us. "It will then use real resolution in that area instead of digital zoom, resulting in better video quality." We have to admit we're very impressed by this feature, likening it to those CSI shows where the cop tells the technician to "zoom in and enhance" a clip. Unlike television however, the enhance feature on the Pro is only available for live video, and not past recorded events.






