
 
 Sure, Dropcam already had an app for monitoring its web-connected home monitoring cameras on Android smartphones. The thing is, it wasn't native -- it was built using Adobe Air and was therefore limited to specific phones, processors and OS versions, while tablet users didn't even get a look-in. The new app, which landed at Google Play just this moment, was built totally in-house to "better match" its iOS counterpart. In addition to broader compatibility with new and old Android devices, a bunch of other improvements come along for the ride, including two-way audio, free-of-charge motion and audio alerts and a "smoother user experience." Head to the link below to download.



  Show full PR text   Dropcam Closes $12M in Series B Funding Led by Menlo Ventures
  Launches Native Android App, Continues to See Swell in Demand for Connected Home Device
  SAN FRANCISCO, Calif., June 19, 2012 – Dropcam Inc., makers of the easy-to-use Dropcam HD Wi-Fi Video Monitoring Camera, today announced it raised $12 million in Series B funding. This round was led by Menlo Ventures with participation from existing investors including Accel Partners and Bay Partners. This funding brings Dropcam's total raised to $17.8M and comes on the heels of a surge in customer demand.

   Dropcam will use this funding to grow its software engineering team in San Francisco as well as expand manufacturing operations globally. With the recent hiring of Doug Chan, VP Operations, Dropcam has been able to skillfully increase its production abroad to meet increasing demand at home.

   "We appreciate Dropcam's position in the industry and are confident in what this company can do for the connected home. Dropcam is in a unique position to lead the way in this space because of their unparalleled commitment to quality software layered on top of impressive hardware. This is a tough balance for young companies and Dropcam is doing a commendable job at this," said Mark Siegel, a Managing Director of Menlo Ventures.

   "We are focused on growing – with Dropcam HD cameras selling like hot cakes it's important that we continue to evolve our team, business and products to best serve our users. This influx of capital will be instrumental in recruiting the right talent to help us do that," said Greg Duffy, CEO and Co-Founder of Dropcam.

   In January 2012 at CES, Dropcam unveiled its award-winning Dropcam HD Wi-Fi Video Monitoring Camera. The Dropcam HD provides the easiest way to keep an eye on your home, kids, pets and everything else that matters directly from your computer, tablet or smartphone. The accompanying cloud-based Dropcam DVR tools record, monitor and alert you of movements and sounds picked up by the Dropcam HD camera so you never miss an important moment when you're away.

   Keeping Up with Demand

   When announced in January, the pre-sale queue for the new Dropcam HD quickly filled and once the product became available, it sold out within three weeks. Dropcam HD again sold out in just a few days once it was back on the market in early April. As of today, Dropcam HD cameras are back in stock and orders are shipping to customers within 7-10 business days.

    Software, Mobile Continue to Improve

   Dropcam's friendly, approachable user experience comes to life within its online tools and mobile apps, which are regularly assessed and improved based on customer feedback. Today, Dropcam released a brand new native Android app that allows more Android users to access the app on their phones or tablets. Dropcam also updated its intelligent software, laying the groundwork for more advanced motion detection and email and push alerts from the Dropcam HD camera. False alerts should occur less frequently, while alerts generated by people or objects that are actually moving will be more consistent.

    The Dropcam native Android app, now live in the Google Play Store, provides Android smartphone and tablet users with two-way audio, free motion and audio alerts and a smoother user experience. The app was completely built in-house with the goal of giving users a parallel experience across all Android operating systems and one to better match its iOS app.

   Previous versions of Dropcam's Android app built using Adobe Air were limited to Android smartphones with specific processors running the newest OS. By developing a native Android app, Dropcam now opens up its mobile viewing to more Android users – owners of older versions of Android smartphones or ones with the latest phone.

    "It's part of the Dropcam DNA to listen to user feedback and incorporate it into our products. Our native Android app is the latest example - we want to give our users the best experience possible across all platforms that we support, even if this means we have to take the time to build another app on a different platform," said Duffy.

 
