
 

Samsung is extending its "highly popular" DualView point-and-shoot line with a WiFi cam, launching the DV300F today. Consistent with previous models, this latest 16 megapixel snapper includes a 3-inch 460k-dot LCD on the rear, along with a 1.5-inch 61k-dot screen up front. Naturally, a front-facing screen makes self-portraits a snap, while also serving to entertain toddlers with things like an animated clown loop. As for that WiFi connectivity, the DV300F can upload pics directly to sharing sites like Facebook and Picasa, videos to YouTube or the full contents of your card to a PC using the Auto PC Backup function -- there's also a microSD slot for local storage. The DV300F is expected to ship in March for $199, and full details are awaiting you just past the break.






 		Show full PR text  Samsung's Latest DualView Offering – the DV300F - Brings Further Innovation to Highly Popular Category 		Enhanced Dual LCD and Wi-Fi connectivity for users to capture		and share life's moments in an instant, from both sides of the lens 		Ridgefield Park, NJ – January 2, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies today unveiled a new addition to its market-leading Samsung DualView® line, the DV300F. With this launch, Samsung continues to cement its leadership position by introducing the latest in Dual LCD technology with Wi-Fi connectivity for camera users who want to snap and share moments in an instant. 		The Samsung DV300F builds on the success of Samsung's DualView technology with a 1.5" front facing LCD screen that helps ensure users are capturing the most challenging shots. Child Mode displays an animation to keep little ones focused, and the visual Self Timer makes it easy to put oneself in the picture. 		In response to evolving consumer demands for maximum creativity and shareability, the DV300F is the first DualView model to offer Wi-Fi connectivity. The camera's built-in Wi-Fi connectivity enables users to email their images or upload them to social media sites including Facebook, Picasa, Flickr and YouTube. In addition, images saved onto the camera's microSD memory card, can be saved to a home PC without wires, by using the Auto PC Backup function. Cloud services, including Samsung's AllShare Play and Microsoft SkyDrive, allows users to store and share their precious pictures from anywhere. 		For consumers on the lookout for sophisticated design and premium quality, the latest model comes in several shimmering metallic colors, including mock black, silver, navy and red. The new DualView camera features a sleek, seamless, and rounded form factor for ultimate style without compromising ease of use and image quality. The DV300F boasts an impressive 16 Megapixels, 5x optical zoom and 25mm wide-angle lens to capture all the action, even from a distance. 		"Our aim is to continually be at the forefront of innovation and maintain our leadership within the DualView market, pioneered by Samsung," stated Mr. Myoung Sup Han, senior vice president and head of digital imaging business, Samsung Electronics. "The new DV300F model is the embodiment of this goal. This latest model with the DualView LCD, Wi-Fi connectivity, ultra premium styling and the latest creative features, demonstrates Samsung's unwavering commitment to innovation within the digital compact camera market, as well as our ability to consistently meet the needs of our customers." 		Get Creative with Magic Frame and Picture-in-Picture Shot		The DV300F is crammed full of fun features to maximize users' enjoyment. The Magic Frame feature includes 12 fun background templates, as well as the ability to create poster-quality art, perfect for sharing or hanging. The camera's Picture-in-Picture function lets users insert one image within another. Users can even impress their friends by combining a still picture with a video clip and instantly uploading it to YouTube or other social networking sites. 		Maximize enjoyment with latest Photo shot features		With the Split Shot feature, users can merge up to three different images to create their very own artistic masterpiece! Pictures can even be imported from other cameras. However, the fun doesn't stop there. Funny Face allows photographers to add goofy grins, comical noses or even crazy eyes to shots of friends and family in eight different modes. 		The innovative new Artistic Brush feature can instantly take a portrait, landscape shot or even a movie clip and transform it into a black and white or full color sketch just like an artist would! Users can then show off their artistic creation via the camera's LCD, or by simply uploading their creation to social networking sites to ensure everyone look at their creative masterpiece or potentially, their latest profile picture -- with a twist. 		Finally, the model includes the new Motion Photo feature. Similar to the latest Hollywood blockbuster, users can freeze time around a moving subject for dramatic effect. Now, users can capture a friend jumping in the park and keep everyone else around them still.
 