


If you're one of the remaining holdouts who hasn't yet picked up a Dyson vacuum cleaner, get ready to be enticed by a couple new ones. The household name in suction has introduced two new "Animal" series dust busters, the DC47 and the DC50. The former is canister-shaped, while the DC50 stands upright. Both were designed to be much smaller and lighter than their predecessors, with the DC47 weighing in at 13.47 pounds and the DC50 tipping in at 11.6 pounds. They both boast 2 Tier Radial cyclones to extract more microscopic dust, a new Ball pivot that's supposedly more maneuverable and carbon fiber brushes that promise to remove more dust from hard floors due to a lack of static build-up. If you're sold, get ready to cough up some major cash: the DC47 Animal is $449.99, while the DC50 Animal is $499.99. If you want the latest and greatest in designer vacuums, you can snag one from the source link or your favorite Dyson retailer.



Show full PR text1DC47: Two tiers of cyclones capture more microscopic dust.
DC47 is Dyson's first cylinder vacuum with 2 Tier Radial™ cyclones. Two tiers of smaller cyclones work in parallel to increase airflow and extract more microscopic dust. It is mounted on a ball making it highly maneuverable and light to pull.

James Dyson said, "2 Tier Radial™ cyclones are the latest development of our patented cyclone technology. By making the cyclones smaller, the air travels faster meaning we can extract more microscopic dust from the air."

The Technology:

2 Tier Radial™ cyclones: Other vacuum cleaners still rely on bags or filters to trap dust, losing suction over time. DC47 uses two tiers of smaller cyclones. Two tiers of cyclones capture more microscopic dust. The smaller the cyclone the faster the air spins, separating more microscopic dust. Every angle of each airway is honed to ensure microscopic particles are spun out of the airflow and captured in the bin.

Ball™ technology: Sitting on a ball, DC47 is lightweight, maneuverable and has a low center of gravity for negotiating tight turns and getting around furniture. Coupled with a central steering mechanism, the machine is light to pull, can pivot on the spot, and follows obediently without snagging on corners.

Carbon fiber brush bar:The Dyson Carbon fiber brush bar has both nylon bristles and brushes made from pure carbon fiber – used for its anti-static properties. The carbon fiber brushes reduce static build-up on hard floors to remove fine dust, and the stiff nylon bristles remove ground-in dirt from carpets.

Availability: The DC47 Animal will be available beginning May 13th, 2013.

Cost: $449.99

For further information please contact:

Press Contact:Dyson Press Officeuspr@dyson.com(312) 237-3972# # #

Notes to Editors:

Prototyping: 24 engineers across two continents worked on DC47. 20 prototype cyclone packs were developed, each tested for efficiency of dust separation.

Inside the ball: There are over 100 components arranged in a perfect configuration in the ball including the motor, ducting and 16 feet of cable.

Patents: To date, there are 55 patents and 65 patents pending relating to DC47 technology. There are also 29 registered designs and 30 pending registered design applications.

Hygienic bin emptying: DC47 has a trigger-bin emptying system. So with the press of a button, dust and dirt can be emptied directly into the bin.

Bin capacity: DC47 can hold up to 0.15 gallons of dust and dirt.

Size: 17.6 inches (length) x 8.7 inches (width) x 11.5 inches (height).

Weight: The DC47 weighs 13.84 pounds

Warranty: The machine comes with a five year parts and labor warranty.

About Dyson: One third Dyson people are engineers and scientists. Dyson has in-house expertise in fluid, mechanical, electrical, EMC, thermal, chemical, acoustic and software engineering and is thought to be the only vacuum cleaner manufacturer with an in-house microbiology team.

Dyson invests over £1.3 million a week on research and development; this will increase by 20% a year for the next five years. Dyson has doubled the number of engineers employed at the Wiltshire RDD headquarters in the past two years.

Show full PR textSmall and mightyDC50: Concentrated Dyson technology
DC50 is a compact vacuum with the performance of a full-sized upright. It is mounted on a ball for maneuverability and a self-adjusting cleaner head maintains constant suction at the cleaner head, across all floor types.

James Dyson: "Dyson engineers have concentrated our patented technology. The brief was to produce a small, efficient, powerful machine that performed like a full-size one."

1859 prototypes of the machine were created by over 100 Dyson engineers over three years. They miniaturized each component, questioning materials used as well as size, and efficiency. The cyclone pack acts as an integral part of the machine's structure and by eliminating ducting around the ball they have streamlined the machine's profile, making it more maneuverable.

2 Tier Radial™ cyclone technology:Dyson's 2 Tier Radial™ cyclones capture more microscopic dust. Every angle of each airway is honed to ensure microscopic particles are spun out of the airflow and captured in the bin.

Advanced cleaner head technology:A direct drive motor sits inside the brush bar lowering the cleaner head profile and making it easier to clean under furniture. The self-adjusting base plate adapts to the floor surface, providing constant suction at the cleaner head, whatever the floor type.

Carbon fiber:DC50 is the first Dyson upright vacuum cleaner with patented carbon fiber brush bar technology. On carpets the stiff nylon bristles remove dirt. On hard floors the ultra-fine antistatic carbon fiber filaments remove fine dust.

Maneuverable:DC50 uses third-generation ball technology making it highly maneuverable in the tightest of spaces. The concentrated technology and carefully selected materials mean that DC50 weighs just 11.6 pounds.

Availability: DC50 Animal is available beginning May 13th, 2013.

Cost: $499.99

For further information please contact:

Press Contact:Dyson Press Officeuspr@dyson.com(312) 237-3972

# # #

Notes to Editors

Research, Design and Development: DC50 is the result of three years' intensive R&D by a team of over 100 Dyson engineers.

Patents: There are currently 137 patents and 140 patent applications worldwide which relate to technology used on DC50.

Testing: DC50 was subjected to 550 tests over 50,000 hours. During development a Dyson vacuum will be dropped onto a hard floor 5,318 times. It will run 847 miles on a turntable rig; the equivalent of being pushed from the Dyson Headquarters in Malmesbury, Wiltshire to Valencia, Spain.

Warranty: The machine comes with a five year parts and labor warranty.

Hygienic bin emptying: DC50 has a trigger-bin emptying system. So dust and dirt can be emptied with the press of a button.

Bin capacity: The machine can hold up to 0.21 gallons of dust and dirt.

Weight: The DC50 weighs 11.6 pounds.

Size: 42 inches (length) x 14 inches (width) x 11 inches (height)

About Dyson: One third Dyson people are engineers and scientists. Dyson has in-house expertise in fluid, mechanical, electrical, EMC, thermal, chemical, acoustic and software engineering and is thought to be the only vacuum cleaner manufacturer with an in-house microbiology team.

Dyson invests over £1.3 million a week on research and development; this will increase by 20% a year for the next five years. Dyson has doubled the number of engineers employed at the UK, Wiltshire RDD headquarters in the past two years.


