
  Lest you thought its previous 'City' endeavors were the pinnacle of diminutive bag-less suction, here comes Dyson with the DC39. Previously available elsewhere, the British company's latest canister will soon sashay into the US for a cool $499. That's a sizable wad of cash, yet that investment nets you access to a diminutive vacuum stuffed with the company's 'Ball' technology -- enabling a teensy unit already capable of a lot of suck to be infinitely more maneuverable. That's apparently no small feat, as it took seventy engineers more than three years to stuff over a hundred components into that spherical derriere. Those interested can look for it mid-March -- for the rest of us, PR and a cutaway of its insides await after the break.
      

 

   Show full PR text  No more awkward moves: the first Dyson Ball™ canister Latest technology sits on a ball for smooth steering  Engineered to follow faithfully, DC39 is Dyson's first canister vacuum with Ball™ technology for stable maneuvering around the tightest corners.  Canister cleaners are often awkward to steer and can topple. They lurch into furniture, veer off at tangents and may be difficult to pull. Like an errant shopping cart, their crude casters drift across hard floors and get buried in carpets – more force is needed to keep them on track. And reliant on bags – they can lose suction, too.  Sitting on a ball, DC39 has a lower center of gravity and is easier to pull without snagging on corners or the carpet pile. Coupled with a unique central steering system, it uses an articulating chassis and central pivot point for negotiating tight turns and circumnavigating sofas. And equipped with Dyson's Radial Root Cyclone™ technology, it captures more microscopic dust than any other.  James Dyson: "We thrive on engineering challenges, and our first Dyson Ball™ canister posed quite a few. Cramming over 100 components into the ball itself. Compressing the airways, concealing the motor and ducting and devising a new steering mechanism. We've miniaturized the technology to deliver our most maneuverable canister vacuum yet."  Radial Root Cyclone™ technology Other vacuum cleaners still rely on bags, losing suction over time. Dyson has been continually refining vacuum cyclone technology since inventing it more than 20 years ago. Every angle of each airway is honed to ensure microscopic particles – as tiny as .5 microns or 1/5,000th of a pin head - are spun out of the airflow and captured in the bin.  Acoustical engineering With airflow inside the inner cyclones generating in excess of 100,000 G – Dyson's acoustics team were challenged to minimize the sound and vibration of high speed dirt. Testing in Dyson's semi anechoic chamber resulted in a redesigned motor casing and vents to fine tune airflow.  DC39 Multi floor and DC39 Animal will be available at www.dyson.com and most major retailers from mid-March, 2012, and costs $449.99 and $499.99 respectively.
 