
 
E Ink Triton. That's the name we should all start getting used to as E Ink Holdings has just officially announced its first color electronic paper display. It was only yesterday that we learned Hanvon would be the first to bring the newly colorized e-reading panels to the market, so today the eponymous E Ink display maker has seen fit to dish out its own press release, catchy title, and even a handy explanatory video. The key points are that the new Triton stuff will offer 20 percent faster performance, sunlight-readable imaging, and up to a month's battery life. That would suggest there's almost no sacrifice in endurance relative to E Ink's monochromatic screens already on offer in things like Amazon's Kindle, which sounds all kinds of righteous to us. Skip past the break to get better acquainted with the Triton.
      

 

Show full PR textE Ink Announces Color ePaperE Ink color ePaper displays enabled by Triton Imaging Film will deliver high-contrast, sunlight readable, low-power performance that will revolutionize the market.FPD International 2010MAKUHARI MESSE, Japan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--E Ink® Holdings Inc., the leader in electronic paper display technology, today announced the release of its next generation display technology, E Ink Triton. Triton enables color ePaper solutions, enhancing the visual experience for ePublishing markets."E Ink Triton marks a major milestone in the eBook revolution," said Hanvon's Chairmain Dr. Liu Yingjian. "E Ink has the right technology, manufacturing capability, and know-how to transition Hanvon's product vision into reality. With E Ink Triton technology, Hanvon is enabled to release the world's first color eBook reader today.""E Ink Triton is a response to market need for a color ePaper display that mimics the printed paper experience," said Scott Liu, Chairman of E Ink Holdings. "Triton will compliment our monochrome product line to enable new markets.""Color ePaper will enable richer content in eBooks, as well as enabling a broader array of other reading devices, for content such as magazines, newspapers, and educational materials," according to Paul Semenza, Senior Vice President, DisplaySearch. "We foresee market demand for ePaper displays in these applications reaching $5 billion by 2016."Enhanced with ColorFor image-rich information applications showing charts, graphs, maps, photos, comics and advertising, color displays made with Triton Imaging Film enable ultra-low power and high mobility devices with a paper-like experience. In addition to 16 levels of grayscale, Triton is capable of displaying thousands of colors. And just like E Ink's grayscale ePaper products, Triton's crisp text and detailed color graphics are fully viewable in direct sunlight.Faster PerformanceDisplays made with Triton, as well as the recently launched Pearl, can perform up to 20 percent faster than those made with previous generations of E Ink Imaging Film. Whether turning a page, selecting a menu, taking notes, or viewing simple animations, Triton's update performance will satisfy today's user-interface product needs. This expands the ePaper experience and displays more dynamic content for signage or advertising.Proven TechnologyThe E Ink Triton design leverages the patented two pigment capsule platform found in millions of E Ink enabled eBooks. This technology offers unparalleled image stability; pictures and text can be maintained on the screen even when the power is turned off. With this proven bi-stable technology, devices using E Ink Imaging Film have demonstrated both long life and high reliability, leading to the development of a whole new class of consumer products over the past few years.About E Ink Holdings Inc.Founded in 1992 by Taiwan's leading papermaking and printing group YFY (1907.TW), E Ink Holdings Inc. "E Ink" (8069.TW) is the pioneer TFT and ePaper business in Taiwan. Its corporate philosophy aims to deliver revolutionary products, user experiences, and environmental benefits through advanced technology development. This vision has led to its continuous investments in the field of ePaper display as well as its 2008 acquisition of Hydis Technologies, manufacturer of the world's best wide viewing angle LCDs and its 2009 acquisition of E Ink Corp., the worldwide leader in ePaper. Listed in Taiwan's OTC market and the Luxembourg market, E Ink is now the world's largest supplier of displays to the eBook market.
 