
We meet again, E3. Festivities around the 2015 Electronic Entertainment Expo kick off on Sunday, June 14th, with Bethesda's first-ever E3 press conference at 7PM PT. We're expecting more news about Fallout 4, footage of the new Doom, maybe something about Dishonored and information about Elder Scrolls Online. Then, the real fun begins on Monday with showcases from Microsoft, EA, Ubisoft and Sony. But wait, there's more! E3 itself opens up on Tuesday, June 16th and runs through Thursday, June 18th, and we'll have plenty of interviews, hands-on experiences and breaking news directly from the show floor. Keep track of the week with the full conference schedule below. Welcome to E3 2015:



Sunday, June 14thNintendo World Championships | 3PM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: A beautiful brawl as the Nintendo World Championships return for the first time since 1990

Bethesda showcase | 7PM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Fallout 4, Elder Scrolls Online, Doom, Dishonored, surprises

Monday, June 15thXbox showcase | 9:30AM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Halo 5: Guardians, Rise of the Tomb Raider, Forza Motorsport 6, Oculus Rift and Windows 10 information, Below, Minecraft, surprises

EA showcase | 1PM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Mirror's Edge Catalyst, Star Wars Battlefront, Need for Speed, FIFA 16, Madden NFL 16, Mass Effect 4, surprises

Ubisoft showcase | 2:45PM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Assassin's Creed Syndicate, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege, Tom Clancy's The Division, Aisha Tyler, surprises

Sony showcase | 6PM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Ratchet & Clank, Uncharted 4: A Thief's End, Tearaway Unfolded, The Last of Us 2, Wild, Abzu, No Man's Sky, Morpheus news, The Witness, too many indie games to count, surprises

Tuesday, June 16thNintendo live event | 9AM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Mario Maker, The Legend of Zelda on Wii U, Hyrule Warriors on 3DS, mobile games, the new NX console, Bravely Second, Fire Emblem, Shin Megami Tensei x Fire Emblem, third-party announcements, surprises

Square Enix showcase | 9AM PT | Live stream on Twitch
What we expect: Rise of the Tomb Raider, Deus Ex: Mankind Divided, Kingdom Hearts 3, Life is Strange, Final Fantasy XV, Just Cause 3, Bravely Second, surprises

Tuesday, June 16th - Thursday, June 18thMadness | All day | The Los Angeles Convention Center

E3 always promises a feast of information, trailers and new gaming experiences -- plus, of course, plenty of surprises. Last year, we played Alien: Isolation on Oculus Rift and acted a fool, and we also had a great chat with Oculus CEO Brendan Iribe. We played so many games -- most of which hadn't launched yet, and some of which still haven't. We talked with industry leaders and innovative creators. We took pictures of this perfectly normal dude.

This year, we're looking forward to playing even more games and chatting with even more developers and producers. We'll have a lineup of liveblogs for the biggest, most interesting showcases. The current console generation is finally hitting its stride, while virtual reality is driving conversations across the industry. E3 2015 should be one to remember. Join us right here, all week, for all of the news direct from the show.


