
 The UK's first 4G network continues to expand coverage, this time extending its catchment to more than 65 towns and cities in total. New LTE locales include the likes of Oxford, Stevenage, Guildford and... Blackpool (check the full list of towns after the break) with EE announcing that it currently covers 45 percent of the UK population -- setting up in big cities will do that. This new roll-out should bring it up to 55 percent later this year, although around the same time it'll finally see some healthy competition for 4G customers from Three.


  Show full PR text    EE, the UK's most advanced digital communications company, today announced that 4G will be switched on in a further 27 towns across the country by June 2013, expanding superfast coverage to more than 65 UK towns and cities in total.

   The 4G rollout, which offers customers speeds up to five times faster than 3G, is proving a huge success with UK businesses, including Addison Lee, Foxtons, Gatwick Airport, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Kier, Microsoft, Morrisons, Sony Music, TNT Post and Urban Outfitters, who are already reaping the benefits of increased efficiencies and productivity both in and out of the office.

   Olaf Swantee, Chief Executive Officer, EE, said:

   "Our business customers want a 4G network that covers the markets in which they operate, and that is exactly what we are building for them – and at a phenomenal rate. We're set to cover more than half of the UK population by Summer, staying ahead of the schedule that we set for ourselves at launch, and continuing to demonstrate the amazing value of 4G mobile to many organisations with different challenges and different needs."

   Between April and June, 4G will be launched in Aldershot, Ashford, Basildon, Basingstoke, Blackpool, Bracknell, Camberley, Colchester, Crawley, Farnborough, Guildford, Horsham, Huddersfield, Leatherhead, Maidstone, Milton Keynes, Oldham, Oxford, Redhill, Reigate, Sevenoaks, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Royal Tunbridge Wells, Warrington, Wigan and Woking.

   The EE 4G network currently covers 45% of the UK population, and is forecast to increase to more than 55% by summer, as the network grows to cover more than 65 towns and cities as well as much of the suburban and rural areas that surround them. At the end of January, nine new 4G towns were switched on, and this week 4G coverage from EE, the UK's largest mobile operator, landed in Newbury – the 28th live 4G town.

 
