
 
 We've seen the speeds, we know the handsets and now we know how much it'll cost you to be among the first to try 4G in the UK. EE has outlined its contract and handset pricing from October 30th, with all of the bundles including unlimited calls and texts. Yep, the new carrier is breaking it down by data, with its entry-level 500MB bundle starting at £36 for 24 months. You'll have to make an initial payment for most handsets, although the Ascend P1 will be free from the 1GB bundle upwards. Data allowances go up to 8GB for £56 per month, although users can add even more, with an extra 50MB costing £3, or up to 4GB for £20.

 
 Now, if you're looking to get Apple's latest on 4G, it'll set you back at least £20 on the highest data plan. Already got your LTE-ready iPhone 5? Then you'll have to wait until 9th November, when the network will start offering SIM-only 12-month plans priced from £21. The 4G network will also offer its phones on 12 month contracts for an additional £10 on top of the prices shown above. EE will let users who bought comparable non-4G versions in the last six months (like the One X or Galaxy S III) to exchange their devices for a one-off payment of £100. Alongside the all these pricing details, the Orange/ T-Mobile team-up also spilled the beans on some service features for its new customers -- and we've got it all covered after the break, including a quick hands-on with its Film store service.



 
 Starting with its £41 rate, customers will get to pick an extra media service from three different options. These encompass a free streaming music service from Deezer, two games a month from Gameloft's collection or live mobile TV which will launch in November with "up to" 20 channels of streaming content from the likes of Eurosport, Channel 4, the BBC and even Cartoon Network. While you'll only get to choose one of the services, you'll apparently be able to change which one you go for every 30 days.

 Another new service from the 4G network is the Film store, which will offer users a free movie to stream or download every week until the end of February 2013 -- also folding in a 2 for 1 cinema ticket deal identical to Orange Wednesdays. A new Clone Phone app will simplify back-ups, with a free 500MB service able to sync at least some of your contacts and media. This is also upgradeable for a monthly fee, with the maximum £6 per month (dependent on handset) adding insurance and ensuring a replacement handset gets sent to you within 24 hours.

 If you're gearing up for EE's fiber broadband offering, then you can combine it with a 4G contract and save up to £120 on the total. Prices for broadband will start at £15 per month (plus £14 line rental) at 38Mb/s with a data allowance of 40GB. Increase that up to £25 per month for unlimited data at speeds of up to 76Mb/s.

 We'll be trying out the UK's first 4G service as soon as the first review handsets arrive, but until then, take a look at the official presser below.

  Show full PR text   EE TO LAUNCH SUPERFAST SPEEDS, EXCITING NEW  SERVICES, SIMPLE PRICING & EXPERT SUPPORT FOR  CONSUMERS & BUSINESSES ON 30th OCTOBER
   • Superfast speeds: EE delivers superfast speeds, five times faster than 3G,  and typically ten times faster in homes and offices with fibre broadband

   • Exciting new services: EE Film provides customers a one-stop shop for film,  combining 2-for-1 cinema ticketing, listings, trailers and film downloads or  streaming into one place. EE Film also offers 'pause & play' functionality  between mobile and PC with the largest catalogue of new releases compared  to similar providers. The new Clone Phone insurance service replaces your  device and digital content in under 24 hours

   • Simple pricing for the digital age: Unlimited calls and texts as standard on  your mobile; customers simply select their data allowance, starting from just  £36 per month for consumers and £35 (excl VAT) for businesses, with built-in  cost control tools

   • Expert Support: Fast track service for all customers, plus access to  approximately 10,000 experts on the high street, on the phone and online  23rd October 2012. London. EE, the UK's most advanced digital  communications company, today unveiled the pricing and plans for its new  superfast Fibre Broadband and 4G services, designed for 21st century  consumers and businesses alike.

   The UK's first 4G mobile service will launch on Tuesday October 30th, offering  consumers and businesses a new way to access the people, places and  things they want on the move, with speeds typically five times faster than 3G.

   EE will also launch its new fixed-line fibre service for the home and offices,  with speeds typically ten times faster than today's standard broadband plans.  The delivery of increased speeds and connectivity has inspired the  development of EE's first next-generation digital services, such as EE Film  and EE's new device and digital content replacement services.

   Olaf Swantee, CEO of EE, said: "We're proud to be leading the way and  pioneering the roll out of 4G in the UK. With our new brand and unique 4G  and fibre services, we will deliver consumers and businesses across the  country next-generation services and a superior level of support.

   "Our new plans have been developed to offer our customers everything they  have been asking for – superfast performance, choice and value – as well as  a fresh approach to pricing and customer service that offers accessibility,  flexibility and guidance every step of the way."

   The launch of the EE brand will be backed by a multi-million pound marketing  campaign across TV, print and digital media channels.

   Superfast speeds

   EE will be the first company in the UK to launch a mobile 4G service, along  with its new fixed-line fibre broadband service. It will be called 4GEE and will  offer speeds five times faster than 3G, and speeds typically ten times faster  than currently available in homes and offices.

   EE will be available to buy nationwide, with the 4GEE service going live  initially across ten cities on 30th October3. The company has an aggressive  4G rollout plan in place with six further cities coming online in the run up to  Christmas, with further cities and rural locations planned for 2013, and 98% of  the population due to be covered by the end of 2014.

   Once achieved, this will be the fastest rollout of any UK network in history.  EE's Fibre Broadband service, available to both consumers and businesses,  will be available in 11 million premises nationally with plans starting at just £15  per month.

   Smart new services

   The launch of superfast mobile and fixed speeds by EE will inspire the birth of  revolutionary and exciting new services for business and consumers.  The first such service is EE Film, the only service in the UK which combines  2-for-1 cinema ticketing, listings, trailers and film downloads or streaming in  one place. The Film Store presents the largest catalogue of new releases  available in the UK, with more than five times the number of new releases  than other similar providers, and more than 700 films available in total.

   EE customers will be able to watch a film of their choice on their mobile, on  their PC or even on their TV (via their laptop). Pause & Play also allows  customers to view the film on one device, such as their smartphone, pause it,  then pick it up on another device, such as their laptop.

   4GEE customers will able to download or stream a film, each week, on EE,  without impacting their data allowance. Further films can be downloaded or  streamed with prices starting at 79p, and the cost can be charged to  customers' mobile bill, or credit and debit cards.

   Simple pricing for the digital consumer

   4GEE phone plans will offer customers a wide selection of simple smartphone  and mobile broadband plans, putting the customer in control by combining a  range of data options with unlimited UK calls and texts. Data allowances start  with the light data usage entry plan, offering 500MB (£36/pm) and extending  up to 8GB (£56/pm) for the heavier data user.

   Data controls will alert customers when they are approaching the data  allowance limit, and then when their limit is reached. They can then choose to  buy a data add-on, or wait until the next bill period starts.  All customers will be able to tether or use VoIP services as part of their plan –  with no need to buy specific data add-ons. BT Wi-fi is also included in all  plans at no extra cost, providing on-demand access to millions of wireless  hotspots across the UK.

   For just £5 more a month, customers will be able to take their unlimited voice  and text allowance abroad with them, in Europe and selected countries in the  rest of the world4, as well as access to special data add-ons offering  significant value on data use while abroad.

   New Fibre Broadband and 4GEE plans for Business

   Small business customers will have a range of 4GEE phone plans, with data  allowances of 1GB including unlimited UK calls and texts starting from £35/pm  (excl. VAT). Companies can also reduce costs by choosing the new 4GEE  Sharer Plan, which allows sharing of data allowances across all users and  devices within their business, plus inclusive calls to colleagues and landlines.  EE also provides medium sized, public sector and corporate customers with a  range of dedicated 4GEE plans from an additional £3 a month on top of their  existing or new package, as well as added services including security and  mobile application development. Data share plans are also available for these  companies, with the added benefit of increased spend control through  reduced out-of-bundle rates for data, and spending caps ranging from £50-  £200.

   Olaf Swantee commented: "UK Businesses have shown considerable interest  since our 4G launch intentions were announced. We hope that our new 4G  plans and services will make us the most exciting digital communications  business partner to work with in the UK."

   EE Consumer Fibre Broadband plans

   EE's Fibre Broadband will offer speeds typically up to ten times faster than the  UK average. Ideal for households or small businesses with multiple devices,  EE Fibre broadband offers maximum download speeds of 76Mbps – allowing  customers to stream HDTV, play online games, watch films on demand or  quickly upload or download large files. Plans start from £15 per month5, with  off-peak calls and a free BrightBox router included as standard.

   4GEE customers save £5 per month when taking EE's Fibre Broadband  product for the entire length of their phone plan – offering savings of up to  £1206. Orange and T-Mobile customers can also benefit, allowing them to  enjoy EE Fibre Broadband in the home or office at reduced rates.

   Expert service

   EE customers can expect a superior level of service on the high street, on the  phone and online, with a significant new service approach and services  designed to give customers peace of mind.  10,000 EE experts have been trained to serve and sell to customers in a new  way, designed around specific handset types.  If an EE customer wants to speak to an expert at one our customer centres,  they can fast-track the automated call system by first connecting, then dialling  33, to get connected directly to an expert.  EE also operates customer services on social networks Twitter and Facebook.  A number of new services, fit for the digital world, have also been developed  to provide peace of mind for new EE customers.  Clone Phone: Clone Phone from EE securely backs up data such as  contacts, calendar and content (customers' own photos and videos) via an  App, which provides an easy way to restore your content if a phone is lost,  stolen or broken. It means you don't just get your handset back, but you get  your digital life back too.

   Repair & Loan Phone: Repair and Loan Phone provide a convenient way to  arrange a repair in store8 and stay in touch in the meantime. All customers will  be provided with a replacement phone, and phones will be repaired and  returned within 14 days. Small business customers benefit from next day  replacement for any faulty phone.

   Transforming the high-street

   From the 30th October, all existing Everything Everywhere, Orange and TMobile  stores will become newly branded EE stores.

   4G Ready

   EE will be offering a simple process for Orange and T-Mobile customers  who've already purchased a 4G ready handset, to swap to 4G, at no  additional cost.

 
