
EE's 4G may grab the headlines, but the company's also offering land line phone and internet services with a (Kevin) Bacony-twist. Now, the network is coaxing existing customers away from rival ISPs like Virgin and BT with six new unlimited broadband and call packages. The £5-per-month basic tier will give you unlimited ADSL and weekend calls, while bluer bloods can fork out £29 a month to get unlimited fiber (up to speeds of 76 Mbps), unlimited calls to landlines and 1,000 free mobile minutes each week. We've added a chart for comparison after the break, assuming you don't reach for your wallet every time you see a product pitched by the guy from Footloose.



    Weekend Calls Anytime and Mobile Calls     Broadband (Unlimited, up to 14 Mbps) £5 £12   Fiber (Unlimited, up to 38 Mbps) £15 £22   Fiber Plus (Unlimited, up to 76 Mbps) £25 £29  Show full PR textEE INTRODUCES UK'S BEST VALUE UNLIMITED FIBRE BROADBAND & CALLS PACKAGE FOR CUSTOMERS
· EE customers can now get unlimited fibre and inclusive weekend landline calls from just £15 per month - the UK's best value fibre and calls package (at up to 38 Mbps)

· New price point forms part of EE's wider home broadband plan refresh designed to reward mobile customers with great value unlimited broadband and calls

11th JUNE, 2013 – EE, the UK's most advanced digital communications company, today launched a range of new unlimited home broadband and call plans designed to make it as simple as possible for customers to choose a great value bundle to meet their needs.

Available immediately across all EE channels including retail shops and online, customers can now choose between one of six unlimited home broadband packages - with the entry level bundle starting from just £5 per month plus line rental. All customers need to do is to choose how fast they want their broadband (between a choice of up to 14 Mbps over standard broadband or up to 38 and up to 76 Mbps over superfast fibre), as well as whether they require only 'weekend calls' or an abundance of calls included in their plan ('anytime and mobile calls') for only £7 more a month.

Plans with unlimited weekend calls include 0845 and 0870 numbers and for those who want a more inclusive home phone calling option, 'anytime and mobile calls' covers unlimited anytime calls to UK landlines and 30 international landline destinations, plus 1,000 anytime minutes to all UK mobiles.

EE's fibre broadband service now covers more than 50% of UK households and offers speeds typically ten times faster than today's average broadband speeds**. Fibre broadband from EE allows customers to stream films in HD with plenty of broadband left for the whole family to play games, browse their favourite online shops, or chat to their friends on Facebook - all at the same time. Unlimited Fibre Broadband and calls plans now start from £15 per month plus line rental, making it the best monthly price in the UK for this speed, up to 38 Mbps. What's more, until the end of June mobile customers can try Fibre for free for the first 3 months – all they have to pay for is line rental and out of bundle call charges if they make any.

The refresh is part of EE's commitment to offer the best value home broadband packages for mobile customers. All plans come with a year of McAfee Family Protection, EE's award-winning Bright Box wireless router, and access to a great range of EE benefits, including 2-4-1 cinema tickets as part of EE Film.

Sylvain Thevenot, Director of Home Marketing and Propositions, EE said: "With summer holidays fast approaching and the whole family looking to get online, it's more important than ever that people have a superfast broadband connection to help keep harmony within the household. With our new best value unlimited fibre plans, we are not only making fibre broadband more affordable, but also making sure everyone can enjoy the Internet at the highest possible speed even when connected at the same time."


