
Before other carriers in the UK get their 4G networks up and running, EE's looking to bolster its customer base by tempting you with an LTE fling, rather than a long-term relationship. The network already has 12-month SIM-only plans available if you don't need a device, but today has launched 30-day SIM-only options for the commitment-phobic. That freedom comes with a £2 mark-up per month over the year-long plans, however: the cheapest option rings up at £23 every 30 days for 500MB of data, with a maximum cost of £63 for 20GB. Every price tier comes with unlimited texts and calls as standard, and if you're intrigued by a no-strings-attached trial month, you can snag a SIM at stores, online, or over the phone right now.



Show full PR textEE LAUNCHES UK'S FIRST 30-DAY SIM ONLY 4G PLANS29th May. London. EE, the UK's most advanced digital communications company, today launched a range of 30-day 4GEE SIM Only plans, providing yet another way for customers to access 4G on the move.EE's superfast 4G offers a revolutionary mobile internet experience, delivering speeds typically five times faster than 3G*. The power of 4G enables consumers to push the limits of their devices even further, allowing them to download, stream and browse the content they want, quicker than ever before.Available in-store, via the EE online shop and EE telesales, the new plans complement EE's existing 12-month 4GEE SIM Only plans, providing an increasingly flexible way for customers to access 4G. The new plans start from £23 per month, and come with unlimited UK calls and texts. All customers have to do is choose a 4G data option to suit their needs.

Simeon Bird, Director of Propositions at EE, said: "It's our ambition to provide consumers with the most comprehensive range of 4GEE plans possible. With these new 30-day options, we're pleased to be providing an even more flexible way to access 4G."In addition to superfast speeds, EE customers will also benefit from:

· EE Film – the UK film service that combines 2 for 1 cinema ticketing, listings, trailers, film downloads and streaming in one place· A discount of £5 per month on EE superfast Fibre Broadband – so they can get blistering speeds at home and on the move4G from EE is the first and only superfast 4G mobile service in the UK, and will cover 98% of the UK's homes and businesses by the end of 2014. Double-speed 4G will be introduced to the following ten cities by summer: Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester and Sheffield.For further information and full details of EE's new price plans, please visit www.ee.co.uk.


