
 
How's that Apple tattoo treating you? Good, good. Well, Elgato has something for the faithful: the new EyeTV HD. The device grabs a 1080i signal over component from your DVR or cable box or Blu-ray player, and records that video to your Mac using Elgato's own desktop DVR software. The shows can then be auto-transcoded to iPhone or iPad-friendliness, providing you a bit of much needed Animal Planet during your commute the next day. That's all well and good, but the real kicker is the live streaming the device can push to your iPad or iPhone, using an IR blaster to change the channel on your cable box. It's all rosy except for the fact that you'll need to plug this directly into your Mac and your cable box, meaning that they'll have to be in fairly close proximity (there's a six foot USB cable included). The unit retails for $200 and is available now directly from Elgato or Apple stores. PR is after the break.

We haven't plugged in the box yet, but we played around with Elgato's setup using an iPad 3G and found it pretty impressive. The streaming quality isn't really at, say, a Netflix level (it's more suited to a phone screen), but it's certainly passable, and the interface for browsing your own channels and recordings is very pleasant. We also loved the inclusion of meta data and chapters in the recorded shows and movies that had been loaded onto the device (you can check that out in the gallery below). Elgato might've just released the most elegant "analog hole" yet. 



 


Show full PR textElgato Debuts EyeTV HD – The Ultimate DVR for High Definition TVFull-featured DVR captures television, including premium channels, from cable or satellite receivers and delivers it live to Macs in full HDUpdated EyeTV 3.4 software will enable streaming of live or recorded TV on Apple's® iPadSan Francisco, Calif. - (May 24, 2010) – Today, Elgato debuted the world's only DVR solution which provides full access to premium cable or satellite TV content on a Mac – EyeTV HD. Customers can now watch record, edit and enjoy cable and satellite in high- definition, including all their premium channels. EyeTV HD includes a unique dual- format capture mode that records in iPad and iPhone formats at the same time, allowing users to stream live and recorded TV to an iPhone or iPad using the optional EyeTV app.Easy SetupEyeTV HD is a breeze to setup and use; simply connect EyeTV HD to the outputs of the cable or satellite receiver with the included component cables, and to the computer via USB. Then position the included infrared channel changer cable nearby. The EyeTV software setup assistant takes you through a simple configuration process and in just a few minutes you'll be enjoying all your premium content like never before.Unique dual-format capture modeEyeTV HD also has a unique dual-format capture mode so that you can record in iPad and iPhone formats at the same time. EyeTV HD enables super-fast exports to iTunes from EyeTV. It is also possible to stream live TV, including high definition TV, to iPad or iPhone, using the optional EyeTV for iPhone/iPad app.Superb quality digital TV recordingsEyeTV HD records in the pristine H.264 format for a crystal clear, high-definition digital picture. The H.264 format delivers beautiful image quality and a superb compression ratio, which produces smaller file size when compared to MPEG-2 recordings. H.264 can match the best possible MPEG-2 quality at up to half the data rate.Capture HD and SD video from a camcorder or VCREyeTV HD can capture video from analog and digital sources such as a VCR or a camcorder. EyeTV HD includes component inputs for HD sources, as well as S-Video and composite inputs for standard definition sources. Simply connect the video source to your computer using the included breakout cable, then watch and even record the picture on your computer as an EyeTV recording.Archive recordingsEyeTV HD also comes with Toast Basic disc-burning software so you can archive your favorite movies and TV shows and save space on your hard drive.Award-winning softwareEyeTV HD comes with EyeTV 3, the award-winning TV software for Mac. Watch, pause, and rewind live TV – at the desk or on the couch. Search the Program Guide using multiple criteria, and record one show or create Smart Series Guides to record the entire season of a TV series. Edit recordings, and share them with other Macs on the network. EyeTV can even export TV shows to iTunes automatically for playback on iPhone or iPad.EyeTV 3 includes one year of free data from TV Guide, with optional renewal for only US$19.95 per year. An optional EyeTV app is available to stream live or recorded TV to an iPhone or iPad. Smart Series Guide functionality requires a TV Guide subscription.System Requirements Macintosh: 2.26 GHz Intel Core® 2 Duo processor or better, Mac OS X v10.5.8 or later 2 GB RAM, built-in USB 2.0 port Cable or satellite receiver with analog video and audio outputs (component output required for HD) Internet connection required to download Program Guide data.What's In The Box: EyeTV HD recorder EyeTV 3 TV software for Mac (CD- ROM) Infrared remote control with battery pack EyeTV infrared channel changer USB cable (6 ft) Component video cable (6 ft) Stereo audio cables (6 ft) Breakout cable for composite and S- Video inputs PDF product manual (CD-ROM) Quick start guideAvailabilityEyeTV HD is available from the Elgato Online Store (www.elgato.com) and from the Apple Store at a price of US $199.95.About ElgatoElgato produces award-winning TV software together with a complete range of TV tuners and capture devices to watch, record, and edit TV and HDTV on Macs and PCs. Elgato is the home of EyeTV, the world's leading television solution for Mac computers. Elgato also produces a variety of world-class H.264 video conversion and streaming products. Elgato is privately held with offices in Munich, Germany and San Francisco, California.
 