
 
 Elgato is releasing the Game Capture HD, a device that lets game-casters and YouTube walkthrough mavens shed low-resolution, over-the-shoulder smartphone footage once and for all. The sleek black box sits between console and display, enabling gamers to record their speed runs and kill records for the world to see. Xbox 360 users can daisy-chain the gear into their HDMI set-up, while PS3 users will have to use the bundled AV cable to circumvent Sony's stronger copy protection. The footage will then be compressed with the company's H.264 know-how and pushed to your PC or Mac for uploading. When it arrives at the start of June, it'll set you back $200 -- just giving you enough time to get practicing your soothing and confident narration voice.



  Show full PR text   Elgato Game Capture HD: Record and share your gameplay with ease
  Munich, May 21, 2012 - Elgato announces Game Capture HD, a simple and stylish solution for recording and sharing PlayStation or Xbox gameplay using a Mac or PC. With Elgato Game Capture HD, gameplay videos are easier to record, edit and share than ever before thanks to its innovative hardware design, powerful H.264 encoder, and software that is specifically tailored to gamers needs. Elgato Game Capture HD will be available from June 1st for $199.95.

   Advanced hardware  "Gameplay videos created on the Mac or PC are reporting explosive growth, especially on YouTube," says Adam Steinberg, Vice President Marketing at Elgato. "Elgato Game Capture HD offers the community an unrivalled and efficient way to create gameplay videos in maximum quality with minimum effort. It brings together years of video-encoding and editing experience."

   Thanks to the most advanced H.264 hardware encoding technology, Elgato Game Capture HD records in breath-taking HD quality - all without burdening the hard disk with large files. At the same time, gameplay is passed through to the TV via HDMI - in pristine quality and without delay. Elgato Game Capture HD doesn't need a lot of cables or even a power supply - the hardware connects directly to the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3 using a single cable.

   Tailored to gamers  Elgato Game Capture HD lets gamers focus on what matters, instead of constantly concerning themselves with the recording technology. Thanks to the unique Flashback Recording feature, Elgato Game Capture HD remembers the gameplay that has preceded it, even if the record button wasn't pressed. The gamer can then simply revert to the start of the scene they want to record and begin recording retroactively. What's more, Elgato Game Capture HD allows for social interaction and sharing. With just a single click, videos can be shared with friends and fans on YouTube, Facebook or Twitter. And with Elgato Game Capture HD software, it's even possible to trim gameplay videos for later editing using a video-editing program.

   What's in the box & requirements  Elgato Game Capture HD comes with a Quick Start Guide, a USB cable, an HDMI cable, and a PlayStation 3 cable. It accepts the input of Xbox 360 (unencrypted HDMI) and PlayStation 3 (A/V In) video signals at 480p, 576p, 720p, and 1080i. Mac OS X 10.7 and a 2.0GHz Intel Core 2 Duo CPU are required for use on a Mac. On a PC, Windows 7, a 2.0GHz Dual-Core CPU, a sound card, 4GB RAM, and a USB 2.0 port are required. Elgato Game Capture HD software is available to download.

   Pricing, availability & VIP units  Elgato Game Capture HD will be available from the start of June from Elgato (www.elgato.com), Amazon (www.amazon.com/dp/B00840353W), and selected retailers for $199.95. YouTube directors with their own gameplay channel can now apply for VIP status and request a test device by visiting facebook.com/elgatogaming. Visit www.gamecapture.com for a selection of beta-tester demo videos, product-availability info, and additional news about Elgato Game Capture HD.

 
