
 


Elgato's decided to go back to its FireWire-roots with two new high capacity Thunderbolt-totin' SSDs. The 5.2 x 3.3-inch drives have a transfer speed of 270MB/s, drawing power from the port and promising silent operation for when you need to access data during those quiet winter nights. It's available next month: the 120GB edition costing you $420, the 240GB edition topping out at a pricier $700 and we've got a (thunder)bolt load of more information for you after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD – The first ultra-portable high-speed storage solution featuring Thunderbolt technology  Munich, 9 January, 2012 – Lightning-fast, reliable and completely silent – Elgato today announces the Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD, the ultimate portable high-speed storage solution. The Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD combines a fast and reliable solid-state drive with revolutionary Thunderbolt technology to form an ultra-portable solution that dramatically outperforms portable FireWire and USB drives. Housed in a robust metal enclosure, the high-speed drive draws its power directly through the Thunderbolt port without needing a separate power supply. The Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD is available in February for only 399,95 Euro (120 GB) and 649,95 Euro (240 GB). 		Lightning-fast and ultraportable		Pairing a speedy Solid State Drive (SSD) with the unrivaled bandwidth of the Thunderbolt interface, the Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD offers significantly higher performance than any portable FireWire or USB storage solutions. As the Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD draws its power directly through the Thunderbolt port, it doesn't require an external power supply. That way, the data on the drive is always available – even when there's no power source nearby. 		Reliable and completely silent		Unlike traditional portable hard drives, the design of the Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD contains no moving parts, so it's less prone to faults. The metal enclosure doesn't just look great – it also ensures optimal heat dissipation. As this design doesn't need a noisy fan, it operates completely silently, despite its constantly screaming performance. 		Pricing and availability		The Elgato Thunderbolt™ SSD is available in February and can be purchased from Elgato (www.elgato.com), Apple, and selected retailers for 399,95 Euro (120 GB version) and 649,95 Euro (240 GB version). 		About Elgato		Elgato offers industry-leading TV and video solutions for the Mac, PC, iPhone and iPad. With an extensive selection of TV tuners and its award-winning EyeTV software, Elgato offers a complete range of solutions to watch and record TV and HDTV. Elgato's video products enable high-quality video recording and conversion for consumers and professionals alike. Furthermore, Elgato offers the world's first truly portable high-speed drive featuring Thunderbolt technology. Elgato is privately held with offices in Munich, Germany and San Francisco, California. 		Thunderbolt and the Thunderbolt logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.
 