
   No, it's not the noise of an air-raid siren. It's Panasonic's bold return to the smartphone game. Eluga admittedly isn't the most attractive of appellations, but in the flesh it's drop dead gorgeous. It'll arrive as the P-04D in Japan on NTT DoCoMo on the 29th of this month, while Panasonic's European site now teases that it'll arrive in that continent in April. Oh, and if anyone gives you stick about the name, just remind 'em that its meatier older brother will be along shortly.
 

  Show full PR text  Slim body with an organic EL display of waterproof and dustproof Start the delivery of P-04D smartphone for NTT DOCOMO  Let's note also includes security features and collaboration features  Panasonic Mobile Communications (President: Toshinori star) has started the delivery of the smartphone "docomo NEXT series P-04D" to NTT DoCoMo, Inc..  P-04D, the forms stand out about the thinness of 7.8mm, QHD about 4.3 inch waterproof and dustproof with a organic EL display (540 × 960) of adopting "Android TM 2.3" (IPX5 / 7 · IP5X) ※ 1 smartphone.  Narrow frame display occupies about 66% of the surface width of about 62mm compact body is also clearly shows a small icon characters. In addition, Panasonic's unique ※ 2 contrast correction technique, you can play the video of the brighter and more vivid colors, such as YouTube TM.  In addition, equipped with a "Personal Protection" ※ 3 security features to help in the business scene. E-mail stored in the protected area, the document file, such as images, can be displayed only in an unlocked state. In combination with a secure UI unlock, you can enhance security.  In addition, strengthening cooperation with the computer equipment features · AV. Or can use the Wi-Fi ® communication communication and Bluetooth ®, to launch the Let's note ※ 4 of the sleep state from the P-04D, P-04D is a screen display of the Let's note, that you want to work with, and DIGA / Viera ※ It is also possible to play streaming is a P-04D in the program and broadcast program recorded at 5.  Supports and "Osaifu-Keitai ®" also like "handwriting" Quick "Ekonabi ®",. The main features of the P-04D  Stand out in the form of 7.8mm thickness approximately corresponds to the waterproof and dustproof Organic EL display is a bright & beautiful large screen about 4.3 inches Useful in linking functions, such as security or computer business scene (Let's note)
 