
 

The ViewPad 10 era is over, here comes the epoch of the ViewPad 10Pro. Beyond the introduction of Intel's Oak Trail Z670 1.5GHz processor, the new Windows 7 Pro / Android 2.2 dual-boot tablet throws in a 3G radio, 32GB of onboard storage (expandable via MicroSD or USB), and a 3500mAh battery that's rated to last for 4.5 hours of 1080p video playback. It's one of Intel's promised 10+ Android tablets coming at this year's Computex, though it has the appreciable advantage of being able to switch over to Windows 7 pretty much instantaneously. Check it out in the gallery below and you can expect a more in-depth look from us later on during the currently ongoing Computex 2011 trade show.

Update: Calling this a dual-boot tablet may have been a little ambitious, as it's running the Bluestacks virtualization software, which turns Android into a Windows app, rather than allowing true dual-booting capabilities.





 		Show full PR text  ViewSonic promises to shine at Computex 		Experience the latest innovation in tablets, smartphones, monitors and projectors 		Computex, Taipei, 31 May 2011 - ViewSonic, a leading global provider of computing, consumer electronics and communications solutions, is set to surprise at Computex Taipei 2011 with its strongest-ever audio and visual solutions. It will be showcasing a wide range of high-definition entertainment offerings and the latest innovations. Products released last year have won rave reviews in the industry; this year promises more of the same. Products span from tablet PCs, high-performance smartphones, latest 3D Full HD LED monitors, to projectors, digital photo frames and digital camcorders. 		ViewSonic will be located at Booth L0832, 4th floor, Nangang Exhibition Hall from 31 May to 4 June and is inviting everyone to 'See the difference'. 		The ViewPad 7x will be making its first official appearance. The ViewPad 7x is a seven-inch HoneyComb tablet that utilises a NVIDIA dual-core processor and promises users HSPA+ for greater Internet browsing and a enhanced multimedia experience. 		The ViewPad 10Pro is the world's first dual-OS tablet that has both Windows 7 Professional and Android at your service. It is also one of the first tablets to use the latest Intel Oak Trail processor. The new Intel processor is powerful, yet offers amazing power savings which delivers the perfect combination of Windows technology in a mobile touch screen device. 		In addition to tablet PCs, ViewSonic is also announcing advanced AV solutions that include the V3D245wm-LED, a 24-inch 3D Full HD LED monitor; the W200, an ultra-thin and lightweight WXGA pico projector; the WFM851, a slim and sleek digital photo frame; as well as a range of HD digital camcorders. 		Alan Chang, ViewSonic Managing Director of Europe and Asia-Pacific, said: "ViewSonic is the industry leader in launching a comprehensive range of tablet models. With cloud computing, social networking and streaming multimedia driving demand more than ever, ViewSonic is well positioned as a 'display solution provider' that integrates all its products and services into the best possible user experience. We have continued to invest in our strategic partnerships with Microsoft and Google. At Computex, you will see that ViewSonic is not content with standing still and are continuing to innovate with 'display solutions', ranging from small as three inch ultra mobile devices to large 300 inch professional display solutions, all brought to the user with the ViewSonic attention to quality and service." 		ViewPad 7x – the 7-inch HoneyComb tablet: Uses a dual-core NVIDIA processor and offers the fastest-ever HSPA+ for a greater Internet browsing experience compared to rivalling products in the same category. Weighing only 380g, with front and back cameras this powerful device provides video conferencing on the go that has to be seen to be believed. The high quality LED display is capacitive 10-point multi-touch, offering far more possibilities than standard screen offerings. Incorporating a HDMI port , DLNA support and SRW TruMedia the ViewPad 7x is a flexible multimedia device that delivers quality in a high quality package.  ViewPad 10Pro – the world's first dual-OS tablet that uses Windows 7 Professional and Android, and the first to use the latest Intel Oak Trail processor: This tablet, powerful in both hardware and software, is ideal for users who wish to have a combination of entertainment and professional needs. It allows for an instantaneous switch between the two OSes without turning off the tablet – Android for simple tasks such as Web browsing and Windows 7 for business applications. 		The V3D245wm-LED – An industry first, a 24" smart monitor with a built-in 3D emitter: Presenting 20,000,000:1 maximum contrast ratio for great colour accuracy and high level of picture details the monitor features an ultrafast 2ms response time, 16:9 widescreen, Full HD 1080P, and scanning rate at 120Hz. The V3D245 supports the latest HDMI 1.4 input for future proofing realistic 3D content and fully supports current mainstream 3D devices. With the built-in SRS Premium Sound, the V3D245 is the ultimate 3D monitor. 		The PLED-W200 – the world's first WXGA pico projector: pocket-sized projector ideal for slipping into a laptop bag or purse for taking presentations and entertainment on the go. At 200 lumens, with a 2000:1 contrast ratio and display resolution of 1200x800 WXGA, the PLED-W200 packs the world's highest lumen and resolution counts into a CD player-sized device. It weighs only 420g and boasts long-lasting LED light technology of up to 20,000 hours. Teamed with integrated 10w speakers and a SD/USB card reader, users can present and enjoy everything from image slideshows to presentations in a PC-free environment. 		The VFM851 – ultra-thin digital photo frame: amazing design combined with high picture quality. Able to be battery powered offering a cordless experience it has 800x600 screen resolution, supports formats such as MJPEG, MPEG2, MPEG-4 and comes with USB ports (for SD/SDHC/MMC). 		The ViewSonic HD camcorder series: The new ViewSonic Camcorder HD series provide a lot of advanced features normally found in professional camcorders but at a fraction of the price. With a 10MP image sensor and 12X optical zoom, these HD camcorders capture great detail even at 200 feet away. And with a 60fps high-definition video available, the ViewCam HD series is perfect for sports and other action shots. The camcorder's innovative advanced Manual Focus System lets you select what subject to focus on by simply tapping on the touch screen, ensuring what you want to be focused on is captured in detai
 