
 It's finally time to find out who won that Philips 42-inch plasma from last time on Engadget HD -- so without further delay, will Mike M please stand up! (Actually, we've already emailed Mike, so if you're a Mike M and haven't heard from us, well, good luck this week!) So today's HDTV we're giving away is a Samsung HL-S5679W DLP, a hugemongous display sure to make that living room or den glow in the warmth of a massive LED backlit screen. For the record, here are the specs on today's prize:

56-inch LED backlit 1080p display
DNIe video enhancer and Cinema Smooth light engine
4,000:1 contrast ratio
Built-in NTSC / ATSC tuners with PIP
2 HDMI, 2 component, 3 composite, and 2 S-Video inputs
We're also throwing in a 6-foot HDMI cable from eHDMI

The winner of this fine television will be chosen randomly; just leave us a comment below telling us your current (or preferred) method of HD delivery -- be it ATSC or satellite or otherwise -- and you'll be entered in the running. Please make sure to get your entries in by Tuesday the 10th (of this month). Oh, and do be sure to mind the other rules:

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only, sorry!
You will be shipped your HDTV in a few weeks when all our contests are over. Thanks for your patience!

Good luck, and be sure you've entered our other contests, as well!

Hows about an Xbox 360 Premium pack?
We've got the new Slingbox Tuner!
Second shot at a Nikon S7c WiFi cam!
Got a third chance on a Zune!

P.S. -Are you as totally stoked about Lost tonight as we are? Our guess: probably.
      

 