
 
We've always known that CES is the gadget industry's single most important event -- and the busiest week of our entire year -- which is why when the CEA rings, we take the call. And while we tend not to bother with a lot of industry partnerships, we've accepted the rare distinction for Engadget to be named the first-ever Official Blog Partner of CES.Of course, for you (and us) nothing much changes when it comes time to hit the floor at CES 2009: we don't accept any hookups or editorial privileges from the CEA, and, as always, we're out to live up to our own reputation for bringing you no-holds-barred, hard-hitting gadget news at breakneck speed on everything you need to know at CES. We'll see you there in January!
      

 
CEA Names Engadget as Official Blog Partner of 2009 CES 
No. 1 Technology Blog in the U.S. Is Now Published in Eight Countries 
New York, NY, October 14, 2008 – AOL announced today that the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA®) selected Engadget, http://engadget.com, as the Official Blog Partner of the 2009 International CES® to be held January 8-11, 2009 in Las Vegas, Nevada. 
As part of the Official Blog Partnership, Engadget will provide ongoing news coverage of the hottest products from more than 2,700 CES exhibitors at the 2009 International CES. 
"CES's choice of Engadget as its Official Blog Partner further cements the publication's place as the leading voice in consumer electronics coverage. Our award-winning site will cover the 2009 CES with the fast-paced, up-to-the-minute reporting that has made Engadget the market leader and final word in the world of technology journalism," said Joshua Topolsky, Editor-in-chief, Engadget. "CEA is one of the global consumer electronics industry's most powerful trade groups, and CES is the industry's most important and anticipated event, hands down."
"The online technology community is of continuing importance to us and this partnership shows the crucial role that blog sites like Engadget play in bringing CES' hot product news to a worldwide audience, before, during and after the show," said Karen Chupka, senior vice president of events and conferences for CEA, the producer of the International CES. "We estimate that some 20,000 new products are launched at CES each year and the Engadget editorial team is able to bring all the hot product news, across dozens of different categories, to life for both consumers and technology professionals."
Engadget will provide live coverage of the 2009 International CES on both its domestic and international sites, and will have extensive presence at the show, including interviews, product news and reviews, updates on CES events and commentary by a team of Engadget editors from across the globe. Engadget's expansion into the international market will provide an opportunity for consumers and advertisers around the world to follow up-to-the minute news from the show. 
In addition to its strong presence in the U.S., Engadget recently launched in Poland, http://pl.engadget.com, Germany, http://de.engadget.com, and South Korea, http://kr.engadget.com. It will launch in France and the Netherlands later this month and in additional countries by the end of the year. Engadget is now published in eight countries and seven languages, including Spanish, Japanese, Chinese, German, Polish, and Korean. Each international site has an editorial team based in the territory, creating local content or featuring syndicated content from the U.S. and the other Engadget sites.The general look-and-feel is identical throughout the Engadget network. Non-U.S. users accustomed to Engadget will find themselves at home in the international versions, and will be able to easily navigate through the sites. For advertisers, standard and customized local packages are available on any of Engadget's international sites. 
With more than 3.9 million worldwide unique visitors each month and 1.2 million unique visitors in the United States, Engadget is the No. 1 technology blog in the United States, according to the August 2008 comScore Media Metrix report and is the cornerstone of the AOL Technology Network, which includes Engadget, Engadget Mobile, Engadget HD, Switched, TUAW (The Unofficial Apple Weblog) and DownloadSquad. The AOL Technology Network is one of the largest technology news and information publishers online, attracting 4.6 million domestic unique visitors and 8 million worldwide unique visitors each month, according to the August 2008 comScore Media Metrix report. The AOL Technology Network provides users with a complete resource to gather information about the latest technology news and products.

