

We start off talking about why a singular definition of what qualifies as "HD" is hard -- if not impossible -- to come up with in our ever-branching media landscape. One thing that definitely isn't HD, though, is E1 Entertainment's Blu-ray production of Gulliver's Travels, which cropped, zoomed and color-shifted the title in ways that just leave us scratching our heads; quite the opposite of Disney's Snow White Blu-ray release, which will get the full platinum treatment and a release a full seven weeks in front of the DVD. Next, we talk about rentals with Blockbuster's continuing tale of woe, which contrasts with Redbox's continued success despite Hollywood's blessing. Technology without content support hit us on two fronts -- iTunes 8.1.1 made HD rentals possible, but we're still waiting on content, and then ESPN touted its 1080p production facilities that can pump out content that won't fit into any broadcast or media. Finally, we wrap up with talk about TiVo's new ads that pop up while you're skipping ads and SlingPlayer for iPhone forcing users to buy new Sling hardware. There may be good reasons for these moves, but try telling it to users who feel like they are taking a step backwards.


Get the podcast
[iTunes] Subscribe to the Podcast directly in iTunes (MP3).
[RSS - MP3] Add the Engadget HD Podcast feed to your RSS aggregator and have the show delivered automatically.
[RSS - AAC] Enhanced feed, subscribe to this with iTunes.
[Zune]Subscribe to the Podcast directly in the Zune Marketplace
[MP3] Download the show (MP3).





Hosts: Ben Drawbaugh, Steven Kim

Producer: Trent Wolbe


Program
01:00 - Comments from Engadget HD Podcast 130 - 04.02.2009
11:04 - Do we need a better definition of HD?
14:16 - Gulliver's Travels Blu-ray shows the wrong way to bring animation to HD
15:42 - Snow White's Blu-ray debut is October 6
19:56 - Blockbuster voices "substantial doubt" about ability to survive
25:45 - At $1 a day Redbox is perfect for consumers, not so much for Hollywood
29:26 - iTunes 8.1.1 update adds support for HD rentals, but where are they?
33:30 - ESPN's SportsCenter goes West Coast & 1080p production tonight
39:56 - TiVo update brings pause menu ads to Series3 & TiVo HD owners
44:04 - Tuning Adapters coming to Windows 7 Media Center?
48:47 - Older Slingboxes won't work with SlingPlayer for iPhone


LISTEN (MP3)
LISTEN (AAC)
LISTEN (OGG)

