
 It's the most wonderful time of year. There's stockings hung above the fireplace, overflowing hot cocoa on the table, a MakerBot Replicator 2 printing ornaments beneath the tree and a sampling of the year's most exciting gadgets strewn about. Yes, friends, it's time for the Engadget Holiday Spectacular!

 We're kicking off this very special holiday episode with a visit to Ben Heck's private workshop in Madison, Wisconsin to watch the construction of his holiday creation, the Naughty or Nice Meter. Also on the docket is a trip to NORAD's headquarters on a base in Colorado Springs, to find out how the military will be hard at work tracking Santa Claus later this month. Of course, not even Saint Nick can deliver all of the presents this year, so we've paid a visit to UPS's massive 5.2 million square foot Worldport shipping facility in Louisville, Kentucky to get a behind the scenes look at its late night operations.

 Speaking of gifts, we've got two huge presents in the form of songsters Jonathan Coulton and John Roderick, who will be playing a trio of brand new holiday classics off their new record, One Christmas at a Time. We've also got a visit from Engadget founder Peter Rojas, who will be helping us make a twice-checked list of some of the year's top gadgets. And as if that weren't enough, we've got an appearance by a very familiar looking Santa Claus and a special holiday animation. So light a fire, get cozy and prepare for a very special -- and very spectacular -- episode of The Engadget Show.



 
 Hosts: Tim Stevens, Brian Heater Guests: John Roderick, Jonathan Coulton, Ben Heck, Peter Rojas, Jordan Morris Producer: Ben Harrison Executive Producers: Brian Heater, Joshua Fruhlinger

 Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 039 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 039 (iPod / iPhone / Zune formatted) / The Engadget Show - 039 (Small)

 Subscribe to the Show:
 [iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (MP4). [Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (MP4). [RSS MP4] Add the Engadget Show feed (MP4) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically. [HD RSS] Get the Engadget Show delivered automatically in HD. [iPad RSS] Get the Engadget Show in iPad-friendly adaptive format.


