
 

Gather round everyone, while you may have gotten used to accessing Engadget via the browser or any one of our mobile apps, starting today we're ready to come home in one more way: on your TV. Launching on Boxee, Roku, Yahoo! Widgets and DivX is a new AOL HD package which includes a channel full of our videos ready for viewing on big screens. This way, when you want to kick back and enjoy a new hands-on video, The Engadget Show or any of our other content it's only as far away as your remote control, which is probably also your phone, PC or tablet. There's plenty more to come in the future -- we'll figure out an in-app Screen Grabs submission tool somehow -- but for now we're happy to have an official outlet on some of the most widely available connected TV platforms out there. The AOL HD app will begin showing up today, check out the gallery for a few screenshots of us on each of the platforms.





 		Show full PR text 		July 27, 2011, 9:00 a.m. EDT		AOL Launches AOL HD		New App for Television Platforms Streams AOL Original Online Content in High-Def to Boxee, Roku and More  		NEW YORK, Jul 27, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- AOL Inc. AOL -4.77% today announced the launch of AOL HD, a dedicated app that will deliver rich high-definition video to users across connected TV platforms including Boxee, Roku and Yahoo! Connected TV. AOL HD will allow consumers to watch high quality AOL video and audio content for free by streaming online offerings directly to users' television sets. Utilizing the latest connected TV platforms in the marketplace, AOL HD delivers on AOL's strategy to deliver content to its audience across multiple screens: computer, mobile and now television. 		"There has been explosive growth in the number of users who watch and interact with internet content on their televisions," said Rob DelaCruz, General Manager for AOL HD. "We're uniquely positioned to serve this audience, delivering premium original content in a rich high definition experience and engaging users across all of their screens." 		AOL HD will feature three main channels of high-definition AOL Huffington Post Media Group content -- entertainment, technology and home. Each channel will feature a breadth of rich content from properties like Moviefone, Engadget and HuffPost Entertainment. Other content will include cooking videos from celebrity chef personalities like Curtis Stone and Gail Simmons, as well as AOL Music's full CD Listening Party (CDLP) audio content, which allows users to listen to free previews of entire albums before they're released. AOL will introduce new video channels and content, including casual games, later this year. 		"AOL has invested a lot of resources to create, curate, and deliver an impressive array of compelling content," said Avner Ronen, CEO of Boxee. "We're happy AOL has chosen Boxee to help distribute their content to our nearly two million users across the globe." 		"Roku customers are looking for a variety of entertainment options, and AOL HD delivers," says Jim Funk, Vice President of Business Development at Roku. "From technology and entertainment news to home improvement and cooking tips, the AOL HD channel is a great addition to the Roku platform." 		With the launch of AOL HD, AOL will be able to interact with users in the comfort of their living rooms by delivering compelling content and entertainment while also providing AOL advertisers with more innovative ways to reach potential customers. Initially launching on Boxee, Roku, Yahoo! Connected TV and Divx, AOL HD will reach an installed user base of over 10MM users* and be available for immediate download from each platform's app library. Plans to expand AOL HD to other connected platforms are scheduled in the coming months. 		Additional information on AOL HD can be found at http://hd.aol.com . 		* Compiled by AOL from partner numbers. 		About AOL 		AOL Inc. AOL -4.77% is a premier global media company with a suite of brands and products serving consumers, advertisers and publishers worldwide. The AOL Huffington Post Media Group is a leading source of news, opinion, entertainment, community and digital information comprised of a wide range of destination websites, including AOL.com, The Huffington Post, TechCrunch, Moviefone, Engadget, Patch, AOL Music, StyleList and MapQuest. The AOL Advertising.com Group includes Advertising.com, ADTECH, Pictela, Video, inclusive of AOL Video, goviral and 5min Media, Content Solutions and Sponsored Listings and serves a combined content and advertising market at scale through video, brand advertising, content and ad serving. AOL is focused on engaging consumers and providing online advertising services and solutions on both AOL Huffington Post Media Group destination websites and third party websites, in addition to serving consumer platforms including AOL Mail, AIM, about.me, and mobile experiences. AOL also operates one of the largest Internet subscription access services in the United States, which serves as another distribution channel for its consumer offerings. 		SOURCE: AOL
 