
When it comes to tech events, there's nothing quite like the International CES. It's a challenge, it's a marathon and it can be a little overwhelming -- but we wouldn't miss it for the world. CES has evolved dramatically since its inception in 1967 as a small, NYC offshoot of the Chicago Music Show and at Engadget we're proud to have been the Official Blog and Online News Source for the past five years running. This year we're taking that relationship a step further. A big step further. We're thrilled to announce that Engadget is the official home of the 2014 Best of CES Awards!


In January, the Engadget editorial team will be scouring the International CES show floor to find the best, most exciting products making their debut there. We do this every year, but in 2014 we'll formalize the procedure. Finalists will be selected for each of 15 categories and, through an entirely editorially controlled process, individual products will be awarded the honor of Best of CES. Those lucky standouts will receive custom, 3D printed trophies courtesy of our friends at 3D Systems. Awards will be printed live at the International CES, so you can see them emerging from nothing as the show goes on.


We'll be detailing our judging process in the coming months and providing more information on how companies can submit their products for our consideration ahead of the show in January. For now, know that we're very excited to be the new home of the 2014 Best of CES Awards. Here's what Gary Shapiro, President and CEO of CEA, had to say:



Engadget and CEA share a passion for technology and for showcasing innovations to a global audience. Their dedicated editorial team canvases the CES show floor to cover the best products across all key categories of CES. Their quality coverage is sought after by CES exhibitors and the independent editorial judgment they will bring to these awards will help highlight the top products at the 2014 CES.



We can't wait to see you in Vegas.




Show full PR textCEA Selects Engadget to Produce Best of CES Awards
Arlington, VA – May 20, 2013 – Today the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)® announced that it has selected Engadget, the tech news outlet with obsessive coverage of cutting-edge gadgets and consumer electronics, to coordinate, judge and produce the official "Best of CES" award program at the International CES® in January 2014.

The partnership unites two established technology authorities and enthusiasts – CEA, an organization with more than 2,000 members in the consumer electronics industry, and Engadget, which covers tech news in-depth and with integrity – and furthers their common goal of showcasing outstanding products to a global audience.

"We already live and breathe CES every year," said Tim Stevens, editor in chief, Engadget. "Now, this official designation gives us a chance to grow in another year as Official Online News Source and formalize what we love to do – dissect and debate about all the amazing products we see on the floor."

"Engadget is well-known for its breadth and depth of covering innovations within the CE industry," said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO of CEA, "so they were a natural fit to produce the 2014 Best of CES awards. Engadget and CEA share a passion for technology and for showcasing innovations to a global audience. Their dedicated editorial team canvases the CES show floor to cover the best products across all key categories of CES. Their quality coverage is sought after by CES exhibitors and the independent editorial judgment they will bring to these awards will help highlight the top products at the 2014 CES."

Award categories for the 2014 show will include:• Best Audio Product• Best Automotive Electronics Product• Best Digital Health and Fitness Product• Best Emerging Technology• Best Gaming Product• Best Kid-friendly Product• Best Maker-friendly Product• Best Mobile Technology• Best PC• Best Software• Best Startup• Best Video Product• People's Choice Award• Best of the Best

Engadget editors will use the site to solicit submissions in the months leading up to the 2014 CES and actively look for other eligible submissions once the event starts. The Engadget Best of CES Awards are only open to new products that debut at the 2014 International CES.

Engadget's senior editors will combine their respective talents and expertise to cast votes for nominees based on level of innovation, quality of design, overall efficiency and market demand. Engadget's editors will bring the same promise of independence to the awards that they do to product reviews and reporting.

Nominees will be announced on the Engadget stage on the second day of International CES 2014, Wednesday, January 8, and winners will be revealed onstage the following day. In addition to numerous promotional opportunities across Engadget's networks, winners will receive a custom-designed, 3D-printed trophy on the Engadget stage during the final ceremonies that will be broadcast live on Engadget.com, HuffPost Live and AOL.com.

The Best of CES Awards Program started approximately 10 years ago to celebrate the innovation and noteworthy products on display at the International CES each year.

About CEAThe Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) is the preeminent trade association promoting growth in the $209 billion U.S. consumer electronics industry. More than 2,000 companies enjoy the benefits of CEA membership, including legislative advocacy, market research, technical training and education, industry promotion, standards development and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. CEA also owns and produces the International CES – The Global Stage for Innovation. All profits from CES are reinvested into CEA's industry services. Find CEA online at CE.org, DeclareInnovation.com and through social media:

About EngadgetEngadget was founded in 2004 as a devoted, instant source for tech news. While maintaining this commitment, Engadget's presence has grown to include weekly podcasts in English and Spanish, international versions of the site with localized content, the tablet magazine Distro and the Webby Award-winning Engadget Show. Engadget also exists offline with regular meetups and the new Expand event series to provide a well-rounded experience for its readers. Find Engadget online at www.engadget.com and in the iTunes store.


