
       
Ok everybody, we have the winner for the second Zune on Engadget and we're moving on to this week's Zune contest! So, last week's Zune goes to Nirvan K! If you're not Nirvan, thanks again for entering! You'll have another chance to win again this week, so check it out. First up, the prize: a Zune. As you may or may not have heard (and we do sincerely hope you fall in the first camp), that's Microsoft's new vertically integrated portable media player device (and platform) centered around "connected entertainment." You should know by now where to go for all the specs and details, but it's a 30GB portable media device with built-in WiFi for sharing music with your pals and interacting with media on the go. Engadget's hooking up a few very lucky people with a Zune. Want to be the first among your friends -- hell, among the first ever -- to get one?We're giving away one Zune per week for five weeks; snagging one will get progressively more difficult. This time it's a design contest. Since we're obviously pretty future-looking people here at Engadget (and since we know what the Zune's looked like since July), we're already curious what the next in the Zune lineup is going to look like. We hear they have an iPod nano competitor in the works, we know they're working on a Zune phone, and their flagship model is probably already being revamped and expanded. Your mission: show us what you think the next Zune device is going to look like, and send your entry to zunecontest at engadget dawt com. (JPG under 500KB, please.) You'll have until 11:59PM on Saturday, the 7th (of this month), and then we'll pick our favorite entrant, assuming s/he follows the other rules:

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only -- sorry, Microsoft's rules!
You will be shipped your Zune when Microsoft ships you your Zune (and no sooner), so sit tight, it might be some weeks before it comes!

Good luck, and be sure you've entered our other contests, as well!

A Philips 42PF9631D 42-inch plasma!
Hows about an Xbox 360 Premium pack?
We've got the new Slingbox Tuner!
Second shot at a Nikon S7c WiFi cam! 

 