
       
Aight everybody, it's October, which is known around here at the office as Halloween-month. More specifically, the month where we solicit you, our dear, faithful readers, to dress up like the consumer electronics devices, mascots, etc. of your choosing, for which we'll reward you with all manner of prizes. Yep, it's our second annual Engadget Halloween costume contest, and we want to see your best gadgety Halloween costumes. Here's what we've got to give:First place gets a VidaBox SLIM Windows Media Center PC (MSRP $2,200), courtesy of VidaBox.

AMD Athlon 64 3200+ Processor
1GB of DDR-400 RAM
500GB of VidaSafeT protected storage
VGA, component, and S-Video outputs
TV/FM Tuners: Dual ISF certified Analog TV Tuners w/ coaxial or
 S-Video/RCA-audio in; FM antenna(s) included
Dual-layer DVD burner
Dual TV tuners w/ coaxial, S-Video, and RCA-audio
Wireless keyboard, Media Center remote
7-in-1 card reader / AV cable set
Your choice of silver or black.

Second place gets an unlocked Motorola PEBL (tangerine)Third place gets an HP Photosmart E317Three runners up get a PowerSquid black Surge3000You get points for creativity, complexity, and, to a certain extent, obscurity (translation: unless you're planning on making the most amazing iPod costume the world has ever seen, like these guys', then try something different!). Need a little inspiration? Check out last year's winners.Here are the rules:

You may enter other Engadget contests, and...
You may enter this contest as many times as you like; however, you can only win once. Be prepared prove all these costumes you're submitting are really your creations.
No, you can't send us your costume from last year! This kind of goes without saying, but you know.
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only -- sorry, VidaBox's rules!

You have until Wednesday, November 1st, 11:59pm EST to submit your entry! Send in pics to contest at engadget dawt com with Halloween in the subject (please, no larger than 10MB or it will bounce). Oh yeah, make sure you're entered for our other contests, too (just in case).

We have a Samsung HL-S5679W DLP with LED backlight! 
Get yourself a Slingbox AV! 
Here's a second Xbox 360 Premium pack
The final Nikon S7c digital camera!
Fourth shot at a Zune

 