
       
Ok everybody, we have the winner for the first Zune, like, ever (not counting the Ellen show, which we so don't) and we're moving on to this week's Zune contest! So, first up: last week's Zune goes to Nick D! To all the Nick Ds who entered -- if you didn't get an email from us, it wasn't you, sorry! But you'll have a chance to win again this week, so check it out. First up, the prize: a Zune. As you may or may not have heard (and we do sincerely hope you fall in the first camp), that's Microsoft's new vertically integrated portable media player device (and platform) centered around "connected entertainment." You should know by now where to go for all the specs and details, but it's a 30GB portable media device with built-in WiFi for sharing music with your pals and interacting with media on the go. Kinda hard to believe Microsoft is giving us some Zunes to give away when they won't even tell anyone when they'll be out in stores ("holidays 2006") -- but make no mistake about it, Engadget's hooking up a few very lucky people with a Zune. Want to be the first among your friends -- hell, the first ever -- to get one?We're giving away one Zune per week for five weeks; snagging one will get progressively more difficult. This time it's a scavenger hunt. We've hidden the names of ten bands we like throughout our posts from the last couple of months. It looks something like this:

All you have to do to be entered is find these bands in our posts, put the names of at least five in an email (no, The Band doesn't count!), and send it to zunecontest at engadget dawt com. You'll have until next Monday (the 2nd), then we'll pick the winner at random, assuming s/he follows the other rules:

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only -- sorry, Microsoft's rules!
You will be shipped your Zune when Microsoft ships you your Zune (and no sooner), so sit tight, it might be some weeks before it comes!

Good luck, and be sure you've entered our other contests, as well!

We got two Slingboxes for ya, too!
And a Philips 42PF9631D 42-inch plasma!
Hows about an Xbox 360 Premium pack?
There's a Nikon S7c WiFi digital camera!

 