
 
This whole global economic crisis, and its resulting massive loss of jobs got us thinking. We here at Engadget didn't want to stand helplessly by, announcing every new round of misery without giving anything back -- so we decided to take the opportunity to spread a little positivity. We'll be handing out a new gadget every day (except for weekends) to lucky readers until we run out of stuff or companies stop sending things. Today we've got something really special for our musician-readers: a KORG Kaossilator Dynamic Phrase Synthesizer, and a copy of Matt and Kim's album, Grand. Read the rules below (no skimming -- we're omniscient and can tell when you've skimmed) and get commenting! Hooray for free stuff! More information -- and another photo -- after the break.Huge thanks to Korg for providing the gear!The rules:

Leave a comment below. Any comment will do, but if you want to share your proposal for "fixing" the world economy, that'd be sweet too.
You may only enter this specific giveaway once. If you enter this giveaway more than once you'll be automatically disqualified, etc. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.)
If you enter more than once, only activate one comment. This is pretty self explanatory. Just be careful and you'll be fine.
Contest is open to anyone in the 50 States, 18 or older! Sorry, we don't make this rule (we hate excluding anyone), so be mad at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad.
Winner will be chosen randomly. The winner will receive one (1) KORG Kaossilator and one (1) copy of Matt and Kim's album, Grand.
If you are chosen, you will be notified by email. Winners must respond within three days of the end of the contest. If you do not respond within that period, another winner will be chosen. 
Entries can be submitted until Monday, May, 4th, at 11:59PM ET. Good luck!
Full rules can be found here.



 

About the Kaossillator: The KAOSSILATOR is a new pocket-sized sketch pad that puts a world of sounds and effects in the palm of your hand. Instantly create and play phrases by simply tapping or sliding a finger across the touch pad. And infinitely stack phrases to create musical works as simple or complex as you desire! The portable, travel-friendly KAOSSILATOR runs on batteries or a 4.5v adapter. Use the KAOSSILATOR as a multi-instrumental musical instrument, sample source, live rig addition, or just a fun way to get your groove on.Matt (of Matt and Kim) on the Kaossillator: "When I was a kid, before i ever played keyboards, I once heard a poly 800 in a friend's basement. Seven years later, when I started playing keyboard, I still remember how bad ass and thick it sounded, so I bought my first Korg. Since then we've used one on almost every song we recorded."Good luck!
 