
 Listen, we're not going to promise you that watching an hour-long episode is the same as going to Expand. The good news for those of you who were unable to attend due to scheduling or geography, however, is that the ticket price is a bit lower, and many of our favorite moments have been saved for posterity. We've done our best to whittle a weekend at San Francisco's beautiful Fort Mason center into one bite-sized chunk of Engadget Show goodness. We'll take you behind the scenes at the event and show you what it takes to run your very own consumer-facing electronics show.

 We've got conversations with Google's Tamar Yehoshua, OUYA's Julie Uhrman, Jason Parrish and Corinna Proctor from Lenovo, Chris Anderson, DJ Spooky, Mark Frauenfelder, Veronica Belmont, Ryan Block, plus folks from NASA, 3D Robotics, Oculus, Google Lunar X Prize, TechShop, Lunar and IndieGogo. We'll go for a spin on ZBoard's latest electric skateboard and show off the da Vinci surgical robot, the Ekso robotic exoskeleteon and the latest UAV from 3D Robotics -- we'll also be taking you out on the town in a Tesla Model S. And for a little bit of high drama, there's our first-ever Insert Coin: New Challengers competition, including conversations with the semi-finalists and the big moment of truth. All that plus kids, dogs and your favorite Engadget Editors. Join us after the break for a warm and fuzzy Engadget Show, won't you?



 
 Hosts: Tim Stevens, Brian Heater Presenters: Barb Dybwad, Myriam Joire, Darren Murph, Michael Gorman, Mat Smith, Joseph Volpe, Terrence O'Brien Guests: Chris Anderson, DJ Spooky, Julie Uhrman, Mark Frauenfelder, Veronica Belmont, Ryan Block, Tamar Yehoshua, Jason Parrish, Corinna Proctor, Daniel H. Wilson, John Scalzi, Hod Lipson, Avi Reichental, Alex Hall, Tom Rivellini, Michael Laine, Gerard Furbershaw, Danae Ringelmann, Jim Newton and many, many more. Producer: Benjamin Ahr Harrison Executive Producer: Brian Heater

 Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 042 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 042 (iPod / iPhone formatted) / The Engadget Show - 042 (Small)

 Subscribe to the Show:
 [iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (MP4). [Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (MP4). [RSS MP4] Add the Engadget Show feed (MP4) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically. [HD RSS] Get the Engadget Show delivered automatically in HD. [iPad RSS] Get the Engadget Show in iPad-friendly adaptive format.


