
       
Ok everybody, we have the winner for the third Zune on Engadget -- as well as some runners up in the Zune design contest! As you know, the winner snags a Zune, but we're gonna throw t-shirts out to the first and second runners up. Thanks again to everyone who sent in their Zune redesigns, this one was tough to decide! So, on to this week's contest. First up, the prize: a Zune. As you may or may not have heard (and we do sincerely hope you fall in the first camp), that's Microsoft's new vertically integrated portable media player device (and platform) centered around "connected entertainment." You should know by now where to go for all the specs and details, but it's a 30GB portable media device with built-in WiFi for sharing music with your pals and interacting with media on the go. Engadget's hooking up a few very lucky people with a Zune. Want to be the first among your friends -- hell, among the first ever -- to get one?We're giving away one Zune per week for five weeks; snagging one will get progressively more difficult. This time we want you to count the number of Zune stories we did in the month of September -- not including contests, podcasts, or posts that merely mention the Zune. They have to be posts that relate to the Zune, Zune accessories, or some other like business. For example, this post would count, and this post would not. (Yeah, we know there were a lot, so be accurate to within a post more or less.) After you're finished counting 'em up, send it in to zunecontest at engadget dawt com; make sure you use numbers for your answer, not words (i.e. 55, not fifty five). You'll have until Monday, the 16th (of this month), and we'll pick a winner at random, assuming s/he has the correct answer, and follows the other rules:

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only -- sorry, Microsoft's rules!
You will be shipped your Zune when Microsoft ships you your Zune (and no sooner), so sit tight, it might be some weeks before it comes!

Good luck, and be sure you've entered our other contests, as well! (Also, don't forget to click on to see the gallery of Zune designs!)

We have a Samsung HL-S5679W DLP with LED backlight! 
Get yourself a Slingbox AV! 
Here's a second Xbox 360 Premium pack
The final Nikon S7c digital camera!

 

The winner!Jesse MFirst runner up!Phil ESecond runners up!Jared WShriChrisBrodkilWilliam M [Yes! Zune-talkin! We love it! -Ed.]Honorable mention! (in no particular order)Ravi TRyan SFred SMike VChris GNick SMatt HRobert QJong LRoy DDavid CJohn GDave VMatt RJohn FJustin BLouis FDheera VJiovanie VGeoff GLance DAnthony BTaylor SBrian JKevin GForrest JMichael HBrion FStephen ZChris ZRajan PReed SDavid HAdrian TMiguel WEdmund LMichael BYannick PPranjal VGeorge LEric SRichard TMelvin D

       

 