
Welcome to the wild world of security and surveillance. From CCTV to massive government spying initiatives, there's no escaping it. Recent high-profile leaks have served as a sobering reminder of just how present it is in all of our lives, so we figured what better time to take a deep dive? We kick things off with one of the strangest (and raciest) segments in Engadget Show history: a visit to the set of John McAfee's latest web video. The one-time security software guru and fugitive discusses the state of antivirus, bath salts and offers some unsolicited advice to Edward Snowden, one exile to another. Trevor Timm of the Electronic Frontier Foundation sits down for an animated discussion of recent NSA surveillance revelations, including a breakdown of which major tech companies are doing right by their user base.


Boing Boing editor, sci-fi author and privacy activist Cory Doctorow climbs a tree in San Diego to discuss Wikileaks, the NSA, the "surveillance state" and more. "Edward Snowden is a hero," he begins, not speaking on behalf of the EFF, mind you -- and things get really good from there. Cryptographer and computer security specialist Bruce Schneier also chimes in on wiretapping, whistleblowing and "security theater."


Next up, we pay a visit to The New Yorker's midtown office to talk Strong Box, the magazine's secure deposit box for anonymous whistleblowers. The team behind Ubisoft's Watch Dogs joins us to discuss partnering with computer security company Kaspersky to bring a realistic portrait of the world of hacking to its much anticipated title. And one-time hacker turned head of security community outreach at Microsoft, Katie Moussouris, discusses Redmond's Bluehat bounty program and working with the hacking community to build safer software.


All that, plus the usual prognosticating from resident philosopher John Roderick in this month's Engadget Show, just after the break.




Hosts: Brian Heater, Terrence O'BrienGuests: John McAfee, Cory Doctorow, Bruce Schneier, Katie Moussouris, Trevor Timm, Kevin Shortt and John RoderickProducer: Benjamin Ahr HarrisonExecutive Producer: Brian Heater

Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 045 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 045 (iPod / iPhone formatted) / The Engadget Show - 045 (Small)

Subscribe to the Show:
[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (MP4).[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (MP4).[RSS MP4] Add the Engadget Show feed (MP4) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.[HD RSS] Get the Engadget Show delivered automatically in HD.[iPad RSS] Get the Engadget Show in iPad-friendly adaptive format.


