
       
Ok, we have the new site with all the fun new features (and a few bugs to go along with it), but we still have yet to celebrate. Since we're still a ways out from flying everyone to Aruba for the weekend to party with the Engadget staff, instead we're just going to give away tens of thousands of dollars of gadgets over the course of the next month. So what the hell, let's kick this thing off with a Zune. As you may or may not have heard (and we do sincerely hope you fall in the first camp), that's Microsoft's new vertically integrated portable media player device (and platform) centered around "connected entertainment." You should know by now where to go for all the specs and details, but it's a 30GB portable media device with built-in WiFi for sharing music with your pals and interacting with media on the go.Kinda hard to believe Microsoft is giving us some Zunes to give away when they won't even tell anyone when they'll be out in stores ("holidays 2006") -- but make no mistake about it, Engadget's going to be the first place to hook someone up with a Zune. You want to be the first among your friends -- hell, the first ever -- to get one? Here's the deal.We'll give away one Zune per week for five weeks, starting today; snagging one will get progressively more difficult. To win the first unit, just leave us a comment with your favorite song (and the band that sings it) to be entered. You'll have until next Monday (the 25th), then we'll pick the winner at random, assuming s/he follows the rules:

You may only enter once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests if you don't win this one!
You can only win once. (If you win and go for a second prize for our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only -- sorry, Microsoft's rules!
You will be shipped your Zune when Microsoft ships you your Zune (and no sooner), so sit tight, it might be some weeks before it comes!

Ok everybody, good luck!
      

 