
 Photographers in the house, we've got a winner for last week's S7c! Bryan W is taking home the prize! Thanks to everyone for joining our Flickr group, we hope you'll have fun sharing gadgety photos with your fellow Engadget readers. This week, however, we're going all out. We've got Nikon's new flagship consumer DSLR to give away, the D80; here's the low down to whet your appetite:

10.2 megapixel CCD sensor
18-135mm f/3.5-5.6G ED-IF AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor lens (approx 7.5x zoom)
2.5-inch LCD
1600 ISO (with auto ISO mode)
11 area autofocus, auto white balance
Continuous 3fps shooting
In-camera red-eye correction, etc.

All in all this kit would set somebody back $1,300, so we're gonna pull out all the stops on this one. This week it's going to be a photo contest, and to take home the D80 we want you to send us your finest, most creative photo of (or making use of) electronics or consumer tech. We know it's open ended, but we want you to do something that stands out -- the key is to grab our attention and stand out from the crowd. (In other words, just having a dramatically lit, well framed shot of an iPod probably won't win you this camera.) Slightly photoshopped images are ok, but the source image(s) must be yours, but judging will be about the merit of the photo, and not of your ability to manipulate it. Submit your entry to us at contest at engadget dawt com with D80 in the subject (please, no larger than 10MB or it will bounce). Have your entries in by Sunday, the 29th to be eligible. Engadget's editors will select the photo that takes home the prize. As always, please mind the rules!

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only, sorry!
Be prepared to prove the photo is yours!
You will be shipped your D80 in a few weeks when all our contests are over. Thanks for your patience!

Good luck, and be sure you've entered our other contests, as well!

Fourth shot at a Zune
Win a VidaBox SLIM for the best Halloween costume!
Seriously, you can win a Philips 42PF9631D 42-inch plasma
Win yourself a Slingbox PRO
Xbox 360 Premium Pack here!
HD has a Helios X3000

 