
 These days, music and technology are inexorably linked -- from creation and recording, to distribution and discovery, it's hard to imagine a song reaching our ears that hasn't made its way through some electronic filter. Being the huge music nerds we are, we figured we'd use our April episode to explore the state of the music industry in 2013 and the roles technology has played in its successes and failings. This month, we start things off with a visit to Santa Cruz, where UCSC professor emeritus David Cope has spent decades developing classical music composing computer programs, work he began after one particularly bad bout with writer's block. We also stop by Seattle's Experience Music Project, where we speak to curator Jacob McMurray about the role technology has created in building a better music museum.

 Next up, we've got a trio of interviews with artists who are using technology to very different ends in the creation and distribution of their music. John Vanderslice is the founder and proprietor of San Francisco's Tiny Telephone, one of the last remaining analog-only recording studios in a world increasingly dominated by Pro Tools. He's also a successful musician in his own right, who recently opted to eschew the traditional record label model for the release of his two new Kickstarter-backed albums. Hip-hop producer and emcee Black Milk, meanwhile, has taken to recording and producing recordings in his Dallas apartment. We discuss his crate digging, love of analog tools and the role of YouTube and Shazam in his production. And we meet up with indie electronic music Dan Deacon outside of LA's Natural History Museum to talk about his live rig and innovative iPhone app.

 What about radio stations, you ask? We pay a visit to Jersey City's WFMU and Santa Monica's KCRW, two of the most prominent freeform stations in a space dominated Clear Channels and internet and satellite radio, to discuss the importance of human curation and embracing the same technology that has spelled the end of so many of their peers. We've also got interviews with Seattle's Sub Pop Records, music criticism site Pitchfork and California record store Amoeba, plus trips to music app developer Smule, internet radio pioneer Pandora and the legendary Moog factory. All that plus another installment of "John Roderick: Famous Prognosticator" and art by cartoonist Jim Rugg.

 Oh, and we'd be remiss if we didn't remind you that today is the last day to vote for us in the Webby Awards! In the meantime, check out the full show, after the break.



 
 Hosts: Tim Stevens, Brian Heater Guests: John Vanderslice, Black Milk, Dan Deacon, David Cope, Prerna Gupta, Ryan Schreiber, Jim DeBardi, Jason Bentley, Ken Freedman, Tony Kiewel, Liz Berg, Brian Turner, Betsy Moyer, Jacob McMurray, Tom Conrad, John Roderick Producer: Benjamin Ahr Harrison Executive Producer: Brian Heater

 Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 043 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 043 (iPod / iPhone formatted) / The Engadget Show - 043 (Small)

 Subscribe to the Show:
 [iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (MP4). [Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (MP4). [RSS MP4] Add the Engadget Show feed (MP4) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically. [HD RSS] Get the Engadget Show delivered automatically in HD. [iPad RSS] Get the Engadget Show in iPad-friendly adaptive format.


