
       
Ok everybody, we have the winner for the fourth Zune on Engadget -- Taylor S guessed the correct number of Zune stories we published last month (18), congrats! Thanks again to everyone who entered, and the good news is you've got one last shot at a Zune, which, as you may or may not have heard (and we do sincerely hope you fall in the first camp), is Microsoft's new vertically integrated portable media player device (and platform) centered around "connected entertainment." You should know by now where to go for all the specs and details, but it's a 30GB portable media device with built-in WiFi for sharing music with your pals and interacting with media on the go. Engadget's hooking up a few very lucky people with a Zune. Want to be the first among your friends -- hell, among the first ever -- to get one?We're giving away one Zune per week for five weeks; snagging one will get progressively more difficult, and since this is our last Zune giveaway contest, you're gonna have to work for it a bit. This one's going to the person (or group) that writes the best Engadget theme song. We're looking for the catchiest tune or jingle about Engadget, with words or without -- but it should be fun (or funny), decently well produced, and capture the spirit of Engadget. (Note: we may use your tune on the Podcast or at our events -- with credit, of course!) When you're all done send it in to zunecontest at engadget dawt com (please, no entries over 10MB or they'll bounce.) Have your entries in by 11:59PM EST Sunday, the 29th to be eligible. Engadget's editors will select the track that takes home the prize. As always, please mind the rules!

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only -- sorry, Microsoft's rules!
You will be shipped your Zune when Microsoft ships you your Zune (and no sooner), so sit tight, it might be some weeks before it comes!

Good luck, and be sure you've entered our other contests, as well!

Win a VidaBox SLIM for the best Halloween costume!
Seriously, you can win a Philips 42PF9631D 42-inch plasma
Win yourself a Slingbox PRO
Xbox 360 Premium Pack here!
HD has a Helios X3000
Nikon D80 DSLR for the best gadget photo

 