
       All this talk about what who's getting what, and what're you giving us, Engadget? We have some wishes this holiday season too, you know. Yeah, that's right, we've been secretly keeping a list all year long of the things we really want, and surprisingly we even got a few of them. Check it out, our Chrismahanukwanzakah wish list:

Authorities to find James Kim in good shape
 Apple supports PlaysForSure
 Zune supports PlaysForSure
 Zune supports FairPlay
No, we REALLY just want Microsoft and Apple to forget the DRM
Microsoft stops its pursuit of Viodentia
 Everybody gets FTTH. Everybody at Engadget, anyway.
Something finally outputs 1080p
 CableLabs experience hostile takeover by consumer advocacy groups
TiVo finally releases Series 3
 TiVo gets reasonable, releases Series 3 for, say, $400

Click on for more!
      

 

  Multi-room viewing and TiVoToGo on Series3  DirecTV to start supporting TiVo again  iPhone released, madness ends  PS3s begin falling from the sky (with parachutes, of course)  PS3 supports media streaming and syncing over the home network  Nintendo replaces everybody's Wiimote strap  Wii adds 720p and 1080i/p support  Cingular deploys nationwide HSDPA  Palm gets off its butt and builds a skinny phone with a modern OS  Microsoft gets off its butt and builds a modern phone OS  In the mean time, HTC announces free Crossbow upgrade program for its products  Apple adds a right click to its laptops  12.1-inch Mac with internal HSDPA or EV-DO, solid state drive  Working Zune software  Evan finds a worthy replacement for his PPC-6700  Digital cameras get usable WiFi Hack Zune as USB drive  Zune Marketplace adds podcasting, video (sigh)  Zune Marketplace in HD  Big Four carriers, Modeo, HiWire join hands to support open mobile TV standard in US  T-Mobile backtracks, figures out way to deploy European 3G on 2100MHz band e-ink finally hits the market  Color e-ink finally hits the market  iTunes HD  DVD, HD DVD, Blu-ray burning of shows from iTunes Xbox 360 plays back DivX, XviD, h.264, MPEG-2/4 files over network  HD hard drive camcorder that records to raw H.264 or MPEG-4  40-inch super-widescreen monitors released  Someone finally figures out how to make a really good portable media device Major Nelson + Engadget charity event  Affordable parabolic display  802.11n standard approved. Please? Budget DSLR OLPCs hit US on mass market Vista finally released (kind of) Vista CableCARD support  Vista CableCARD PCs don't require CableLabs certification Next version of Windows doesn't have the registry  Mobile WiMax finally hits the market UWB product hits  WirelessHD? Any year now.  ATSC Multicasting dies a quick, but especially painful death  Tesla Roadster ships early, mass market  Alternately, a small electic car for under $10K  All-day laptop battery life. Ok, we'll take something less ambitious like world peace.  Record shows from your Slingbox  Bluetooth support in the iPod, Zune and all things four-wheeled  Easy sideloading from DVR to your portable media device  A useful humaniod consumer robot  Home automation for the masses  Pete's and Paul's Time Warner Cable lines finally fixed Peace on Earth and goodwill between rival next-generation optical disc formats; Apple and Microsoft; Xbox 360, PS3, and Wii; respective fanboysAnybody else have any wishes this holiday season? Let them be known!

       

 