
 
 It's just a month away, folks. Just one month until the most wonderful time of the year for gadget lovers. It's CES, and in 2013 we're doing it up bigger and better than ever before. Last year we had our first presence on the show floor, a stage with live video broadcasts all day and wild and crazy video podcasts through the night. This year our stage will be even bigger, even better, and we'll be firing out even more video than last year. If you enjoyed our Distro special editions last year you'll be happy to know that we're doing more issues this time -- one for every day of the show! As ever, we'll be your go-to source for breaking news served straight to your browser as it happens, and we also have a few more surprises in store that you'll be finding out about real soon.

 With more than 50 Engadget staffers on-site this year, flown in from all corners of the globe, we're poised to have our biggest year ever. We're thrilled to announce that, for the fifth year in a row, we're the Official place to get your news online. Yes, we're the Official Online News Source of the International CES again in 2013, and we couldn't be more proud. Gary Shapiro, president and CEO of CEA, the producer of the International CES, had this to say:

  The International CES is the world's largest innovation event and Engadget does a terrific job of bringing all the breaking news to its global audience. Each year, Engadget ramps up its CES coverage in bigger ways and the 2013 CES is looking to be the best show yet. Engadget's team of dedicated reporters are seemingly everywhere at CES, covering the breaking product news and scoring the top name interviews that help make the CES experience even more robust for all who follow CES' inspiring innovations and technology news.

 Thanks, Gary, we think you're pretty great, too.

 The International CES 2013 takes place between January 8th and the 11th, but the news will start flowing a few days before and our series of preview articles starts today. We'll be working harder than ever to bring you the best news coverage live from Las Vegas -- unfiltered and unadulterated, just like always.




 

 