
 We're on our third of four HDTV giveaways here on Engadget HD, today it's another ohsohot Philips plasma. They've hooked us up with a couple of 42PF9631D 42-inch plasmas; indulge yourself in some specs:

42-inch 1024 x 768p display with Pixel Plus 3 picture enhancement
1500cd/m² brightness
10,000:1 contrast ratio
160° viewing angle (vertical and horizontal)
Ambilight technology
480i 480p 720p and 1080i support
ATSC, NTSC, and QAM tuning
(2) HDMI, (3) composite, (2) component, (3) S-Video, and USB inputs
We're also throwing in a PowerSquid Surge3000 (black) and a 6-foot HDMI cable from eHDMI

To be entered to win this fine piece of gear, just leave us a comment letting us know whether or not you already have CableCARD (and if so, tell us how the install went). You don't have to drop an essay or anything, we're just a little curious. (Us, we tried to get CableCARD but Comcast botched the install.) Seriously though, that's all you have to do to get a chance to win a 42-inch Philips plasma HDTV. You'll have until next Tuesday (the 17th), then we'll pick the winner at random, assuming s/he follows the rules:

You may enter other Engadget contests, however...
You may only enter this contest once; if you enter more than once on this particular contest post you'll be automatically disqualified and barred from all future giveaways. (Yes, we have robots that thoroughly check to ensure fairness.) You may enter future Engadget relaunch giveaway contests though!
You can only win once. (If you win and then try to go for a second prize during our relaunch giveaways, you'll be automatically disqualified, etc.)
This contest is open to the US only, sorry!
You will be shipped your HDTV in a few weeks when all our contests are over. Thanks for your patience!

Ok everybody, good luck! Oh, by the way, check out our other contests going on right now!

Get yourself a Slingbox AV! 
Here's a second Xbox 360 Premium pack
The final Nikon S7c digital camera!
Fourth shot at a Zune
The Halloween costume contest for a VidaBox HTPC!

 