

 We declared the winners for our first annual Engadget Halloween Costume Contest, but we just had way too many funny, clever, interesting, and just plain amazing costume entrants not to round up a best of the rest collection. So what'd we wind up with? Well, a few Transformers, a ton of people who wore Macs on their heads, and some total nonsequiturs (Steve Ballmer? A Cat5 terminator? Channel9?). We got twenty here for you to peep after the break, check it out!



 
 Bill M. went as the red robot from ExDog — kinda obscure, we know, butwe totally dug it.

   
 Brian E. was the first of many to wear a Mac on his head.

   
 Derek V.'s coat of armor consisted of over 100 Linux CDs.

   
 Andy A.'s hype Bumblebee costume.

   
 We have a feeling Matt G. didn't get to attend many parties, but we want our 3G, and somebody's gotta do the dirtywork.

   
 John H., also a Machead.

   
 Kevin's just a disgruntled computer.

   
 Ryan H. as our man Ballmer: "DEVELOPERS!"

   
 James W. rocks it as Optimus Prime (in both modes).

   
 Brett's speakerbot costume pumps up the jam.

   
 The three of you who will think Brendan G.'s Channel 9 guy costume is funny probably write for Channel 9.

   
 Props be to Ian M., for where would we be without Cat5?

   
 We have a feeling Eddie G. heard a lot of the same certain phrase shouted at him come Halloween night.

   
 Earl B. had a pretty impressive General Grievous costume.

   
 Andy R.'s phat gold hard drive chain really sold us.

   
 Don't be sad, Tim O., someone still find's CRTs interesting.

   
 Marc H. is calling, you gonna get it?

   
 Josh M., another Optimus Prime.

   
 Wade B. was this close to winning with his working giant Simon costume. Apparently "drunk people lovedhitting the buttons."

   
 And what Halloween Costume Contest would be complete without a Giovanni Ribisi lookalike sitting inside an R2D2Pepsi cooler flipping you the bird? Thanks, Big Ice D., for capping this one off. Thanks again to everyone who entered!


