
 Dearest Reader,

 We hope you're keeping well during the inevitable bustle of the holiday season -- it's been so long since we last said hello. It's shocking -- shocking -- to think that the next installment of the Consumer Electronics Show is under a month away, isn't it? Ah, CES: bearer of sleep deficiency, malnutrition, questionable personal hygiene and a bevy of new technology at a pace not matched throughout the regular year. CES, of course, brings us to the letter you find yourself reading today: we'd really love it if you could join us this year! Now, before you start fretting about how you'll get here and where you'll stay and what you'll eat -- as we know you always do -- why don't you let us explain what we're gonna need you to do to get here?

 We want you to show us and tell us via a three-minute video and with 200 written words why you'd like to (and why you deserve to) join us at CES 2013. Once you've buttoned that up, pop the text and a link to your video in an email addressed to us at ces2013contest *at* engadget *dot* com. The contest starts now and closes at 11:59PM PT on December 13th 2012. The winner will be flown out to CES in Las Vegas (arriving January 9, 2013 and departing January 11, 2013), put up in our team hotel, and handed $500 in spending money. Wait, wait! Don't go just yet, there's more: Verizon has also offered to sweeten the pot by throwing in a $100 gift card, a Samsung Galaxy 2 tablet and a RAZR Maxx HD handset, to boot. Now, for the fine print...

 The rules:
  The contest is open from 9:00AM PST on December 10, 2012 and ends at 11:59PM PST on December 13, 2012. That's right -- better hurry!  Contest is open to legal residents of the United States (including the District of Columbia), Puerto Rico and Canada (excluding Quebec) and 18 or older at time of entry. We'd love to invite you all to enter, but we're forced to insert the above rules due to varying legal ramifications.  Winner will be chosen by Engadget's staff based on the following criteria: originality, interest in technology and communications skills (both verbal and written.) In short: wow us to win.  Winner will be notified by email. So, for the love of all that is good, please make sure you get that part right.  Please download and read the full Official Rules list here [.doc format].
