

If you've been waiting for a game that's equal parts X Games and Tromaville, then you probably know that Sunset Overdrive (exclusively for Xbox One) is rolling out today. If you haven't already dropped some cash on the pre-order, though, you may want to hold off for another day or two and try your luck on this week's giveaway. Microsoft has given us an Xbox One Special Edition Sunset Overdrive Bundle and it's going to find a home with one lucky Engadget reader this week. So, stock up on your energy drink of choice and get ready to experience Sunset City 2027 in all its mutated glory. With this bundle, you'll get a Cirrus White console and controller, along with the full game download and Day One Edition in-game content giving you a head start in this anything-goes apocalyptic wonderland. All you need to do is head down to the Rafflecopter widget below for up to three chances at winning. Just make sure you don't slake your thirst with Overcharge Delirium XT or you may experience some side effects...


Winner: congratulations to Brandon W. of Maple Grove, MN.




a Rafflecopter giveaway
 Entries are handled through the Rafflecopter widget above. Comments are no longer accepted as valid methods of entry. You may enter without any obligation to social media accounts, though we may offer them as opportunities for extra entries. Your email address is required so we can get in touch with you if you win, but it will not be given to third parties. Contest is open to all residents of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Canada (excluding Quebec), 18 or older! Sorry, we don't make this rule (we hate excluding anyone), so direct your anger at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad. Winners will be chosen randomly. One (1) winner will receive one (1) Xbox One Special Edition Sunset Overdrive Bundle. If you are chosen, you will be notified by email. Winners must respond within three days of being contacted. If you do not respond within that period, another winner will be chosen. Make sure that the account you use to enter the contest includes your real name and a contact email or Facebook login. We do not track any of this information for marketing or third-party purposes. This unit is purely for promotional giveaway. Microsoft/Xbox and Engadget / AOL are not held liable to honor warranties, exchanges or customer service. The full list of rules, in all its legalese glory, can be found here. Entries can be submitted until October 29th at 11:59PM ET. Good luck!
