


Now that our readers (and most Engadget editors) have stuffed their pie holes full of food and done some serious damage with their credit cards over the biggest shopping weekend of the year, it's time we gave a little bit, too. Here's where our #enGIVEget sweepstakes, benefiting St. Jude Children's Research Hospital® comes in.



Our Holiday Gift Guide is about making the season brighter for everyone. If you've peeked at our guide already, you know that we've gone beyond the usual gifting fare and made sure to recommend gadgets for all ages and price points. And when we think about the children at St. Jude, tinkering with a littleBits DIY Space Kit, or singing to the beat with a Singtrix karaoke system could keep a worried mind busy.


In January, we're planning to head down to St. Jude and outfit a state-of-the-art gadget room for children undergoing treatment. And you, our dear Engadget readers, will help us figure out the best items to fill that room, and maybe win a gadget for yourself in the process. Read on to find out how #enGIVEget (get it: Engadget, GIVE, get... alright we put a lot of effort into the hashtag) works.

1. Pick what you want to "give" and "get"
Look through our Holiday Gift Guide and pick out one item (or more!) you'd like to see in the "gadget room." Then share those links out on Twitter using the hashtag #enGIVEget. We even dropped some sample Twitter copy on our "How to Enter" page, but feel free to Tweet what you want!

2. Consider a Donationbrightcove.createExperiences();In the spirit of the holiday season, consider making a donation to St. Jude. In doing so, you'll support St. Jude's mission to save children in hospitals across the country and around the world. The video above gives you one idea of what your donation can do. For more about St. Jude, head to its website. (But note: A donation isn't required to enter the sweepstakes.)

3. Enter the Sweepstakes!Finally, you'll fill out a simple entry form on our "How to Enter" page. If you want to earn a few bonus entry points, grab the link to your Tweet about the #enGIVEget campaign to include in your submission.

4. Stay Tuned!You can enter the sweepstakes just once, but there's no limit on how many times you can tweet out gift suggestions for the "gadget room." While the sweepstakes ends Dec. 19th, we'll tabulate your votes all month long and update you when we head down to St. Jude's campus in Memphis, Tennessee, in January!


