


After its slow but steady implementation of companion features in its mobile and web services, ESPN is ready to go live with its first dedicated second screen sports app. With its ESPN Sync, the broadcaster will focus first on its Spanish-language channel, ESPN Desportes, delivering real-time news, sports scores and interactive live videos for major sporting events. The company has trialled all manner of real-time features in the past -- from tickers, to fly-bys and other additional goodies -- but ESPN Sync is the first to tie them all together. It's chosen a great time to launch too: the app will debut just in time to distract you during the Mayweather vs. Canelo fight on September 14th. ESPN's new web platform will also play host to more than 60 events over the next year, streaming games from the MLB World Series, NFL Playoffs, NBA Finals and football soccer matches from the world's biggest leagues. ESPN Sync is available on iOS, Android and desktop devices, but be warned -- you'll only get the most out of it if you know your fuera de juego from your contraataque.



Show full PR textESPN Deportes Launches ESPN Sync
The first Spanish-language sports TV companion debuts during Mayweather vs. Canelo Sept. 14
ESPN Deportes launches ESPN Sync – the first Spanish-language web-based app that enhances sports viewing with a unique second-screen experience during live sporting events. ESPN Sync debuts during the Mayweather vs. Canelo fight on Saturday, September 14.ESPN Sync provides users with a real-time experience synchronized with live sports events, while also supporting ESPN Deportes' news and information shows before, during and after events via a dynamic second screen. The interaction features live streams that focus on analysis and discussions of live sports event as they happen, a timeline with real-time scores and stats that allows users to interact synchronously with the event; and videos, polling/trivia, and access to information available in numerous ways, all while connected to the social world.sync

ESPN collaborated with Tapestry, a division of SMG Multicultural, in signing multiple brands as exclusive, yearlong advertisers on ESPN Sync. Up to four brands will rotate for each event using integrations via display, video, and product and logo placements. In addition to regular digital assets, ESPN Sync will feature sponsorship functionalities that allow connecting linear TV advertising with the second screen experience, in real time. When an ad airs on television, it triggers the appropriate interactivity on ESPN Sync where users can engage with the brand."The launch of the first Spanish-language sports TV companion shows our commitment to offering multiplatform access to the most relevant sports content and analysis during live events," said Lino Garcia, ESPN Deportes General Manager. "Hispanic fans are spending more time on our digital properties and the simultaneous use of TV and mobile is rising – ESPN Sync provides a second screen experience for fans and unique marketing opportunities for advertisers."

The September 14 debut will present comprehensive content around the Mayweather vs. Canelo bout that includes a video stream with live reactions and discussions, during the fight, from ESPN Deportes' boxing experts Delving Rodriguez, Leopoldo Gonzalez, Alex Pombo, and Pablo Viruega. Live stats and updates around the bout will also be featured while Puerto Rican referee, Joe Cortez will be providing his unofficial Scorecard during the big fight. The social conversations will be branded under the hashtag #MayweatherCanelo for fans to interact with others on Twitter and Facebook.

Live streaming and content is already scheduled on ESPN Sync for close to 60 events within the next year including MLB World Series, CONMEBOL, CONCACAF, World Cup Qualifiers, UEFA Champions League, Liga MX, Copa MX, NFL Playoffs, MLB, NBA Finals, Super Copa and the ESPY Awards.ESPN Sync is available at www.espnsync.com on any platform, iOS, Android or Windows without the need to download any supporting software.


