
 
ESPN has released some of the broadcast details for Summer X Games 17, scheduled to occur between July 28th - 31st, and it's increasing from eight hours of 3D coverage last year to a planned 18 hours this time around. Interestingly, the HD schedule has been shortened slightly from 31 hours to 25, but there's still plenty of sports action to catch, including a new Enduro X motocross competition and a move to the streets of downtown Los Angeles for the Rally racing competitions. Check all the details currently available in the press release after the break, we're going to go find and wash our Travis Pastrana jersey.
      

 

Show full PR textESPN's X Games 17 Takes to the Streets of Los AngelesEnduro X Discipline to Make its Debut; Rally Disciplines Move to Downtown Street CircuitESPN will kick off its 17th annual action sports competition to be held in Los Angeles July 28 - 31 and will debut the new discipline of Enduro X, as well as the first-ever rally street circuit running through the downtown area. In its ninth year in Los Angeles, X Games 17 will feature more than 200 athletes at competition venues and event spaces including STAPLES Center and Nokia Theatre L.A. LIVE in an effort to further consolidate events to one area and better enable fans to catch all the X Games action from downtown Los Angeles.Enduro X will feature both men's and women's disciplines, showcasing riders' talent on an all-terrain obstacle course. Riders will race through sand, mud, logs, rocks and other terrain features in a blend of motocross racing and traditional Enduro, battling not only each other but also the challenging course for their shot at X Games gold. The new addition will be one of eight Moto X competitions taking place inside STAPLES Center, while the downtown Los Angeles street circuit will offer a unique and exciting setting for the disciplines of Rally Car Racing on Saturday and RallyCross on Sunday."Having RallyCross at last year's X Games was a huge step for the sport, but racing through city streets is how motorsport began," said three-time X Games rally gold medalist Tanner Foust. "Being in the car, ripping through streets, cranking the handbrake through intersections while door-to-door and jumping next to buildings is going to be truly epic! I can't wait!"ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC will combine to telecast 25 hours of live X Games 17 competition. In addition to the 25 original hours in high definition, the Worldwide Leader in Action Sports will also televise 18 hours of X Games action on ESPN 3D. More than 25 hours will also be distributed on ESPN3.com. Outside the United States, X Games 17 will be seen in more than 121 countries and territories to more than 106 million homes, including live telecasts in Africa, Asia, Australia, Brazil, Israel, Mexico, Middle East, New Zealand and South America.Tickets for X Games 17 will be available for purchase June 23 at all Ticketmaster locations and the box office at STAPLES Center.Additional information on all X Games 17 events will be forthcoming on www.xgames.com for fans or on www.espneventmedia.com for media only.About ESPN's X Games FranchiseESPN held its first X Games in 1995. ESPN's Global X Events and Development group is responsible for creating the company's action sports programming currently airing on ESPN, ESPN2 and across its various international networks. In addition to the two U.S.-based events - X Games and Winter X Games - ESPN has held X Games competitions and demonstration events around the world, including Dubai, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, Korea, Malaysia, China, France and Spain. The global X franchise has also expanded its reach to ESPN.com/Action, the definitive site for action sports fans, and to consumer products such as X Games bikes, protective gear, skateboards and DVDs.-30-
 