
 
Count distributor number two (after DirecTV) and the first cable affiliate for ESPN 3D, now officially coming to Comcast when it launches June 11. That follows up on the Masters 3D event broadcast last month and will give 3DTV owning subscribers with digital cable their first linear channel and VOD package (albeit part time, at least for the first year) starting with the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Not into soccer action? The Winter & Summer X-Games are on deck as well as the 2011 BCS National Championship game next January, and whenever someone catches a football star behaving badly in a bathroom on their new 3D cameraphone, you'll know where to go for the highlights.
      

 

Show full PR textESPN and Comcast Announce Distribution Agreement to Bring ESPN 3D To Sports FansESPN 3D Launch on Comcast to Coincide with 2010 FIFA World Cup on June 11BRISTOL, CONN. AND PHILADELPHIA – May 12, 2010 – Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK), one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communication products and services, and ESPN today announced an agreement to provide ESPN 3D to Comcast's Digital Cable customers, to bring top sports events to consumers in next-generation 3D. Comcast is the first cable affiliate to sign on to distribute ESPN's new network that will launch on June 11 and will include nearly 100 events in its first year."As a leader in the distribution of innovative content, it's fitting that Comcast is the first cable distributor for ESPN 3D," said George Bodenheimer, co-chairman, Disney Media Networks, and president, ESPN and ABC Sports. "This agreement demonstrates ESPN's and Comcast's shared commitment to bring the latest viewing experience to sports fans.""ESPN was a pioneer in HD, and continues to move the industry forward with the first 3D sports network," said Brian L. Roberts, chairman and CEO, Comcast Corporation. "We delivered the first live national 3D sports event to consumers homes earlier this year with the Masters Tournament and believe that 3D sports will drive the adoption of this technology and continue to revolutionize how we deliver entertainment."In addition, Comcast and ESPN will provide customers access to select ESPN 3D events on VOD.ESPN 3D will sign on the air June 11 with the first 2010 FIFA World Cup match featuring South Africa versus Mexico. ESPN 3D will feature up to 25 matches throughout the World Cup. Along with college football and NBA games, schedule highlights for the new network include:·   X Games 16, July 28-Aug. 1·   College basketball's Old Spice Classic, Nov. 25-28·   College football's ACC Championship on Dec. 4·   Jimmy V Classic on Dec. 7·   2011 BCS National Championship game Jan. 10, 2011·   X Games 15, Jan. 27-30, 2011·   College basketball's Big East Tournament, March 8-12, 2011About ESPN 3DESPN was the first to announce an exclusive 3D network in January 2010 which was the culmination of more than three years of testing 3D television. ESPN has produced several 3D telecasts, including the Masters in April 2010, a Harlem Globetrotters game in February 2010 and in 2009 the USC vs. Ohio State college football game. ESPN has developed best practices for utilizing the technology in live game applications which have provided the ability to streamline workflow operations, adjust 3D camera positioning, perform transmission tests and gauge fan reaction to a 3D telecast versus a traditional telecast. Sony was named the first official sponsor of the network in January 2010.About Comcast CorporationComcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communication products and services. With 23.5 million cable customers, 16.3 million high-speed Internet customers, and 7.9 million Comcast Digital Voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of cable systems and in the delivery of programming content.Comcast's content networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One, 11 regional sports networks operated by Comcast Sports Group and Comcast Interactive Media, which develops and operates Comcast's Internet businesses, including Comcast.net (www.comcast.net). Comcast also has a majority ownership in Comcast-Spectacor, which owns two professional sports teams, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, and a large, multipurpose arena in Philadelphia, the Wachovia Center, and manages other facilities for sporting events, concerts and other events.
 