
 
Square may see the iPad to as an excellent retail tool, but Eventbrite thinks Apple's tablet a box office boon, which is why it created the At The Door app and card reader solution. Eventbrite's a self-service ticketing platform and its new dongle, which connects via Apple's 30-pin connector, lets indie event promoters take reader-encrypted credit card payments with any iPad. Meanwhile, the app lets you see on-site and online ticket sales, keep track of customer contact info and balance the books as well. Plus, any payments taken through the app are service fee-free, meaning users only pay for credit card processing. Not only that, you can wirelessly print tickets and receipts via a compatible printer (should you be willing to buy one), too. But before you go planning your personal Woodstock, perhaps you'd like to know how much this ticketing bonanza costs? Well, the app's free and the reader's 10 bucks, with Eventbrite handing out 10 dollar account credits in return for those who jump on the bandwagon. If that sounds like something you're into, hit the PR after the break for more info, or buy a card reader at the source below.
      

 

Show full PR textEventbrite Completes a Mobile Box Office with the Launch of Its First Hardware Product -At The Door Card ReaderNew card reader for iPads makes credit card swiping and ticket printing fast and easy, offering a complete on-site sales solution for Eventbrite organizers, and convenience for attendeesSan Francisco, Calif. - March 21, 2012 -Eventbrite, the self-service ticketing platform, today announced the release of the At The Door Card Reader, a device used to easily and securely collect credit card payments for events using the At The Door iPad app. The new reader is the company's first piece of proprietary hardware, and when used together with Eventbrite's At The Door app, offers a complete box office solution. Credit card payments can be accepted using the reader for tickets to events of all sizes and types, merchandise, VIP packages and more.The credit card reader will be available in Eventbrite's new online store, Brite Store at no ultimate cost. Organizers will purchase one reader for $10, which will be automatically reimbursed in the purchaser's Eventbrite account.Prior to launch, the At The Door app was tested successfully with several large, high-profile events, including Meatopia, The Orange County BBQ Festival, and the IFPDA Print Faire. The At The Door Card Reader will be part of the mobile box office solution for the highly anticipated Governors Ball Music Festival-taking place on Roosevelt Island June 23-24, in New York City.In addition to the obvious payment capabilities the mobile box office provides, Eventbrite also offers wireless printing capabilities for printing receipts and tickets, and an easier way to capture and track important data from on-site sales. By accepting payments via the At The Door app and card reader, organizers will have a full, comprehensive picture of their sales data captured through the Eventbrite platform – from both on-site sales and online sales data. This capability gives organizers powerful visibility into the behaviors and preferences of their attendees, as well as an easy way to stay in touch with them.Eventbrite CEO and Co-Founder Kevin Hartz explains, "At The Door transforms an off-the-shelf iPad into a paradigm-shifting tool for managing sales for events. We're essentially taking the devices that are proliferating among consumers and transforming them into perfectly-tailored tools for event organizers, at no cost, and with greater impact than anything previously available." To celebrate the launch, Eventbrite is waiving service fees on transactions made through At The Door-only credit card processing costs will be applied.Other features of the At The Door box office include:• An optimized checkout flow that allows the application to process 400+ transactions per hour.• A reliable swipe: Connection to the 30-pin adapter (instead of the headphone jack) means the At The Door Card Reader gets a good read every time, eliminating the need for multiple swipes.• Wireless integration with the Star TSP143 printer for tickets and customer receipts.• Cash drawer reconciliation within the app.• Encryption on the reader, itself-all card data transmitted through the iPad is fully protected.To learn more about the At The Door iPad app, go to www.eventbrite.com/atthedoor, and to purchase an At The Door Card Reader, visit the Brite Store at www.eventbritestore.com.
 