
 


	Worried that your bundle of joy might get up to no good during your weekly Hatha class? Not with this monolith by his bedside, he won't. It's called the Evoz Baby Monitor and it takes its job very seriously. All you have to do is place this WiFi-enabled device next to Junior's crib, download Evoz' app on your iPhone and the monitor will automatically provide you with alerts (via text, e-mail or phone call) whenever your kid cries. Once you sync this watchdog with your phone, you can even use it to remotely listen in on your prince, just in case he utters his first words while you're out on the links. Best of all, the system isn't restricted to a fixed range and promises to work in any area where you've got cellular coverage -- whether that be in the backyard, at the gym, or at Child Protective Services. Evoz won't start shipping the Baby Monitor until October 4th, but gravely concerned parents can pre-order one now for $120, at the source link below. Otherwise, just crawl past the break for more information, in the full PR.
 

    			Show full PR text  Evoz Baby Monitor Set to Ship on October 4th – First Look at the ABC Kids Expo 			Tomorrow at the ABC Kids Expo in the Kentucky Exposition Center we are offering a first look at the Evoz Baby Monitor that begins shipping on October 4th. We have received amazing feedback, and a great deal of data during the beta program for the Evoz baby monitoring service, and the number one request is for a baby monitor that supports the Evoz service. We are proud to announce the availability of the Evoz Monitor, lowering the barrier to entry for parents to get the only baby monitor with unlimited range, smart alerts when baby cries and sleep data. 			With Evoz, busy, active parents are able to listen to their baby anytime, anywhere, right from their iPhone or any web browser with a touch of a button. Simply place the Evoz Wi-Fi Baby Monitor near your baby, and your iPhone becomes the receiver. Set alerts however you want them – txt, email or even calls. 			We will be at the ABC Kids Expo offering a first look of the Evoz Monitor and Service and a great show special – drop by booth #3511 in the new products section and ask for a demo! Once we connect your iPhone up to a monitor, you'll be able to listen in from anywhere on the show floor, outside the convention center, in your hotel room, when you get back home... you get the idea. If you want, we will even play some great baby cries so you can see the alerts. 			Not only can you listen to your child from anywhere you have cellular coverage, Evoz proactively sends a text, email or calls you when your baby cries. The amazing technology developed by Evoz understands the difference between crying and background noises and alerts parents when it really matters. 			Parents can pre-order your Evoz Monitor now at www.myevoz.com/pre-order. Pricing for the Evoz Wi-Fi Baby Monitor with Basic Evoz Service starts at $120. Pre-ordered monitors will ship on October 4th and become immediately available for purchase in the Evoz Store at http://myevoz.com/subscriptions. Retailers can purchase evoz at wholesale prices with great quantity discounts. 			We are proud to make it even easier for parents to benefit from the Evoz monitor and service – dedicated to providing state of the art wellness technology to active parents. 
 