
 
We've learned from a source close to the situation that the rumored global version of the Droid 2 with GSM and CDMA radios is actually the same phone as the also-rumored Droid Pro -- although Verizon apparently has a tendency to fiddle with branding right up until the last minute, so the retail name could still change. It's identical to the current Droid 2 in every way except for the fact that it houses a GSM / HSPA radio for global roaming, though we're not able to confirm previous rumors that it'll be available in a white version; presumably, you'll pay a bit more than the Droid 2's $200 on contract for the privilege of being able to take your buddy overseas. Barring any last-minute delays, we should see it launch within weeks.

If you're sick and tired of Motorolas, let's switch gears a bit and talk about the follow-up to LG's enV Touch. Interestingly, LG will be switching from a proprietary featurephone platform to Android for this one -- called the enV Touch 2 -- and will give it dual touchscreens: one on the outside, and another on the inside for when you flip open the clamshell. As you might expect for an enV-branded device, there's also a full QWERTY keyboard. It's currently running Android 2.1, though it's not clear whether that'll be upgraded to 2.2 by the time we see a release toward the holidays. It's said to be pretty big and heavy, which could be a disadvantage for some -- but on the flipside, it's apparently a global device, so that's a plus. enVs historically haven't been the most exciting things in Verizon's stable, but we'll admit, we're curious to see this one get fleshed out.

Update: A tipster has written in to point out that the Droid 2 and Droid Pro are showing as two different devices in Verizon's inventory system, model numbers A956 and A957, respectively; our original source is adamant, though, that they're the same device, so we'll need to wait to see how this pans out. As we mentioned, Droid Pro isn't necessarily the go-to-market name for the phone, but it is the name being tossed around internally right now for the device that we know as the Droid 2 with global roaming.
      

 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

