
With every subsequent post, our excitement for Expand New York grows -- and this is a particularly good one. We might go so far as saying that this is our most exciting speaker post yet, but we'll leave that for you to decide. Improvisational musician / comedian Reggie Watts will be on stage discussing and demoing his sampling setup. We'll also be joined once again by Boing Boing founder and Make Magazine editor-in-chief Mark Frauenfelder, along with Sol Design Lab founder Beth Ferguson, Techdirt CEO Mike Masnick and Sparkfun's educational outreach coordinator, Jeff Branson.


And, of course, we've already announced a number of folks who will be joining us on November 9th and 10th, including LeVar Burton, Ben Heck, Peter Molyneux, Ben Huh and folks from companies like Google, Sony, Pebble, Adafruit and The Electronic Frontier Foundation -- and we've still got plenty to come. Check out the full list below.



 Ayah Bdeir, Founder, CEO, Little Bits Jeff Branson, Educational Outreach Coordinator, Sparkfun LeVar Burton, Actor, Director, Educator, co-founder of RRKidz Jill Fehrenbacher, Editor-in-Chief, Inhabitat Mark Fraunfelder, Founder, Boing Boing, Editor-in-Chief, Make Magazine Beth Ferguson, Founder, Sol Design Lab David Gerrold, Science Fiction Author Ben Heck, Master Modder on The Ben Heck Show Ben Huh, CEO, Cheezburger Joichi Ito, Director, MIT Media Lab Timothy Jordan, Senior Developer Advocate, Google Glass Oskar Kalmaru, Co-founder, Memoto Chris Lewicki, President and Chief Engineer, Planetary Resources, Inc. Mike Masnick, Founder and CEO, Techdirt Eric Migicovsky, CEO, Pebble Peter Molyneux, 22Cans Phil Molyneux, COO / President, Sony Electronics Annalee Newitz, editor-in-chief, io9 Julie Samuels, Staff Attorney, The Electronic Frontier Foundation Becky Stern, Director of Wearable Electronics, Adafruit Industries Sonny Vu, CEO and Founder, Misfit Wearables Reggie Watts, Musician, Comedian, Comedy Bang Bang Pat Yongpradit, Director of Education, Code.orgSee you in November -- and don't forget...
 If you're a company that would like to work with us on an exhibition or sponsorship level, please drop us a line at sponsors at engadget dot com (DIYers and small startups, please ask us about our Indie Corner option) Want to win $25,000 to get your crowdfunded hardware project off on the right foot? Submit to our Insert Coin competition! If you're a member of the media interested in covering Expand NY, including a special press-only preview on November 8th, please drop us a line using this form
