
Earlier this year, about 2,000 of our closest friends in the San Francisco Bay Area came by and, together, we had ourselves a heck of a time. The first ever Expand was filled with electric cars, UAVs, great speakers and, of course, a plethora of great gadgets and giveaways. It was so much fun that we just knew we'd have to do it again. So, that's exactly what we're going to do. We're very happy to announce that Expand is coming to New York City on November 9th and 10th. We'll be at the spacious Javits Center, home of great events like the New York International Auto Show and the New York Comic Con.

And why should you attend Expand NY? We'll have a huge show floor where you can get your hands on the latest gadgets and devices for consumers -- plus a lot of things not normally open for public use. (Attendees of the first Expand got to try out the $2 million da Vinci surgical robot.) We'll also have an agenda full of great speakers up on stage for you to listen to and to meet. Last time, Kickstarter co-founder Yancey Strickler kicked off a program full of amazing conversations, like a fireside chat with OUYA CEO Julie Uhrman. And, we gave away $25,000 to the creators of the Ziphius Acquatic Drone, winners of our first ever Insert Coin competition.




Expand NY is going to be all that and more, bigger and better and befitting The Big Apple. We'll have full details on the event soon, including speakers, exhibitors and how you can enter the second Insert Coin competition -- but for now you can click on over to the event hub and secure your spot early, plus sign up for Expand alerts. That way you'll be the first to know about what's going on, which is what it's really all about, isn't it?

 If you're a company that would like to work with us on an exhibition or sponsorship level, please drop us a line at sponsors *at* engadget *dot* com. If you're interested in speaking at the event, please fill out this form and we'll contact you if there's a match with our agenda. If you're interested in entering the Insert Coin competition, please contact expand *at* engadget *dot* com to inquire. If you're a member of the media interested in covering Expand, please send us your details or contact engadget *at* shiftcomm.com with additional questions.We can't wait to see you in New York!


