
 
If you thought Eye-Fi was a great invention already, then boy, do we have a treat for you. Here at CES, the outfit made famous for pumping out delightfully simple WiFi SD cards for wireless image uploading is taking the next logical step by embracing video. It's currently developing a system that will enable its WiFi SD cards to upload videos directly to YouTube, and if you reckoned the first iteration would be stuck at standard-def, you reckoned wrong. In fact, it's being designed from the ground-up to handle HD uploads from cameras like Nikon's D90, but there's no word yet on how soon the technology will be ready. The big question from us? Will this require an all new card, or can the video functionality be added to existing models? Check the full release after the break.
      

 

EYE-FI DEVELOPING WIRELESS VIDEO UPLOADS DIRECT TO YOUTUBE New Technology Will Allow Users to Send Videos Automatically, Wirelessly from their Camera to YouTube and their Computer CES, LAS VEGAS - Jan. 7, 2009 - Eye-Fi Inc., makers of the world's first wireless memory card for digital cameras, today announced that it is developing a way for users to wirelessly upload videos from their digital camera to YouTube and a home computer. Eye-Fi will preview the technology at this year's International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas January 8-11, in booth #32024 in the TechZone of South Hall Three.  "We're aiming to do for video what we've already done for photos: provide the easiest, simplest way to save and share your digital memories," said Jef Holove, CEO for Eye-Fi. "Our wireless technology makes it effortless to upload videos to YouTube using the digital camera you already have, without the fuss of special software. You won't need to find a USB cable or even turn on your computer to get your memories in front of one of the largest audiences on the Web." According to a recent InfoTrends study, Video End-User Research: 2008, the point-and-shoot camera is now the most commonly used device for capturing memories on video. With Eye-Fi's wireless SD memory cards for digital cameras, users can upload photos – and soon video – automatically through Wi-Fi networks. Eye-Fi hotspot subscribers can also upload their memories away from home at more than 10,000 Wayport and open hotspot locations across the U.S. Eye-Fi is designing its video upload service to support full-resolution HD video, with newer cameras like the Nikon D90 capturing HD video, and Web sites including YouTube now testing display of HD video."Some of the most popular clips on YouTube are shot on digital cameras, rather than video camcorders," said Holove. "Eye-Fi will give people the power to upload videos automatically, making it even easier for the YouTube community to post their life events, home videos and breaking news – virtually as they happen." Eye-Fi will also demonstrate its new video upload technology in the "Last Gadget Standing" event on January 10 from 10:30 - 11:30 a.m. PST in room N255-257 in LVCC, North Hall.Eye-Fi's wireless SD memory cards have won numerous awards, including Popular Science's "Best of What's New 2008" and PC World's "The 100 Best Products of 2008." For more information, please visit www.eye.fi.About Eye-FiFounded in 2005, the company is dedicated to building products and services that help consumers navigate, nurture and share their visual memories. Eye-Fi's patent-pending technology works with Wi-Fi networks to automatically send photos from a digital camera to online, in-home and retail destinations. Headquartered in Mountain View, Calif., the company's investors include LMS Capital, Opus Capital, Shasta Ventures and TransLink Capital. More information is available at www.eye.fi.

       

 