
 Remember how Eye-Fi was cooking up some software to let their WiFi-enabled SD memory cards sling photos directly to your tablet or phone? Here's some sweet news -- starting next week, Direct Mode will be a free download for any Eye-Fi X2 card, and debut alongside companion apps in the Android Market and iTunes App Store. Moreover, the company's celebrating the launch of the new transfer protocol with a brand-new card, the $80 Eye-Fi Mobile X2, which should be available for purchase online momentarily and make its merry way to Best Buy and Apple stores by April 17th. Basically, the Mobile is a redux of the $50 Connect X2, but with double the storage capacity (8GB) and Direct Mode pre-installed -- though a price drop on the top-of-the-line Pro X2 (to $100) will add geotagging and RAW support for just one Jackson more. Need a refresher on how Direct Mode works? Peek our CES video demo (and a hefty press release) after the break.
      

 

 Show full PR textWHY WAIT? NEW EYE-FI MOBILE X2 CARD GIVES CAMERAS THE POWER OF INSTANT UPLOADSNew Direct Mode Technology and Eye-Fi Mobile Apps Now Available as a Free Upgrade to All X2 CardsMOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., April 12, 2011 - Eye-Fi Inc. (www.eye.fi), makers of the world's first wireless memory card, today launched the Eye-Fi Mobile X2, a new 8GB wireless memory card empowering cameras around the world with immediate uploading capabilities. The Eye-Fi Mobile X2 provides instant uploads anywhere by wirelessly connecting the camera to a mobile device, such as a smartphone or tablet, and is available for $79.99."Direct Mode helps us bridge the gap between classic digital imaging and the exploding world of mobile devices," said Jef Holove, CEO of Eye-Fi. "With Direct Mode and our new Android and iOS apps, the pervasive connectivity of mobile is made available to existing cameras." With the launch of the Eye-Fi Mobile X2, Eye-Fi will be releasing its Direct Mode and accompanying iOS and Android apps as free upgrades to all existing and new Eye-Fi X2 cards. With Direct Mode, users can enjoy the best of the devices they already own, namely the quality of digital cameras and the ubiquitous connectivity of their mobile devices. The Eye-Fi card can now establish a direct connection to the mobile device by creating its own Wi-Fi network anywhere users capture memories, even if that is miles from a Wi-Fi hotspot. Whether they are hiking or at the beach, consumers can now send photos and videos directly from their digital camera to the Eye-Fi app on their smartphone or tablet, enabling them to back up, edit and share their memories in the moment. "When we undertook a redesign of the Eye-Fi card line a little over two years ago, the new X2 card platform promised users the potential for new, exciting capabilities over time. Today we see another one of these revolutionary capabilities come to life: Direct Mode," says Yuval Koren, co-founder and chief product officer of Eye-Fi. Direct Mode benefits extend beyond device-to-device transfers. Whether users want to edit their memories using the myriad of apps on their mobile devices, back them up on their home computer, or save them in a private Eye-Fi account, they now have the flexibility and control of where, how and when the media is stored, edited and shared.Eye-Fi Mobile X2 is available for pre-orders immediately on Amazon.com, and available at Apple and Best Buy stores nationwide for $79.99 on April 17, 2011. Direct Mode will be available as a free upgrade to all Eye-Fi X2 cards later this week, along with accompanying free mobile apps for iPhone, iPad and Android devices. The Eye-Fi Pro X2 will be reduced from $149.99 to $99.99 starting this month.For more information, visit www.eye.fi.
 