
 

Making it big in the headphone industry isn't always about sound quality, sometimes you just have to be loud. The folks at Fanny Wang have that covered, offering up some wildly colored cans to help them "break through the noise," as they put it, of the headphone market. Users can customize the outfit's 1001, 2001 and 3001 model headphones on the firm's new interactive website, picking and choosing colors for seven distinct parts, including the cord. Orders take about three weeks to assemble and ship, Fanny says, giving you just enough time to snag some colorful cans before the holidays. You know, in case someone on your list is looking for something sort of like those ColorWare tinted Beats, but with a bit of actual color. You can find Fanny's fancy press release after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  AMPLIFY YOUR SOUND & STYLE WITH FANNY WANG CUSTOM COLORED HEADPHONES 		Available For Any Model, New Customized Headphones Allows Music Lovers to Create a Pair that Will Look as Good as They Sound 		Danville, CA – November 17, 2011 – Fanny Wang Headphone Co. breaks through the "noise" in the crowded headphone market, with today's announcement of a custom colorization option for their 1001 On Ear as well as 2001 and 3001 Over Ear models. Music fanatics and fashionistas alike will now have a full spectrum of colors to accompany any musical taste, enabling them to create one-of-a-kind headphones. 		"At Fanny Wang, we understand that someone's distinct style is just as unique as what's found on their music players, and we want our headphones to be as customizable as possible," explains Fanny Wang Headphone Company CEO, Tim Hickman. "I think it is this mentality that helps set us apart from the other companies in the headphone space. We have created a high-quality product that sounds fantastic with any type of music, looks cool and is quintessentially YOU. These headphones are endorsed by our consumers, and now they can put their stamp – their name - on a special pair." 		Via Fanny Wang's interactive website http://customs.fannywang.com/, music fans will be able to choose from an array of colors for seven different parts of the Fanny Wang headphone: outside band, inside band, center disc, sound chambers, accent strip, ear muffs and cord. With more than 1 million possible color combinations, it is easy to "amplify your sound" while rocking something that reflects your personal style. 		As with all Fanny Wang products, consumers will be able to get "plugged in" to the latest technology. With the unique, integrated Duo Jack and compact design, you can share your favorite beats anywhere you go. All models deliver custom-paired titanium-plate drivers, tuned to deliver natural, thumping bass with crystal clear mids and highs that compliment anything from Hip Hop to Classic Rock to Classical. In addition, the 3001 Over Ear's four-way noise canceling technology eliminates up to 95% of ambient sound, so absolutely nothing gets in between you and your music. 		Shipping just in time for the holidays, any model would be the perfect present for the hard-to-buy-for audiophile on your list. Once an order is customized at http://customs.fannywang.com/, it is then relayed to the factory to be individually assembled. The customized headphones are then shipped directly to the customer via FedEx. The entire process takes approximately three weeks.
 