
 

Fast 5 may have dropped "Furious" from the title but we saw it in theaters and can confirm things are just as angry as ever with director Justin Lin at the helm once again, and throwing The Rock into the mix with stars Paul Walker and Vin Diesel. Plot descriptions between fast cars, explosions and Brazil are wholly unnecessary for this flick, although the reason we're highlighting it is because of a bevy of Blu-ray exclusive extras. Beyond the usual set of featurettes and behind the scenes look, Universal is making this the first flick to work with the Second Screen feature of its pocket BLU app, now updated for tablets. We'll have to wait and see if it lives up to previous efforts by Disney or if the flick is just dragging it around like a vault through city streets, but there's a trailer for the feature included after the break if you're interested.
      

 

    		Show full PR text  BUCKLE UP FOR AN ADRENALINE-PUMPING HEIST		FROM THE EXPLOSIVE FRANCHISE BUILT ON SPEED		STARRING VIN DIESEL, PAUL WALKER, DWAYNE JOHNSON		AND A REUNION OF RETURNING ALL-STARS IN 		FAST FIVE 		Including Never-Before-Seen Extended Edition and		Universal's All-New Second Screen Feature Available Exclusively on Blu-ray™		On Blu-ray™ and DVD Combo Packs, DVD and Digital Download 		From Universal Studios Home Entertainment		October 4, 2011 		"The Best of the Series!" – Richard Corliss, TIME  		Universal City, California (July 26 2011)-Spectacular street chases and pulse-pounding physical action are set against the mesmerizing beauty of Rio de Janeiro's exotic thoroughfares in Fast Five, the most successful installment of the Fast & Furious franchise. Vin Diesel and Paul Walker lead a reunion of returning all-stars from every chapter of the phenomenally successful franchise built on speed plus action superstar Dwayne Johnson (Faster) in the all-new action caper available October 4, 2011 on Blu-ray™ and DVD Combo Packs, DVD, Digital Download and On Demand. 		Available for a limited time only, the Blu-ray™ and DVD Combo Packs bring the full-throttle excitement of the ultimate Fast Five experience to the screen with perfect picture and the purest digital sound available on Blu-ray™, as well as an extended edition of the film with even more explosive action, exclusive bonus features, a DVD to enjoy in the car or on the go, and a Digital Copy of the film that can be downloaded and viewed on an array of electronic and portable devices anytime, anywhere including laptops, tablets, and smartphones as well as Internet-connected TVs and Blu-ray™ set top boxes. Debuting on the Fast Five Blu-ray™ is Universal's Second Screen, an all-new app for tablets and computers that provides an innovative and interactive viewing experience. To preview Universal's all-new Second Screen for Fast Five visit http://preview.tinyurl.com/UniSecondScreenF5preview. 		Packed with mind-blowing stunts, high-octane thrills and unprecedented automotive wizardry, Fast Five reunites cast members from all four previous chapters of the blockbuster franchise, reprising their roles as the most daring gang of outlaw drivers to ever get behind the wheel, while a relentless FBI agent (Dwayne Johnson) does whatever it takes to them bring down. Director Justin Lin (Fast & Furious, The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift) takes the wheel of this all-star reunion as Diesel and Walker reprise their iconic roles as Dom Toretto, the king of the street racers, and former cop Brian O'Conner, now Dom's partner-in-crime, while Johnson rides shotgun for the first time ever as Federal agent Luke Hobbs. Fast Five also brings back several popular franchise stars including Jordana Brewster, Tyrese Gibson, Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Sung Kang, Tego Calderon, Don Omar, Elsa Pataky, Gal Gadot and Matt Schulze in a story fueled by gear-grinding action, hairpin plot twists and vehicular mayhem set to a driving hip-hop and Latin soundtrack. 		BLU-RAY™ EXCLUSIVE BONUS FEATURES: 		· DOM VS. HOBBS: Watch how the action-packed showdown was shot 		· ON SET WITH DIRECTOR JUSTIN LIN: Go behind the scenes of Fast Five with director Justin Lin 		· INSIDE THE VAULT CHASE: Learn how they filmed the movie's most dangerous sequence 		· TYRESE TV: Go behind the scenes of Fast Five with Tyrese Gibson 		· NEW! pocket BLU™ VERSIONS FOR TABLETS AND COMPUTERS, FEATURING UNIVERSAL'S SECOND SCREEN 		o The popular free pocket BLU™ app for smartphones is now even better with newly updated versions for iPad®, Android™ tablets, PC, and Macintosh computers, with features made especially to take advantage of the devices' larger screens and high resolution displays. And with UNIVERSAL'S SECOND SCREEN, enjoy an innovative and interactive viewing experience, that lets you control, interact and explore Fast Five with groundbreaking new features right on your tablet or computer, in synchronization with the movie on your television screen! While the movie plays, you'll experience features such as: 		§ Take Control 2.0: Step inside the movie with Director Justin Lin, as he takes control of your Blu-ray player and gives you an all-access, in-depth look at how the movie was made. 		§ Virtual Car Garage: Get an up-close inspection of the hot cars, moving models of the cars in a 360 degree view, check out tech specs and more with a touch of your finger 		§ Scene Explorer: Ever wish you could see how your favorite special effects sequences were created? Select various progressions of the same scene from storyboards to daily cuts right from your couch and see how they pulled off the incredible action of the film. 		§ Picture in Picture: The cast and crew share stories about the movie right from your tablet or computer, in synchronization to the scene being played. 		§ The Music of Fast Five: Tap your fingers to find out what song is playing, create your own playlist, and even purchase the songs right from your device! 		· pocket BLU™: The groundbreaking pocket BLU™ app uses iPad®, iPhone®, iPod® touch, Android™ smartphones and tablets, PC and Mac® to work seamlessly with a network-connected Blu-ray™ player. Consumers will be able to browse through a library of Blu-ray™ content and watch entertaining extras on-the-go in a way that's bigger and better than ever before. pocket BLU™ offers advanced features such as: 		o DIGITAL COPY: Now, Users have a whole new way to redeem their Digital Copy of the movie right from within the pocket BLU app! With a simple three step process, the movie begins downloading instantly to their portable device to take with them anywhere! 		o ADVANCED REMOTE CONTROL: A sleek, elegant new way to operate your Blu-ray™player. Users can navigate through menus, playback and BD-Live™ functions with ease 		o VIDEO TIMELINE: Users can easily bring up the video timeline, allowing them to instantly access any point in the film 		o MOBILE-TO-GO: Users can unlock a selection of bonus content with their Blu-ray™ discs to save to their device or to stream from anywhere there is a Wi-Fi network, enabling them to enjoy content on the go, anytime, anywhere 		o BROWSE TITLES: Users will have access to a complete list of pocket BLU™-enabled titles available and coming to Blu-ray™ Hi-Def. They can view free previews and see what additional content is available to unlock on their device 		o KEYBOARD: Entering data is fast and easy with your device's intuitive keyboard 		· BD-LIVE™ - Access the BD-Live™ Center through your Internet-connected player to access the latest trailers, exclusive content, and more! 		· uHEAR™: Never miss another line of dialogue with this innovative feature that instantly skips back a few seconds on your Blu-ray™ disc and turns on the subtitles to highlight what you missed 		Blu-ray™ Combo Pack and dvd combo pack exclusive: 		· DIGITAL COPY: In addition to redeeming a Digital Copy of the movie through the pocket BLU™ app, Viewers can also download a digital version of the full-length movie from participating digital retailers to enjoy on a choice of popular electronic and portable devices. 		Blu-ray™ and dvd BONUS FEATURES: 		· DELETED SCENES 		· GAG REEL 		· DOM'S JOURNEY: Track Vin Diesel's legendary character from the beginning 		· BRIAN O'CONNER: FROM FED TO CON: Follow Paul Walker's character as he goes from lawman to outlaw 		· ENTER FEDERAL AGENT HOBBS: Meet Dom & Brian's toughest nemesis yet 		· FEATURE COMMENTARY WITH DIRECTOR JUSTIN LIN 		SYNOPSIS		Vin Diesel and Paul Walker head up an all-star reunion of the explosive Fast franchise set in sultry Rio de Janeiro. Former cop Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker, Fast & Furious, Takers) and his girlfriend Mia Toretto (Jordana Brewster, Fast & Furious, "Dallas") bust Mia's brother Dom (Vin Diesel, Fast & Furious, The Chronicles of Riddick) out of prison, blasting across South America to elude the authorities. Finding themselves backed into a corner in Brazil, they assemble an elite team of top racers to help pull off the one last job that could mean freedom for them all. But hard-nosed federal agent Luke Hobbs (Dwayne Johnson, Faster, The Other Guys) is hot on their trail, and so is a corrupt and powerful businessman who wants them dead. When Hobbs and his strike force launch an all-out assault to capture the Torettos and their team, he can't separate the good guys from the bad. Instead, he must rely on his instincts to corner his prey...before someone else runs them down first. 		CAST AND FILMMAKERS:		Cast: Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Dwayne Johnson, Jordana Brewster, Tyrese Gibson, Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Sung Kang, Tego Calderon, Don Omar, Elsa Pataky, Gal Gadot, Matt Schulze		Directed By: Justin Lin		Screenplay By: Chris Morgan, based on characters created by Gary Scott Thompson		Executive Producers: Amanda Lewis, Samantha Vincent		Producers: Vin Diesel, Michael Fottrell, Neal H. Moritz		Director of Photography: Stephen F. Windon		Production Designer: Peter Wenham		Edited By: Kelly Matsumoto, Fred Raskin, Christian Wagner		Casting By: Deborah Zane		Costume Designer: Sanja Milkovic Hays		Original Music By: Brian Tyler 		TECHNICAL INFORMATION 		BLU-RAY™		Street Date: October 4, 2011		Copyright: 2011 Universal Studios		Selection Number: Blu-ray Combo Pack: 61119120		Running Time: 2 hours, 12 minutes		Layers: BD-50		Picture Format: Widescreen		Aspect Ratio: 2.35:1		Rating: PG-13 for intense sequences of violence and action, sexual content and language		Languages/Subtitles: English SDH, Spanish, French		Sound: English DOLBY DIGITAL 5.1 / DD DVS 2.0, French-Canadian and Spanish DTS Surround 5.1 		DVD		Street Date: October 4, 2011		Copyright: 2011 Universal Studios		Selection Number: DVD: 61115623; DVD Combo Pack: 61119536		Running Time: 2 hours, 12 minutes		Layers: Dual Layer		Picture Format: Anamorphic Widescreen		Aspect Ratio: 2.35:1		Rating: PG-13 for intense sequences of violence and action, sexual content and language		Languages/Subtitles: English SDH, Spanish, French		Sound: English DOLBY DIGITAL 5.1 / DD DVS 2.0, Spanish and French-Canadian DOLBY DIGITAL 5.1 		For artwork please log on to our website at www.ushepublicity.com  		www.fastfivemovie.com 		Universal Studios Home Entertainment is a unit of Universal Pictures, a division of Universal Studios (www.universalstudios.com). Universal Studios is a part of NBCUniversal , one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBCUniversal owns and operates a valuable portfolio of news and entertainment television networks, a premier motion picture company, significant television production operations, a leading television stations group and world-renowned theme parks. Comcast Corporation owns a controlling 51% interest in NBCUniversal, with GE holding a 49% stake.
 