
 After a lengthy review period, the FCC has finally voted in favor of Dish Network's request to use its AWS-4 wireless spectrum for 4G LTE data services. Now that the FCC removed regulatory barriers that previously restricted that 40 MHz of satellite spectrum from being used for land-based broadband, Dish says it "will consider its strategic options," whatever that means. Dish didn't get everything that it wanted however, as the FCC also approved a proposal that could lead to the auction of the H block of spectrum in 2013. Dish would prefer this spectrum go unused as a buffer for its own, but other wireless companies like Sprint are reportedly interested in it. Although rumors have circulated about partnerships with everyone from T-Mobile to Google, we'll have to wait and see what Dish Network actually does going forward, but avoiding the LightSquared treatment surely has the folks in Englewood, Colorado breathing easier.



  Show full PR text   DISH Statement on AWS-4 Spectrum Decision
   Category: Corporate  Tuesday, December 11, 2012 5:08 pm MST  Dateline:  ENGLEWOOD, Colo.  EmailPDFPrintRSSShareThis  Public Company Information:  NASDAQ:DISH  ENGLEWOOD, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH) issued the following statement attributable to Jeff Blum, DISH senior vice president and deputy general counsel:

   "The FCC has removed outdated regulations and granted terrestrial flexibility for most of the AWS-4 band. We appreciate the hard work and focus of the FCC and its staff throughout this process. The Commission has taken an important step toward facilitating wireless competition and innovation, and fulfilling the goals of the National Broadband Plan. Following a more thorough review of the order and its technical details, DISH will consider its strategic options and the optimal approach to put this spectrum to use for the benefit of consumers."

   About DISH

   DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH), through its subsidiary DISH Network L.L.C., provides approximately 14.042 million satellite TV customers, as of Sept. 30, 2012, with the highest quality programming and technology with the most choices at the best value, including HD Free for Life. Subscribers enjoy the largest high definition line-up with more than 200 national HD channels, the most international channels, and award-winning HD and DVR technology. DISH Network Corporation's subsidiary, Blockbuster L.L.C., delivers family entertainment to millions of customers around the world. DISH Network Corporation is a Fortune 200 company. Visit www.dish.com.

  Commission Announces the Adoption of AWS-4 Order and H Block NPRM
  Statement from Tammy Sun, FCC Director of Communications
   Today the Commission took two actions significantly advancing the President's goal of freeing  up 500 MHz of spectrum for broadband by 2020.  These actions will help meet skyrocketing consumer demand and promote private investment,  innovation, and competition, while unlocking billions of dollars of value.  The Commission unanimously approved freeing up 40 MHz of underutilized satellite spectrum  for land-based mobile broadband, including 4G LTE. We accomplished this by removing  regulatory barriers that limited this spectrum to satellite use. Carefully balanced technical  requirements will unlock tremendous value in both the AWS-4 band and the 10 MHz H Block,  which Congress directed us to auction.  The Commission also unanimously approved a proposal setting the stage for an auction of the H  Block in 2013. Proceeds from this auction will help fund a nationwide Public Safety Network  for our first responders and reduce the deficit.  -FCC-

 
