
Electronic leashes for the 21st century kid? You knew this sort of thing was inevitable. FiLIP, a smartwatch and 'locator' for kids that takes helicopter parenting to an excessive level, is heading to AT&T's lineup as an exclusive. As you'd expect from a device targeted to tagging kids, the FiLIP doesn't come close to the functionality of something more grown-up like the Galaxy Gear. It's mainly intended to be a colorful way to keep tabs on your kids, whitelist who can call their wrists, see their current location (via GPS, WiFi and cell tower triangulation), send texts and set safe zone parameters, so you know when you're child is literally out-of-bounds. It's the stuff of overprotective mothers' dreams and, at some point in the "coming months," those needy momagers will be able to pick it up for an undisclosed price with requisite data plan at AT&T. Basically, this is just AT&T giving that neurotic demo a heads-up -- you know, plenty of time to add FiLIP to the ever-increasing to-do list. If you thought you had it bad as a kid, imagine what life's going to be like for this upcoming generation.



Show full PR textAT&T and FiLIP Technologies Team Up to Keep Parents and Kids in TouchFiLIP, a Wearable Locator and Voice Watch for Kids, Designed to Meet the Safety and Communication Needs of AT&T Customers
AT&T* and Filip Technologies today announced they are bringing FiLIP, a wearable device for the wrist that keeps parents and kids in touch at the push of a button, to the U.S. market in the coming months. Under an agreement with Filip Technologies, AT&T is the exclusive network provider for FiLIP and will provide distribution and billing services for the product.

"FiLIP is exactly the type of device for which we formed the Emerging Devices team at AT&T. Filip Technologies is taking wearable device innovation in a new direction – going beyond the smart watch to solve a real problem for parents and make their lives easier," said Chris Penrose, senior vice president, Emerging Devices, AT&T Mobility.

FiLIP focuses only on the features that parents want – location, voice calling, and direct messaging to their child. The parent remains in control at all times through an app on their smartphone, including the designation of five trusted contacts with whom the child can communicate. FiLIP also allows parents to set Safe Zones, triggering a notification if the child enters or leaves a designated area, and features an intelligent emergency procedure to locate the child and put them in touch with family if needed. FiLIP was granted FCC certification in July.

"Our goal with FiLIP has been to create a product that empowers kids to explore their world while remaining in touch with those who care about them the most," said Jonathan Peachey, CEO of Filip Technologies. "With their extensive wireless coverage, commitment to innovation and excellent customer care, AT&T is the ideal carrier to help us bring FiLIP to the U.S. market."

Additional details on pricing and service plans will be available in the coming months.

For more information on Filip Technologies, visit www.myfilip.com. For the complete array of AT&T offerings, visit www.att.com.

*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.


