
 
 Recall Fisker's latest fiery episode last week that left the front left quarter panel of a Karma hybrid EV burnt to a crisp in a Woodside, California parking lot? As promised, the company has completed its investigation with Pacific Rim Investigative Services Group into the scene, reporting that it's "located the ignition source to the left front of the Karma, forward of the wheel, where the low temperature cooling fan is located." As such, Fisker has decided to issue a full-on recall of the unit, although it's currently unclear if this and it affects all Karmas on the road. That said, Fisker is also stressing "that the incident was not caused by the Lithium-ion battery pack, new technology components, engine component packaging or unique exhaust routing of the Fisker Karma" -- naturally, the usual suspects for these types of accidents that keep plaguing the fledgling automaker. At least its new CEO Tony Posawatz is extremely qualified to handle the task at hand -- after all, a few weeks ago he was Volt-maker, GM's, Vehicle Line Director. Hit up the press release after the break for details about the investigation and its findings.

 Update: When asked about whether the recall affects all Karma models currently on the road, a representative simply (and promptly) replied to us stating, "yes" -- well then.



  Show full PR text   MEDIA STATEMENT -- Woodside, CA Incident  ANAHEIM, CA -- August 18, 2012:
  Fisker has completed a detailed investigation into the roadside fire involving a Fisker  Karma sedan on August 10 in Woodside, CA.
  The investigation conducted by Fisker engineers, working with an independent fire  expert from Pacific Rim Investigative Services Group, has identified the root cause of  the incident.
  The investigation located the ignition source to the left front of the Karma, forward of the  wheel, where the low temperature cooling fan is located. The final conclusion was that  this sealed component had an internal fault that caused it to fail, overheat and start a  slow burning fire.
  Fisker has today voluntarily elected to conduct a recall with respect to this cooling fan  unit. The company is working with the responsible supplier and this recall campaign is  not expected to have a material financial impact on Fisker.
  Fisker has already contacted its retailer network. Customers are expected to be  contacted by retailers, ahead of their receiving formal notice from the company by mail,  to have the cooling fan replaced with a unit that meets the required specifications. At  the same time an additional fuse will be installed for added protection.
  In their investigation, independent experts established that the incident was not caused  by the Lithium-ion battery pack, new technology components, engine component  packaging or unique exhaust routing of the Fisker Karma.
  "We are committed to responding swiftly and decisively to events such as this to ensure  total customer satisfaction," says Executive Chairman and Co-Founder, Henrik Fisker.  "This incident resulted from a single, faulty component, not our unique EVer powertrain  or the engineering of the Karma. As this situation demonstrates, Fisker Automotive is  dedicated to doing whatever is necessary to address safety and quality concerns."
  The owner of the car involved in the Woodside incident, Mr. Rudy Burger commented:  "I have been incredibly impressed with the way Fisker has handled this incident. I have  personally started seven technology companies and know from direct experience that  the US needs more innovative companies of this type, especially in the automobile  sector.
  "Fisker is a great company and one that I am personally planning to invest in. I look  forward to getting behind the wheel of my next Fisker."
 
