
  It hasn't had the smoothest birth, nor the cheapest, but Fisker can apparently start selling Karmas for real this time. The tantalizing plug-in hybrid that first wowed us nearly four years ago has just cleared US government testing, the final hurdle holding back deliveries. So, how did it fare after being brutalized by the EPA? Not as well as the company had hoped, as the 52MPGe and 32 miles of electric range fell short of the respective 67.2 and 50 figures the company had previously been touting. Not a huge drop, like another plug-in EV we know, yet probably less than you'd been hoping for something that costs over $90,000. And, when you do run out of juice, you'll be looking at just 20MPG while puttering around on gasoline. Actual customer deliveries are scheduled in the following weeks, but until then take a joy ride in one of 39 Karmas being rolled out to dealers.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Fisker Automotive Records First Sales of its Karma Sedan  Anaheim, California USA– October, 18 2011: Fisker Automotive announced today that the Company has commenced sales of its 2012 model year Karma sedan after having received certification from the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) earlier this week.  As the first luxury sports sedan on the market with a range-extended electric powertrain, the Karma creates an alluring class of its own. By further combining world-class style and performance, the Karma is the only environmentally responsible option for most luxury car buyers.  "With receipt of EPA certification in hand, we have achieved a major milestone by recording the first sales of our groundbreaking Karma sedan," said Henrik Fisker, CEO and co-founder of Fisker Automotive. "Production of the Karma is ramping, and we have a strong dealer network in place so we can deliver many more of these truly amazing automobiles to customers during the remainder of 2011 and for many years to come."  The Karma Sedan is a series Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV) powered by a lithium-ion battery and an efficient 2.0-liter range-extending gasoline engine. The gasoline engine only turns a generator, which charges the battery and sends electricity to two electric traction motors that drive the car.  It is optimized to provide the ability to travel in all-electric mode for typical daily use, but can also leverage the existing gasoline infrastructure to power its range extending generator, as needed, thereby eliminating 'Range Anxiety' and providing the freedom, flexibility, and peace of mind that comes with the extended range of a conventional vehicle.  The Karma's all-electric range was found to be 32 miles by the EPA under its test criteria. To put that figure in perspective, a Karma driver with a 40-mile commute who starts each day with a full battery charge will only need to visit the gas station about every 1,000 miles and would use just 9 gallons of gasoline per month. The Karma battery can be recharged in less than six hours using the same 240v household current that powers many major home appliances. The Karma can also be charged using standard 110v power from any electrical outlet.  ABOUT FISKER AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Fisker Automotive is an American car company, founded in 2007, committed to producing electric vehicles with extended range (EVer) that deliver uncompromised responsible luxury. The company is designing and developing the world's first line of premium electric plug-in hybrids representing the company's firm belief that environmentally conscious cars need not sacrifice passion, style, or performance. Fisker Automotive is a global company that is redefining luxury for the modern sports car buyer. For more information on the brand and the Fisker Karma Sedan, please go to http://fiskerautomotive.com.
 