
 Fitbit promised wireless syncing and, as of today, it's finally delivered. An Android-only app update, currently live in Google Play, will now allow Galaxy S III and Galaxy Note II users to transfer data wirelessly from their Zip or One Activity Trackers to the Fitbit application. The new feature, which works over Bluetooth 4.0, was previously announced at this past CES alongside news of the Flex band, and initially targeted for an end-of-January release. But that's not all this update heralds -- it also packs the ability to manage silent alarms, adds push notifications, a distance tile and additional tap-to-pair NFC functionality for use with the Flex. Unfortunately, you'll still have to wait a bit for that lifestyle band to launch, as Fitbit's only committed to a vague spring launch. For now, though, a small segment of existing users can enjoy this enhanced feature set.



  Show full PR text   Fitbit Offers First and Only Connected Fitness Products with Bluetooth 4.0 Syncing on Android Devices
   Fitbit continues to invest in mobile platforms to create the most motivating experience for users on the go

   SAN FRANCISCO, Calif., February 12, 2013 - Fitbit, the leading innovator and market leader in the growing Connected Health & Fitness category, today announced that Fitbit One, Fitbit Zip, and Fitbit Flex wireless activity trackers will now sync directly with select Samsung devices through the newest Fitbit Android app. Because the Fitbit App adds Bluetooth 4.0 syncing, you can see your Fitbit dashboard updated in real-time, receive motivating notifications, and engage in fitness competitions with friends all on your Android device. Since your data syncs throughout your day, both at home and on-the-go, it's easier than ever to make fitness a part of your everyday lifestyle.

   Fitbit is on the forefront of mobile accessibility, initially as the first and only company in its category to offer an Android app, and the only to offer Bluetooth 4.0 syncing for iOS devices, Fitbit is now the first and only to offer Android Bluetooth 4.0 syncing.

   "People are realizing that they are more active and can get more fit when they are more connected and aware of their fitness activities," said James Park, CEO. "An activity tracker transforms into a meaningful product when it makes a difference in your life, gets you to move more. We believe that is achieved through creating a great activity tracker that syncs with the devices you are currently using. Our goal is to provide the best customer experience on the devices people want to use, whether you have an Android or iPhone smartphone, a computer or a tablet, or all of the above."

   Fitbit continues to invest in multiplatform mobility. This updated Android app joins Fitbit's iPhone, iPad and Microsoft Surface Tablet apps that essentially turn your smartphone or tablet into your dashboard, giving you access to Fitbit's rich graphs and tools (leaderboard, badges, etc.) when you're on the go to keep you motivated throughout the day.

   The Fitbit app for Android is available for the Samsung Galaxy SIII and Samsung Note II, with more devices to come. Fitbit's app is now available in the Google Play marketplace and for all international markets.

   Also, new to this Android app update is NFC compatibility, making the app even easier to use with the upcoming Flex, available this spring. Simply tap your Flex band on your Android phone and it will automatically launch the Fitbit Android app. Your fitness stats from Flex, which seamlessly sync throughout the day, will be immediately at your fingertips.

   Expanding Family of Products and Company Success

   Fitbit continues to build out its lineup of easy-to-use products that help people get more fit with the recent debut of the Fitbit Flex Wireless Activity + Sleep Wristband at CES 2013. Flex follows on three successful Fitbit product launches last year: the Fitbit Aria Wi-Fi Smart Scale, Fitbit Zip Wireless Activity Tracker and Fitbit One Wireless Activity + Sleep Tracker. Fitbit products are carried in over 10,000 U.S. retail stores, and sold internationally in Canada, Spain, UK, France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand.

 
