
 
You know, some people take gaming very seriously, and there's no doubt that a good portion of them will be picking up this new peripheral from Ten One Design. For $24.95, the Fling tactile game controller promises to enhance some iPad games by overlaying their virtual D-pad with a physical mini joystick. And that's not it -- the funky spiral mechanism also provides resistance to simulate force feedback, meaning your thumb will always know its boundaries. Check out the video demo after the break.





Show full PR textTen One Design Unveils Fling Tactile Game Controller for iPad at CES 2011Capacitive touch screen tactile game controller for iPad offers ultimate control over any game with a virtual joystick – pre-sale starts nowMontclair, NJ (January 4, 2011) – Ten One Design, creator of the first capacitive touch-screen stylus for the iPhone, iPod touch, and iPad, has announced its revolutionary tactile game controller for iPad - Fling. This patent pending device adheres to the iPad's screen over the directional pad of any applicable game to deliver ultimate control and superb response for full gaming immersion. Fling's unique spiral design creates actual physical resistance so gamers are assured of greater directional control. Fling works with any iPad game with a directional pad, or virtual joystick, including Meteor Blitz, Across Age and Super Megaworm, among many other First Person Shooter and RPG titles. To use Fling, launch the game of your choice, secure Fling's center control over the game's directional pad. Then simply place your thumb on the center control to navigate easily through the game.Fling's unique transparent and flexible design provides an unrestricted view of all on-screen action. Plus, the suction cups allow simple attachment and detachment for spontaneous gaming sessions.The included microfiber bag is ideal for on-the-go storage and doubles as the perfect screen cleaning cloth to eliminate unwanted smudges and fingerprints.Available with Ice, Ninja and Ultraviolet accents, Fling can be pre-ordered now at www.tenonedesign.com for just $24.95 and will begin shipping at the end of January. 
 