

 There are a lot of great ways to get your Engadget news, including our fine selection of apps and our tablet magazine Distro -- plus the good 'ol World Wide Web, of course -- but we've been shocked to see just how many of you have been consuming our wares daily on Flipboard. Shocked and, well, flattered. The service finally hit Android in June and, in the month after that, our overall Flipboard subscribers jumped and surpassed one million. That's a huge number on its own, but that's not all. We're very proud to say that we're the first to hit one million subscribers, making Engadget the biggest single property on Flipboard!

 We're so happy about that we want to give a little something back. So, we're picking up a Nexus 7 and will be sending it to one lucky reader. To enter, all you need to do is sign in and comment below. The full rules are below, so make sure you give those a skim before commenting.

 If you're a Flipboard user with feedback on the Engadget experience there, or a subscriber who would like to sponsor us on Flipboard, email us: flipboard [at] engadget [dot] com!



 The rules:
  Leave a comment below. Any comment will do. Duplicate entries will be filtered out and discarded, so adding additional comments won't increase your likelihood of winning.  Contest is open to all residents of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Canada (excluding Quebec), 18 or older! Sorry, we don't make this rule (we hate excluding anyone), so direct your anger at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad.  Winners will be chosen randomly. One winner will win one (1) Nexus 7.  If you are chosen, you will be notified by email. Winners must respond within three days of being contacted. If you do not respond within that period, another winner will be chosen.  This unit is purely for promotional giveaway. Flipboard, Google, ASUS and Engadget / AOL are not held liable to honor warranties or customer service.  The full list of rules, in all its legalese glory, can be found here.  Entries can be submitted until August 31, 2012 at 11:59PM ET. Good luck!
