
If you're a Flipboard user, you'll recall that the app was recently updated to let you create your own magazines. Unfortunately, this functionality was limited to the iOS version. This changes today, as Flipboard brings magazine curation to Android. Creating a magazine is simple: just tap the plus button visible on each article inside the app or use the bookmarklet when surfing the web. This gives you a personalized way to collect posts, images and videos and share your ideas on Flipboard and beyond.


The new Android version introduces some unique features. You're able to "flip" content into your magazines using the share button built into many Android apps. In addition to the existing social network integration, Flipboard now includes a share button of its own on magazine covers -- this allows you to share magazines via SMS, email or Pinterest. The app also makes it easier to create a new Flipboard account by supporting Facebook's Single Sign-on.


Along with the updated Android version, Flipboard's rolling out a web-based Editor to help users manage magazines. This collection of web tools lets you reorder and delete content, rearrange magazines and check how often others have shared items in your magazines. Finally, the Financial Times is now available on Flipboard -- you'll even be able to read premium content by logging into your Financial Times account right within the app. Take a look at the gallery below and hit the break for the PR. 




Show full PR textFLIPBOARD MAGAZINE CURATION NOW ON ANDROID WITH IN-APP SHARING
Also Launching Today: Flipboard Editor For Managing Magazines

The Financial Times Lands On Flipboard

May 9, 2013 - Palo Alto, Calif. - Today, the newest edition of Flipboard that lets everyone curate magazines is available for Android phones and tablets. Now, everyone on a Samsung Galaxy phone, Nexus tablet or other Android device can keep up on all of their news and interests as well as create their own magazines on any topic, event or hobby. Today the company also announced Flipboard Editor, a web-based tool that gives all curators more control over their magazines. Additionally, subscribers to the Financial Times can now read the entire FT on their Flipboard.

Flipboard has become known as a single place to enjoy the news and updates people want everyday on their tablets and smartphones; it's an easy way to quickly catch up on what's happening in the world. With the ability to save and collect stories, videos and images into custom magazines, Flipboard provides a platform for personal expression and idea-sharing. Anyone can start their own magazine with a simple tap on the "+" button on items within Flipboard or by using the Flipboard bookmarklet to save content via the web.  

On Android devices, people also have the option to flip an item into a magazine from other applications, including YouTube, a web browser or their photo gallery. There are also many ways to share Flipboard magazines on Android: in addition to the social networks they have connected to Flipboard, Android users can share a magazine from the magazine's cover "share" button, via text message, email or on Pinterest.

Flipboard Editor: Web Tools for MagazinesAlso launching is a new web-based Editor that gives all Flipboard curators more control over their magazines. With Editor, which is available at editor.flipboard.com, everyone can change the order of stories, photos and videos in their magazine, delete content, reorder the magazines themselves and have additional insight into how often items in a magazine have been shared.

Financial Times on FlipboardStarting today, people can read the world's business and financial news from the famous salmon-colored pages of the Financial Times on Flipboard. FT.com subscribers will get full, unlimited access to the latest FT content on Flipboard. All Flipboard users are able to access FT blogs and videos. The Financial Times is available on all editions of Flipboard.

"We are delighted to be available to our readers on Flipboard, which is a natural development for the Financial Times. We have long pursued a strategy of making our content available to subscribers across formats, and this launch will combine the FT's award-winning journalism with Flipboard's unique, personalized reading experience. It also strengthens our presence on Android, the largest smartphone operating system in the world," said Rob Grimshaw, managing director of FT.com. "Readers are increasingly accessing the FT through a range of devices, with a third of all FT.com traffic and 15 percent of new digital subscriptions coming through mobile."

Finally, Flipboard for Android makes use of Facebook Single Sign-on, which allows Facebook members to quickly create a Flipboard account using their existing Facebook login information instead of an email address so they can create magazines and share them with their friends. Flipboard 2.0 for Android is now available for free from Google Play.


