
 

Flixster's nothing new; it's been available for iOS and Android for more than a minute, but earlier today Panasonic announced that it's bringing the movie app to its Viera Connect platform. In addition to helping you find the next Hollywood hit, the app gives owners of Panny's TVs, Blu-ray players and home theater systems with Viera Connect on board access to UltraViolet's watch anywhere functionality -- giving you access to your own movie collection on any Viera Connect device, assuming its UV-enabled, of course.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  FLIXSTER DEVELOPING MOVIE APPLICATION FOR PANASONIC VIERA® CONNECT HDTVs AND BLU-RAY™ PLAYERS ALLOWING CONSUMERS TO EASILY STREAM THEIR MOVIE AND TV SHOWS 		THROUGH FLIXSTER APP, ULTRAVIOLET™ WILL COME TO THE LIVING ROOM 		LAS VEGAS, CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW, January 9, 2012 – Flixster today announced its popular movie application will be available this year on Panasonic's line of VIERA Connect ™ devices including HDTVs and Blu-ray players. By simply launching this new Flixster app, consumers will be able to watch and enjoy their UltraViolet movies and TV shows from the comfort of their living room. 		Flixster is currently the leading movie discovery application on mobile platforms with over 50 million downloads to date, including Android, Blackberry and iPad, and ranks among the most downloaded of iPhone apps of all time. Flixster provides access to UltraViolet, a new industry standard that gives consumers greater flexibility with how and where they watch the movies and TV shows they purchase. UltraViolet also allows consumers to share their entire UltraViolet digital library with other members on their account, and they can even watch the same title simultaneously from different locations. 		"Bringing UltraViolet to the living room will make it easy for consumers to enjoy their UltraViolet-enabled movies and TV shows," said Steve Polsky, President of Flixster. "One of the great benefits of UltraViolet is the ability to watch your content whenever and wherever you want. If you're at a friend's house with a VIERA device, you can easily access your collection by simply logging into Flixster." 		VIERA Connect is Panasonic's Smart TV platform which enables owners of VIERA Connect-enabled HDTVs, Blu-ray Disc Players and Home Theater Systems access to a wide range of internet-based video-on-demand content and applications covering everything from news and fitness, to social networking and online gaming. VIERA Connect requires no external box or PC and is accessed via a single button on the television remote control. 		"Panasonic's VIERA ConnectTMSmart TV platform's singular focus to deliver to our consumers an extremely robust and interactive connected TV experience that can be customized and enjoyed on their large-screen HDTVs. We are delighted to add Flixster to our VIERA Connect Smart TV platform in 2012," said Merwan Mereby, Panasonic's Vice President of Interactive Content & Services. "Partnering with a Hollywood powerhouse like Warner Bros. Entertainment to integrate their highly popular Flixster movie application into our VIERA Connect platform is another great step in our efforts to continuously drive the connected TV experience to a whole new level for consumers."
 