
 
It looks like FLO TV is about to get a little more interesting. Alongside your automobile and your various smartphones, you'll soon be able to turn to your smartbooks, e-readers, and tablets to access your mobile TV service. The diabolical plot begins when the company launches "new applications that integrate video with web-based content" for distributing "live mobile TV and rich mobile media services to a range of new devices." What does all this mean, exactly? Aside from some additional interactivity for advertisers, the service is planning on announcing pay-as-you-go and pay-per-view billing, as well as time-shifted viewing (you know, like a DVR). We don't know what existing hardware will be able to take advantage of this, but we're sure that a combination of pausing shows and pay-as-you-go would make new devices much more attractive to the casual user. Look for things to start happening the second half of this year. PR after the break.
 

Show full PR textFLO TV to Expand its Offering with Interactive Capabilities, On-demand Content and Time-shifted ViewingLAS VEGAS, April 13 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- FLO TV Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), today announced at the 2010 NAB Show in Las Vegas (Booth #SU1424) that it is working to enhance its mobile TV service with new applications that integrate video with Web-based content and social media tools. The expanded capabilities are in response to the ways in which consumers today are simultaneously viewing and interacting with content."With consumers' mobile entertainment habits evolving rapidly, FLO TV will be integrating its current live linear video with relevant, on-demand content and interactive features that complement the programming viewers are watching in real-time," said Bill Stone, president of FLO TV. "Our innovative, nationwide multicast network is at the heart of this solution and will allow us to distribute live mobile TV and rich mobile media services to a range of new devices – from smartbooks to e-readers and tablets."In addition to integrated experiences, FLO TV announced an expanded suite of mobile TV services, including interactive capabilities, pay-per-day and event passes, and time-shifted viewing options. The new features will be available on the FLO TV™ service across a range of mobile devices in the second half of 2010. New service applications will include:* Interactive features that will enable users to interact with programming and advertising, allowing consumers to click for more information about a show or click to buy an advertised product.* Pay-per-day passes designed to offer pay-as-you-go flexibility, providing consumers the ability to watch the FLO TV service without committing to a recurring monthly subscription. Event passes will provide an easy way for existing FLO TV subscribers to add premium content such as limited engagement, special events to their programming lineup.* Time-shifted viewing, or 'catch-up TV,' that will allow popular shows to be stored on FLO-enabled mobile devices, thereby granting viewers the ability to watch their favorite shows on-demand, even outside of a coverage area. At a time when mobile devices such as smartphones, e-readers and tablets are proliferating and data consumption is increasing, FLO TV's nationwide network can alleviate cellular network congestion to meet the growing consumer demand for mobile media access across a wide range of devices.The FLO TV service is currently available on multiple platforms, including mobile handsets and the recently launched FLO TV Personal Television, the first-ever portable digital television with a dedicated network. In collaboration with Audiovox, FLO TV also offers FLO TV Auto Entertainment, an in-vehicle entertainment system that delivers high-quality mobile TV.Service not available everywhere. Programming subject to change / blackout restrictions. Service subscription required. "Live mobile television" means the FLO TV service transmits channels in real time; no downloading, sideloading or buffering.About FLO TVThe FLO TV service combines the best content, an intuitive user interface and a superior multicast network to deliver a true quality TV viewing experience for consumers. FLO TV offers full-length simulcast and time-shifted programming from the world's best entertainment brands, including ABC Mobile, Adult Swim Mobile, CBS, CNBC, CNN Mobile, COMEDY CENTRAL, Disney Channel, ESPN Mobile TV, FOX Mobile, FOX News Channel, msnbc, MTV, NBC 2Go and nickelodeon. Based in San Diego, Calif., FLO TV Incorporated is a wholly owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated. Further information is available at www.flotv.com. Follow us via Twitter: www.twitter.com/flotv and Facebook: www.facebook.com/flotv.Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. FLO and FLO TV are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 