
 
FLO TV said that it would be refunding the eight folks who actually bought into its services once it made the tough decision to shut things down on March 27, 2011, and lo and behold, it's a promise kept. What we weren't expecting, however, was any sort of monetary compensation for hardware, but it looks as if FLO TV will be providing some sort of rebate amount to those who purchased a FLO TV Personal Television, Audiovox Portable DVD Player with FLO TV or FLO TV Auto Entertainment center. It's unclear how much you'll be getting back -- you'll need to go through the entire rebate process to find out -- but you will be reimbursed for any prepaid FLO TV services that you're no longer interested in using (or won't be able to use due to the March 2011 cutoff). Hit the source link to file your claim, but be aware that your service will be cut within 72 hours of submitting it. Beyond the break, you'll find the full email that FLO TV is sending to its customers.

[Thanks, T.J.]
      

 

FLO TV Service Ending in Spring 2011Dear [Name Redacted],Thank you for being a valued FLO TV customer. As you may be aware, FLO TV has announced that it will discontinue its live mobile TV service on March 27, 2011.In consideration of this termination of service, FLO TV is offering you a rebate on your FLO TV devices, including:* FLO TV™ Personal Television* Audiovox Portable DVD Player with FLO TV™ Please do not try and return your device to the retailer from where you purchased the product, as the rebate program is being offered only through FLO TV directly. Full rebate details and the claim form are available now at www.flotv.com/rebate. Rebates will be issued via check and will arrive 4-6 weeks from the date your claim is validated.Please note: Your FLO TV service will end within 72 hours of validation of your claim. If you want to continue enjoying FLO TV through March, you are welcome to submit your claim later. All claims must be submitted by April 30, 2011.We have sincerely appreciated your patronage.Thank you,FLO TV
 