
 
FLO TV may not have had the best Super Bowl commercial (not by a long shot, actually), but the fledgling mobile programming service is doing its darnedest to make some waves over in Barcelona. The biggest news is that Qualcomm will be on hand at MWC in order to showcase a FLO-enabled smartbook, a device that will purportedly bring together live television and live social networking updates -- something that would come in handy while watching the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics, for example. In other, more international news, FLO-EV is being introduced, with Qualcomm describing it as the "next evolution of the FLO air interface." Finally, Audiovox has announced that an in-vehicle system based on FLO TV is now sweeping the nation, with Advent-branded solutions hitting up showroom accessory departments en masse. Now, if only these guys and gals could convince people to care about TV on-the-go...
      

 

Show full PR textAudiovox Launches FLO TV™ Auto Entertainment System to Car DealerDistribution NetworkCompany announces that Advent-branded Products areNow Shipping to Car Dealers NationwideOrlando, FL – February 10, 2010 – NADA Booth #2291 – Audiovox Corporation today announced that the roll out of FLO TV Auto Entertainment, an in-vehicle, live mobile TV service under the Advent brand, is in full swing with product being delivered nationwide.The new car market has been a primary channel for Audiovox for nearly 50 years and the company continues to be one of the only companies delivering car dealer exclusive products under the Advent and Pursuit brands."Today, I am pleased to announce that we have begun delivering one of the most exciting programs we have ever offered to our expeditor channel...one that I believe is not only a game changer but one that will breathe new life into the new car business ...and it's available to our Expeditor Partners under the Advent brand!," said Tom Malone, President of Audiovox Electronics. Malone continued, "We believe that consumers will absolutely jump at this product as industry research pegs live TV as the number one request of consumers seeking mobile entertainment for their vehicles."The FLO TV service is live mobile television and combines the best content, an intuitive user interface and a superior multicast network to deliver a true quality TV viewing experience for consumers. The service offers full-length simulcast and time-shifted programming from the world's best entertainment brands.Service not available everywhere. All programming subject to change / blackout restrictions. Service subscription required. "Live mobile television" means the FLO TV service transmits channels in real time; no downloading, side loading or buffering.
 