
 

Last year, Ford unveiled the SYNC Destinations app, which allowed owners to use their smartphones to preview and sling locations previously entered on syncmyride.com, to equipped vehicles. This year's update simplifies that process, removing that last step, as locations can now be entered and sent to the vehicle entirely on device and sans website. Also new, is the ability to access and report traffic incidents from "every major interstate, highway, arterial and city street in North America" and support for a plethora of new languages like French and German. It also supports Ford's AppLink which uses your phone's smartphone connection for quicker directions downloads. PR detailing all the new features awaits after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Updated SYNC Destinations App Connects Drivers to SYNC On the Go, Simplifies Navigation on the Road 		- SYNC® Destinations now leverages the power and speed of the latest 3G and 4G mobile broadband networks to provide fast access to turn-by-turn directions*, destination downloads* and traffic information 		- SYNC Destinations is now compatible with SYNC AppLink™, enabling drivers to get quick, on-the-go access to the latest traffic reports, turn-by-turn directions* and destination downloads* with simple voice commands 		- SYNC Destinations is one of five new apps Ford plans to announce and demonstrate at the upcoming 2012 International CES 		LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9, 2012 – Ford Motor Company is launching the next version of SYNC® Destinations, its free mobile app for SYNC Services users, giving Ford vehicle owners the ability to easily send destinations to their vehicle using their smartphone. 		With the addition of Ford SYNC AppLink™ support, the app enables drivers to use simple voice commands to get on-the-go traffic reports to any of their favorite destination points. Users can report traffic incidents to share with the entire SYNC Destinations community, get to-the-minute incident reports, and leverage their smartphone's data network to download turn-by-turn directions and destinations directly to their vehicle. 		"SYNC Destinations is an indispensible tool that cuts travel times and helps Ford owners save money by using less fuel," said Doug VanDagens, global director of Connected Services, Ford Motor Company. "The app not only makes the SYNC experience better, it makes it easier than ever to navigate with SYNC Services." 		Simplified voice-controlled access via AppLink		With the first version of SYNC Destinations, Ford owners had the capability to get on-the-go access to their cloud-based SYNC Services account. Drivers could add, save and manage destinations or Saved Points like they do using www.syncmyride.com. Locations added using SYNC Destinations were easily accessible through SYNC Services in the vehicle. 		The new version of SYNC Destinations takes the experience to the next level. Now the SYNC Destinations app combines with SYNC AppLink to leverage the power of the smartphone's data connection to download directions into the vehicle using simple voice commands. Users can also access traffic/incident reports while keeping their hands on the wheel and eyes on the road. 		Users simply speak the commands "Mobile Apps," "SYNC Destinations," followed by "Traffic to" and the name of a saved destination to instantly get the fastest route to their destination. The command, "Directions," followed by the name of a saved destination enables users to download voice-guided turn-by-turn directions into the vehicle. 		Need to know traffic incidents around your location? Simply say, "Incidents around me" to get a report of all known incidents and events around your current location. 		Drivers also can use the SYNC Destinations app's community reporting feature to "Report an accident" to other fellow SYNC Services drivers to forewarn them of potential traffic delays. 		Ford vehicle owners who do not have AppLink can still download the new version of SYNC Destinations and enjoy the following new features: 		Access real-time traffic information and incident reports covering every major interstate, highway, arterial and city street in North America		Gather reliable traffic forecasts that cut travel times and save money by consuming less fuel		Get comparative traffic reports delivering fast insight into which roads are better or worse than normal for that time of day		View previously unsaved destinations and convert them into a Saved Point		Access alternate route options to any Saved Points		Leverage international language support for Spanish, French, German, Italian, Hungarian and Dutch		Send a destination to the vehicle using the "Send to SYNC" feature via a smartphone. Directions for this destination can then be downloaded by using SYNC Services. Previously, users could only utilize Send to SYNC from their computer or laptop using Mapquest and Google		SYNC Destinations and SYNC Services navigation are powered by INRIX's traffic intelligence platform and the world's largest community of drivers. INRIX uniquely analyzes real-time data from 50 million vehicles and hundreds of public and private sources to provide SYNC owners with voice-controlled access to the latest traffic reports and best routes based on current and expected conditions. INRIX Traffic Forecasts leverages unique analysis of real-time, historical data with analyses of traffic-impacting local events like holidays, weather, concerts and sporting events to deliver insight into what drivers can expect on the roads hours, days and months in advance. 		"We continue to collaborate closely with other companies to make sure SYNC and the app ecosystem built around it remains fresh and exciting for our customers," said Srini Racha, product manager, SYNC Services, Ford Connected Services. "SYNC Destinations gives busy, on-the-go SYNC users the convenience of using their smartphone to find, save and send destinations to their vehicle. Then, when in the vehicle, to leverage the smartphone's power and speed and SYNC AppLink to download directions to that destination using simple voice commands." 		This new version of SYNC Destinations continues to be a free download for SYNC Services users and will be available for iPhone owners via the iTunes App Store. Owners with active SYNC Services accounts can download and use this app. This version of SYNC Destinations will also be made available for BlackBerry and Android users in the first quarter of 2012. 		SYNC Destinations now joins the growing SYNC AppLink ecosystem of mobile apps including Pandora, Stitcher, Slacker Radio and OpenBeak. SYNC AppLink is available on 10 vehicles for 2012. 		*Turn-by-turn directions and destination download features require 2013 model year vehicles equipped with SYNC AppLink. Coming soon: 2012 model year vehicles equipped with AppLink can be updated to support turn-by-turn directions and destination download via USB. Please visit www.syncmyride.com for details on software update availability. 		# # # 		About Ford Motor Company		Ford Motor Company, a global automotive industry leader based in Dearborn, Mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents. With about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include Ford and Lincoln. The company provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company. For more information regarding Ford and its products worldwide, please visit http://corporate.ford.com.
 