
 


	We caught our first glimpse of the Ford Focus Electric way back at CES and now, about 11 months later, it's finally hit the market. The manufacturer's long-awaited EV popped up for pre-order on its website yesterday, bearing a base price tag of $39,200. Add in an extra $795 in destination charges and subtract a hefty federal tax credit, and you're looking at a final sticker of about $32,495. As our friends over at Autoblog Green point out, that's about $3,945 higher than what the Nissan Leaf will cost you (pre-incentives), though your final bill could also hinge upon whether you opt for the Blue Candy or White Platinum paint jobs ($395 and $495, respectively), or those leather-trimmed seats, which would set you back an extra $995. According to Ford, a "limited number" of Focus Electrics will be made available in select California and New York markets, though the car should make its way to an extra 15 markets by next year, once production gets ramped up. You can reserve one for yourself at the source link below, or just purr past the break for the full PR treatment.
 

 		Show full PR text  Ford Opens Reservations for 2012 Focus Electric 		2012 Focus electric is Ford's first all-electric, 100% gas-free, passenger car and the first of five planned electrified vehicles 		Detailed product specifications and virtually build and price available at online website: http://www.ford.com/electric/focuselectric/2012/ 		Ford Certified EV dealers in California and New York/New Jersey markets will begin taking first orders for the 2012 Focus Electric 		SEATTLE, WA., Nov. 2, 2011 – Starting today, drivers that want to go completely gasoline-free will be able to configure the all-new 2012 Ford Focus Electric online at Ford.com and place their orders with a Certified Electric Vehicle (EV) dealer. 		"Today is an historic day, as Ford opens up the order banks for the company's first full production, all-electric passenger vehicle – the Focus Electric," said Chad D'Arcy, Focus Electric Marketing Manager, Ford Motor Company. "The all-new Focus Electric is an important part of Ford's overall strategy, bringing still another option to customers who want a car that is fun-to-drive, easy to own and fully electric." 		Drivers interested in learning more about the 2012 Focus Electric will be able to see detailed product specs and virtually build and price one at a dedicated online website: http://www.ford.com/electric/focuselectric/2012/ starting Wednesday. 		Focus Electric comes standard with: MyFord Touch with 8-inch touchscreen; two driver-configurable 4.2-inch color LCD displays in cluster for unique EV driving screens; MyFord™ Mobile App (for remotely monitoring and scheduling battery charging with owners' smartphone as well as remote start); HID Headlamps; 17-inch aluminum wheels, ambient lighting, seats made from 100-percent recycled material; Rear Camera with Rear Parking Sensor; Intelligent Access with Push-Button Start; MyKey®; voice-activated Navigation System; Particulate Air Filter; hands-free SYNC® Bluetooth telephone connectivity with Traffic, Direction and Information Services; electronic traction control; Sony®-Branded audio with nine speakers; SIRIUS® Satellite Radio and HD Radio™. 		The only options on well-equipped Focus Electrics are leather seats and two paint colors. 		"Ford believes driving electric doesn't mean consumers should have to sacrifice on driving experience or vehicle quality," said D'Arcy. "The Focus Electric comes with more standard features than any other comparable all-electric vehicle." 		In addition to silently cruising past gas stations, Focus Electric drivers will never need oil changes or any of the other service required on gasoline engines. Focus Electric exclusively stores energy in an advanced lithium-ion battery pack. The battery pack uses liquid-cooling to help ensure a long-life and optimal performance under all weather and driving conditions. 		The Focus Electric's battery can be recharged in just over three hours using a 240-volt charging station, about half the charging time of the 2012 Nissan Leaf. Drivers also can top off the battery any standard 120-volt outlet using the included charging cord. 		The online site also provides potential customers the ability to find the location of their nearest Ford Certified EV dealer so they can place their order. 		A limited number of Focus Electrics will first be available in California and the New York/New Jersey regions. Availability of the Focus Electric will expand next year to the remaining 15 launch markets as production ramps up. 		The 19 launch markets include: Atlanta, Austin and Houston, Texas; Boston, Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, New York, Orlando, Fla., Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz.; Portland, Ore.; Raleigh Durham, N.C.; Richmond, Va., Seattle, and Washington, D.C. 		Markets were chosen based on several criteria, including commuting patterns, existing hybrid purchase trends, utility company collaboration and local government commitment to electrification. 		Power of choice		Electrification is an important piece of Ford's overall product sustainability strategy, which includes the launch of five electrified vehicles in North America by 2012 and in Europe by 2013. Ford launched the Transit Connect Electric small commercial van in 2010 and will launch the all-new Focus Electric later this year. In 2012, these models will be joined in North America by the new C-MAX Hybrid, a second next-generation lithium-ion battery hybrid and C-MAX Energi plug-in hybrid. This diverse range of electrified vehicles allows Ford to meet a variety of consumer driving needs.
 