
 

Starting this fall, for the first eight days after they air, watching Fox TV shows online will require a subscription to Hulu Plus or a participating cable or satellite company. So far Dish Network is the first and only provider to sign up its customers for access to the new walled garden on Fox's site but others looking to fill out their TV Everywhere lineups probably won't be far behind. While pay-TV networks like ESPN with ESPN3 and the WatchESPN app and EPIX have already gone the "authentication" route, Fox is the first of the broadcast networks to do so. The new rules go into effect August 15th, then we'll find out if Fox is driving cable cutters towards paying for TV, piracy, or just ignoring the latest episode of Glee altogether.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  FOX BROADCASTING ANNOUNCES NEW WINDOW FOR FREE STREAMING OF NETWORK PROGRAMMING 		New Initiative to Take Effect August 15, 2011 		Participating Video Distributors to Have Exclusive 8-Day Window 		DISH Network Subscribers First to Benefit from Authentication Service 		LOS ANGELES – Fox Networks and Fox Broadcasting Company (FOX) today announced that beginning August 15, video distributors that participate in the company's online authentication service will have an exclusive 8-day window for new episodes of FOX programs. To watch new episodes of FOX shows the next day, viewers can visit Fox.com, Hulu.com, Dishonline.com or the online TV portals of any future participating distributors and log in with their subscriber usernames and passwords. Viewers who do not subscribe to a participating distributor will be able to watch new episodes online eight days following their initial air dates. 		DISH Network will be the first to offer this service, allowing their verified subscribers to take advantage of the exclusive window and view new episodes of FOX shows the day after they air on broadcast television. 		"We are continually looking at opportunities to provide our pay television distributors with content and products that enhance the value of pay television to subscribers," said Michael Hopkins, President, Affiliate Sales and Marketing, Fox Networks. "Our new authentication service will continue to provide next-day access to FOX broadcast shows for our viewers who subscribe to participating pay television providers." 		"DISH Network is proud to be the first pay-TV provider in America to give customers the opportunity to take full advantage of the new FOX.com viewing experience-at no additional cost," said Dave Shull, Senior Vice President of Programming for DISH Network. "Early access to FOX.com is a terrific addition to our expansive TV Everywhere platform, which gives DISH Network customers the ability to watch whatever they want anytime, anywhere." 		FOX authentication only impacts online viewing. All other television viewing options remain unchanged. For more information about this service, or to make inquiries about future service, viewers should visit www.fox.com/watchnewepisodes. 		Fox Broadcasting finished as America's top-rated broadcast network in the advertiser-coveted 18-49 demo for a record 7th consecutive year, and some of the current shows available online include AMERICAN DAD, BONES, FAMILY GUY, GLEE, RAISING HOPE, and THE SIMPSONS. New series available online this Fall include NEW GIRL, TERRA NOVA, THE FINDER, and ALLEN GREGORY.  		Fox Networks Affiliate Sales and Marketing is a unit of Fox Networks Group (FNG) and includes 43 domestic programming services in which FNG holds interests. Together these networks reach more than 550 million subscribing television homes and represent one of the media industry's largest and most diverse programming groups. Fox Networks Sales and Marketing distributes FX, National Geographic Channel, Nat Geo WILD, Nat Geo Mundo, Fox Movie Channel, FUEL TV, FSN and 19 regional cable sports networks, SPEED, SPEED2, FOX Soccer Channel, FOX Soccer Plus, FOX College Sports, FOX Deportes, Utilisima, Baby TV, BTN (co-venture with the Big Ten Conference) and BTN2Go. FNG also includes Fox Broadcasting Company, Fox Digital Media, and Fox Sports Enterprises, which manages interests in sports franchises and leading statistical information provider STATS, LLC.  		DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH), through its subsidiary DISH Network L.L.C., provides more than 14.19 million satellite TV customers, as of March 31, 2011, with the highest quality programming and technology with the most choices at the best value, including HD Free for Life. Subscribers enjoy the largest high definition line-up with more than 200 national HD channels, the most international channels, and award-winning HD and DVR technology. DISH Network's subsidiary, Blockbuster L.L.C., delivers family entertainment to millions of customers around the world. DISH Network Corporation is a Fortune 200 company. Visit www.dish.com.
 