
 
The Arc's Japan-bound baby brother hasn't exactly been a well kept secret. After last month's website and image leaks, we've been waiting for Sony Ericsson to make it official. And now they have. The Xperia Acro, flaunting a 1GHz Snapdragon processor, 8.1 megapixel camera, and Adreno 205 GPU is heading to Japan this summer -- making it a possible match for the Azusa, uncovered by NenaMark earlier this week. The new kid in Akihabara was designed specifically for the Japanese market, runs Android 2.3.3 on a 4.2-inch touchscreen, and adds unique features like a mobile wallet and TV functionality. Hit the break for some quick and dirty PR.
 

Show full PR textSony Ericsson unveils Xperia acro -- the ultimate smartphone for users in Japan05 May 2011Combines best-in-class imaging and display technology with features familiar to users in Japan, such as an infrared port for data exchange, mobile wallet, and mobile TV functionality.May 5, 2011, London, UK – Sony Ericsson today unveiled the Xperia™ acro, a new addition to the Xperia™ range, designed specifically for the needs of users in Japan. The Xperia™ acro builds on the success of the product family with a 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon™ processor, and runs on the latest Android platform – Gingerbread 2.3. Best-in-class imaging and display technology features from Sony – the perfect enabler for its mobile TV functionality.Bert Nordberg, President, Sony Ericsson said, "We are delighted to be introducing this flagship model to Japan. In this sophisticated market, we are listening to consumers and are happy to adapt our products to fit in with requirements which they believe to be an essential part of the mobile experience. We expect that they will be pleased to have such a uniquely adept premium smartphone and look forward to a new wave of consumers experiencing the world of Xperia™."The Xperia™ acro provides an excellent multimedia experience, powered by a Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine and presented on an extra wide 4.2" screen. The 8.1 megapixel camera with 'Exmor R™ for mobile' enables the capture of low-noise, high quality images and HD video (720p), even in low light. Pictures and videos can then be shared in HD on a HDTV through a built in HDMI-connector.Sony Ericsson Xperia™ acro – Key featuresHuman Curvature™ design and form factorMobile TV functionality enabling live TV viewingInfrared port enables data sharing with other infrared enabled devicesMobile wallet: Instead of paying with cash, cheque or credit cards, a user can use the Xperia™ acro to pay for a wide range of services and digital or hard goods.Extra wide 4.2" multi-touch Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine to ensure ultimate multimedia and viewing experiencesSony Exmor R™ for mobile delivers best-in-class low-light photography and video capture8.1 megapixel camera and HD video recording capability1GHz CPU, Adreno 205 GPUSony Ericsson Xperia™ acro will be available in Japan from this summer in Black and White.
 