
 Fuhu's latest attempt at a tablet for youngsters is the Nabi XD, this time promising to help keep your tween's hands off your shiny new slate and also eschew sibling rivalry. It's packing specs that match its grown-up approach -- a 10.1-inch, 1,366 x 768 IPS display, quad-core Tegra 3 innards, Android 4.1 Jelly Bean, dual snappers, and NFC. The customizable wrapper atop the OS boasts a "gadget-based", rule-governed interface that changes depending on time and location. Concerned parents can take solace in its kid-friendly browsing, and fool themselves by springing for the optional silicone keyboard cover -- an accessory that should, in theory, assist with homework, but one that might just be relegated to the side in favor of the device's more enticing gaming capabilities. The tablet will set you back $249 for 16GB and $349 for the 32GB iterations when it lands late December, but ask yourselves first -- is this really what your kid wants?



  Show full PR text   Fuhu, Inc. Unveils nabi™ XD: The World's First Android Ultraportable for Tweens at $249
   Fuhu, Inc. defines a new market for tablet users with its nabi™ XD, positioned as a tween's first tablet with a keyboard dedicated to homework, gaming, social networking and kid-safe browsing

   EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Dec. 12, 2012 – Fuhu, Inc., the leader in tablets made just for kids, today unveiled the new nabi™ XD: an ultraportable tablet that combines the best of a notebook and tablet PC with an amazing 10.1-inch high-definition in-plane- switching (IPS), five-point capacitive touch screen. Positioned to be your tweens' first portable computer, nabi XD features an NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 4-PLUS-1™ quad- core processor, Android™ 4.1 Jelly Bean, front and back cameras, near field communications (NFC) technology, 10-hours of battery life and the 10.1-inch screen – all for only $249. The nabi XD is a first of its kind, an Android ultraportable tablet with productivity apps, incredible console quality gaming, modified parental controls for browsing and a dynamic and intelligent gadget-based user interface that adapts based on the time of day and location.

   Featuring the NVIDIA Tegra 3 4-PLUS-1 quad-core processor  nabi XD features a beautiful 10.1-inch IPS 1366x768 HD capacitive touch screen running the Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system. The NVIDIA Tegra 3 processor with a 5th battery saver core helps extend battery life so that nabi XD can go up to 10 hours between charges.

   nabi XD introduces an affordable yet incredibly powerful, ultraportable hybrid tablet and notebook solution with pad-folio and integrated silicone keyboard cover

   nabi XD features a sleek aluminum body that mirrors nabi's trademarked flared corner design built for a long a productive life. Fuhu designers and engineers spent countless hours ensuring that each nabi is built with unmatched precision - meticulously thinking through every little detail. The result is a beautiful, thin, light, polished and refined look that feels incredibly strong and durable. Combined with its patent-pending optional pad-folio and integrated silicone keyboard cover that provides a traditional typing feel, nabi XD is your tweens' ultimate first tablet PC.

   "Smart" 3-D User Interface  In partnership with Rightware®'s Kanzi® user interface solution (UI), nabi XD is taking UIs to the next level. A tiled grid of dynamically updating gadgets, widgets and apps headlines the new UI. Pin as many gadgets as you like and move them around just the way you want. Define time and location based rules that dictate when and where your favorite gadgets show up. Want news in the morning and games in the evening? Create a rule for that! nabi XD's UI lets you create multiple home screens each with your own layout of widgets, gadgets and apps. nabi XD's home screen gadgets are designed to give you the most relevant information that you want, when you want it. Set rules for your home screens based on GPS locations, Wi-Fi networks and time, allowing you to define which home screen is the most relevant for any situation.

   Incredible Gaming Experiences  nabi XD will be the first of the nabi family of tablets to feature NFC technologies. NFC allows you to sync devices simply by touching them together – Great for Bluetooth syncing or sync nabi's exclusive family of 16 figurines with your nabi XD and challenge them to amazing battles while leveling up your unique character. Watch out for the Battle KINABIs™ game and figurines made for nabi XD!

   "nabi XD features the most powerful specifications and brilliant display of the nabi tablet family. We are excited about what these new features bring to gaming and content," said Fuhu's CEO Jim Mitchell. "nabi XD represents a real transition in personal portable computing with an introduction of an Android-based productivity and gaming device."

   Pricing and Availability  The 10.1-inch nabi XD will be available late December in limited release and mid- January nationwide. The 16 GB model will be priced MSRP $249 and 32 GB for MSRP $349. Pad-folio and numerous other accessories will be available mid- January ranging from MSRP$19.99 and MSRP$89.99.

   About Fuhu, Inc.  Fuhu, Inc., creator of the nabi tablet, is a leading designer, seller and innovator of thoughtful consumer products and services for children. Fuhu is committed to creating children's solutions that are: (1) socially responsible, (2) made right, (3) make a difference in people's lives, (4) for parents by parents, and (5) dedicated to the intellectual development of children. Fuhu is headquartered in El Segundo, Calif., with other U.S. offices in Denver and San Jose. For more information, visit www.fuhu.com and www.nabitablet.com.

 
