
 
Retro designs seem to be the latest thing when it comes to high-end point-and-shoot cameras, and Fujifilm is helping to lead the pack with its rather limited (and pricey) X100. The company's just-announced X10, however, appears to expand upon its well-received cousin with a mighty fast f/2-2.8, 28-112mm manual zoom lens with a proprietary "Electron Beam Coating" that promises excellent image quality, even at the edge of the frame. The camera features a black magnesium alloy housing -- we have to admit, it's a very elegant look. There's also a 12 megapixel EXR CMOS sensor with sensitivity up to ISO 12,800, 1080p video, an optical viewfinder, 10 fps continuous shooting (7 fps at full res), a pop-up flash, and a full-size hot shoe. Advanced photogs will appreciate the shooting mode, focus mode and exposure compensation dials, along with dedicated buttons to adjust a variety of other settings, including activating RAW capture. Fuji is mum on price, but we're certain to get an update before this hits stores in early November. Jump past the break for the full feature rundown.






 		Show full PR text  FUJIFILM ANNOUNCES THE NEW PREMIUM COMPACT FUJIFILM X10 DIGITAL CAMERA: LARGE SENSOR, BRIGHT LENS AND WIDE OPTICAL VIEW FINDER IN A RETRO BLACKOUT DESIGN 		FUJIFILM X10 Features a 2/3" EXR CMOS Sensor with a Maximum F2.0 Aperture		and 4x Manual Zoom 		Valhalla, N.Y., September 1, 2011 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced the all new premium compact FUJIFILM X10 digital camera, featuring a new larger 2/3" 12 megapixel EXR CMOS sensor and a bright, high-definition FUJINON1 F2.0 wide-angle to F2.8 telephoto, 4x manual zoom lens (28-112mm)2 with a proprietary Super EBC (Electron Beam Coating) that produces superb image quality from edge to edge. 		The sleek X10 is a sophisticated compact digital camera that follows in the footsteps of the multi-award winning FUJIFILM X100, and it now combines a trim and refined blackout design, an easy-to-use manual barrel zoom lens and a traditional optical viewfinder with a wide 20° field of view for exceptional image composition. 		The X10's stunning body is built from lightweight, yet ultra strong, die-cast magnesium alloy and has an upper control deck with mode dials and an aluminum milled, textured finish lens ring. The 4x manual zoom lens ring doubles as an on/off power switch, ensuring fast start times to capture even the most fleeting shooting scenario. 		"Fujifilm is dedicated to elevating the art of digital photography, and the X10 premium compact underscores that commitment by offering first-class image quality, beautiful styling and the innovative technology that exceeds consumers' expectations," said Go Miyazaki, division president, Imaging and Electronic Imaging Divisions, FUJIFILM North America Corporation.		"The X10's thoughtfully laid out design, large EXR CMOS sensor, bright lens and manual zoom make it an outstanding choice when image quality simply cannot be compromised." 		Exceptional Image Quality 		The X10 features a newly-developed, larger 2/3" 12 megapixel EXR CMOS sensor that combines Fujifilm's proprietary EXR technology with CMOS technology to provide bright, sharp images in all shooting conditions. The intelligent EXR CMOS sensor automatically selects the optimum shooting mode from a total of 99 different variations to capture every type of scene perfectly, even in the most difficult photography situations. 		The X10's EXR CMOS sensor selects the optimum shooting mode for any lighting situation:		SN (Signal to Noise) High Sensitivity and Low Noise – produces clear and sharp high-sensitivity images while keeping noise levels low, which is ideal for capturing night scenes or indoor situations with poor lighting. 		DR (Dynamic Range) Wide Dynamic Range – delivers an increased dynamic range (up to 1600%) to deliver rich gradations and detail in both shadows and highlights.		HR (High Resolution) – takes full advantage of the 12 megapixel resolution to reproduce the finest details in landscape and portrait scenes, perfect for use on bright clear days. 		The X10's fast EXR processor also delivers high-speed continuous shooting –		up to 7 frames per second – at the full 12 megapixel resolution (L size), and 10 frames per second at the reduced resolution M size. 		Bright Optical System 		The X10 features a newly-developed high-definition FUJINON 4x manual zoom lens (28-112mm) with a Super EBC (Electron Beam Coating) that achieves superb image clarity from edge to edge. By treating all of the lens elements with the multilayer Super EBC, the X10 expertly reduces ghosting and lens flare and delivers an impeccably sharp image. 		The lens consists of 11 glass lens elements in 9 groups, including 3 aspherical glass lens elements (6 sides) and 2 extra-low dispersion lens elements. Together with its wide-angle maximum aperture of F2.0 to a maximum telephoto aperture of F2.8, the X10 delivers beautiful, bright images with outstanding clarity. 		In its spacious glass optical viewfinder, the X10 uses an arrangement of 3 aspherical lenses plus a special 2 glass prism configuration to give the photographer a composition experience that is marked by superior brightness and superb field of view with its extra wide 20° viewing angle. 		X10 Premium Shooting Experience 		In less than one second, photographers can be ready to shoot in almost any situation thanks to the X10's power switch that has been aptly integrated into the manual zoom barrel. This smart and simple design feature allows faster photography response times and helps to avoid missed photo opportunities. 		Once ready to shoot, the X10's all-metal lens barrel and smooth zoom rotation helps you compose photos quickly and easily, and its remarkably quick shutter-release lag time of approximately 0.01 seconds lets you capture even the most momentary of photography scenarios. 		The X10 also features a newly developed Optical Image Stabilization mechanism that all but eliminates motion blur by maximizing sensor performance, and its 49-point matrix contrast auto focus provides high-speed and high-precision focusing thanks to the fast CMOS capabilities and the advanced EXR Processor system. 		The X10's lens is capable of taking super-macro shots as close up as 1cm, and combined with its 7-blade aperture, the X10 generates a stunning soft-focus "bokeh" effect that makes it the ideal choice for shooting perfect portraits. 		The X10 is proudly manufactured in Japan, and as a mark of true quality, it prominently features the words "made in Japan" along the rear of the chassis near the viewfinder. 		X10 Key Features: 		4x manual optical zoom featuring Fujifilm's new Intelligent Digital Zoom technology that doubles telephoto capabilities and provides up to 8x zoom 		Fast power start-up; the X10 is fully ready to shoot in approximately 0.8 seconds using the on/off power switch built into the lens ring (must be in Quick Start mode) 		High-contrast and wide viewing-angle 2.8" 460K dot high contrast LCD screen that provides excellent viewing even outdoors and in bright sunlight 		Diverse manual shooting modes that can be selected according to scene type (Program / Aperture Priority / Shutter Speed Priority / Manual) 		Four diverse auto bracketing functions for exposure, ISO sensitivity, dynamic range and film simulation 		RAW shooting and in-camera RAW processing (SilkyPix RAW conversion software supplied in-box) 		Best-in-class3 1080p Full HD movie recording capabilities 		Film Simulation Modes (eight setting are available, including Velvia / PROVIA / ASTIA) 		Manual pop-up flash with a range of 7 meters (approximately 23 feet) 		Electronic horizon leveling gauge to ensure that the camera is being held level, and histogram display to check image gradation 		Motion Panorama 360° for seamless 360-degree panoramic shooting 		Premium Accessories 		To perfectly complement the look and first-class feel of the X10 camera body, the following premium accessories will be available: 		Case – a retro-style "quick shot" case with matching strap made from luxurious leather (LC-X10) 		Lens Hood – precision milled from metal, the lens hood with adapter ring is also compatible with commercially sold 52mm filters and lens caps (LH-X10) 		TTL Flash – Fujifilm External Automatic Flashes EF-20 (Guide Number:20) and EF-42 (Guide Number:42) are compatible with the X10 		The X10 will be available in early November 2011.
 