
  Nestled at the head of Fujifilm's FinePix camera family, the X-Pro1 has now been coccooned in luxury. If you baulked at the $1,700 body-only price tag, you probably won't be interested in this limited edition Globe-Trotter case kit. The tan leather suitcase houses a complete X-Pro1 system, including an external flash, 18mm f/2, 35mm f/1.4 and 60mm f/2.4 lens. As is often the case with these pricey collections, there's just 12 sets to go around and you'll have to charter your private jet for London -- they're only available at Harrods.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Fujifilm and Globe-Trotter unveil worldwide exclusive at Harrods Technology  23.03.2012 X-Pro1 Globetrotter Case Harrods Exclusive  London, 22nd March 2012: Global digital camera brand Fujifilm is delighted to announce its partnership with luxury British luggage manufacturer, Globe-Trotter. The two companies have collaborated to create a limited edition, Vulcanised Fibreboard suitcase for the latest in Fujifilm's coveted X series, the much-anticipated X-Pro1. The 12 cases are launching exclusively at Harrods Technology.  The Vulcanised Fibreboard suitcase is handmade on original Victorian machinery at the Globe-Trotter factory in Broxbourne, Hertfordshire. Vulcan Fibre was invented in Britain in the 1850s and is formed from 14 layers of specially bonded paper, coloured to specification. The brass rivets and locks and tan leather trim contribute to its luxury aesthetic. The case is finished with an embossed leather 'Harrods Exclusively' tag and brass plaque. Each case has handcrafted compartments to house the X-Pro1, the flash, filter and the camera's three lenses and lens hoods: 18mm, 35mm and 60mm. The X-Pro1, the latest in X series range of Fujifilm cameras, is receiving phenomenal reviews for its image quality, versatility and cutting edge technology. Its retro styling is perfectly matched to Globe-Trotter's timeless aesthetic and craftsmanship.  David Bland, Product Manager at Fujifilm commented: "The X-Pro1 marries incredible photographic performance with classic design. We have long been a fan of Globe-Trotter's stunning range of cases so we are delighted to be collaborating with them for this worldwide exclusive for Harrods. The case has clearly been handcrafted with the same care and precision that we put into our own products. We are certain that the striking cases will appeal to Harrods' customers."  Gary Bott, Creative Director at Globe-Trotter, commented: "Globe-Trotter's rich heritage, dating back 115 years, has always been about quality design, materials and craftsmanship. When approached by Fujifilm to produce a bespoke limited edition case for the X-Pro1, exclusively for Harrods, we were very excited. The combination of a traditional suitcase with the X-Pro1 camera, a piece of modern technology at its finest, is something new and exciting for our heritage brand. As well as this, Harrods is one of our oldest customers, and it is where Queen Elizabeth II purchased her Globe-Trotter suitcases for her honeymoon, so it is always a pleasure to work with them. The sleek and elegant Fujifilm Globe-Trotter suitcase allows the classic X-Pro1 to be transported by photographers in style."  Proving that technology and style go hand in hand, the partnership between Fujifilm and Globe-Trotter coincides with the much anticipated launch of Harrods' Technology Department. The Globe-Trotter case, including Fujifilm's X-Pro1, lenses and accessories will be available exclusively in Harrods for £5695.
 