
 
 Back at Computex last month we saw dozens of Windows 8-ready Ultrabooks on display: sliding-ones, touchscreen ones, foldable ones. Curiously, though, there were virtually none aimed at businesses -- you know, one of Microsoft's key customer groups. Today, though, Fujitsu is unveiling not one, but two devices aimed at the corporate crowd: the Stylistic Q702 laptop/tablet hybrid and the LifeBook T902, a convertible laptop.

 Starting with the Q702, it's an 11.6-inch tablet that works with an optional keyboard dock and also supports pen input. Yes, that's a form factor we know all too well at this point, but this one at least manages to differentiate itself with business-friendly features like TPM, Intel Anti-Theft technology, Computrace support and built-in WWAN and LTE connectivity (so far, we know AT&T, Verizon and Sprint will be on board). Under the hood, it runs Ivy Bridge processors (Core i3 or i5) with 4GB of RAM and an SSD with up to 128GB of storage space. As you'd expect of an 11.6-inch Windows tablet, the resolution is 1,366 x 768, though Fujitsu also added Gorilla Glass coating and ratcheted the brightness up to 400 nits. On its own, the 1.88-pound tablet is rated for 4.5 hours of runtime (the dock adds an extra 5.5). Speaking of which, in addition to a built-in battery, the dock adds two USB 2.0 / 3.0 ports, Ethernet jack and VGA.

 Moving on, the LifeBook T902 replaces this guy with a higher-res 13-inch Gorilla Glass display (1,600 x 900 this time) and is powered by Ivy Bridge processors (i5 and i7 chips, to be precise). Inside that 4.1-pound body you can cram up to 16GB of RAM, along with optional WWAN or LTE radios. It's also home to a modular bay, which you can use to add a spare battery or hard drive, or maybe even an optical drive. Fujitsu rates the battery life at up to 11 hours, but that's assuming you go ahead and buy that second battery. Here, too, you'll find security features like TPM and Computrace support, but unlike the Q702 tablet it adds a fingerprint sensor and IT-friendly vPro chips.

 The Q702 and T902 will both ship with Windows 7, but are naturally upgradeable to Win8. Look for both to arrive sometime in the third quarter, with the Q702 hybrid starting at $1,099 and the T902 going for $1,899 and up. Full PR after the break, along with a press shot of the convertible.



 

  Show full PR text    Fujitsu Debuts New Hardware Design With STYLISTIC Q702 Business Hybrid Tablet
  Redesigns High-Performance LIFEBOOK T902 Convertible Tablet PC
  Toronto, ONTARIO – Microsoft Worldwide Partner Conference - July 9, 2012 – Fujitsu today expanded its mobile portfolio – debuting the versatile STYLISTIC® Q702 business hybrid tablet featuring an 11.6-inch AH-IPS HD, dual digitizer, multi-touch display for pen or touch input – and a productivity-enhancing optional attachable keyboard docking station that turns the sleek tablet into a traditional notebook. For business professionals requiring a tablet with a keyboard attached at all times, Fujitsu has refreshed the LIFEBOOK® T902 convertible tablet PC, featuring a frameless 13.3-inch HD+ anti-glare widescreen display - the largest screen available with touch and pen support. Fujitsu designed the STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet and the LIFEBOOK T902 tablet PC with the goal of being used with Windows® 8.
  The STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet is designed to accommodate various work-styles. Ideal for on-your-feet computing, the STYLISTIC Q702 is perfect for use in healthcare, education, retail POS, insurance and anywhere where a tablet is the preferred solution, but it doesn't end there. Attach the optional keyboard dock and your tablet transforms into a notebook complete with WLAN, USB, and VGA connectivity as well as an additional battery. Complete all your keyboard intensive tasks with the keyboard dock and then, with the flip of a switch, you're back in tablet mode. You only need to take with you what you need when you need it.
  The STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet, powered by a 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ i3 or i5 processor, weighing approximately 1.88 pounds, and offers the perfect balance of mobility and productivity. Business professionals can stay unplugged even longer with an integrated battery in the keyboard docking station that, combined with the standard battery, provides up to an estimated 9 hours of operation. Security is iron-clad with a biometric fingerprint sensor, Computrace® support, HDD and BIOS password protection, embedded Trusted Platform Module (TPM), Intel® Anti-Theft Technology, and optional Intel® vPro™ Technology.
  The STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet is road-ready with a wide viewing angle LED backlit, AH-IPS anti-glare, ultra-durable display for increased durability.  The STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet also features  - USB 2.0 and 3.0, HDMI, SD/SDHC expansion ports on the tablet  - Accelerometer, gyrometer, magnetometer, and ambient light sensors for fluid computing experience  - Front-facing and rear-facing webcams with complementing dual microphones for video conferencing  - 64 or 128 GB mSATA SSD  - Intel® HD Graphics 4000  - Onboard 4GB DDR3  - Available with Windows 7 Professional at launch (Windows 8 ready)  - The Keyboard docking station features a removable 4-cell battery and expansion ports including USB, LAN (RJ-45) and external display support (VGA)  - Optional WWAN/3G LTE mobile broadband support available at a later date (support may vary by region)
  "Powered by 3rd generation Intel® Core™ vPro™ processors, the STYLISTIC Q702 delivers breakthrough performance and power efficiency with a beautiful slate design and the flexibility of an added keyboard for creation capability needed for business productivity." said Rick Echevarria, vice president, Intel Architecture Group and general manager, Business Client Platforms Division, Intel Corporation. "3rd generation Intel® Core™ vPro™ platforms enable more secure environments and enhance the experiences of workers and IT to compute with confidence in all areas, including immersive collaboration usages and harnessing big data to gain and share business insights."
  The popular LIFEBOOK T902 convertible tablet PC gets a redesign with an isolation keyboard, and a variety of other enhancements, including a dual digitizer with 10-finger multi-touch support to easily navigate around the edge-to-edge ultra-durable display. Thinner and lighter at 4.1 pounds (without ODD), and powered by the high-performance 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ i5 or i7 processor, LIFEBOOK T902 provides business professionals with a no compromise tablet PC offering best-in-class performance. Combine the 6-cell battery with a modular bay battery for over 11 hours of computing time to get through extended work days without adding much weight or bulk.
  The LIFEBOOK T902 convertible tablet PC also features:  - Built-in modular bay with quick release latch for easy interchangeability supports second battery, second HDD, Super multi DVD-RW, BD-writer or weight saver  - Complete suite of security features including dedicated Smart Card Slot, biometric fingerprint sensor, Computrace support, HDD and BIOS password protection, security panel, Intel® Anti-Theft Technology, and optional Intel® vPro™ Technology  - Optional TCG OPAL compliant SED drives  - Accelerometer, gyrometer, magnetometer, and ambient light sensors for fluid computing experience  - Optional WWAN/3G LTE mobile broadband support available at a later date (support may vary by region)  - Anti-microbial, spill resistant keyboard with trackpad  - DDR3 1600 MHz, up to 16 GB  - Bi-directional display hinge, hard drive shock sensor  - Available with Windows 7 Professional at launch
  "Fujitsu continues to grow its mobile portfolio with form factors designed for how people work," said Paul Moore, vice president, PC product marketing and product management, Fujitsu America. "We pay close attention to what the market requires such as delivering a system that isn't sealed, which is reflected in the design of the STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet. These are the types of distinctions, both subtle and obvious, that continue to set Fujitsu apart."
  "Fujitsu is a valued partner and it's great to see their continued innovation on Windows tablets," said Nick Parker, CVP of the OEM Division, Microsoft. "Windows is a great choice for commercial customers looking for devices that enable the flexibility and mobility their businesses need to succeed."
  The STYLISTIC Q702 hybrid tablet is priced starting at $1,099 and the LIFEBOOK T902 convertible tablet PC is priced starting at $1,899. Both systems will be available Q3 2012 through the Fujitsu direct sales force, channel partners, select retail outlets, and the Fujitsu website – http://www.shopfujitsu.com.
  
