
 
Remember Fujifilm's Finepix XP10 from... oh, right around seven months ago? Hopefully you're not one to get overly depressed about the rush of progress, because Fujifilm has just outed an update to that very camera that's significantly improved. Following Casio's footsteps on the Exilim EX-H20G, Fuji is introducing the GPS-enabled Finepix XP30 here at CES. The overall size and shape remains similar to the aforementioned XP10, with this point-and-shoot being waterproof, shockproof and freezeproof. What may really entice the argonauts in the crowd is the embedded GPS chip; this will keep tabs of your location and embed your exact coordinates into every picture you take. Once you get back home, just dump 'em into iPhoto or Picasa in order to view photos based on location. Moreover, the GPS Tracking Data function will regularly store location data, and when you get home, you can actually create a map of your travels. Other specifications include a 14 megapixel CCD sensor, 720p movie mode, image stabilization, a 2.7-inch anti-reflective LCD, a reinforced hardened glass lens barrier, a metal, unibody chassis and a riveted front panel. The XP30 should ship next month for $239.95, while a GPS-less sibling (the Finepix XP20; pictured after the break) will ship a month later for $199.99; those looking to accessorize will find an adjustable float strap, protective silicone skin and a neoprene sports case for sale in March for an undisclosed amount.
      

 

Show full PR textFUJIFILM INTRODUCES FINEPIX XP30 RUGGED DIGITAL CAMERA WITH GPS GEO-TAGGING, AND FINEPIX XP20"Four-Way Protection" Digital Cameras Combine Style with Durability Valhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2011 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced the launch of the FinePix XP30, Fujifilm's first rugged digital camera with GPS Geo-tagging functionality. The XP20 is also a new addition to the rugged digital camera series, and offers identical features, except for GPS. As follow up to the highly successful XP10 "Four-Way Protection" digital camera, the new XP20 and XP30 digital cameras take it a step further. Now, they're Waterproof to 16.5ft (5M) and Shockproof to 5 ft (1.5M), and still Freezeproof to 14°F (-10°C) and Dustproof.Both the FinePix XP20 and XP30 digital cameras have a 14-MegaPixel CCD sensor, a 2.7" anti-reflective, high-contrast LCD for better viewing in bright sunlight and a high-precision, FUJINON 5x wide angle refractive optical zoom lens (28mm equivalent) with a reinforced hardened glass lens barrier. The ergonomically-designed cameras are housed in a metal uni-body chassis for durability. With a riveted front panel and ergonomic body shape featuring a smart two-tone design, the cameras come in a variety of different colors, making it the perfect camera for an extreme outing or just a relaxing night out on the town. The XP20 comes in black, blue, green and orange, and the XP30 comes in black, green and orange."The FinePix XP20 and XP30 take our best-selling XP10 to the next level," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, FUJIFILM North America Corporation. "With a sleek design, these active lifestyle cameras give users extreme photographic support. Add in the GPS geo-tagging on the XP30, and you've got the ability to take the camera into virtually any type of environment without worrying about it getting damaged." GPS Geo-TaggingOnly the FinePix XP30 features GPS Geo-Tagging in a rugged, outdoor model. What's more, the GPS features on the camera not only tell you where you are in the world, but it also offers additional functions that are essential for outdoor shooting. Locations can be displayed either as longitude and latitude or by place name. The FinePix XP30 has an embedded list featuring approximately half a million places of interest across the globe. When a shot is taken, the image is tagged with location information, enabling you to quickly find shots of a place you've visited. Should users then want to create a photo book of a specific location they can do so using the PhotoBook Assist feature where you can tag images then turn the pages of the book on the camera's rear LCD.In addition, if you visit a location that you want to return to but can't remember which way to go, the Photo Navigation mode is invaluable. Simply find a shot of the location and the FinePix XP30 will not only tell you how far it is from your current spot, it'll show you the direction you need to travel to get there.Those wanting to draw up a map of their travels should take advantage of the XP30's GPS Tracking Data function. With this feature, the camera regularly stores location data and, when you return home and download the shots to a PC, this information can be turned into a map illustrated with the pictures you took along the way.Four-Way ProtectionThe FinePix XP30 and XP20 are perfect for active families on the go that want a camera they can take anywhere without worrying about its safety. Consumers can drop them, soak them, freeze them, and even cover them in dirt and mud, and these cameras will come out unscathed. Not only are they waterproof up to 16.5 feet, but they're also shockproof up to 5 feet, freezeproof up to 14°F and dustproof. The "life proof" XP30 and XP20 give users total confidence that they can take them wherever they go, whatever they are doing, regardless of the conditions. Easy Web Upload Sharing photos online has become an everyday activity for many people, so Fujifilm includes the Facebook/YouTube Automatic Upload feature that makes for quicker and easier modes of posting photos/videos on social networking sites. This feature allows users to identify and tag a photo for Facebook or YouTube upload. Once the camera is connected to a PC and MyFinePix Studio software is launched, all marked photos or movies will upload directly to Facebook or YouTube at the press of a button.HD Capability The FinePix XP30 and XP20 also offer stunning movies in 720p with sound at 30 frames per second with one touch ease. Many consumers are happy to enjoy HD movies on their PC, but with the optional HD Player accessory kit, with wireless remote control (HDMI cable not included), families can gather around their home HDTV to enjoy amazingly detailed stills and high resolution movie playback.Tracking Auto Focus (AF)Created specifically to capture an action shot, the AF function tracks fast moving subjects so they don't escape from the frame in a blur. Subjects will be tracked automatically for as long as it is kept in the frame and the shutter is half-pressed; when users fully press the shutter button your subject will be in the centre of the photo in perfect focus. Advanced Image StabilizationThe XP20 and XP30 have a powerful sensor shift Dual Image Stabilization (CIS) system. CIS works as the photo is being taken as it combines a mechanically stabilized sensor with high ISO to combat camera/hand shake and subject movement for improved low light shooting. The result is an expanded range of shooting situations where the cameras can be used without the need of a tripod or other support. With CIS working in the background, you can capture sharp, colorful scenes and portraits underwater or at night. In addition to these innovations, the cameras are loaded with the following features:•	Motion Panorama Mode: Automatically stitches up to three shots to create a panoramic picture•	Movie Editing Mode and Blog mode: Get creative and add finishing touches to videos and images, among others, you can choose from B&W, Sepia, or you can even add a dynamic lighting effect, all this in-camera. •	Scene Recognition Auto (SR AUTO): This mode intelligently identifies the scene type and necessary shooting conditions to optimize picture perfect potential.•	Face Detection and Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, the cameras are fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.•	Li-ion rechargeable battery: The long-life rechargeable Li-ion battery with charger (up to 165 shots) allows for extended use without worrying if the camera is going to last for the duration of the trip.The FinePix XP20 will be available late March 2011 at $199.95, and the FinePix XP30 will be available in mid-February 2011 at $239.95. An accessory kit containing an adjustable float strap, protective silicone skin and a neoprene sports case will be available in March 2011.NOTE: For complete camera specifications, please go to: http://www.fujifilm.com/products/digital_cameras/
 