

 Did you eye Fujitsu's new U772/E Ultrabook and dream of bringing that 0.69-inch thick, Ivy Bridge-packing Lifebook across the Pacific? The company has clearly been reading your mind, since it's just started shipping the portable and a few of its companions to the US. In American guise, you'll find the more simply-titled U772 carrying a choice of Core i5 or i7 chips, as much as a 500GB spinning hard drive or a 256GB SSD for storage, a trio of USB ports, HDMI and an SD card slot. It's joined by a more budget-oriented brother, the UH572 Ultrabook, which is slightly more portly (0.71 inches and 3.5 pounds) but otherwise touts the same credentials. The two are shipping right away and will offer that Japanese Ultrabook flavor at prices of $1,149 for the U772 and $999 for the UH572.

 Those more accepting of big-boned computers aren't left out of the mix. On the still semi-portable side, the Lifebook NH532 takes Ivy Bridge to a desktop replacement size, albeit with precious few other details besides its 17.3-inch screen. Three Esprimo desktops (sadly, not pictured) are making the leap to third-generation Core chips as well, including the extra-quiet Q910 mini desktop as well as the fast-booting P710 microtower and full-size E710 desktop. While Fujitsu isn't giving us a full peek at the larger side of the roster, none of them stretch budgets: the NH532 sits in the mid-range at $749, while the E710 / P710 and Q910 are also easy on the finances at their respective $649 and $999 asking prices. 




  Show full PR text   Fujitsu Introduces Family of LIFEBOOK Ultrabook™ Devices for Consumers and Business Professionals
  SUNNYVALE, CA - Jun 5, 2012) - Fujitsu (http://solutions.us.fujitsu.com) is kicking off the summer product season today, introducing two LIFEBOOK(R) Ultrabook(TM) devices -- the 14" LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook(TM) designed for business professionals and the 13.3" LIFEBOOK UH572 Ultrabook ideal for consumers -- powered by the 3rd generation Intel(R) Core(TM) processors, which enable improved performance and extended battery life. Stylish and durable with magnesium alloy housing, both Fujitsu Ultrabook systems offer large touchpads with integrated buttons and multi-touch gesture support.
  In addition to the new LIFEBOOK Ultrabook systems, Fujitsu introduced the refreshed Fujitsu LIFEBOOK NH532 desktop replacement notebook featuring a 17.3" HD+ display and powered by a new 3rd generation Intel(R) Core(TM) processor.
  The 14" LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook is distinguished by its frameless WXGA HD Crystal View display delivering edge-to-edge viewing and support for an optional port replicator for easy docking/connecting to an external monitor, mouse and/or keyboard. Sporting an ultra slim .69" profile, weighing 3.15 pounds, a fast boot-up and offering approximately 7 hours of battery life, it's the perfect business companion to take to the office or on the road. Available with either an Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 or Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 processor with Intel® Turbo Boost Technology, the LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook delivers the power and performance to easily run most programs. Optional 3G WWAN will be offered in Q3 2012.
  The LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook is fully customizable with different memory, CPU, and hard drive options. It's also one of the first Ultrabook devices to offer a large HDD with SSD cache in the thinnest profile available for the commercial market. The SSD cache -- along with Intel(R) Rapid Start Technology and ExpressCache(R) -- allows users to immediately resume working from standby, prolongs the battery life, and accelerates the HDD performance to near SSD speeds. In addition, the LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook offers an LED indicator with the HD webcam, alerting users if the camera is on.
  The LIFEBOOK UH572 Ultrabook, powered by an Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 processor with Turbo Boost Technology, boasts a .71" thin profile, weighs 3.5 pounds and delivers nearly 6 hours of battery life.1 With the latest Intel(R) WiDi2 (Wireless Display), wirelessly stream to the TV, or utilize the HDMI port to connect to a larger HDTV to enjoy slideshows and video streaming on a big screen.
  Safeguarding personal identity and information remains a top priority for Fujitsu, and both LIFEBOOK Ultrabook devices are packed with security features including Intel(R) Anti-Theft Technology, Computrace(R) BIOS Persistence Module, BIOS and HDD Password Protection, and a Kensington(R) lock. In addition, the LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook takes security to the next level by offering an Intel(R) Core(TM) vPro(TM) processor platform, Trusted Platform Module (TPM) and a biometric fingerprint sensor, while the LIFEBOOK UH572 Ultrabook adds Intel Identity Protection Technology.
  "Top performance and mobility are the themes for these two LIFEBOOK Ultrabooks, and like all Fujitsu notebooks, they can be taken on the road with confidence," said Paul Moore, vice president, PC product marketing, Fujitsu America. "The Ultrabook market is ripe for some new exciting entries, and Fujitsu offers an array of useful features on our LIFEBOOK Ultrabook models. For the business user, expansion and security are key, while our consumer version is perfect for the student or home user, delivering just what they desire -- high capacity drives and WiDi. Either choice will not disappoint the customer."
  The LIFEBOOK Ultrabook systems also feature:
  Fast-wake with Intel(R) Rapid Start Technology  Intel(R) HD Graphics 4000  High-definition webcam  3 USB ports and HDMI port  SD Card Reader  Up to 500 GB HDD with 32GB cache or up to 256GB SSD (LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook(TM))  Up to 500 GB 5400rpm S-ATA HDD with 32 GB cache (LIFEBOOK UH572 Ultrabook(TM))  Microsoft Windows(R) 7
  The LIFEBOOK U772 Ultrabook is priced starting at $1,149, the LIFEBOOK UH572 Ultrabook is priced at $999 and the LIFEBOOK NH532 notebook is priced at $749. All three LIFEBOOK notebooks are immediately available. Fujitsu notebooks can be purchased through the Fujitsu direct sales force, channel partners, select retail outlets, and the Fujitsu website --http://www.shopfujitsu.com.
  Fujitsu Delivers ESPRIMO PC Family Models Ideal for Global Enterprise Rollout
  SUNNYVALE, CA--(Jun 5, 2012) -
  News facts
  New global line-up of ESPRIMO(R) desktop PCs provides enterprise economies of scale  Latest 3rd generation Intel(R) Core(TM) processor family  New global ESPRIMO Mini PC provides low power consumption, reduced noise and heat output
  Fujitsu today announces a new global line-up of ESPRIMO desktop PCs, introducing across-the-range performance improvements. New models feature standardized architecture and components, making them attractive to organizations that want to benefit from economies of scale by applying worldwide standards.
  With its new global PCs, now incorporating the 3rd generation Intel(R) Core(TM) processor family, Fujitsu is further cutting the total cost of ownership for desktop computing. Energy-efficient models are identical around the world -- and Fujitsu takes this design philosophy further by applying this concept to two different-sized ESPRIMO desktop PC models.  For large organizations, managing global fleets of desktop PCs becomes incrementally more expensive and complex due to the presence of different makes, models, designs and form factors. As well as needing to support a wide and eclectic range of hardware and software drivers, short-term break-fix repair for faulty PCs is only possible if appropriate spares are held on-site.
  Adopting a global standard for PCs enables enterprises to cut the total cost of ownership for their PC fleet. Essential spares can be stocked locally -- allowing the reduction of unplanned downtime since the parts are guaranteed to fit all the PCs. Standardization also cuts the time required for system provisioning and maintenance -- because of the reduced number of hardware drivers.
  Choice of form factors but identical components, worldwide
  The new Fujitsu ESPRIMO E710 desktop and P710 microtower PC models are built from the same parts, including the mainboard, power supply, hard disk drive, optical drive and main memory modules. Fujitsu offers various configurations to suit different environments. One clever option is the FastOn feature, where the system boots from a cold start to login screen in just 13 seconds, meaning there is no need to leave an ESPRIMO PC running idle overnight just to avoid a lengthy start-up and login process. Network-based support is simple, since the ESPRIMO E710 and P710 ship with built-in Intel Standard Manageability.
  The Fujitsu mini PC ESPRIMO Q910 uses standard desktop technology instead of mobile components. As well as taking up less desktop space than a standard PC and reducing cable clutter thanks to a built-in power supply, the ESPRIMO Q910 is highly energy-efficient. With optional low-voltage processors cutting Typical Energy Consumption (TEC)* to just 31.3 kilowatt-hours (kWh) per year per system, the new mini PC is ideal for environments such as call centers, while seamless network integration and administration is assured thanks to Advanced Intel(R) Desktop Manageability via Intel(R) vPro(TM) technology.
  As well as being small in size, the ESPRIMO Q910 features an eye-catching, Red Dot Award-winning design, and has excellent manners -- as it is normally near silent in operation, thanks to the Zero Noise option. The advanced power and cooling design of Fujitsu means that system fans run only sparingly, helping reduce noise and heat output as well as saving lifetime energy costs.
  Supporting quotes
  Dieter Heiss, Vice-President, Workplace Systems, at Fujitsu Technology Solutions
  "With the introduction of our new global PC lines, we have delivered twins: inside the box, both new ESPRIMO models are identical, even down to the software image and system drivers. Fujitsu is able to guarantee customers around the world that they're buying a truly global PC line, with fully interchangeable spares, from Beijing to Berlin. The only elements that differ are the power cords and the operating system language."
  Paul Moore, Vice President, PC Product Marketing, at Fujitsu America
  "Fujitsu is one of the top IT companies in the world and our customers require a partner that can deliver it all on a global scale. Our lines boast some of the most innovative products and consist of PRIMERGY(R) and PRIMEQUEST(R) servers, ETERNUS(R) storage systems, LIFEBOOK(R) notebooks, STYLISTIC(R) tablets and ESPRIMO PCs. With the new ESPRIMO Q910, we deliver a desktop product that sets the bar high with its compact design, screwless access, latest 3rdgeneration Intel(R) Core(TM) processor technology and renowned Fujitsu reliability."
  Pricing and availability
  New Fujitsu ESPRIMO PC models are globally available and will be rolled through various channels this month. Recommended pricing for the ESPRIMO E710 and P710 starts at $6491 and varies by configuration. The ESPRIMO Q910 starts at $999.1
 
