
 

It was only a few short months ago that Fujitsu's F-07D cropped up at the FCC and took a swing at the "world's thinnest" smartphone title. Since that time, the handset's taken on a new name -- the Arrows μ -- and has launched on NTT DoCoMo in Japan. Today at CES Unveiled, we got a chance to get up close and personal with the device which, despite hitting a high water mark for slim profile, doesn't exactly attempt to compete with high-end specs. Instead this Android 4-incher runs Gingerbread atop a single-core Qualcomm MSM8255 processor clocked at 1.4GHz and is complemented by 1GB of RAM, 5.1MP rear camera and 1400mAh battery. So, does it hold up to its slight reputation? Join us after the break as we answer that question and delve deep into our first impressions.





  	It's hard to appreciate the Arrows μ's sleek figure which, at only 6.7mm, should be the highlight of the design, but is unfortunately glossed over by the dullness of its piano black, plastic casing. Indeed, the phone doesn't garner any exceptional points for looks, erring instead on a tried and true rectangular shape (think: Motorola Droid RAZR). In keeping with its mobile family tree, this Arrows device is waterproof and sports a Gorilla Glass coating. Despite its lackluster presence, however, the Mu does feel great in the hand, as it weighs a mere 105 grams and shouldn't be a bother to hold for extended periods.There's not much new to say about the Arrows μ's 4-inch Super AMOLED display, as we've seen the tech incorporated time and time again in smartphones over the past year. For what it offers, though, colors represented on the screen are typically vibrant and saturated, with viewing angles that continued to hold up even as we tilted the phone away from sight. The real performance standout is actually its 1.4GHz Qualcomm MSM8255 processor -- the same chip that powers most Mango handsets -- and appears to work quite well with the Android OS. Performance is rather snappy, with the no instances of lag cropping up as we navigated through the homescreens. And speaking of the OS, the Arrows μ runs a skinned version of Android 2.3.5.In addition to its very 2011 specs, the company's tossed in support for NFC and OneSeg, so users can watch TV on the go. No word on when the phone might get an upgrade to Ice Cream Sandwich, but we're sure Fujitsu won't leave it lingering in last year's OS dust.

       

 