
 
Fujifilm's rugged Finepix XP30 just a bit too rough around the edges for you? If so, we'd recommend grabbing a cup of joe and diving into the outfit's CES 2011 line of point-and-shoot cameras. The company's holding nothing back with this year's barrage of new shooters, so let's get to it, shall we? 

The Finepix Z90 (shown above) is a sleek, svelte new compact with a three-inch resistive touchpanel, 14 megapixel CCD sensor, Fujinon 5x wide-angle optical zoom lens and automatic upload to both YouTube and Facebook. There's also a new 'Dual Direction GUI' (which splits the rear screen in various ways to view multiple images at once) digital image stabilization, face detection / red-eye removal, a 720p movie mode and a chassis that's just 17.5mm thick. It'll go on sale in around a fortnight for $169.95.
The Finepix AV200, AX300 and JV200 are aimed at the bargain consumer, with all three boasting a 720p movie mode, face detection and a relatively understated design. The AV200 and JV200 are outfitted witha 14 megapixel CCD sensor and a 3x optical zoom lens, while the AX300 steps up to a 5x optical zoomer. The trio packs a 2.7-inch rear LCD, digital image stabilization and automatic red-eye removal. The AV200 and AX300 get powered by a pair of AA batteries, whereas the JV200 is equipped with a rechargeable Li-ion. The whole lot will go on sale in the US next month, with pricing set at $89.95, $99.95 and $109.95 in order of mention.
For those looking to step up a bit, there's the new JX series. The JX300 and JX350 include 5x optical zoomers and a 720p movie mode, not to mention a 2.7-inch rear LCD, metal body and Li-ion rechargeable battery. The JX300 is blessed with a 14 megapicel CCD sensor , while the JX350 packs a 16 megapixel CCD sensor. Fuji plans to hawk the 300 in silver, whereas the 350 will be available in brushed metal or black. Other features include an easy YouTube / Facebook upload, smile / face detection and red-eye removal. The JX300 will go on sale next month for $129.95, with the JX350 coming in April for $159.95.
Wrapping things up, we've got the T200 and T300, both of which are equipped with 10x Fujinon optical zoom lenses (28mm to 280mm) and a 720p movie mode. These check in at just 18.5mm thick and include sensor shift image stabilization and a 14 megapixel CCD sensor. The T300 ups the ante with a 3-inch high-res display, while the T200 gets saddled with a 3.7-inch display. We're told that the T300 will be available in black, while the T200 gets wrapped in a gunmetal finish. The T300 will ship in April for $199.95, and the T200 will go on sale this March for $20 less.






Show full PR textFUJIFILM MINGLES HIGH STYLE AND FUNCTIONALITY WITH THE FINEPIX Z90Fun at Your Fingertips with new 3" Touch screen LCD and Dual Direction GUI Valhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2011 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced the FinePix Z90 digital camera, the latest addition to the sleek and stylish range of Z-series compact cameras that features a large 3" High Resolution Resistive Touch screen LCD, a 14-MegaPixel CCD sensor, with a FUJINON 5x wide angle refractive optical zoom lens (28mm equivalent) for added range and flexibility. The FinePix Z90's impressive features also include one-touch 720p HD movie capture, an intuitive Dual Direction GUI that allows for easy navigating, and "tap and shoot" capabilities for images and videos. The Z90 also has tagging with automatic upload functions to YouTube and Facebook. "The new FinePix Z90 offers a wide touch screen LCD that allows for the innovative tap and shoot feature," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronics Imaging Division, FUJIFILM North America Corporation. "When you add in the sleek design and colors, plus movie editing and sequential HD movie capture, this camera is great for people who want a technology rich digital camera that also looks good." Chic DesignThe FinePix Z90 features a slim metal chassis and a chic horizontal sliding lens barrier. At only 17.5mm* thin, the FinePix Z90 is ultra-portable and can easily be slipped into a handbag or jeans pocket. It is available in a choice of five stylish colors: matte black, red, blue, pink and purple.Easy Web UploadsSharing photos online has become an everyday activity for many people, so Fujifilm includes the Facebook/YouTube Automatic Upload feature that makes for quicker and easier modes of posting photos/videos on social networking sites. This feature allows users to identify and tag a photo for Facebook or YouTube upload. Once the camera is connected to a PC and MyFinePix Studio software is launched, all marked photos or movies will upload directly to Facebook or YouTube at the press of a button.HD CapabilityWith 720p HD movie capture, the FinePix Z90 captures vivid images that can be played back in beautiful detail on your HDTV. In addition, the FinePix Z90's one-touch movie button makes it simple to create your own movie clips, with sequential capture, letting you start and stop in a single movie clip. The Movie Edit feature allows users to add personalized finishing touches to footage with in-camera editing, and the camera also lets users add special effects to their photos including color tones, contrasts and brightness changes, Diagonal Crop, Collage and Face Mosaic. With the optional HD Player accessory kit, with wireless remote control (HDMI cable not included), families can gather around their home HDTV to enjoy amazingly detailed stills and high resolution movie playback.Additional FeaturesThe FinePix Z90 also has the following noteworthy features:• Tap and Shoot: Provides the ability for one touch focus and shooting for easy photo taking. After the user taps the focal point of choice for the shooting scene on the LCD display, the camera automatically sets the appropriate focus and functions, and then releases the shutter for optimal one touch picture taking. • Digital Image Stabilization: Digital Image Stabilization reduces image blur automatically and offers creative adaptability and excellent picture quality.• Scene Recognition Auto (SR AUTO): This mode intelligently detects the scene-type and shooting conditions and optimizes the camera settings accordingly. • Face Detection and Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, the FinePix Z90 is fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously, at almost any angle to the camera. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.• i-Flash Intelligent Flash: Offers a flash control system which efficiently controls the level of flash for a given exposure to produce beautifully balanced flash illumination across the foreground and background. Gone are the ugly washout shots where the subject is blasted with light and the background dark and unexposed. 　　• Motion Panorama Mode: Automatically stitches up to three shots to create a panoramic picture• Playback Capabilities: Offers a variety of playback features for easy and immediate sharing such as the widescreen LCD in HD, slide show, sort, edit and search features, plus Dual Image Display that splits the screen in various ways to view multiple images at once.The FinePix Z90 will be available in mid-January 2011 at a retail price of $169.95. NOTE: For complete camera specifications, please go to: http://www.fujifilm.com/products/digital_cameras/Show full PR textFUJIFILM DELIVERS IMPRESSIVE FEATURES IN ENTRY-LEVEL DIGITAL CAMERAS FinePix AV200, AX300 and JV200 Provide Strong Feature Set at a Great ValueValhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2011 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced the launch of three new entry-level FinePix compact digital cameras that include the FinePix AV200, AX300 and JV200. These easy-to-use cameras contain robust features that include high resolution sensors, powerful zoom and HD movie 720p capabilities, all at an affordable price. These FinePix digital cameras are perfect for consumers on a budget, but not looking to sacrifice great image quality, and offer additional advanced features including: Automatic Scene Recognition, Face Detection, Motion Panorama Mode and more to ensure fantastic pictures in every situation."With these entry level digital cameras, Fujifilm is packing in many features such as Digital Image Stabilization and Tracking Auto Focus that are helpful in taking quality photos," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, FUJIFILM North America Corporation. "When you add in other features like Smile/Blink Detection and i-Flash Intelligent Flash, you get a camera that provides great pictures at a great value." The FinePix AV200 and JV200 have a 14-MegaPixel CCD sensor and a 3x FUJINON optical zoom lens, and the 14-Megapixel FinePix AX300 features a versatile 5x FUJINON optical zoom lens (35mm equivalent). You can rest assured that whichever model you choose, the resolution sensors and top quality FUJINON optics combined with the high sensitivity settings (up to ISO 3200 in S mode) will deliver sharp, clear images in almost every shooting condition. All models feature a 2.7" 230K resolution LCD, plus Digital Image Stabilization technology to compensate for image blur caused by hand shake or subject movement, and ensure that you always get a great picture, especially in low light settings. Shoot and shareEach new camera captures stunning 720p HD movies, allowing you to show off your impressive pictures and movies to your family and friends on any HD ready television (or home PC), using the optional HD Player (HDP-L1) accessory kit with wireless remote (HDMI cable not included).Advanced Image SearchAll these cameras have an Image Search feature that allows you to find all images taken in a particular scene mode (e.g. Portraits and Landscapes) ensuring it is much faster to navigate through the photos on your camera.Other features include:• Smile/Blink Detection: Smile Detection recognizes the moment your subject smiles and releases the shutter only when this happens, ensuring a happy photo every time. Additionally, the Blink Detection function warns you if any of your subjects have blinked so that you can re-take the photo if necessary.• i-Flash Intelligent Flash: A flash control system which efficiently controls the level of flash for a given exposure to produce beautifully balanced flash illumination across the foreground and background. Gone are the ugly washout shots where the subject is blasted with light and the background dark and• Face Detection and Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, the cameras are fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.• Scene Recognition Auto (SR AUTO): This mode intelligently identifies the scene type and necessary shooting conditions to optimize picture perfect potential.• Tracking Auto Focus (AF): Tracks fast moving subjects so they don't escape from the frame in a blur. Subjects will be tracked automatically for as long as it is kept in the frame and the shutter is half-pressed; when users fully press the shutter button your subject will be in the centre of the photo in perfect focus. • Motion Panorama Mode: Automatically stitches up to three shots to create a panoramic picture• AA-Battery Power (AV200, AX300): Using AA batteries is convenient for on-the-go digital camera users as it eliminates the need to charge battery packs, allowing for lots of picture-taking and the ease of battery replacement.• Li-ion Battery (JV200): Long-life rechargeable Li-ion battery for extended shot life, charger included. All cameras will be available in February 2011. The AV200 will be available in silver for $89.95, the AX300 will be available in black at $99.95 and the JV200 will be available in black for $109.95.Show full PR textFUJIFILM REDEFINES SLIM AND STYLISH WITH ENHANCED JX-SERIES DIGITAL CAMERAS FinePix JX300 and JX350 Combine Cool Design with 5x Zoom - and More - for Great ValueValhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2011 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced two new FinePix JX-Series slim and stylish digital cameras that include the FinePix JX300 and JX350. These fashionable and highly-portable cameras offer consumers a slim, trend-setting design with powerful features. The digital cameras also boast high resolution sensors, powerful FUJINON 5x zoom lens and 720p HD movie capture capabilities.The FinePix JX300 and JX350 are perfect for consumers who demand style and advanced functionality in their camera. These cameras give everyone the ability to take terrific pictures, even in low light, while offering a big 2.7" LCD screen, metal body and powerful li-ion rechargeable battery. The FinePix JX300 has a 14-MegaPixel CCD and a FUJINON 5x wide angle (28mm-140mm)* optical zoom lens, while the FinePix JX350 has a 16-MegaPixel CCD and a FUJINON 5x wide angle (28mm-140mm)* optical zoom lens. The JX300 will be available in silver and the JX350 in black, both in brushed metal with hairline finish. "These enhanced JX-Series cameras represent consumers' strong demand for a camera that reflects their personal style and maintains the full feature set that they expect from an advanced Fujifilm camera," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, FUJIFILM North America Corporation. "We are very excited to combine our best technology, such as HD movie capture, with a thin chassis and a high-quality FUJINON 5X zoom." HD Movie Capabilities The FinePix JX300 and JX350 both offer 720p HD movie capture. This enables you to take stunning, detailed pictures and videos that can be enjoyed in ultra-sharp high definition on any HD ready television or PC, using the optional HD Player (HDP-L1) accessory kit with wireless remote control (HDMI cable not included).Smile / Blink Detection Photos are all too often spoiled by people blinking or grimacing. Smile Detection works with Fujifilm's highly-acclaimed Face Detection technology to detect smiles on faces – it will not take a picture until it detects a smile, so you're guaranteed happy shots! Another feature is Blink Detection which warns you if you have captured an image with people blinking, so you can re-shoot if necessary.Facebook and You Tube Easy Web UploadThe new JX-Series cameras offer an innovative function called 'Easy Web Upload' that allows you to sort through your photos on-camera and decide which ones to upload to Facebook or You Tube. Simply connect to a PC and launch the MyFinePix Studio software (for Windows) and they will immediately upload.PhotoBook Assist PhotoBook Assist helps you create stunning photo books in-camera and lets you turn the pages as if you were looking at an album. In addition, the new Image Search tool lets you search by date range and type of photo. Other features include:• i-Flash Intelligent Flash: Offers a flash control system which efficiently controls the level of flash for a given exposure to produce beautifully balanced flash illumination across the foreground and background. Gone are the ugly washout shots where the subject is blasted with light and the background dark and unexposed. 　　• Tracking Auto Focus (AF): Tracks fast moving subjects so they don't escape from the frame in a blur. Subjects will be tracked automatically for as long as it is kept in the frame and the shutter is half-pressed; when users fully press the shutter button your subject will be in the centre of the photo in perfect focus. • Motion Panorama Mode: Automatically stitches up to three shots to create a panoramic picture• Scene Recognition Auto (SR AUTO): This mode intelligently identifies the scene type and necessary shooting conditions to optimize picture perfect potential.• Face Detection and Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, the cameras are fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.• Digital Image Stabilization: Reduces image blur automatically, resulting in excellent picture quality.The FinePix JX300 will be available in mid-February at the price of $129.95, and the JX350 will be available in April at $159.95.Show full PR textFUJIFILM INTRODUCES NEW T-SERIES LINE WITH FINEPIX T200 AND T300Feature-Rich Ultra-Compact 10x Zoom Cameras Will Fit Consumers to a "T"Valhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2011 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced the introduction of a new T-Series line of ultra-compact cameras, with the FinePix T200 and T300. These slim cameras have FUJINON 10x long-zoom lenses, and are 18.5mm* thin. Both cameras offer consumers the perfect fit: a complete set of advanced features, a size to fit in any pocket or small bag, and a price to fit their budgets."With the FinePix T200 and T300, we give our customers a portable long zoom digital camera that's small in design, but big in features," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, FUJIFILM North America Corporation. "When you combine the long zoom with features such as sensor shift Image Stabilization and HD movie capture, you get cameras that are packed with power." The FinePix T200 and T300 offer a 14-MegaPixel CCD, but the T300 has a 3.0" high-resolution (230K pixels) LCD, while the T200 has a 2.7" high-resolution (230K) LCD. Equally impressive is the FUJINON 10x optical zoom lens, which stretches from 28-280mm (35mm equivalent). This powerful mix of features will ensure users capture great images, whether they are wide-angle landscapes or closely cropped portraits with details. The T200 will be available in Gunmetal and the T300 will be available in Black, both with brushed metal chassis with hairline finish.Image StabilizationIn addition to the 10x zoom, the T300 and T200 also come equipped with a powerful sensor shift Dual Image Stabilization (CIS) system. CIS works as the photo is being taken as it combines a mechanically stabilized sensor with high ISO to combat camera/hand shake and subject movement for improved low light shooting. The result is an expanded range of shooting situations where the cameras can be used without the need of a tripod or other support. With CIS working in the background, you can capture sharp, colorful scenes and portraits at night. HD Capability The new T-Series models offer stunning movies in 720p HD with sound at 30 frames per second. You can even zoom during movie capture. Many consumers are happy to enjoy HD movies on their PC, but with the optional HD Player accessory kit with wireless remote control (HDMI cable not included), families can gather around their home HDTV to enjoy amazingly detailed stills and high resolution movie playback.Tracking Auto Focus The T200 and T300 both feature Tracking Auto Focus which is perfect for when you need to take a picture of a moving subject and can't keep your subject in the frame. Just switch Tracking Auto Focus on and it will track your subject and ensure that you achieve a crisp picture with you subject in the center of the frame in perfect focus.Face Recognition TechnologyWith Face Recognition, the camera can identify the people in a picture by name! Fujifilm's Face Recognition Technology gives you the ability to pre-program 8 people into the camera. You also have the option of inputting the category to which they belong (e.g. friends/family) and the date of his/her birthday. The next time you take a photo of the same person, the camera will cleverly recognize that person and optimize the settings to ensure that exposure and focus are best suited to the individual, rather than the other people in the picture. This fun technology can recognize up to 4 pre-programmed people on screen at the same time. In addition, the Image Search Tool is able to use the Face Recognition data (name, birthday and category) to help you find and playback your photographs quickly and easily. If you want to scroll through all pictures featuring "Mom" for example, the camera will be able to select them for you for easy viewing.The FinePix T200 and T300 also offer these additional features:• Face Detection and Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, each T-Series model is fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.• Scene Recognition Auto (SR AUTO): This mode intelligently detects the scene type you are shooting and optimizes the camera's focus, exposure and white balance, so whether you're photographing flowers or a holiday landscape, you will get flawless photos at the press of a button.• Motion Panorama Mode: Automatically stitches up to three shots to create a panoramic picture.• Smile / Blink Detection: Smile Detection works with Fujifilm's highly-acclaimed Face Detection technology to detect smiles on faces: it will not take a picture until it detects a smile, so you're guaranteed happy shots! Another feature is Blink Detection which warns you if you have captured an image with people blinking, so you can re-shoot if necessary.• PhotoBook Assist: Choosing images for a photo book can be time-consuming. The Photo Book Assist feature allows you to tag images, and then creates a simulation of the photo book which can be viewed on the LCD.The FinePix T200 will be available March 2011 at the price of $179.95 and the FinePix T300 will be available in April 2011 at $199.95.
 