
 
The Intel Core 2011 laptops just don't stop rolling in here at CES, and today Fujitsu is jumping on the Sandy Bridge train with four new LifeBook laptops. We'll start with the most intriguing of 'em all -- the 15.6-inch AH572, which not only boasts 3D viewing with included polarized glasses but can record 3D video through its dual integrated cameras. For $999, there's no doubt that the 3D features sound pretty awesome and we're planning to go hands-on with that all later tonight, but let's not forget about the rest of the impressive package -- it packs a Core i5-2410M processor, Intel's WiDi 2.0, and supports up to 6GB of RAM. Not enough power for ya? Chin up, Fujitsu's got the 17.3-inch NH751 too, which boasts an quad-core Core i7-2630QM processor, NVIDIA's fresh 500M graphics, and a Blu-ray drive for $1,200. 

In true Fujitsu spirit, there's also a convertible tablet; the 13.3-inch T901 is powered by Intel's latest Core i5 and i7 processors and is the first tablet to include NVIDIA's Optimus graphics. Like most of Fujitsu's other tablets, it has a multitouch display with an active digitizer for taking notes as well as a modular bay for swapping in a second battery or hard drive. This one will retail for about $1,900 and won't be available until this spring. Last but not least is the 12.1-inch P771, which is all about packing power into a smaller chassis. The black glossy system is powered by Intel's latest Core i7 processors, has a USB 3.0 port as well as a dual-layer DVD drive. There's no word on pricing on the last of the four, but if you're dying for a few more details on the LifeBook quadruplets head on down below for the full press release. 




Show full PR textFujitsu America, Inc.January 6, 2011Lineup Includes 15.6" Widescreen Notebook That Records and Plays in 3DFujitsu Showcases Broad Portfolio of Notebooks and Tablets at 2011 International CESINTERNATIONAL CES 2011, LAS VEGAS, Jan. 6, 2011 – Fujitsu (http://solutions.us.fujitsu.com) today announces five new LIFEBOOK® notebooks and Tablet PCs in North America at the 2011 International CES, Fujitsu Booth #35861 (South Hall Upper Level and Connector). The LIFEBOOK AH572 notebook features a dual-function 15.6" widescreen for outstanding 2D and 3D viewing, while the LIFEBOOK NH751 notebook boasts a multimedia-rich, high-performance 17.3" HD+ widescreen. In the Fujitsu flagship convertible tablet line, the LIFEBOOK T900 series is enhanced and a new member, the LIFEBOOK T580, debuts.NotebooksLIFEBOOK AH572 Notebook: Enjoy 3D realism on a notebook• Intel® Core™ i5-2410M Processor• Dual-function 15.6" widescreen for outstanding 2D and 3D viewing• 3D glasses included• Records in 3D through dual integrated cameras • Wirelessly connect to TV with Intel Wireless Display • Priced starting at $999(1). Available February through the Fujitsu website (www.shopfujitsu.com) and select retailers/etailers(2).LIFEBOOK P771 Notebook: Executive ultra-portable• The 2nd generation Intel® Core™ i7 Processor• Genuine Windows® 7 Professional• 12.1" WXGA display with a glossy black design • Features include: modular dual-layer DVD-RW or battery, optional webcam, HDMI port, USB 3.0 ports, gesture-enabled touchpad, comprehensive security such as fingerprint sensor and anti-theft lock slot• Priced starting at $?,???(1). Available February through the Fujitsu website (www.shopfujitsu.com) and select retailers/etailers(2).Tablet PCsLIFEBOOK T901 Convertible Tablet PC: No-compromise convertible Tablet PC• 2nd generation Intel® Core™ processor family• Unmatched 13.3" WXGA LED backlight display in a lightweight design• Optional multi-touch functionality for convenient user interaction• Unique modular bay supports hot-swapping of 2nd battery or 2nd hard drive• First convertible Tablet PC with NVIDIA® Optimus™ technology• Priced starting at $1,899(1). Available Spring through the Fujitsu website (www.shopfujitsu.com) and select retailers/etailers(2).LIFEBOOK T580 Convertible Tablet PC: Combines touch-screen mobility and a keyboard into a small but full-featured convertible Tablet PC• Genuine Windows® 7 Professional• Intel® Core™ i5 Processor • Ultra-versatile convertible Tablet PC with 10.1" WXGA LED backlight display • Multi-touch screen with pen input • Optional webcam and solid state drive • Weighs only 3 pounds• Priced starting at $1,149(1). Available now through the Fujitsu website (www.shopfujitsu.com) and select retailers/etailers(2).Performance SystemLIFEBOOK NH751 Notebook: Multimedia desktop replacement• Intel® Core™ i7-2630QM Processor (Quad Core) • 17.3" HD+ Widescreen LCD• Enjoy high-definition movies on integrated Blu-ray drive• Outstanding sound quality with integrated speakers, midrange and subwoofer• Outstanding performance with NVIDIA® Optimus™ technology, when needed, while extending battery life• Wirelessly connect to TV with Intel Wireless Display• Priced starting at $1,199(1). Available February through the Fujitsu website (www.shopfujitsu.com) and select retailers/etailers(2).During January, Fujitsu is also holding an international design competition - aimed at the development of PC-related designs that bring innovation to people's daily lives. FUJITSU Design Award 2011 entry submissions are accepted until January 31; winners will be announced mid-April.ResourcesThe latest Fujitsu mobile product informationCase studiesFujitsu 75th anniversary portalTwitter: http://twitter.com/fujitsuamericaFacebook: http://www.facebook.com/Face2FujitsuQuotePaul Moore, Senior Director of Mobile Product Management, Fujitsu America:"Fujitsu still offers the most comprehensive Tablet PC line-up of any vendor, and the LIFEBOOK T580 reinforces our commitment to this product category. At a time when slate tablets are getting a lot of attention, the LIFEBOOK T580 provides all the benefits in a nice, full-featured, secure, no-compromise, low-cost platform that plugs right into the current enterprise environment or slips easily into a student's backpack. In addition, Fujitsu is pleased to add the LIFEBOOK AH572 3D notebook - that both plays and records in 3D - to our portfolio."About FujitsuFujitsu is a leading provider of ICT-based business solutions for the global marketplace. With approximately 170,000 employees supporting customers in 70 countries, Fujitsu combines a worldwide corps of systems and services experts with highly reliable computing and communications products and advanced microelectronics to deliver added value to customers. Headquartered in Tokyo, Fujitsu Limited (TSE:6702) reported consolidated revenues of 4.6 trillion yen (US$50 billion) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. For more information, please see: www.fujitsu.com.Fujitsu America, Inc., is a leading ICT solutions provider for organizations in the U.S., Canada and the Caribbean. Fujitsu enables clients to meet their business objectives through integrated offerings including consulting, systems integration, managed services and outsourcing for enterprise applications, data center and field services operations, based on server, software, storage and mobile technologies. Fujitsu provides industry-oriented solutions for manufacturing, retail, healthcare, government, education, financial services and communications sectors. For more information, please visit: http://solutions.us.fujitsu.com/Fujitsu, LIFEBOOK, the Fujitsu logo, and "shaping tomorrow with you" are trademarks or registered trademarks of Fujitsu Limited in the United States and other countries. Intel, the Intel logo, and Intel Core are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Microsoft and Windows are trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. NVIDIA and Optimus are trademarks or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks and product names are the property of their respective owners. Information provided in this press release is accurate at time of publication and is subject to change without advance notice.• Pricing may change without notice.• Certain retailers will only offer select models.
 