
 

We hope you like cameras, cause Fujifilm has more digital shooters than you can possibly keep track of. We'll have to wait to get our hands on the company's latest until next week, but it was kind enough to send over some PR ahead of time. On the superzoom front we're looking at the FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR, a pair of 16-megapixel cams with half-inch CMOS sensors and 30x (24mm-720mm) optical zoom lenses. Both also sport three-inch tilting LCDs and can capture full 1080p video at 30 frames a second. If resolution can take a backseat to speed, then you're free to shoot clips at 320fps. Both will be landing in March for $500 (HS30) and $400 (HS25). But we're not done yet -- a sextuplet of other magnification focused devices await after the break.





Taking a small step down in the feature department are the FinePix F770EXR, F750EXR and F660EXR. These three shooters trade in some advanced photo processing, but the F770EXR does add a GPS module for attaching location to your snapshots and retains the ability to shoot in RAW (which the 750 and 660 lack). The two 700 models drop the zoom levels down to a more modest 20x (25-500mm), though, they offer a slightly wider angle image at the bottom end. The 660 on the other hand settles for a 15x optical zoom lens (24-360mm). All three will also be landing in March, starting at $280 for the F660EXR, $350 for the F750 and $380 for the F770.Rounding out the newest zoom-happy offerings from Fujifilm are the S4200, S4500 and SL300, which ditch the sensor found on the other models for a 14-megapixel CCD. The S4200 starts things out with a 24x (24-576mm) lens, while the S4500 and SL300 both get more spy-friendly 30x (24-720mm) optics. All three have to settle for 720p video, but they do all allow you to add tags for Facebook and YouTube right from the camera -- which should prove popular with the social networking addict in your clique. The S4200 and S4500, which ship in February for $230 and $260 respectively, also skip out on the rechargeable cells in favor of AAs, while the SL300 lands in March for $300 with a lithium-ion pack included. Check out the pile of PR below for more details. 		Show full PR text   FUJIFILM BRINGS HIGH PERFORMANCE FINEPIX HS30EXR AND HS25EXR TO CONSUMERS LOOKING FOR SUPERIOR IMAGE QUALITY, FAST AUTO FOCUS AND MANUAL SUPER LONG-ZOOM 		Advanced Sensor, Blistering Speed and Manual 30x Zoom Make HS30EXR and HS25EXR the Go-To Cameras for You 		Valhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2012 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced the FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR, both of which are high quality, high performance DSLR-styled long-zoom cameras, built for the enthusiast photographer, but also easy enough for even first time users who want unmatched speed and image quality, all in sturdy and classic design. The new FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR both feature a new 1\2" 16 MegaPixel EXR-CMOS sensor, a powerful FUJINON 30x manual optical zoom (24mm-720mm) and a tilting 3.0" high contrast 460K resolution LCD with Sunlight Mode and a bright electronic viewfinder for easy outdoor viewing. 		The versatile HS30EXR and HS25EXR boast full 1080p HD movie recording at 30 frames per second (fps), super-fast auto focus of 0.16 seconds, high speed continuous shooting up to 11fps (M setting) and Super Intelligent Digital Zoom that effectively doubles zoom capability to an extraordinary 60x to capture even the most distant shot - especially good for nature and sporting event photography. For enthusiast photographers who want to get even more out of their pictures, the HS30EXR and HS25EXR also feature an amazing Super Macro Mode for shots as close as 1cm for breathtaking detail all without having to change a lens. 		"Consumers who are ready to get more from their pictures are looking for solutions that will take them to the next level in their photography. The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR give consumers a DSLR-style camera with a single optimized lens that ensures outstanding images and tremendous versatility," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, Fujifilm North America Corporation. "With these two cameras, users now have the tools that professionals do, and their image results will show spectacular detail and clarity all without the bulk and expense of a system with multiple lenses." 		The HS30EXR has a large .26" electronic viewfinder with a 22° viewing angle and stunning 920K resolution that features a "heads up" sensor that automatically changes from LCD to EVF, and numerous other features for serious photographers seeking versatility and performance. The HS25EXR has a big .20" electronic viewfinder with a 16° viewing angle and 200K resolution with the same "heads up" sensor that automatically changes from LCD to EVF for convenience. 		A 30x Zoom Lens		With a 30x zoom range covering focal lengths from a super-wide 24-720mm, the FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR are ready for anything with their versatile single lens – from super macro to long telephoto shots. Boasting high quality FUJINON optics, the manual zoom lens is now even easier to operate on the HS30EXR thanks to a body redesign for faster and more precise zoom control. 		The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR are also equipped to fight blurring, a common problem when using longer focal lengths. Dual Image Stabilization combines a mechanically stabilized CMOS sensor with high ISO sensitivities for total anti-blur protection. Together these technologies reduce the blurring effect of both handshake and subject movement to provide sharp, clean and clear results even at the longest zoom settings or in challenging lighting conditions. 		Intelligent Processor Featuring EXR Technology		With the updated intelligent processor, taking photos can't get much easier. The improved GUI, with its new, rich user interface that dramatically improves the appearance and searching functions of menus, might be one of the first things you notice, but the most notable benefits are speed and image quality. Additionally, the FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR can now recognize an impressive 27 scenes. While shooting in EXR Auto Mode, the camera configures each scene and recognizes the perfect setting and automatically takes the best quality picture, with a single touch of a button. 		EXR technology adds further versatility by modifying its behavior according to the lighting condition. Users can either let the EXR Auto mode choose the correct setting itself, or pick from three manually selected options: 		• High Resolution Priority – can be used when you're after exceptional image quality. 		• High ISO & Low Noise Priority – can be used in low light conditions where the combination with the EXR sensor makes for superb results. 		• Dynamic Range Priority – takes two pictures and combines them to provide a wide dynamic range of up to 1600%. 		With these unique sensor combinations, capturing great pictures has never been easier.  		Capture Moving Subjects		The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR's strong mix of sensor and processing technologies allow breathless action shots to be captured. The high-speed continuous shooting offers full resolution up to 8fps, or up to a staggering 11fps (M setting) at a reduced resolution. The FinePix HS30EXR also eliminates the need to worry about slow auto focusing or shutter lag. The new solution's contrast Auto Focus system takes approximately 0.16 seconds to focus. 		HD Movie Capture		The FinePix HS-Series offers an impressive level of movie functionality. With the ability to capture movies in true, full 1080p HD quality, the FinePix HS-Series delivers high sensitivity with low noise for movies captured in low lighting. In addition, movie files (.MOV) are captured with H.264 high profile compression for smaller file sizes without sacrificing quality. With a mini-HDMI output connector, it is easy to connect and view images on your HDTV (HDMI cable not included). 		High Speed Movies		Versatility is further increased thanks to the High Speed Movie options, which include capture at an incredible 320fps. With features like this, even the fastest moving subjects can be captured and played back in slow motion. 		Intuitive Body Design		The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR sport a full complement of sophisticated manual and semi-automatic shooting modes and photographic controls. The extensive external controls give the more advanced photographer direct access to virtually every control they will need for uninterrupted shooting, and the specially designed chassis includes dedicated command buttons for quick and easy key functions such as ISO, white balance, focus and metering. The large command dial, manual focus ring, twist and zoom lens barrel, bright, clear electronic viewfinder, high quality tilting LCD screen and deep hand grip ensures the camera handles well. The HS30EXR uses a high performance, rechargeable Li-ion battery for up to 600 shots per charge, while the HS25EXR uses widely-available AA battery power. 		The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR also offer these additional features: 		• Motion Panorama 360°: The sensor extends the sweep range to 360˚ (shots can also be taken vertically). Combined with high quality Fujifilm printing, sweeping and impressive scenes can be taken, showing fine detail, low noise and high resolution at 180°, 240˚ or full 360˚ panoramic ranges.		• Super Intelligent Flash: The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR offer a flash control system which efficiently controls the level of flash for a given exposure to produce beautifully balanced flash illumination across the foreground and background. Super Intelligent Flash is most useful in macro photography where the contrast between subject and background can be especially challenging, but is also effective for night and backlit photography. Both cameras also offer a TTL hot shoe to add external FUJIFILM flashes.		• Face Recognition: Users can register up to eight (8) faces, along with names, birthdays and categories, and the HS30EXR and HS25EXR will prioritize focus and exposure right on the faces of those special people. Users can also use Image Search to view images of a registered person.		• Face Detection and Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, the FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR are fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously, at almost any angle to the camera. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.		• RAW / RAW+JPEG Shooting (HS30EXR only): The FinePix HS30EXR can shoot both a RAW and JPEG shot simultaneously. RAW is for ultimate quality shots via post processing, JPEG is for great quality with no need for further post-production work.		• Multi-Bracketing: The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR have 3 bracketing functions useful for high level photography: Film Simulation Bracketing (which automatically sets Film Simulation to PROVIA, Velvia and ASTIA for simultaneous capture of 3 frames), Dynamic Range Bracketing (which automatically sets dynamic range to 100%, 200% and 400% for simultaneous capture of 3 frames) and AE Bracketing (which automatically sets exposure range to even, under and over for simultaneous capture of 3 frames).		• Purple Fringing Reducer/Corner Resolution Enhancer: The EXR processor has the capability to spot and reduce purple color fringing, most common on dark subjects against light backgrounds. In addition, the EXR processor improves the resolution at the corners of an image for more uniform image sharpness. 		Pricing and Availability		The FinePix HS30EXR and HS25EXR will be available in March 2012 and will be priced at $499.95 and $399.95, respectively. 		NOTE: For complete camera specifications, please go to: www.FujifilmUSA.com/CES2012. 		Show full PR text   FUJIFILM ANNOUNCES NEW COMPACT LONG-ZOOM F-SERIES THAT DELIVER AMAZING SPEED AND OUTSTANDING IMAGE QUALITY 		New Compact, Feature-Loaded F-Series Offer Improved EXR-CMOS Sensor, Long-Zoom and Exceptional Low-Light Performance 		Valhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2012 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced three new additions to the high-end, compact long-zoom FinePix F-Series lineup that combine speed, intuitive use and advanced features: the FinePix F770EXR with GPS, F750EXR and the F600EXR. These sleek, compact digital cameras all feature a newly improved 1/2" 16 MegaPixel EXR-CMOS sensor that delivers superior image quality and performance, especially in low light situations. The F770EXR with GPS and the F750EXR both use a new FUJINON 20x Wide-Angle long-zoom lens (25-500mm) to produce exceptional images, and also feature Intelligent Digital Zoom that effectively doubles zoom capability, and an ultra-clear 3.0" high contrast 460K resolution LCD. The F660EXR incorporates a FUJINON 15x Wide-Angle long-zoom lens (24-360mm), as well as Intelligent Digital Zoom and a vivid and clear 3.0" high contrast LCD screen. 		The FinePix F770EXR, F750EXR and the F660EXR bring together several exciting new technologies that deliver outstanding images – even in low light situations – that are ideal for both travelers and those who simply want high quality results from a camera that can fit into a pocket. These new technologies include an advanced EXR Auto mode with a Motion Detection capability to virtually eliminate subject blur in all lighting conditions. 		"The new FinePix F-Series take the best of Fujifilm's innovative next-generation EXR-CMOS sensor, which excels in low-light shooting, and combines it with bright and fast FUJINON lenses to give consumers impressive speed and superb image quality, all in a compact and sleek body that is highly-portable and perfect for capturing images on the go," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, FUJIFILM North America Corporation, "These cameras are ideal for everyone looking for a solution to the problems that they find with their current digital cameras." 		The new F-Series are also all optimized for a sure grip, comfort and control and offer a new programmable function button, thoughtfully-placed dials and controls and well-placed finger grips on the front of the camera. 		EXR Auto mode with Motion Detection		Fujifilm's advanced EXR-CMOS sensor enables the F-Series to tackle motion blur on three fronts with mechanical image stabilization, high ISO sensitivity and the new Motion Detection capability working together. In low light conditions with EXR Auto mode selected, the F-Series automatically identify if the subject is moving. If it is, the camera deploys Motion Detection and a higher ISO to ensure the subject is captured with reduced blurring. If no subject movement is identified, the EXR-CMOS sensor automatically keeps the ISO lower and uses image stabilization to reduce noise. 		Users who prefer to take more control themselves can also choose from:		• EXR HR (High Resolution) priority mode – the sensor utilizes all of its 16 megapixels for the highest quality results.		• EXR DR (Dynamic Range) priority mode – takes two pictures and combines them to provide a wide dynamic range of up to 1600%. 		• EXR SN (Signal to Noise) priority mode – pixels are doubled up to increase sensitivity and give better results in low light conditions. 		Sharp, Clear 20x and 15x Long-Zoom Lenses		The FinePix F770EXR and F750EXR cameras house the new FUJINON 20x Super Wide-Angle optical zoom lens that produces crisp high resolution results throughout the focal range, from 25mm wide-angle to 500mm telephoto. The F660EXR uses the FUJINON 15x Super Wide-Angle optical zoom lens that also produces vivid, high resolution images, from 24mm wide-angle to 360mm telephoto. All of the F-Series have a Super Macro Mode that allow sharp focusing down to 5cm delivering the most brilliant detail possible.   		Impressive Speed		With auto focus speeds as fast as 0.16seconds, the F770EXR and F750EXR both deliver outstanding high speed shooting capabilities, up to 8 frames per second (fps) at full resolution (11fps max speed at medium resolution), and full HD movie capture at 1080p (30fps) in stereo. The FinePix F660EXR also delivers incredible high speed continuous shooting (up to 11fps) to help capture perfect images in every situation. 		Intelligent Digital Zoom – Refined		With Intelligent Digital Zoom, the F-Series zoom range doubles the telephoto power by allowing even distant objects to be turned into frame-filling close-ups with minimal image quality loss and lets users capture a wide range of images from landscapes to tightly composed images. With 20x optical zoom, Intelligent Digital Zoom delivers 40x total zoom, and 15x optical zoom extends to 30x total zoom. 		Fantastic features for maximum versatility		In addition to all these exciting new features, the F-Series also offer a wide range of picture taking modes that make it the ideal camera for almost every photographic occasion. The F-Series digital camera's ISO mode can also be selected automatically and offers a range of 100 up to 3200, but also stretches to an incredible 12800 (Image size S only), offer a full complement of exposure modes including aperture-priority, shutter-priority and manual for creative shooting, continuous frame capture of up to eight frames per second at full resolution, Raw file format, a selection of film simulation modes and a full-featured flash are just some of the options available. 		HD Movie Capture		With the ability to capture movies in true, full HD quality – 1080p – the new F-Series also have mini HDMI ports, making it easy for users to share their images and movies with loved ones through their home theater systems. The FinePix F-Series also captures movies with stereo sound and a high speed movie option for freezing fast moving action at up to an incredible 320fps. Movie files (.MOV) are captured with H.264 high profile compression for smaller file sizes without sacrificing quality. With a mini-HDMI output connector, it is easy to connect and view images on your HDTV (HDMI cable not included). 		Intelligent Image Stabilization		Long-zoom cameras, especially those with 15x and 20x optical zoom like the F770EXR, F750EXR and F660EXR, need stabilization more than any other compact, with handshake and subject movement a particular problem in low light at telephoto range and in movie mode. With a highly sensitive gyro sensor, the Intelligent Image Stabilization system provides further improved image quality with reduced blurring and noise in still pictures and even when shooting movies at the full optical zoom or in very low-light. The new mechanically stabilized sensor is able to overcome handshake and can compensate for a range of hand movements, therefore increasing ISO to freeze action is no longer so necessary, meaning sharp low-light pictures can be achieved at ISO 400, rather than ISO 800 or 1600 at night scenery. The FinePix F-Series also work to reduce blur to a minimum by deploying high ISO sensitivity to automatically increase shutter speeds, and CMOS shift type to counteract the problems of handshake and subject movement. By cleverly combining these two, blur is reduced to an absolute minimum. 		3.0" Premium Clear LCD		The FinePix F-Series cameras are fitted with a premium clear 3.0" LCD (460K). The high contrast LCD is a considerable benefit in bright light, allowing the camera to be directed at various shooting angles to enable framing of almost any shot. The LCD is bright and clear, perfect for instant gratification of shots in playback. 		Multi-Frame Technology		The FinePix F-Series also sport a Pro Focus Mode which is created by using Fujifilm's Multi-Frame Technology. A burst of two or three frames is taken and by taking the distance information off, the main subject is crisply matted against a defocused foreground and background. This mode is perfect for portrait or nature photography, where professional results are needed quickly with minimal adjustment to the camera and without the need to use a PC.		Meanwhile, Pro Low-light Mode can be applied to help solve the problems of noisy low light shots. 		Once switched to Pro Low-light Mode, the FinePix F-Series will take a burst of four high sensitivity images using Pixel Fusion Technology in quick succession. By using the camera's Multi Frame Technology, the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th images are overlapped to create one image with extremely low noise. 		Great panoramic shots in any location		The FinePix F-Series all include an enhanced Motion Panorama mode that allows users to capture beautiful, seamless 360° panoramic images both horizontally and vertically that show fine detail, low noise and high resolution at 180°, 240˚ or full 360˚ panoramic ranges. 		The FinePix F770EXR, F750EXR and F660EXR also offers these additional features:		• Super Intelligent Flash: The FinePix F-Series all offer a flash control system which efficiently controls the level of flash for a given exposure to produce beautifully balanced flash illumination across the foreground and background. Super Intelligent Flash is most useful in macro photography where the contrast between subject and background can be especially challenging, but is also effective for night and backlit photography.		• Tracking Auto Focus (AF): Tracks fast moving subjects so they don't escape from the frame in a blur. Subjects will be tracked automatically for as long as it is kept in the frame and the shutter is half-pressed; when users fully press the shutter button your subject will be in the centre of the photo in perfect focus.		• Shoot in RAW (F770EXR only): Images can also be captured in a RAW file for advanced creative work after shooting.		• Face Recognition: Fujifilm's Face Recognition Technology gives you the ability to pre-program 8 people into the camera. You also have the option of inputting the category to which they belong (e.g. friends/family) and the date of his/her birthday. The next time you take a photo of the same person, the camera will cleverly recognize that person and optimize the settings to ensure that exposure and focus are best suited to the individual, rather than the other people in the picture. This fun technology can recognize up to 4 pre-programmed people on screen at the same time.		• Face Detection with Automatic Red-eye Removal: To provide perfectly exposed and focused portrait shots, the cameras are fitted with Fujifilm's latest Face Detection technology which is able to track up to 10 faces simultaneously, at almost any angle to the camera. The system instantly corrects red-eye and then saves both the original and the corrected image file automatically.		• GPS and Landmark Navigator (F770EXR only): Landmark Navigator automatically locates places of interest from its on-board database and displays points on the camera's LCD screen, showing relative position and distance from your current location. Photo Navigation helps users find their way back to previously-photographed locations with Tracking Data.		The FinePix F770EXR and F750EXR will be available in March 2012 for $379.95 and $349.95, respectively. The F770EXR will be available in black and red, while the F750EXR will be available in black, red and white.		The FinePix F660EXR will be available in March 2012 for $279.95 in black. 		NOTE: For complete camera specifications, please go to: www.FujifilmUSA.com/CES2012. 		Show full PR text  		FUJIFILM REDEFINES S-SERIES WITH THREE NEW SPEEDY SUPER-ZOOM CAMERAS		FinePix S4200, S4500 and SL300 Combine Super-Zoom, Speed, Creative Control, Precision Optics and Flexibility for Everyday and Enthusiast Photographers 		Valhalla, N.Y., January 5, 2012 – FUJIFILM North America Corporation today announced three new additions that redefine the popular long-zoom S-Series lineup: the DSLR styled FinePix S4200, S4500 and SL300 digital cameras. Each new FinePix camera offers a 14 MegaPixel CCD sensor, with the S4200 offering an impressive FUJINON 24x long-zoom lens (24-576mm), and the S4500 and SL300 both delivering an extraordinary 30x long-zoom (24-720mm), for capturing even the most distant images. The SL300 makes long-zoom control even more flexible by adding Dual Zoom Control, so users can zoom in and out using the zoom dial on the top of the camera or on the side of the lens. 		These FinePix cameras have large, bright 3" LCD screens, Electronic Viewfinders, and also come equipped with a powerful sensor shift Dual Image Stabilization to help keep even the most difficult images sharp by allowing users to adjust the ISO setting from 64 up to 6400. This year, the new S-Series cameras boast improved start up times and auto focus times as fast 0.35 seconds in low light, and two power options for versatility: AA battery power for the S4200 and S4500 and rechargeable Li-ion power for the SL300. 		"The new long-zoom FinePix S-Series give every day and enthusiast photographers all of the tools that they need to take their pictures to the next level – all with the speed, zoom and superior image quality that they expect from an advanced digital camera without the expense of a system camera," said David Troy, director of marketing, Digital Cameras, Electronic Imaging Division, Fujifilm North America Corporation. "The hallmark of these cameras remains superb image quality - even in low light shooting situations – and their high speed continuous shooting, 720p HD movie recording and other great features give users the photographic experience that they have been searching for in one, complete, stylish camera body." 		FUJINON Zoom Lens and Dual Image Stabilization for Superb Image Quality		The FinePix S-Series each feature Dual Image Stabilization CCD sensors and high ISO sensitivity settings for blur-free images, but with even greater zoom capabilities. Users can now capture anything from a stunning distant landscape to getting up close with Super Macro Mode as close as 2cm for breathtaking detail. 		• The FinePix S4200 has a 24x wide angle zoom 24mm – 576mm FUJINON optical lens		• The FinePix S4500 has a 30x wide angle zoom 24mm – 720mm FUJINON optical lens		• The FinePix SL300 has a 30x wide angle zoom 24mm – 720mm FUJINON optical lens with dual zoom control for flexible shooting 		HD Movie Capture		All three FinePix cameras also offer sharp HD movies in 720p with sound at 30 frames per second (fps) with one-touch ease. With a mini-HDMI output connector, it is easy to connect and view images on your HDTV (HDMI cable not included). 		Smile and Blink Detection For Perfect Pictures Every Time		The FinePix S4200, S4500 and SL300 all include Smile Detection that recognizes the moment your subject smiles and releases the shutter only when this happens, ensuring a happy photo every time. Additionally, the Blink Detection function warns you if any of your subjects have blinked so that you can re-take the photo if necessary. 		Face Recognition and Image Searching		With Face Recognition on the FinePix S-Series, users can tag and name eight of their favorite subjects and the camera will automatically recognize that person in every photo taken thereafter. This allows users to search for all their pictures of any of these people, by name, using the Image Search function. Image Search, found on all three cameras makes finding the people and places you've photographed easy to categorize and find. 		This works in the same way for other categories of photo: the camera's SR Auto Scene Recognition technology registers whether you've taken a picture of a person, or a landscape, or if it's a night shot or macro shot, so you can filter your search by subject matter or even date and get straight to the photo you are after, quickly and intuitively. 		Stunning Panoramic Shots		The FinePix S4200, S4500 and SL300 all feature the easy-to-use Motion Panorama shooting mode, which takes three successive shots with a helpful tool which automatically releases the shutter once the images are fully aligned to seamlessly stitch the shots together in-camera. This feature allows users to get creative and see impressive results with no fear of uneven landscapes or shaky horizons. 		Social Networking and Photo book Features		The FinePix S4200, S4500 and SL300 all offer in-camera tagging capabilities for both Facebook and YouTube, allowing you to select photos and movies for upload on either of the sites, making for easy upload once you connect to a PC and launch MyFinePix Studio. The feature saves time, and enables users to share special moments right away on their social networks. 		The three FinePix models also allow you to tag in-camera the images you want to feature in a photo book, which can be viewed separately in-camera and later created and ordered in a Photo book quickly and seamlessly. 		Other features include:		• TTL Hot Shoe (SL300 only): Allows users to add accessories, including FUJIFILM external flashes.		• Tracking Auto Focus (AF): Tracks fast moving subjects so they don't escape from the frame in a blur. Subjects will be tracked automatically for as long as it is kept in the frame and the shutter is half-pressed; when users fully press the shutter button your subject will be in the centre of the photo in perfect focus.		• i-Flash Intelligent Flash: Offers a flash control system which efficiently controls the level of flash for a given exposure to produce beautifully balanced flash illumination across the foreground and background. Gone are the ugly washout shots where the subject is blasted with light and the background dark and unexposed.		• Full Manual Controls: Gives the user the choice of direct access to manually control the settings and shooting features (program/shutter-priority/ aperture-priority/manual), and the specially designed chassis includes dedicated command buttons for quick and easy key functions.		• Instant Zoom/Zoom Bracketing: Useful for high level photography. The Instant Zoom function captures moving subjects at high zoom settings. After zooming on a subject, a single button gives an additional 1.4x or 2x digital zoom. Zoom Bracketing automatically captures the same image three times with zoom ratio settings of 1x, 1.4x and 2x with a single shutter release.		• Continuous Shooting: High speed continuous shooting up to 8fps.		• AA-Battery Power (S4200/S4500 only): Using AA batteries is convenient for on-the-go digital camera users as it eliminates the need to charge battery packs, allowing for lots of picture taking and the ease of battery replacement.		• Li-ion Power (SL300 only): Rechargeable Li-ion delivers reliable power for 260 shots per charge. 		Pricing and Availability		The FinePix S4200 and S4500 will be available in February 2012 and will be priced at $229.95 and $259.95 respectively. The FinePix SL300 will be available in March 2012 and will be priced at $299.95. 		NOTE: For complete camera specifications, please go to: www.FujifilmUSA.com/CES2012.
 