
 We'll get this out of the way upfront: you will probably never be able to buy this phone. And by "you" we mean the American consumer. The Arrows X F-02E will, at least for the immediate future, be a NTT DoCoMo-only device. But, now that you know not to get your hopes up, let's get a feel for just what you'll be missing. Fujitsu's waterproof flagship is powered by a 1.7GHz quad-core Tegra 3 and 2GB of RAM. And that horsepower is put to good use pushing pixels to a brilliant 5-inch, 1080p display. We'd stop short of saying it's the best phone screen we've seen, but it's definitely in the running. Colors are bright, text is crisp and viewing angles need to be seen to be believed. Thankfully, all that lovely screen real estate isn't being eaten up by some insanely outdated version of Android. On board you'll find Android 4.1.2 -- not the latest and greatest, but at least it's Jelly Bean.





   The device itself has a slightly agressive and angular design that reminds us somewhat of the OG Droid. Unlike that device though, there are no physical buttons up front -- be they capacitive or mechanical. Instead Fujitsu uses the on-screen keys, just as God Google intended. The build is a bit plasticky, but the rear plate does have a nice soft-touch finish that keeps it from feeling exceedingly cheap. Also giving it a premium feel is the 2,420mAh battery that, in addition to providing some decent talk time lends a satisfying heft to the handset. Also on the rear plate, you'll find a fingerprint scanner for a touch more security than a simple PIN provides (and a lot more than the gimmicky face unlock). Above that is the impressively specced 16.3-megapixel primary camera. We couldn't really put that through its paces, so we'll have to wait to find out if it can live up to the understandably high expectations.

 To round out the flagship FAQ sheet is a whole host of exciting radios, including LTE, Bluetooth 4.0 and dual-band 802.11 a/b/g/n. For a bit more, check out the video above.

 Sean Cooper contributed to this report.

