
 


	Here in the US, a ladyphone is bit of a hard sell as we saw with the HTC Rhyme but in Japan it's a different story. Fujitsu is trying to woo girls with the Arrows Kiss F-03D, which comes with apps designed to get users into shape -- or bully them to tears. Beauty Body Clinic monitors your posture and orders you to stand up straighter, Sukkiri Alarm wakes you when it thinks you're ready and Karada Life is a pedometer app offering "health maintenance" advice -- probably suggesting a salad the next time you're at KFC. If that hasn't put you off, you'll want to know it's running a single-core 1.4GHz Qualcomm MSM8255, a 3.7-inch WVGA (800 x 480) display and an 8.1 megapixel camera 'round back. If you can stand the nannying, you'll also notice it can handle OneSeg broadcasts, mobile wallet payments and the Okudake-Juden wireless charging system. It'll make its way into the purses of unsuspecting NTT DoCoMo victims customers at an as-yet-unspecified price on November 25th.
 

 		Show full PR text  Fujitsu Introduces docomo with series™ ARROWS Kiss F-03D		Compact smartphone with elegant and glimmering jewelry design  Tokyo, November 21, 2011 - Fujitsu today announced that its new smartphone, docomo with series ARROWS Kiss F-03D, will be available from NTT DOCOMO, Inc. in Japan beginning November 25, 2011. 		ARROWS Kiss F-03D is a smartphone with "gem-cut" buttons that sparkle like actual jewelry. Providing users with an option other than finger touch-based operations, ARROWS Kiss F-03D comes with a stylus that makes it easy to write intricate Japanese characters. 		In addition to cute and convenient applications, such as a personal diary feature, ARROWS F-03D caters to the fashion requests of female smartphone users with its design and user interface. The smartphone is also equipped with one-segment TV broadcast, mobile wallet (Osaifu Keitai), and infrared communication function. With a compact width of 59mm, ARROWS Kiss F-03D is an elegant, water-resistant smartphone, making it a great choice for first-time users.		Background 		With the rapid shift in the market toward smartphones, Fujitsu developed a fashionable mobile phone that adds sparkle to the user without compromising on either aesthetics or functionality. 		Encased in a compact jewelry-based design, ARROWS Kiss F-03D comes with a stylus which can be attached by a strap to the smartphone for easy portability. The stylus can be used to write delicate Japanese characters or to select links with pinpoint accuracy, making the mobile phone easy to operate. 		Compatible with "Okudake-Juden"(1) wireless recharging, the smartphone can be recharged by simply placing it on the wireless charger thus eliminating the physical process of connecting the handset with a wire-based charger. This feature will become even more convenient as more stores and restaurants throughout Japan become equipped to enable wireless recharging. 		The diary application freely allows handwritten input and the posting of photos, just like an analog pocket planner. It is equipped with many fun features, such as memos which enable users to choose from among many cute design templates, and original fonts which enable users to create their own fonts with their handwriting. 		Furthermore, the photo enhancement application allows users to decorate photos taken with the smartphone's 8.1 megapixel(2) high-performance camera. With a range of decorative effects including air brushing, users can have fun manipulating photos the same way they do at the "purikura" or print club photo booths that are extremely popular in Japan. 		ARROWS Kiss F-03D comes in two colors: Precious White, with white and gold framing; and Elegant Pink, with a pearl pink ambiance. 		Product Features		1. Glittering Jewelry Illumination(3) 		The area around the "gem-cut" buttons on the front, as well as the camera ring in the back, radiantly lights up when a message or call comes in or when the user is on the phone. The smartphone features a total of 23 different illumination patterns.		2. Loaded with fashionable applications that enhance trendiness 		Tegaki Deco(4)		Users can create their own decorative pictograms in text messages through a simple process of selecting letters, frames, font (hand-written), color, and motion, making their texting personal.		Application Ranking(5) & Life Assist (collection of useful applications)		The smartphone is equipped with an Application Ranking function, which ranks applications according to their popularity, and Life Assist, which is a collection of applications useful in everyday life. These applications can be downloaded quickly, making them easily-accessible to even first-time smartphone users. 		3. Content for enjoying fashion and style 		Pre-installed Deco-mail pictograms®		The smartphone comes with 3,000 Deco-mail pictograms®, pre-installed to make composing e-mail messages fun.		Pre-installed fonts		Universal Design Font's "UD Shin Maru Go" font, which is especially easy to read, and three other fonts come pre-installed. Users can select and set whichever font best expresses their individuality. 		4. Usability fit for comfort and peace of mind 		Readablity, ease-of-use, and audibility functions that are the hallmark of Fujitsu		In addition to its ultra-high resolution and noise reduction technology for clear listening and viewing of one-segment TV broadcasts and YouTube™ content, the smartphone features a quick-response touchscreen that enables scrolling and smooth-gliding touch-based operation. Other original features include Fujitsu's proprietary "NX!input" system that allows the user to input handwritten text on a numeric-keypad and "Super Hakkiri (extra-clear) Voice 3," which enhances the clarity of the caller's voice in noisy or crowded places. 		5. Daily healthcare support 		Beauty Body Clinic(6)		Fujitsu's sensing technology monitors body posture. Presenting advice under the supervision of the Miss Universe Japan Beauty School, a stretching and training exercise menu helps users keep their bodies in top shape.		Sukkiri Alarm		By combining an accelerometer with a microphone, this alarm clock system monitors users' body movements, breathing patterns, and wakefulness while they are asleep. When sleep is detected to be at its lightest point, the alarm is activated thus enabling users to start the day refreshed and looking their best. "Sukkiri" meaning "refreshed" in English.		Karada Life(7)		The smartphone is equipped with a pedometer and activity monitoring system that shows the number of steps users take daily in a graphic chart and gives health-maintenance advice, enabling users to have fun while staying fit. 		6. Full range of functionality, including tethering capabilities, water-resistance, and infrared communications 		Tethering		The smartphone is equipped with Wi-Fi access point functionality, enabling it to be also used as a wireless LAN router. Even when on-the-go, by turning the F-03D into a wireless access point (base station), users can connect up to eight Wi-Fi devices, such as portable gaming devices and PCs, to the Internet.		Infrared communications		Just like with i-mode mobile phones, data can be easily exchanged between devices using infrared communications. Supported data includes profile information, address book information, and still photographs.		Osaifu Keitai		Mobile wallet. Users can manage their electronic money and coupons all on their smartphone.		Water-resistance		With IPX5/8 water-resistance(8), the smartphone can be utilized with peace of mind. 		Compatibility with Key Services 		sp-mode mail, FOMA® High-Speed (14Mbps), dMenu, dMarket™, DOCOMO Anshin Scan		Product Specifications 		Size: 121 × 59 × 10.9 mm (11.4 mm at thickest point)		Weight: 120 g		Continuous Standby Time:		Approx. 470 hours in FOMA 3G		Approx. 290 hours in GSM		Continuous Talk Time:		Approx. 320 minutes in FOMA 3G voice mode		Approx. 350 minutes in GSM voice mode		Main Display: 3.7-inch TFT color LCD WVGA (480 × 800 pixels)		Camera:		Back side (exterior): 8.1 megapixel effective resolution, CMOS sensor		Front side (interior): 1.3 megapixel effective resolution		Colors: PRECIOUS WHITE, ELEGANT PINK
 