
 
With NAB kicking off today in Las Vegas, it's no shock to see Panasonic's P2 format gracing the headlines early on. Today, Fujifilm has announced that it will introduce the E-Series P2 memory cards for the Panasonic P2 professional video system, and said lineup will include 16GB, 32GB, and 64GB options. We're told that the trio can hit a maximum transfer rate of 1.2Gbps when used with compatible hardware, and the cards' lifespans are rated for five years of use when recorded once daily at full capacity and up to ten years when used at half capacity. Check 'em later this summer (save for the 64GB model, which ships this autumn) for $440, $640 and $1,000 from least capacious to most. The full release is just past the break.
      

 

FUJIFILM SHOWCASES NEW P2 MEMORY CARDS AT NAB 2009"E-Series" Offers Improved Transfer Rate at Lower CostValhalla, NY, April 20, 2009 – FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc. today announced that it will introduce the Fujifilm E-Series P2 memory cards for the Panasonic P2 professional video system at NAB 2009 in Las Vegas, NV. The E-Series includes 16GB, 32GB, and 64GB P2 memory cards, and offer users a high capacity, lower cost media option for use in compatible P2 system hardware. "The new E-Series extends Fujifilm's P2 offering with an affordable card line that is perfect for a wide range of users," said Tom Volpicella, vice president of business development, Professional Products, FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A. "The E-Series cards are ideal for broadcasters, professional and freelance videographers, and also offer distributors and rental facilities an opportunity to extend their product offerings to their clients." Fujifilm's E-Series P2 memory cards offer an impressive maximum transfer rate of 1.2 Gbps when used with compatible hardware, made possible by a newly developed high-speed memory controller. The lifespan of Fujifilm's E-Series P2 memory cards is rated for 5 years of use when recorded once daily at full capacity (100%) and up to 10 years when used at half capacity (50%). Offering the high reliability and durability that professionals require, each card is also designed to stand up to challenging conditions in any environment and is shock, vibration and temperature resistant. As a card approaches the end of its life cycle, a notification is automatically displayed in the LCD/viewfinder or the card reader's display. Compliant with the Cardbus Type II specification, Fujifilm's E-Series P2 memory cards are adaptable to laptop and desktop PCs equipped with a PC Card slot. Additionally, the memory cards can store content in a complete range of P2-supported frame rates and formats, from high definition to standard definition and from DVCPRO to AVC-Intra 100. As with all Fujifilm P2 cards, each E-Series P2 memory card comes with an individual serial number and is equipped with a write-protect switch to eliminate the possibility of accidental loss of material. Fujifilm's E-Series P2 memory cards will be available in early summer 2009 in 16GB and 32GB capacities, with a 64GB card to follow in the autumn. MSRP for the P2 memory cards is: 16GB - $440; 32GB - $640; 64GB - $1,000. For more information on Fujifilm's complete line of professional recording media products, visit Booth #C7116 at NAB 2009 or go to www.fujifilmusa.com/proav.  About FUJIFILMFUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc. is the US-based manufacturing, marketing and sales operations of professional broadcast video, data tape recording media and microfilm products for FUJIFILM Corporation. Based on a history of thin-film engineering and magnetic particle science such as Fujifilm NANOCUBIC technology, Fujifilm creates breakthrough products for partners and end users.  Fujifilm is a leader in supplying the IT industry with advanced storage media including LTO Ultrium and enterprise-class data tape featuring the lowest cost per GB for mass storage applications while requiring very low power. Fujifilm provides broadcast and data center customers and industry partners with a wide range of unique data center accessories, value-added services and programs. For more information on FUJIFILM Recording Media products, customers can call 800- 488-3854 or go to www.fujifilmusa.com/tapestorage. To receive news and information direct from Fujifilm via RSS, subscribe free at www.fujifilmusa.com/rss FUJIFILM Corporation (NASDAQ:FUJI) brings continuous innovation and leading-edge products to a broad spectrum of industries, including electronic imaging, photofinishing equipment, medical systems, life sciences, graphic arts, flat panel display materials, and office products, based on a vast portfolio of digital, optical, fine chemical and thin film coating technologies. The company was among the top 15 companies around the world granted U.S. patents in 2008, employs more than 70,000 people worldwide and in the year ended March 31, 2008, had global revenues of $24.7 billion. Fujifilm is committed to environmental stewardship and good corporate citizenship. For more information, please visit www.fujifilmholdings.com.

       

 