
 
We haven't spotted this one at IFA yet, but Fujitsu has taken advantage of the show to announce its new LifeBook T580, which it's going so far as to call "slate-beating." That apparently comes from the fact that it's not only a convertible tablet PC, but one with four-finger multitouch. Unfortunately, that's done on a 10.1-inch resistive touchscreen (complete with a stylus that can be tucked away), but the rest of the specs aren't too shabby, and include up to a Core i5 processor, optional 3G and GPS, a promised eight hours of battery life, and plenty of business-minded security measures -- all in a three-pound package. No word on pricing just yet, but you can expect this one to roll out in late November. Head on past the break for the complete press release, along with a quick demo of its multitouch capabilities.

Update: We're not sure why Fujitsu isn't playing it up more, but it looks like the T580 actually uses a dual-input capacitive display with an N-trig digitizer.
 

Show full PR textNew Smaller LIFEBOOK T580 Is The Gateway to Fujitsu's Tablet Line UpSlate-beating LIFEBOOK tablet PC combines touch screen mobility with the convenience of a keyboardMunich - Fujitsu today introduces a new smaller fully featured tablet PC, the LIFEBOOK T580, measuring up with a 10.1-inch screen size. Leveraging Fujitsu's 20 years of convertible PC experience, the slate-beating LIFEBOOK T580 squeezes full-size notebook features and technology into a smaller, lighter and lower-priced package.Fujitsu's LIFEBOOK T580 is the flexible alternative mobile working on a slate – removing the frustration of slow responses by packing much more processor power, and delivering convenient practicalities for all-day working, such as a keyboard, two USB slots, SD card and SmartCard readers, a webcam, and outputs for both VGA monitors and high-definition HDMI displays.Weighing just 1.4kg, the new baby LIFEBOOK T580 converts from a notebook to a touch screen tablet PC with a simple twist of the unique bi-directional rotatable screen. This provides a full touch screen experience including support for four-finger multiple touch, and enables fingertip control for up to 14 different gestures, as well as touch-based double-tapping, scrolling, magnifying and rotating. A Dual Digitizer delivers the highest accuracy and pressure sensitivity when working with a stylus, and the Microsoft Windows® 7 operating system recognizes handwriting in 26 languages, plus voice commands.Like all Fujitsu LIFEBOOK tablet PC Series models, the LIFEBOOK T580 is designed for mobile life. Even in direct sunlight, the screen display is bright and clear thanks to high-definition LED backlighting with an Ambient Light Sensor that automatically adjusts display brightness, while a smear-proof coating means no distractions from fingerprints.Working outdoors or on the road no longer means compromising on connectivity as the LIFEBOOK T580 is packed with optional embedded 3G/UMTS (combined with GPS), WLAN and Bluetooth. The latest Intel® Core™ processor technology ensures a responsive and fast processing system. In addition, convenient buttons allow fast access to often used applications and provide an easy way to check remaining battery power. Security features include a biometric fingerprint sensor and Fujitsu's Advanced Theft Protection solution.Rajat Kakar, Vice President Workplace Systems at Fujitsu Technology Solutions says: "The new LIFEBOOK T580 is designed to be used primarily on the move – which is why there is no compromise on connectivity or usability. The new smaller size combines the portability of a slate with the added practicality of a tablet PC, giving LIFEBOOK users the best of both worlds."Underlining its advantage over slates, the LIFEBOOK T580 packs more disk space, more memory, more connectivity options, more security, and more than double the processing power. The LIFEBOOK T580 is the lowest-priced tablet PC in Fujitsu's line-up. Exact pricing varies by region.Fujitsu's LIFEBOOK T580 will be available for all regions in late November 2010 and can be pre-ordered in the EMEA region from October 1, 2010.For further information, please see:· Pictures: http://mediaserver.ts.fujitsu.com/ms/go.cfm?folderid=2782&jumpfactor=6Detailed specification : http://ts.fujitsu.com/products/mobile/tablet_pcs/lifebook_t580.html– Ends –About FujitsuFujitsu is a leading provider of ICT-based business solutions for the global marketplace. With approximately 170,000 employees supporting customers in 70 countries, Fujitsu combines a worldwide corps of systems and services experts with highly reliable computing and communications products and advanced microelectronics to deliver added value to customers. Headquartered in Tokyo, Fujitsu Limited (TSE:6702) reported consolidated revenues of 4.6 trillion yen (US$50 billion) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. For more information, please see: www.fujitsu.comAbout Fujitsu Technology SolutionsFujitsu Technology Solutions is the leading European IT infrastructure provider with a presence in all key markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, plus India, serving large-, medium- and small-sized companies as well as consumers. With its Dynamic Infrastructures approach, the company offers a full portfolio of IT products, solutions and services, ranging from clients to datacenter solutions, Managed Infrastructure and Infrastructure-as-a-Service. Fujitsu Technology Solutions employs more than 13,000 people and is part of the global Fujitsu Group. For more information, please see: ts.fujitsu.com/aboutus.All other company or product names mentioned herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. Information provided in this press release is accurate at time of publication and is subject to change without advance notice.
 