
 

Judging by the number of announcements the company makes this time of year, Fulton Innovation absolutely loves CES. And as to be expected, the inductive charging superstars are tackling CES 2012 head-on to show off the techniques it's been working on for the past year. At this year's show, Fulton will demonstrate the ability to wirelessly charge through a metal surface, show off a car with interior surfaces enabled with the Qi inductive charging standard and display the technology being used inside a handbag. We're pretty eager to see how it all works in real life, so we'll bring you coverage as the show progresses. Feel free to gaze upon the press release below in the meantime.
 

  		Show full PR text  FULTON INNOVATION UNVEILS THE NEXT GENERATION OF WIRELESS POWER SOLUTIONS AT CES 2012		Never-Before Seen Flexibility and Freedom of Wireless Power Charges Phone Inside a Handbag and Brings Magazines to Life 		LAS VEGAS – January 9, 2012 – Fulton Innovation (www.fultoninnovation.com), the creator and exclusive licensor of eCoupled™ intelligent wireless power, is announcing technological breakthroughs in wireless power, showing demonstrations of multi-range, multi-protocol, and multi-surface applications at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES)in Las Vegas. Fulton Innovation, the leader in wireless power, is taking wireless technology to the next level by increasing spatial freedom with interoperability that enables a device to be moved around both on and above a surface while maintaining efficient and continuous charge. The ability to wirelessly charge through a metal surface is another industry-first that Fulton will be demonstrating at CES. 		The new development in spatial freedom for wireless power technology will be demonstrated by charging a cell phone through a handbag, without the need for wires. Other demonstrations will include devices within the general area of a wireless power transmitter than will still charge. Fulton will show how the days of having to place a phone on an exact charging spot will soon be a thing of the past. 		Fulton has developed an advanced wireless power solution that can be built into almost any surface, including packaging and publications. At CES, Fulton will demonstrate a recent issue of Entertainment Weekly powered by its eCoupled intelligent wireless power technology. The magazine will light up on the shelf using wirelessly powered printed electronics –a low-powered, low cost, truly flexible example of wireless power in action. The prototype demonstrates how wireless power can be used by publishers and advertisers to attract readers' attention, and drive new revenue streams. 		Fulton's booth at CES will include the cockpit of a car that has its interior surfaces enabled for wireless power. Phones, tablets and other devices can be placed on the dashboard, in the glove compartment, or in the center console and charge without the need to plug in a single cord. The same capabilities are showcased in a Tesla electric vehicle (EV) with the car itself having the ability to be charged wirelessly. 		As a founding member of the Wireless Power Consortium (WPC), Fulton provided the technology behind the Consortium's Qi standard for wireless power. The Qi standard has made it possible for the efficiency and flexibility of wireless power to reach consumers through multiple wirelessly powered brand name devices currently being sold through Verizon Wireless. The devices are fully interoperable between charging bases, regardless of the brand. Each of these devices will be on display at the Fulton booth. 		As the leader in wireless power and a trusted partner in innovation, Fulton offers the complete package of wireless power solutions-from infrastructure to products. For over 13 years, Fulton has been advancing its technology and working with partners to bring wireless power into the hands of consumers and manufactures. The technology meets and exceeds safety regulations and works with standards bodies, such as the WPC, so that manufacturers and consumers can rest assured their devices will work in the broad wireless power ecosystem. 		Fulton's technology can be adapted for a range of power requirements, from the very low power needs of printed electronics to the very high power needs of EV-charging. In addition to charging, eCoupled can be configured to directly power everyday devices and appliances, such as a wireless blender that will be on display at the booth. 		"We are excited to be back at CES this year to unveil new advances in wireless power, including spatial freedom capabilities that provide consumers the flexibility to move devices around a charging surface. The ability to charge through metal surfaces opens the door for phone manufacturers currently building phones with metal backs to incorporate wireless power capabilities without compromising design," said Dave Baarman, Director of Advanced Technologies for Fulton Innovation. "Our continued development of eCoupled and our work with our many partners is broadening the capabilities of wireless power and proving that there are continuously fewer limits to what we can do with this technology." 		Fulton Innovation will have many more wireless power demonstrations and applications on the show floor, which is located at CES booth #14446 in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center.
 