
 
Extreme products make people do extreme things -- take, for example, all of those phones we've dumped in glasses of water and various things we've run over with cars. When it comes to demonstrating ruggedness, G-Form is no slouch. After dropping a bowling ball on its iPad case (iPad inside, naturally), the company hit YouTube again to toss a MacBook encased in a new Extreme Sleeve from a 20 foot balcony -- a fall it survived unscathed. These heavy-duty cases are made up of PORON XRD, a flexible material that absorbs 90 percent of impact energy, which the company also uses it to make things like skateboarding knee pads and biking accessories. The laptop case starts shipping on May 31st for $69.95, so heads up when walking under windows this summer. Extreme press release and video of gadget abuse after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textWorld-renowned athletic gear company known for extreme demonstrations of its Extreme Sleeve™ for iPad launches the Extreme Sleeve™ for LaptopPROVIDENCE, RI (May 3, 2011) – G-Form, an athletic gear company recently known for the Extreme Sleeve™ for iPad that has sustained a 500-foot drop from an airplane and a 12-pound bowling ball, is proud to introduce the Extreme Sleeve™ for Laptop. Designed for the laptop user who is always on-the-go, the Extreme Sleeve™ can easily be placed in your bag, backpack or suitcase and protect your laptop from impact unlike any other sleeve on the market. The Extreme Sleeve™ for Laptop utilizes RPT™ - Reactive Protection Technology - which allows the Extreme Sleeve™ to be soft, flexible and light-weight, while still offering unparalleled protection. RPT™ is a combination of PORON®XRD™ material and proprietary G-Form technology that instantly stiffens upon impact and absorbs over 90% of the energy, offering users a convenient means of protecting their precious device. The Extreme Sleeve™ for Laptop offers consistent, repeated impact absorption for dependable performance throughout the life of your laptop. It is also crafted to be water-resistant, to guarantee safe and dry housing. In true G-Form fashion, this sleeve has been put to the test. Check out the video below to see a 13" Macbook Pro (encased in the revolutionary Extreme Sleeve™) being dropped from a 20 foot balcony completely unharmed. "The response to our Extreme Sleeve has been overwhelmingly positive, and as a result we are now offering the same remarkable protection technology for laptops," said Thom Cafaro, Innovations Manager at G-Form. "Now laptop users can enjoy the same confidence in knowing that their device is sure to be protected against a whirlwind of drops and impacts."The Extreme Sleeve™ for Laptop is now available for preorder for $69.95 at www.g-form.com. The Extreme Sleeve™ for Laptop will ship May 31st. It will also be available at select retailers in the near future. The Extreme Sleeve™ for Laptop is offered in yellow and black. 
 