
 
 How could we forget the GAEMS personal gaming environment? Looking something like a cross between a laptop from the eighties, and a bomb disposal unit, the all-in-one Xbox system was always going to make an impression. Well, with E3 just around the corner, it looks like there might be another model on the way. All we know at the moment is that it's called "Sentry," and will have more of a personal entertainment leaning. This being based on the fact that on top of the Xbox gaming, GAMES only went as far to tease that services like Netflix, HULU and YouTube will be increasingly central to it. The firm is also revealing a new device with the working title "Project Vanguard," about which it's even more secretive. Either way, better make more room on that luggage rack.



  Show full PR text   GAEMS, Inc. announced today they will show the latest innovations in their lineup of award-winning personal gaming and entertainment environments (PGE(tm)) at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, June 5-7, 2012. The GAEMS booth will be located in South Hall, #247 (right next to the G4TV stage).

   GAEMS recently partnered with Microsoft and will unveil the new G155 Sentry, a Microsoft-licensed device that provides individuals and families with a completely customizable personal entertainment solution to enjoy games, DVDs or even stream media like Netflix*, HULU* or YouTube* anytime and just about anywhere. The Sentry and an Xbox 360 lets anyone transform any space into their own Personal Gaming Environment(tm) (PGE(tm)).

   Behind closed doors, GAEMS will unveil their latest device, code named Project Vanguard. A prototype of Project Vanguard will be available for viewing by the media by invitation only.

   GAEMS will also unveil 3 new accessories enabling users to transport their PGEs. The Sentry Sling, the PGE Battle Bag and the PGE B.O.T. will soon join the GAEMS accessory lineup that already includes licensed skins, remote controls and custom badges.

   GAEMS first device, the G155 self-contained personal gaming and entertainment environment, was initially shown at E3 2011, and received critical acclaim from media outlets such as Associated Press, USA Today, and IGN.com. Additionally, the G155 was selected by the  Wired.com and Maxim.com 2011 annual holiday buyer's guides as a recommended gift for gamers.

 
