
 If you want a (semi) pocketable S Pen experience, well, then the 5.5-inch Galaxy Note II is the device for you. If you want something more akin to carrying around a digital legal pad, there's the well proportioned Note 10.1. But if one note is too small for you, and the other too big, then maybe the Note 8.0 is just right. The mid-sized tablet, announced at MWC, is finally hitting American shores on April 11th for $400. Under the hood are the same powerful internals we got a good look at in Barcelona, including the 2GB of RAM and 1.6GHz quad-core processor. But, sadly, Samsung removed the cellular radios for the US variant -- which means this slate won't double as a comically large phone. Well, at least the lack of HSPA+ should mean that the 4,600 mAh battery should last a little bit longer. You'll be able to pick up the Galaxy Note 8.0 in just a few days from all usual suspects (Best Buy, Amazon, Newegg, and so on). If you need a proper reminder of all its various specs and features, check out the preview and the PR after the break.





  Show full PR text   Samsung Brings Power and Portability to the U.S. with the Galaxy Note® 8.0 Tablet
   In stores April 11, the Galaxy Note 8.0 delivers an unparalleled tablet experience for work and play

   RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. - April 9, 2013 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today announces that theGalaxy Note 8.0 is coming to the U.S. market on April 11. Unveiled globally at Mobile World Congress inFebruary, the Galaxy Note 8.0 will be available in stores and online at retailers including Amazon, BestBuy/Best Buy Mobile, h.h. gregg, Newegg, P.C. Richard & Son, Staples and TigerDirect.com. A mid-sized addition to the Galaxy Note family of products, the Galaxy Note 8.0 has the power andadvanced technology to enable multi-tasking at home, at work or on the go. The Galaxy Note 8.0 is theperfect size for entertainment and productivity, with unrivaled multimedia performance in a compactformat. The S Pen has evolved to improve everyday usability with Air View; and Multi Window nowsupports more apps to perform tasks simultaneously allowing users to do more.

   "The Galaxy Note defined an entirely new smartphone category and the Galaxy Note 10.1 tabletredefined the tablet experience for consumers," said Travis Merrill, vice president of Samsung ElectronicsAmerica, Inc. "With the Galaxy Note 8.0, we fully expect to ignite the mid-size tablet market Samsungpioneered with the first Galaxy Tab. The Galaxy Note 8.0 is small enough to fit in your pocket or purseand packs the power needed for full mobile entertainment and productivity."Galaxy Note 8.0 at Play

   The Galaxy Note 8.0 will be the first product to feature Samsung WatchON, a new search andrecommendation service that alleviates the chore of channel surfing and makes finding TV shows and ondemand video content faster and easier. Samsung WatchON simplifies the process of discovering newcontent to watch by searching across multiple content sources, such as live TV and streaming video-ondemand sources such as Samsung's Media Hub*, to recommend movies and TV shows. It also providescomplementary content including actor bios, reviews and related information.

   With the built-in IR blaster, the Galaxy Note 8.0 acts as a powerful universal remote, eliminating the needfor multiple remotes to control the TV viewing experience. Users can browse for content then change thechannel on the TV or cable box directly from the search window.

   For entertainment on the go, the Galaxy Note 8.0's screen is great for everything from content viewing toreading. With its dazzling 8-inch WXGA screen, the Galaxy Note 8.0 is perfect for watching HD content,packing 1280 by 800 pixels. The Galaxy Note 8.0 also has Reading Mode, which adjusts color andbrightness to an optimal level for reading. It provides the ability to customize fonts and themes so selectbooks, magazines, documents and Web pages are easier to read. Combined with Smart Stay, whichkeeps the screen awake while you are reading, the Galaxy Note 8.0 is customized to ensure the bestreading experience.

   Galaxy Note 8.0 at Work

   The tablet is quickly becoming a primary computing device for employees. The Galaxy Note 8.0 offersmulti-tasking and productivity features, making users more efficient at everyday tasks, whether working atthe office or on the go:

   Multi Window: The Galaxy Note 8.0 offers true PC-like multitasking, so you can use two appsside-by-side. Multi-Window now supports 20 apps, including Polaris Office, Google Chrome andFacebook.

   Air View: Conveniently preview your content without opening files or folders. The S Pen held abovethe screen allows you to preview pictures in the Gallery, open menus on Web sites, and preview amessage or an attachment in an email.

   AllShare® Play: Pass content to the TV or remotely access files on your desktop computer.

   Polaris Office: View, create, and edit Microsoft® Office Word® documents, Excel® spreadsheets andPowerPoint® presentations right on your tablet. With the Galaxy Note 8.0, you can add handwrittennotes and drawings to your documents.

   Awesome Note: A note-taking application and to do list manager, Awesome Note enables you tocustomize folder icons, colors, fonts and backgrounds for quick reference and visual organization.

   Group Play: Share and collaborate on content, including documents, which allows users to worktogether.

   For those using tablets for work, Samsung offers improved security levels for IT managers andemployees. SAFE, or Samsung for Enterprise, is the security standard to provide enterprise- andconsumer-friendly devices to businesses and their employees. With SAFE, the Galaxy Note 8.0supports the needs of IT managers while providing businesses with the functionality needed to enhanceproductivity.

   Powerful Performance

   The Galaxy Note 8.0 features a powerful 1.6GHz Quad Core processor and 2GB of RAM to ensureoptimum performance. Wi-Fi technology with dual-channel bonding offers more efficient connectivity forfaster loading of Web pages and video streaming.

   With a large, 4,600 mAh battery, the Galaxy Note 8.0 offers long battery life to work and play all day.

   Beyond the 16GB** of internal memory, the Note 8.0 can handle microSD cards up to 64GB, for acombined possible 80GB of storage. The 5-megapixel camera on the back can shoot 1080p video, andthe 1.3-megapixel front-facing camera can handle video chats at 720p resolution.

   Preloaded with Content and Services

   Buyers will enjoy pre-loaded content and services valued at over $200, including 50GB of free Dropboxstorage for 2 years***, 1 month free of unlimited music streaming in Samsung's Music Hub, Samsung'sSmart Remote, Awesome Note, and more. For a limited time, they will also receive a $25 Google Playcredit with the purchase of a Galaxy Note 8.0, when they register their device.

   The Galaxy Note 8.0 will be available in white for $399.99 MSRP. Accessories will be available beginningmid-April. These include Book Covers in white, grey, pink or green, as well as USB and HDMI adapters,and a travel charger that connect via the device's microUSB port.

   For multimedia content and more information, please visit www.samsung.com/us/note8.

   About Samsung Electronics America, Inc.

   Headquartered in Ridgefield Park, NJ, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), is a recognizedinnovation leader in consumer electronics design and technology. A wholly owned subsidiary ofSamsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SEA delivers a broad range of digital consumer electronics, IT and homeappliance products. Samsung is the market leader for HDTVs in the U.S and America's fastest growinghome appliance brand. To discover more of the award-winning products you love with Samsung, pleasevisit www.samsung.com.

   About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.

   Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in technology, opening new possibilities for peopleeverywhere. Through relentless innovation and discovery, we are transforming the worlds of televisions,smartphones, personal computers, printers, cameras, home appliances, LTE systems, medical devices,semiconductors and LED solutions. We employ 236,000 people across 79 countries with annual sales ofUS$187.8 billion.

   *Subscription required.

   **Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes, GB = 1 billion bytes, TB = 1 trillion bytes. Please note that a portion of the harddrive is reserved for system recovery, operating system and preloaded content software.

   ***See www.dropbox.com/help/338 for terms and conditions of Dropbox offer.

   # # #

 
