
 We got tipped off way back in August and managed to get a little hands-on time with the variant, and now that October is well under way, MetroPCS is offering up some more info on its Galaxy S III offering. The popular Samsung handset will be hitting the carrier's stores and site on Monday, October 22nd. Off-contract pricing for the Android smartphone's gonna run you $499, on top of $30 to $70 a month for one of the carrier's LTE plans. Spec-wise, you're getting a 4.8-inch SuperAMOLED display, a 1.5GHz dual-core processor and 2GB of RAM. More info on the offering can be had in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    MetroPCS Blends First Class Smartphone and No Annual Contract 4G LTE Service with Availability of Samsung Galaxy S III

   The wait is over for consumers looking for the Galaxy S® III from Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) without being shackled to a lengthy wireless commitment. MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) announced today that it is offering consumers more choice and value as the only no annual contract 4GLTE wireless service provider to offer the Galaxy S III, Samsung's best-selling premium Android™ smartphone. The Galaxy S III will be available in select stores this weekend, and in all MetroPCS stores and online at www.metropcs.com beginning Monday, October 22.

   (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20121019/DA96184)  (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20100714/DA34639LOGO-b)

   Together, the Samsung Galaxy S III and MetroPCS' 4GLTE service plans deliver an unmatched value to consumers unwilling to compromise on handset or service. Priced at $499 plus tax, the Galaxy S III is available on any of MetroPCS' affordable 4GLTE service plans, which range from $30 - $70 per month, including the limited-time promotional plans of 4G LTE for $30 or unlimited talk, text and 4GLTE data for $55 per month (taxes and regulatory fees included). When comparing total costs of both the smartphone and rate plans with other 4G LTE operators, consumers can save approximately $1,200 or more over the course of two years (based on MetroPCS' current $55 4GLTE rate plan).

   "We are excited to make the Samsung Galaxy S III smartphone available to our no annual contract subscribers," said Tom Keys, president and chief operating officer of MetroPCS. "With roughly one million 4G LTE customers already, we recognize that many want a premier smartphone that offers an array of high-end features and runs on our 4G LTE network. Available with any of our 4G LTE service plans, this smartphone offers a postpaid experience at a tremendous value to our consumers."

   Not merely for consumers who demand more affordability than ever, the feature rich Galaxy S III at MetroPCS makes it easy for people to share content and experiences, quickly navigate applications and support a multitude of tasks.

   The Galaxy S III at a Glance

   Lightning-fast response times and serious multi-tasking support thanks to advanced 1.5 GHz dual-core processor and 2GB of RAM memory  4.8 inch 720P HD SuperAMOLED™ screen  8MP back and 1.9MP front cameras with features such as Burst Shot™ to capture still pictures at a rapid-fire pace with zero shutter lag; Best Shot that recommends the best picture to keep based on colors, lighting and clarity; and Share Shot, that allows other Galaxy S III users to quickly and wirelessly share pictures from up to 200 feet away over Wi-Fi®AllShare® Play streams videos, photos and music to various connected devices including TVs and speakers, remotely accesses files and shares group presentations and photos  S Beam shares content and information – pictures, maps, contacts, calendars, etc. – by simply touching two Galaxy S III phones together  Enhanced gesture controls to minimize unnecessary screen touches or softkey use  Pop Up Play delivers video picture-in-picture so users can multitask with entertainment while accomplishing the day's tasks  Near Field Communication (NFC) support  Support for MetroPCS 4GLTE Mobile Hotspot service (available for an additional monthly charge)

 
