
 Well, Korea might have beaten the UK to the punch, but England's carriers are getting Samsung's latest super-sized phone ahead of the US. As promised, the Galaxy Note II is hitting shelves today at Three UK, O2 and Vodafone. So far, only Three has made the launch official with a press release, but we're sure O2 and Vodafone will follow in short order. The privilege of running the 5.5-inch monstrosity on Three will cost you €69 up front with either a €34 or €36 a month contract, while pay-as-you-go customers will have to fork over €499. If PR is your thing, it's awaiting you after the break.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Galaxy Note II – available now on Three.
   The Samsung Galaxy Note II is now available online at www.three.co.uk and in all Three stores.

   The Samsung GALAXY Note II with it's massive 5.55" Super AMOLED HD display helps to unleash your creative side by letting you discover information faster, capture ideas, and express them more efficiently. Using the new S Pen allows you to be more precise and gives a writing experience that feels like writing with pen and paper and with Air View you can hover the S Pen over emails, picture and video galleries to preview them.

   The Galaxy Note II also brings features such as Smart Stay and Best Picture from the Galaxy S III. This means that the phone will know when you're reading an ebook or browsing the web and keep the backlight on. Additionally when you're using the 8MP camera you can snap multiple shots and the Galaxy Note II will choose the best one for you.

   Available in marble white and titanium grey, the super-fast Samsung Galaxy Note II comes with a powerful 1.6GHz quad-core processor and because the Galaxy Note II is HSPA+ compatible, you're able to enjoy faster internet speeds and quicker downloads. Plus with a longer-life 3100mAh battery you can stay glued to your phone for longer.

   Sylvia Chind, Head of Devices at Three said, ""With its range of cutting edge features, the Samsung Galaxy Note II is perfectly suited to those looking for innovation without compromise. Coming to life on the only network that was built for the internet, the Galaxy Note II combines the productivity of a PC in a handy smartphone size."

   The Samsung Galaxy Note II is available for £34 a month with an upfront cost of £69 on the Ultimate Internet 500 plan with a guarantee of no surprise out-of-bundle data charges or £36 a month with an upfront cost of £69 on The One Plan.

   The device is also available on Pay As You Go for £499.99 plus a top up. All in One 15 costs £15 and gives 30-day access to all-you-can-eat data along with 300 any-network minutes and 3,000 texts. Or All in One 25 costs £25 and offers 500 minutes, 3,000 texts and all-you-can-eat data for a 30-day period.

   Key features:

   • 5.5" HD Super AMOLED HD display  • 1.6GHz quad-core processor  • 8 megapixel camera with best shot feature  · S Pen functionality  • HSPA+ compatible

 
