
 

Well, it's been a long time coming, but you fine folks living in the good ol' U-S-of-A are finally getting blessed with Galaxy S IIs to call your own. Conspicuously missing from the party is Verizon, but Sprint, T-Mobile and AT&T are all getting in on the Super AMOLED Plus action under the guise of the Epic 4G Touch on Sprint and just plain old Galaxy S II on AT&T and T-Mo. As we had heard earlier the Epic 4G Touch is sporting a slightly larger 4.52-inch screen as will the T-Mobile variant, while AT&T is sticking with the 4.3-inch panel found on the international model. Sprint customers will be first to get their shot at owning one on September 16th for $200, with AT&T and T-Mobile a little further down the road. Otherwise there are very few surprises here, with a 1.2GHz Exynos pushing Gingerbread and TouchWiz to each gorgeous screen. All are packing 16GB of internal storage and being pitched as 4G handsets -- with WiMax on board the Sprint model and HSPA+ for T-Mo and AT&T. Ma Bell's is specifically championing its variant as the "thinnest 4G smartphone," which might have something to do with the smaller 1650 mAh battery inside (the Epic 4G Touch is sporting an 1800 mAh pack). Check back soon for some hands-on.





 		Show full PR text  Samsung Galaxy S™ II, Epic™ 4G Touch fact sheet		Delivering rich content at blazing fast speeds		Samsung Epic 4G Touch1, a premium Android powered smartphone, has been designed to deliver the best multilayered entertainment experience through superior speed and display innovation. Its 3G/4G speeds, paired with one of the fastest 1.2GHz dual-core processors, the new Samsung Exynos™, give lightning fast access and downloads of movies, games, Web and thousands of applications with no buffering, lag time or disruption to your entertainment. Epic 4G Touch gives you entertainment content on the go with its ultra-thin design, large 4.52-inch touchscreen and unrivaled Super AMOLED™ Plus technology offering deeper, richer color for a bright and vivid display. Epic 4G Touch also includes an 8MP camera/camcorder with auto-focus and flash that shoots video in 1080p HD high profile with incredible detail and a 2MP, front-facing camera, perfect for self-portraits or video chat. 		Productivity		· Dual-mode 3G/4G device – dependable 3G nationwide coverage and turbo-charged Sprint 4G speeds where available		· Samsung Exynos™ 1.2GHz dual-core processor		· Super AMOLED Plus 4.52-inch touchscreen		· Android™ 2.3 Gingerbread		· 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot capable, supporting up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices on the Sprint 3G or 4G networks		· Visual Voicemail		· Enterprise functionality provides support for exchange device management policies, offers increased security of data and services and enables mobile conferencing while on the go		· MicroSD® card slot that supports up to a 32GB memory card		· Voice Talk allows users to give their Epic 4G Touch voice commands, including voice dial, text message, navigation, music, Web browsing and search		· Task Manager enables users to view and close the applications they have active and any items that have been downloaded and to check on memory usage via the Task Manager widget		· Screen capture feature allows users to easily take a screen grab of the phone screen by pressing the power button and the home key simultaneously		· Samsung's TouchWiz user interface provides superior multitasking and customization for an enhanced visual and intuitive smartphone experience		· Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n/a capable 		Entertainment		• Dual cameras: 8MP, rear-facing camera/camcorder with auto-focus and flash that shoots HD video 1080p HD high profile and 2MP, front facing camera ideal for self-portraits or video chat		• Samsung Media Hub features thousands of new releases and top-grossing titles from major Hollywood studios and leading TV networks, including NBC Universal, Paramount, MTV, Warner Bros., CBS and FOX.		• Samsung Social Hub allows users to transfer email, instant messaging, contacts, calendar and social network connections, including Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts, into "Feeds" and "Messages" folders that can be either put into separate tabs or combined into comprehensive lists.		• Access to more than 250,000 apps through Android Market™		• GoogleTM mobile services, including Google SearchTM, Google MapsTM, Google TalkTM, GmailTM, YouTubeTM , and syncs with Google CalendarTM, as well as access to Google Goggles™ to search with pictures instead of words		• Stereo Bluetooth Wireless Technology 3.0		• Sprint applications, including Sprint Zone, Sprint TV & Movies®, Sprint Navigation and NASCAR Sprint Cup Mobile 		Specifications		· Dimensions: 2.7 inches x 5.1 inches x 0.38 inches (LxWxT)		· Weight: 4.55 ounces		· Display: 4.52-inch Super AMOLDED Plus (800x480 WVGA) touchscreen		· Battery: 1800 mAh Lithium-ion battery		· Processor: Samsung Exynos™ 1.2GHz dual-core 		© 2011 Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC. Samsung, Galaxy S, Super AMOLED, Exynos and Epic are all trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Screen images simulated. Appearance of phone may vary.		14G used in connection with the Samsung Galaxy S II Epic 4G Touch product name refers to the fact that the Epic 4G Touch is capable of operating on the Sprint 4G (WiMax) network. 		Show full PR text  Sprint First U.S. Carrier to Debut Galaxy S II With Samsung Epic 4G Touch 		Available for $199.99 beginning Sept. 16, Samsung Epic 4G Touch features a 4.52-inch Super AMOLED Plus touchscreen and one of the fastest 1.2GHz dual-core processors available in a sleek ultra-thin design 		To learn more, visit www.sprint.com/epictouch		Multimedia Gallery Click here to see downloadable versions 		Click here to see downloadable versions		http://www.samsung.com 		OVERLAND PARK, Kan. & DALLAS (BUSINESS WIRE), August 30, 2011 - Sprint (NYSE: S), the first national wireless carrier to launch the groundbreaking data speeds of 4G, and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States1, today announced the upcoming availability of the first Samsung Galaxy S™ II product to be available in the United States, Samsung Galaxy S™ II, Epic™ 4G Touch. 		As Sprint's 27th 4G-capable device, Epic 4G Touch boasts a 4.52-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus touchscreen and one of the industry's fastest dual-core processors, the new Samsung Exynos™, bringing it rich content at blazingly fast speeds. Customers will benefit from a large screen which will offer a vibrant viewing experience delivering the best picture quality at the fastest speeds available. 		Epic 4G Touch will cost just $199.99 (excluding taxes) with a new two-year service agreement or eligible upgrade. It will be available beginning Sept. 16 in all Sprint Sales channels, including Sprint stores, Web sales (www.sprint.com) and Telesales (1-800-Sprint1). Visit www.sprint.com/epictouch for more information. 		Beginning today, customers can pre-order Epic 4G Touch at any participating Sprint store with the purchase of a $50 Sprint gift card. Customers who pre-order Epic 4G Touch will have their name added to the Device Wait List and be contacted to set up an appointment to complete their smartphone purchase beginning Sept. 16. Through the pre-order process, customers will know they are able to get the device they want and receive the full retail experience, including Sprint's Ready Now service. 		"Sprint is proud to build on the success of the first Galaxy S product, Samsung Epic 4G, with the first U.S. device in the next generation of Samsung's award-winning Galaxy S lineup, Epic 4G Touch," said Fared Adib, vice president–Product Development, Sprint. "Epic 4G Touch is a powerful smartphone that delivers vibrant and exciting content at lightning fast speeds. This device is ultra-thin yet ultra-powerful with a screen that rivals anything else in the industry." 		Epic 4G Touch is one of the thinnest smartphones, measuring just 0.38 inches thick. Its Super AMOLED Plus touchscreen display delivers brilliant colors with the most contrast, providing a vivid and crisp viewing experience. It is built on Android™ 2.3, Gingerbread, and powered by one of the fastest dual-core processors available along with the blazing-fast Sprint 4G speeds on America's Favorite 4G Network2. 		Other key features include: 		Samsung Exynos™ 1.2GHz dual-core processor		Dual cameras: 8MP, rear-facing camera/camcorder with auto-focus and flash that shoots video in 1080p HD high profile and 2MP, front-facing camera ideal for self-portraits or video chat		3G/4G Mobile Hotspot capable, supporting up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices on the Sprint 3G or 4G network		Voice Talk by Vlingo™ allows users to give their Epic 4G Touch voice commands, including voice dial, text message, navigation, music, Web browsing and search		Task Manager enables users to view and close the applications they have active and any items that may have been downloaded and to check on memory usage via the Task Manager widget		Screen grab feature allows users to easily take a screen capture of the phone screen by pressing the power button and the home key simultaneously		Samsung's TouchWiz user interface provides superior multitasking and customization for an enhanced visual and intuitive smartphone experience		Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n/a capable		Visual Voicemail		Enterprise functionality provides support for exchange device management policies, offers increased security of data and services and enables mobile conferencing while on the go		microSD card slot that supports up to a 32GB memory card		Stereo Bluetooth Wireless Technology 3.0		Access to more than 250,000 apps through Android Market™ 		"We are proud to build upon the successful launch of the original Galaxy S with Sprint last year," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "The Galaxy S II, Epic 4G Touch is the next-generation premium smartphone that delivers top-of-the-line features and design, as well as blazing fast speeds with Sprint's 4G network and Samsung's new Exynos dual core processor." 		Epic 4G Touch requires activation on one of the Sprint Everything Data plans plus a required $10 Premium Data add-on charge for smartphones. Sprint's Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM includes unlimited Web, texting and calling to and from any mobile in America while on the Sprint Network, starting at just $69.99 per month plus required $10 Premium Data add-on charge – a savings of $40 per month vs. Verizon's comparable plan with unlimited talk, text and 2GB Web, or $10 per month vs. Verizon's 450-minute plan with unlimited text and 2GB web. The Mobile Hotspot option is available for an additional $29.99 per month supporting up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices simultaneously (pricing excludes taxes and surcharges). 		Sprint was unbeaten among major wireless carriers for customer satisfaction according to results from the 2011 American Customer Satisfaction Index. In addition to tying for first place among wireless carriers, Sprint was also the most improved company in customer satisfaction, across all industries, during the last three years, according to the survey. 		As the first national wireless carrier to test, launch and market 4G technology, Sprint made history by launching 4G in Baltimore in September 2008. Sprint currently offers 4G service in 71 markets in 28 states. For more information, visit www.sprint.com/4G. 		Sprint's annual developer conference, now called the Sprint Open Solutions Conference, will be held Nov. 2-4 in Santa Clara, Calif. Throughout the three-day conference, developers, enterprises and entrepreneurs will learn about Sprint's open enablement strategy, creating applications for 4G and 3D, enterprise machine-to-machine (M2M) solutions, go-to-market strategies, approaches to make developers more profitable, and current Sprint tools and capabilities across devices, networks and platforms. For additional information and to register for the conference, visit http://developer.sprint.com/devcon2011. 		About Sprint Nextel 		Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 52 million customers at the end of 2Q 2011 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint. 		About Samsung Telecommunications America 		Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, a Dallas-based subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., researches, develops and markets wireless handsets, wireless infrastructure and other telecommunications products throughout North America. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. 		About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 		Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of (US)$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, semiconductor chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. 		Show full PR text  AT&T and Samsung Unveil the Nation's Thinnest 4G Smartphone. Again! 		Samsung Galaxy S™ II Powers the Fastest Smartphone to Date for AT&T Customers with a Dual-core 1.2 GHz Processor 		Dallas, Texas, August 30, 2011		ShareThis 		Key Facts 		AT&T's Samsung Galaxy S™ II, the nation's thinnest 4G smartphone at 8.89mm at its thinnest, will be sold in AT&T* company-owned retail stores and online in the coming weeks.		This new smartphone features the Android Gingerbread (2.3.4) platform, a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus display, dual-core 1.2 GHz processor, Motion UX sensors and 8 MP camera.		HDMI-output at 1080p resolution lets customers rent or purchase movies and TV shows from the Samsung Media Hub and view on a television. 		Customer Benefits 		The AT&T Samsung Galaxy S II is designed to give customers a powerful, premium Android smartphone experience in a pocket-friendly design that is the thinnest of all Galaxy S II smartphones and the thinnest 4G smartphone on the market. A powerful dual-core 1.2 GHz processor offers customers smooth gaming and accelerates multitasking between browsing, sending email or watching video. 		With an incredibly colorful 4.3" Super AMOLED Plus display, the AT&T Samsung Galaxy S II delivers 50 percent more sub-pixels than the previous generation display for better contrast. The display also offers unmatched outdoor viewing quality, even in the brightest sunlight. This newest smartphone also captures sharp photos with the 8MP camera with flash and records videos in stunning high profile 1080p HD quality. An additional 2MP front-facing camera gives you the power to connect with your friends and family face-to-face via video chat with preloaded Qik™ Lite over Wi-Fi. 		The AT&T Samsung Galaxy S II enables customers to output 1080p video to a HDTV using the an HDTV smart adapter (sold separately). The device also features next generation Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth technology, Voice Talk from Vlingo™ that enables voice-powered social updates, messaging, email, search and voice dialing, Motion UX sensors to mute incoming calls by simply turning the device over and business-friendly features such as Virtual Private Network (VPN) support, Quickoffice® and Exchange ActiveSync®. 		Samsung Features 		The Galaxy S II features Samsung's TouchWiz® user interface, providing superior multi-tasking and customization for an enhanced visual and intuitive smartphone experience. Live Panel features provide immediate access to weather, social updates, email, news and photos, which can all be customized on any one of the seven home screens. All of the Samsung widgets can be positioned and re-sized to create unique home screens and one-touch access to the services and apps each individual uses the most. The Notifications Panel allows one touch access to a separate menu for managing Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, and Flight Mode settings. 		Samsung Media Hub puts thousands of hit movies and next-day TV shows at your fingertips, ready to rent or buy and watch instantly with progressive downloads. Kies Air allows your PC to wirelessly sync with your Galaxy S II when they are on the same Wi-Fi network. This allows you to view call logs, videos, photos, bookmarks and IMs, plus send messages from your PC. With Samsung Social Hub, synchronize and better organize all of your online contacts by streamlining your email, SMS, IM and SNS information into one unified box. 		Quotes 		"The nation's thinnest 4G smartphone is designed in every way to give AT&T customers a superb mobile entertainment experience," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "With a vibrant screen, high-definition possibilities and faster processing speeds, Samsung Galaxy S II is the latest addition to the industry's leading smartphone portfolio." 		"The Galaxy S II, powered by a dual core application processor, paired with AT&T's advanced 4G network, gives users fast download speeds along with a premium multi-tasking experience," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "We are proud to bring our fastest selling smartphone in the world to AT&T customers, packaging it in the nation's thinnest 4G smartphone." 		AT&T Samsung Galaxy S II Specifications 		4G – HSPA+		Android (2.3 Gingerbread)		GSM Quad-band (850/900/1800/1900MHz)		UMTS Tri-band( 850/1900/2100MHz)		Screen: 4.3" Super AMOLED Plus		Processor: 1.2Ghz x 2 (dual core)		Camera: 8MP AF with LED flash + 2MP front		Video Record: 1080p Full HD		HDMI Out: HDMI via HDTV Smart Adapter with HDCP		Connectivity: Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n, Bluetooth 3.0		Battery: 1650mAh		Sensor: Motion UX, 6-axis gyroscope, proximity, light, noise (Audience A2220) 		*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc. 		Important Information: Limited-time offer. Mobile broadband coverage and other coverage not available in all areas. See coverage map at store for details. Two year agreement with qualifying voice plan and a minimum $15 a month smartphone data plan required. Subscriber must live and have a mailing address within AT&T's owned wireless network coverage area. Up to $36 activation fee applies. Equipment price and availability may vary by market and may not be available from independent retailers. Early Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days, but up to $35 restocking fee may apply to returns; thereafter up to $325. Some agents impose additional fees. Other conditions and restrictions apply. See contract for details. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment. 		About AT&T		AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. 		Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT. Find us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ATT to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at www.Facebook.com/ATTSmallBiz to discover more about our small business services. 		About Samsung Telecommunications America		Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, a Dallas-based subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., researches, develops and markets wireless handsets, wireless infrastructure and other telecommunications products throughout North America. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. 		About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.		Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of US$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company consists of nine independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Memory, System LSI and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, semiconductor chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. 		Show full PR text  Samsung Galaxy S II Coming Soon to T-Mobile 		Bellevue, Wash. - Aug. 30, 2011		2011-08-30 18:25:11		Samsung Galaxy S II at T-Mobile 		T-Mobile USA, Inc. is pleased to announce the upcoming availability of the Samsung Galaxy S™ II at T-Mobile this fall. Featuring a brilliant 4.52-inch Super AMOLED Plus touch screen – one of the largest screens available on a Galaxy S II device – T-Mobile's Galaxy S II promises to keep customers entertained and connected while on the go. We look forward to sharing more information in the coming weeks. 		Show full PR text  NEXT GENERATION OF SAMSUNG'S FLAGSHIP SMARTPHONE PORTFOLIO - GALAXY S II – READY FOR U.S. ARRIVAL 		Samsung's fastest selling smartphone in the world coming soon to AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile 		DALLAS, August 29, 2011 - Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile)1, the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S., today announced the Galaxy S™ II will be available with AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile starting this fall. The U.S. launch follows the successful debut of the Galaxy S II in Europe and Korea, where consumers bought 5 million smartphones in 85 days, making the device Samsung's fastest selling smartphone ever. The next generation Galaxy S II portfolio packs industry-leading hardware and software and the latest version of the Android smartphone platform into each device. The Galaxy S II portfolio is highlighted by Samsung's own Super AMOLED Plus display technology, a powerful dual core application processor and a robust array of entertainment, messaging, social networking and enterprise experiences. 		"The unveiling of the Galaxy S II is a landmark achievement for Samsung, our carrier customers and consumers," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "Five million Galaxy S II smartphones have been sold around the world and that number increases every day. We believe the cutting-edge design, features and user experience of this innovative device will share the same level of success in the U.S." 		The three smartphones within the Samsung Galaxy S II portfolio are designed with an ultra-thin form factor and brilliant Super AMOLED Plus touch screen display. Recent independent studies showed that Samsung's Super AMOLED Plus display technology was preferred 2 to 1 over any competing display technology in the market today2, thanks to touchscreen's ability to deliver brilliant colors with the most contrast, providing a vivid and crisp viewing experience. 		All three Galaxy S II smartphones are enabled with 4G3 service for fast connectivity speeds and dual core processors for seamless web surfing, console-like game play and rapid content downloads. 		Personalized Customization		The Galaxy S II portfolio features an improved Samsung TouchWiz user interface, providing superior multi-tasking, application management, and customization and includes Live Panel which provides a magazine-like widget view for immediate access to weather, social updates, email, news, photo gallery and more, all of which can be customized on the home screen. All of the Samsung Live Panel widgets can be positioned and re-sized to create rich, visual home screens and provide one-touch access to the information consumers use most. Touchwiz UI also includes Quick Panel which allows instant access to commonly used device settings like Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, and other key device features. The TouchWiz UI notification service on the lock screen notifies users to the number of unread or new text messages, and missed calls that have been sent to you on your Galaxy S II. Users get direct access to missed calls and text messages from the lock screen by swiping the notification boxes without having to navigate through the applications menu. 		Each of the Galaxy S II devices feature six-axis motion sensing using an accelerometer and gyroscope that support advanced touch screen gestures, including motion to zoom in on images, silence a ringing phone, and even move widgets on the menu screens. 		Premium Content		Galaxy S II will also include Samsung's popular Media Hub movie and TV content service. Media Hub features thousands of new release and top-grossing titles from major Hollywood studios and leading television networks, including NBC Universal, Paramount, MTV, Warner Bros., CBS and FOX. The content service has added a new feature called Media Hub Show, allowing the user to playback Media Hub content on a TV through an HDMI cable connected to a Galaxy S II dock or HDTV Smart adapter accessory. Users can share purchased to own film or TV content across up to five devices enabled with Media Hub at no additional cost. Alternate premium video options include Android Movies, Netflix, and others which are available to download from Android Market™. 		Samsung's Social Hub service on the Galaxy S II transfers email, instant messaging, contacts, calendar and social network connections, including Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts, into "Feeds" and "Messages" folders that can be either separated into separate tabs or combined into comprehensive lists. 		Samsung's Galaxy S II portfolio is powered by the open and innovative Android Gingerbread platform, complete with full support of Google Mobile Services including Android Market with access to more than 250,000 applications, Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, YouTube, Google Talk and more. 		In addition, Galaxy S II and the Android Gingerbread platform support an array of cloud services including content sync across the Galaxy branded portfolio with Google services (Books, Music, Videos, Email, Calendar) Samsung Media Hub and cloud photo sync through Picasa Web Albums and Google+. 		Uncompromised Convergence		The Galaxy S II portfolio offers a number of convergence features to share content in tethered and wireless formats. With Samsung's All Share application, which enables inter-device connectivity through DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) technology, users can send user-generated video content wirelessly to other DLNA-enabled devices, such as TV's, monitors and laptops, allowing for an interactive entertainment experience. The TV Remote App, also available through Android Market, transforms the Galaxy S II into a remote control for several top models of Samsung HDTVs. Smart Show and Media Hub Show enables the user to tether an HDMI over micro USB connection to an HDTV to play user generated or Media Hub DRM protected content respectively directly from the Galaxy S II device to the HDTV screen. Samsung Kies Air service allows users to connect their PC or Mac via WiFi without a preloaded application to easily view and manage your content. Users can transfer files, manage contacts and messages and send SMS from the PC. 		Optimal Enterprise Solutions		Galaxy S II integrates a range of enterprise solutions that expand the business capabilities of the devices. The Galaxy S II portfolio provides support for exchange device management policies, offers increased security of data and services and enables mobile conferencing while on the go. Galaxy S II also features productivity enhancement capabilities such as the ability to create and respond to meeting requests, view, edit, and create Microsoft®-compatible documents, spreadsheets, and presentations, global address lookup (GAL), and more. 		Additional enterprise solutions include: 		On-device encryption of user data		Full support for Exchange ActiveSync® version 14		Cisco VPN (Virtual Private Network)		Sybase MDM (Mobile Device Management)		Cisco WebEx mobile conference solution 		Additional features of the Galaxy S portfolio include: 		8-megapixel Rear-Facing Camera with Autofocus & Flash & 1080p HD Video Recording/2-megapixel Front-Facing Camera: The Galaxy S II portfolio features an 8 megapixel camera with flash and can record video in 1080p HD high profile offering the richest video content on a smartphone. Plus, the front-facing 2 megapixel camera provides video chat capabilities for personal and business communication on-the-go. Galaxy S II supports popular video conferencing services like Skype, Fring, Qik and Tango.		Voice Talk: The Galaxy S II Voice Talk feature allows users to give their Galaxy S II device voice commands, including voice dial, text message, navigation, music, Web browsing and search. When docked into the car dock, the Galaxy S II automatically defaults into Voice Talk mode. Users can instantly activate the Voice Talk application by a long press on the search key.		Task Manager: View and close the applications users have active, what items have been downloaded and check on memory usage via the Task Manager widget.		Screen Capture Feature: Users can easily take a screen grab of the phone screen by pressing the power button and the home key simultaneously.		Memory: All three Galaxy S II devices offer 16GB of on-board memory, as well as a microSD card slot that supports up to a 32GB memory card. 		Premium Accessories Portfolio		A host of premium Galaxy S II accessories, including convenient solutions for docking, convergence, and backup battery charging will be available for each smartphone, providing users with an enhanced mobile experience. A multimedia dock is the perfect smart accessory, allowing users to transform their Galaxy S II into a home stereo by connecting speakers or plugging it into a home entertainment system via the 3.5mm stereo connector. Its ability to orient with the phone while docked makes it easy to view content in portrait and landscape mode, while the auto-launch of its Desk Dock UI makes for easy access to music, video and other applications.		Additional accessory solutions include: 		Vehicle dock: The dock charges the phone while docked to ensure uninterrupted GPS usage on long car rides. The dock is windshield or dashboard mountable and includes the sophisticated Vlingo Voice Talk, allowing users to enjoy hands-free control of their Galaxy S II. 		Battery charging stand with spare battery: This charging solution ensures a backup battery is always on hand, while providing a convenient kick stand for the Galaxy S II. 		HDTV Adapter: The HDMI adapter supports HD video up to 1080p from the phone to an HDTV, projector, or monitor. Use on the go to connect the Galaxy S II to a TV, monitor, or projector to view purchased Media Hub content, videos, presentations, games, or internet on a big HD screen, or listen to downloaded music from the phone on a home entertainment system.
 