
 
So, AT&T, it's true: you're charging $50 more for the Galaxy Tab than everyone else in the States off-contract. That's a pretty gutsy sense of entitlement, though you're bundling $50 in Samsung Media Hub credit -- and, of course, no other Tab has access to AT&T's $15 and $25 pay-as-you-go data plans at 250MB and 2GB, respectively. Pick your poison, we suppose. In related news, regional carrier US Cellular is going to start selling the Tab on November 19th for $399 on-contract or $599 off, effectively the same price schedule as all the big guys except AT&T. Data pricing on USCC seems like it needs another tier, though, because right now you'll be able to choose between $14.99 for 200MB or $54.99 for 5GB with tethering enabled. Where's the happy medium, guys? Follow the break for both press releases.
      

 

Show full PR textAT&T INTRODUCES SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB WITH PAY-AS-YOU-GO MONTHLY DATA PLANSNovember 15, 2010Android-Powered Tablet Available Nov. 21 Online and in 2,200 AT&T Stores NationwideDALLAS, NoV. 10, 2010- AT&T* and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S.1, today announced the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ will launch on Sunday, Nov. 21 on the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, and just in time for the holiday season.The Galaxy Tab will be available for $649. .99** at more than 2,200 AT&T company owned stores and online at Samsung Galaxy Tab (www.att.com/galaxytab). AT&T will offer two pay-as-you-go data plan options for the Galaxy Tab, a $14.99 pay-as-you-go plan for 30 days with up to 250 MB of usage and a $25 pay-as-you-go plan for 30 days with up to 2 GB of usage. If customers use all the data included in their plan before 30 days, they can purchase another pay-as-you go plan. For additional convenience, these plans can automatically renew every 30 days, when customers pay for these plans with a credit card or debit card. AT&T data plan subscribers also get access to AT&T's entire national Wi-Fi network at no additional charge. Subscribers can activate their service plan directly on the Galaxy Tab, without making a phone call or a visit to the store, whenever they need access to data within the allocated U.S. footprint.The data plans do not require a long-term contract. Customers have the option to change plans or purchase more data without penalty as needed. As a courtesy reminder, AT&T will notify customers with a text and email when their 30-day plan is close to expiring or when they are close to depleting the amount of data available in the plan.In addition to the domestic data plans, international passes are also available which provide data coverage in more than 100 countries, including Canada, Mexico, and countries in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Plans start at $24.99."Consumers are seeking cutting-edge mobile computing devices and we're proud to give them another great choice in our product portfolio," said David Haight, vice president of business development, AT&T Emerging Devices. "Samsung's Galaxy Tab is a sharp device boasting a brilliant screen for watching videos, a powerful processor and a host of cutting edge features that everyone in the family will enjoy. Pairing it with the nation's fastest mobile broadband network and most extensive Wi-Fi network gives AT&T Galaxy customers the best mobile broadband experience in the market.""We are excited to bring the Galaxy Tab to AT&T customers for the holiday season," said Omar Khan, Chief Strategy Officer, Samsung Mobile. "Its seven inch form factor, pocketable weight and robust feature set make it ideal for work and play. It's the kind of device users will want to carry with them every day."Powered by the Android™ 2.2 platform, the Samsung Galaxy Tab touts a 7-inch enhanced TFT touch screen, 1Ghz Hummingbird application processor, support for Adobe® Flash® Player 10.1, Media Hub - Samsung's own content service that offers an extensive library of acclaimed films and TV programming – Samsung Social Hub, dual cameras, and many additional features.For a limited time, AT&T customers will receive a $50 Media Hub Movie Rental credit with Galaxy Tab purchases.2AT&T consumers will enjoy a rich web browsing experience with the mobile tablet, along with access to many forms of multimedia content on the 7-inch display, including movies, photos, ebooks and more – all on the go Also, users can communicate via e-mail or social networking with the optimized user interface.In addition to the numerous Samsung Mobile features, the AT&T-powered Samsung Galaxy Tab also features AT&T Connection Manager, which automatically connects users to AT&T Wi-Fi Hot Spots to better manage data usage.Additional information on AT&T data plans for the Galaxy Tab is available at www.att.com/galaxytab. For more information on AT&T, please visit the AT&T website.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.** Price established by AT&T for AT&T-owned retail locations.1 Number one mobile phone provider in the U.S claim for Samsung Mobile based upon reported shipment data, according to Strategy Analytics, Q2 2010 U.S. Market Share Handset Shipments Reports.2 Galaxy Tab customers are required to register their device at www.samsung.com/register to receive their $50 Media Hub Movie Rental credit. For additional information and terms and conditions, please visit www.samsung.com/atttabpromo.com. Mobile broadband coverage not available in all areas.Show full PR textSAMSUNG GALAXY TABTM AVAILABLE TO U.S. CELLULAR CUSTOMERS IN STORES AND AT USCELLULAR.COM ON NOVEMBER 19With "no contract after the first" from The Belief Project, customers can purchase the mobile tablet for $399 with a two-year contract and never have to sign another one CHICAGO (November 15, 2010) – Holiday shoppers who want to get a head start on their gifts can pick up the Samsung Galaxy Tab from U.S. Cellular beginning Friday, Nov. 19. The carrier's first mobile tablet will retail for $399 after a $100 mail-in rebate and two-year contract. The Galaxy Tab's large 7-inch touchscreen creates a web browsing experience that is more like a PC and the vibrant graphics and 1 GHz processor deliver games with dazzling clarity. It's loaded with Samsung's Media Hub, a single source for buying and watching movies and TV shows that are optimized to fit the brilliant display. The Galaxy Tab can also be a convenient e-reader with free downloadable applications from Kindle and Nook. It's a world of information and entertainment that is still small enough to hold in one hand. Customers can access data on their Galaxy Tab via Wi-Fi or on U.S. Cellular's high-speed nationwide network. The carrier offers two rate plans that are tailored to match how often customers will use Wi-Fi for their data needs. The $14.99 plan is ideal for customers who will use Wi-Fi most of the time and comes with 200 MB of monthly network data usage on U.S. Cellular's network for those occasions when Wi-Fi isn't available. Customers who don't want to rely on a Wi-Fi connection can select U.S. Cellular's $54.99 plan, which provides 5GB of network data usage and can turn the Galaxy Tab into a mobile hotspot for other Wi-Fi devices. Customers who opt for the $54.99 plan will receive all the benefits of The Belief Project, U.S. Cellular's series of industry-leading initiatives designed to elevate the customer experience. All customers on a Belief Plan get automatic upgrades of their device at promotional prices every 18 months and get rewards just for being a customer that can be used for even faster upgrades. "We're bringing tremendous value to our customers through The Belief Project, with plans to match how they use their devices and products they really want, all backed by innovative services that make their lives easier," said Edward Perez, vice president of marketing and sales operations for U.S. Cellular.
 