
 
 Be still your beating heart, Samsung has announced that several customers who have already fallen for its incoming flagship's charms will get their pre-orders honored a day early. Unfortunately, it will be limited to those that ordered through its own brand store in Westfield Stratford City in London, but those lucky few will get their very own Galaxy S III at 6pm on May 29th -- half a day before the rest of the UK. We're planning to get our hands on a review model before then, so expect to see our fully-fleshed musings before the end of May.



  Show full PR text   SAMSUNG GALAXY SIII AVAILABLE A DAY EARLY FOR SAMSUNG BRAND STORE PRE-ORDER CUSTOMERS
   16th May 2012, London, UK – Samsung Mobile UK today announced that customers who have pre-ordered a Galaxy S III from the Samsung Brand Store at Westfield Stratford City will be able to collect their device the night before the official launch date of 30 May.

 
   Samsung Brand Store pre-order customers can get their hands on the new device from 6pm on 29 May. Early collection will only be available for customers that have pre-ordered from the Samsung Brand Store before 6pm on 29 May. The device will not be available to buy on May 29 – this offer is for pre-order customers only. Pre-orders made after 6pm on 29 May, whether in-store or online, will be fulfilled from 30 May. Pre-orders from retentions or online will also not be delivered to customers' delivery addresses until 30 May onwards.

 
   Samsung is also giving its retail partners the option to make their own Galaxy S III pre-orders available early; an hour later from 7pm. The final decision will be contingent on individual retailers as to whether they make this offer available to their customers.

 
   Simon Stanford, Vice President, Telecommunications and Networks, Samsung UK and Ireland said: "We've had an overwhelming response from our retail partners and customers alike since announcing the Galaxy S III on 3 May. So we wanted to delight our customers and reward them for pre-ordering by letting them get their hands on the device a day before anyone else. We believe we have created our best smartphone yet, designed specifically with daily human needs in mind, and we are proud to provide our customers with a truly unique mobile user experience."

 
   The Galaxy S III will be available to buy in the UK across all major networks, key high street and out of town electrical retailers, online retailers and the Samsung Brand Store at Westfield Stratford City on 30 May.

 
