
 

What's better than playing a nice round of kick the seat of the guy in front of you? Most things, really, including the dozen iPad titles that Gameloft is bringing to Australian air carrier Jetstar's rentable iPads. Real Football, Shrek Kart, Avatar, UNO and N.O.V.A.: Near Orbit Vanguard Alliance will be coming to the carrier's Apple tablets in December, with seven more games arriving in the first quarter of next year. All games will be followed by a bonus round of make sure your tray table is stored for landing.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Gameloft Announces 12 Titles for iPad Rentals on Jetstar Flights 			Gameloft, a leading publisher of digital and social games, has announced a lineup of 12 pre-loaded games for iPads available to the Australian air carrier Jetstar passengers as part of their new in-flight entertainment program. 5 titles will be available from December onwards : Real Football, Shrek Kart, Avatar, UNO™ and N.O.V.A.: Near Orbit Vanguard Alliance. The remaining 7 titles, GT Racing: Motor Academy, Brain Challenge, Blokus, Ironman 2, Let's Golf 2, The Settlers and Asphalt 5 will follow in the first quarter of 2012. 			"Gameloft's philosophy is to make video games accessible to the widest audience possible by constantly seeking new avenues to reach and interact with consumers," said Michel Guillemot, President and Founder of Gameloft. "As Jetstar uses some of the most innovative technology available to enhance its customers in-flight experience, we look forward to partnering with them to offer one of the most immersive gaming experience to ever appear onboard an aircraft." 			"Jetstar is proud to be the first airline in the world to entertain its customers with cutting-edge iPad technology revolutionizing the in-flight entertainment experience for its customers." added Bruce Buchanan, Jetstar Group Chief Executive Officer. 			As the new in-flight entertainment program is rolled out over the coming weeks on selected Jetstar flights, including Australian domestic, trans Tasman and short-haul international flights between Australia and New Zealand, passengers will have the option to rent iPads when flying longer than 2 hours for A$10 to A$15 per flight. 
 