
 For those of us obsessed with chasing the proverbial white ball, accurate stats are tough to come by -- unlike the pros who have every drive, chip and putt scoped to the nearest inch. That inspired Golf Game, a system that pairs NFC with current golf tech like GPS and motion sensors to track your every duff. It uses NFC-equipped tags that pop into the end of each club and a hip-mounted "GYG" device to collect the data with a battery life of two rounds (about 8 hours) -- and no need to pack a smartphone or tablet onto the course. The golfer then "tags" his club against the hip-worn device prior to taking a lunge, and every shot from a 300-yard drive to a 5-inch putt is duly noted.

 After the round, all that info can tell the story of your game via an iOS, Android or web app, displaying stats like driving distance, greens in regulation and putting. You'll also be able to create competitions among friends through the Game platform, and brag (or cry) about your play via Twitter, Facebook or email. The system's been backed by top-ranked players Lee Westwood and Graeme McDowell, and is now on Indiegogo where the creators are seeking $125K to get it off the ground. A minimum $149 pledge will get you a Game Golf device by July (estimated), though if you're willing to pony up $500 for a limited edition autographed by the above pros, you could see it as early as May. Hit the PR or video after the break for more, or tee up one of your own at the source. 




 
  Show full PR text   GAME GOLF brings the golfing experience into the 21st century
   Launches Indiegogo campaign for wearable golf technology and integrated software platform - seamlessly records shot location, distance, club usage and syncs to cloud

  SAN FRANCISCO (Marketwire) – March 5, 2013 – GAME GOLF, a wearable technology and integrated software platform for golf, was launched today by Active Mind Technology through an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign to raise funds in order to bring the product to market by Summer 2013. Backed by professional golfers Graeme McDowell and Lee Westwood, it seamlessly records your golf game to make the game you love more engaging, visual, interactive, shareable and social, both on and off the course. GAME GOLF is available for pre-order now at www.gameyourgame.com.

   "GAME GOLF not only gives everyone access to crucial data to dramatically improve your golf game and handicap, but it also makes playing more motivating, rewarding, social and fun," said Graeme McDowell, 2010 US Open Champion and GAME GOLF investor. "The product is extremely intuitive, doesn't disrupt your game and is essential for any golfer looking to understand their game better, knock down their handicap, give themselves a competitive edge and compete with their friends and family across the globe."

   GAME GOLF is designed by fuseproject and Yves Béhar, CEO of fuseproject and Chief Creative Officer at Jawbone, the maker of the wireless JAMBOX speaker. The GAME GOLF elegant and discreet wearable device tracks the data around the course, and uploads the data automatically to an intuitive app which allows you to track, analyze and share the data collected. It tracks the most important statistics from your golf game, including club-by-club performance, fairway accuracy, greens in regulation and putting.

   "The design of the GAME GOLF app and product has been closely integrated: a beautiful and dynamic presentation of play data, easy and fun ways to share, non-disruptive hardware and experience," said Yves Béhar, CEO of fuseproject. "The design and user interface is crafted to deliver a 21st century experience of the game."

   The product utilizes a combination of positional technology, motion sensors and near field communication to capture the golfer's data from the course. The device is engineered to be power efficient and extend battery life beyond that of the average smart phone and provides two full rounds of tracking on one charge. Data from the GAME device is synced to the cloud via Bluetooth to a smartphone or via USB to a PC. The GAME software is feature-rich and allows you to view and socialize your game in a fun and easy way.

   "The golf community has been calling out for a product that tracks their game effortlessly, shares results with friends and provides intuitive data with which they can analyze to constantly improve their game – and GAME GOLF is here to provide that," said John McGuire, CEO and Co-Founder, GAME. "A new era of quantification and gamification is rapidly and radically changing the way we live, work and play. Existing golf technologies only provide technology that helps on the course, but we provide the complete package, giving you everything you need to improve your game and compete before, during and after you take to the course."

   To pre-order the device and learn more, go to www.gameyourgame.com.

  About Active Mind Technology:
   Active Mind Technology is a privately-held company which is pioneering the gamification of sport through its development of the GAME platform. GAME is a platform which combines wearable technology and integrated software, and is extensible across multiple sports. GAME GOLF is the first product in the GAME series. GAME GOLF has been developed in collaboration with top tour golfers Graeme McDowell and Lee Westwood. GAME GOLF includes a wearable device and NFC club interface which seamlessly captures shot distance, location and club usage data from the golfer. Data is synced to the cloud from the device and is viewable on a mobile device or on the web. GAME extends, enhances and allows you to socialize your game experience like never before

 
