
 While waiting for season three of Game of Thrones to start airing March 31st, fans of HBO's series will be able to snag the second season on Blu-ray February 19th. Even if you've already seen it (whether on TV, via a borrowed HBO login or...other sources) there should be some new elements with Blu-ray exclusive "HBO Select" features including an interactive "War of the 5 Kings" guide to keep track of who is doing what / where / when, animated histories, in-episode guides with more information on characters (like the iPad companion app did) as they appear and "dragon egg" surprises. Check the press release after the break for a full account of features, or hit Amazon to preorder the 7-disc set (w/ digital copies) for $55.99.



 a
  
  Show full PR text   GAME OF THRONES®:  THE COMPLETE SECOND SEASON   Available February 19, 2013 on Blu-ray™ with HBO Select™, DVD & Digital Download   Acclaimed Series is Best-Selling TV on BD/DVD Title of 2012   Loaded with Exclusive Bonus Content Including War of the Five Kings Interactive Guide & Creating the Battle of Blackwater Bay Featurette, Histories & Much More!    New York, N.Y., November 19, 2012 - The second season of the "thrilling" (Entertainment Weekly) and "magnificent" (Wall Street Journal) HBO series Game of Thrones makes its highly-anticipated Blu-ray with HBO Select, DVD and Digital Download debut on February 19, 2013. Based on George R.R. Martin's best-selling series A Song of Ice and Fire, the first season of the epic series became the home entertainment industry's best-selling television title for 2012 as well as the fastest selling TV on Blu-ray title of all time. Game of Thrones: The Complete Second Season five-disc Blu-ray with HBO Select ($79.98) and DVD ($59.99) sets contain a monumental array of exclusive bonus materials and interactive features that will thrill fans of the series and new viewers alike.   The second season of Game of Thrones was nominated for 11 2012 Emmy® awards (including Outstanding Drama Series) winning six. In this season, the coveted Iron Throne is occupied by cruel young Joffrey Baratheon, counseled by his conniving mother Cersei and his uncle Tyrion, who has been appointed Hand of the King. However, the Lannister hold on the Throne is under assault on many fronts. Robb Stark seeks autonomy in the North and has taken Cersei's brother Jaime prisoner in battle. Daenerys Targaryen looks to shore up her depleted power in the East with her three newborn dragons. Stannis Baratheon rejects Joffrey's legitimacy and aligns with a powerful priestess to raise a naval attack while his brother Renly has maintained his own claim since fleeing King's Landing. North of the Wall a new leader is rising among the wildlings adding new perils for Jon Snow and the Night's Watch.   Bonus Material  The Blu-ray with HBO Select and DVD bonus materials included in Game of Thrones: The Complete Second Season contains extensive never-before-seen features. Highlights include a comprehensive "making of" the penultimate episode "Blackwater," an in-depth look into the War of the Five Kings and meticulous histories and character profiles which explore the amazing production elements that went into making the second season so compelling. Content includes:   Blu-ray with HBO Select - includes all DVD features plus:  War of the Five Kings - Track the claims, strategies and key players involved in the battle for the Iron Throne with this interactive guide that follows the movements of various armies detailing their victories and defeats.  Histories & Lore - 19 animated histories detailing the mythology of Westeros and Essos as told from the varying perspectives of the characters themselves and featuring, in-part, illustrations from Game of Thrones storyboard artist Will Simpson.  In-Episode Guide - In-feature resource that provides background information about on-screen characters, locations and relevant histories.  Hidden Dragon Eggs - Find the hidden dragon eggs to uncover even more never-before-seen content.  DVD:  Creating the Battle of Blackwater Bay - See how the epic Battle of Blackwater Bay was brought to life in this exclusive, in-depth, behind-the-scenes look at the climatic episode. The 30 minute feature showcases never-before-seen interviews with cast and crew.  Game of Thrones: Inner Circle - Actors Emilia Clarke, Kit Harington, Lena Headey, Michelle Fairley and Liam Cunningham talk in detail about their experiences shooting season two in this roundtable discussion moderated by executive producers David Benioff and D.B. Weiss.  The Religions of Westeros - Hear author George R.R. Martin, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss discuss the competing religions in the series and how they influence the various characters in Westeros and beyond.  Character Profiles - Profiles of seven major characters as described by the actors portraying them including Renly Baratheon, Stannis Baratheon, Robb Stark, Theon Greyjoy and more.  Audio Commentaries - 12 commentaries with cast and crew including David Benioff, D.B. Weiss, George R.R. Martin, Emilia Clarke, Peter Dinklage, Kit Harington and more.   The second season of Game of Thrones features returning cast members Emmy® and Golden Globe winner Peter Dinklage(Tyrion Lannister), Michelle Fairley (Catelyn Stark), Lena Headey (Cersei Lannister), Emilia Clarke (Daenerys Targaryen), Nikolaj Coster-Waldau (Jaime Lannister), Aidan Gillen (Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish), Iain Glen (Jorah Mormont), Kit Harington (Jon Snow), Richard Madden (Robb Stark), Maisie Williams(Arya Stark), Isaac Hempstead Wright (Bran Stark), Sophie Turner(Sansa Stark), Jack Gleeson (Joffrey Baratheon), Alfie Allen (Theon Greyjoy), Rory McCann (Sandor "The Hound" Clegane), Charles Dance (Tywin Lannister), Jerome Flynn (Bronn), Conleth Hill (Varys), John Bradley(Samwell Tarly), James Cosmo (Commander Mormont), Sibel Kekilli (Shae), Donald Sumpter (Maester Luwin), Ron Donachie(Rodrik Cassel) and Gethin Anthony (Renly Baratheon).   New cast members in the second season include: Stephen Dillane(Stannis Baratheon), Gwendoline Christie (Brienne), Carice van Houten (Melisandre), Liam Cunningham (Davos Seaworth), Natalie Dormer (Margaery Tyrell) and Rose Leslie (Ygritte). The series executive producers are David Benioff, D.B. Weiss, Carolyn Strauss, Frank Doelger; co-executive producers, George R.R. Martin, Vanessa Taylor, Alan Taylor, Guymon Casady, Vince Gerardis; produced by Bernadette Caulfield. Directors include Brian Kirk, Daniel Minahan, Alan Taylor and Tim Van Patten; writers include David Benioff & D.B. Weiss, Bryan Cogman, Jane Espenson and George R.R. Martin.    Game of Thrones: The Complete Second Season  Blu-ray with HBO Select & DVD  Street Date: February 19, 2012  Order Date: January 15, 2012  Rating: TV-MA  Runtime: Approx. 542 minutes (not including extra features)  Price: $79.98 Blu-ray with HBO Select (5 Discs)  $59.99 DVD (5 Discs)   About HBO Home Entertainment®  HBO Home Entertainment markets an extensive array of programs ranging from the critically-acclaimed and groundbreaking series The Sopranos®, Sex and the City®, True Blood® and Game of Thrones® to the multiple Emmy Award-winning mini-series The Pacific® and Band of Brothers®. The company's catalog contains hundreds of titles including the Peabody Award-winning children's program Classical Baby, provocative programs from HBO Documentary Films including When the Levees Broke, innovative movies from HBO Films including Temple Grandin, and comedy specials featuring stand-up performers like Chris Rock and Ricky Gervais. The division distributes programs to the home entertainment market in three formats: Blu-ray, DVD, and digital download. Launched in 1984, HBO Home Entertainment has offices in New York, London and Toronto and the company's releases are marketed in over 70 countries around the world.

 
