

Sure, Adidas may have just revealed a smartwatch that's geared toward runners, but golfers too need some love from wearable makers. As such, Garmin just announced the successor to its Approach S3 golf watch, the aptly named Approach S4. This GPS-ready wrist companion offers a lot of the same functionality as its predecessor, although there are a few notable additions in this edition. Namely, the Approach S4 now offers a new, high-resolution display, a battery capable of lasting up to 10 hours on a charge and the ability to access data from more than 30,000 international golf courses (compared to the 27,000 on the S3). Additionally, Garmin's added a Smart Notification feature that allows users with an iPhone to receive notifications right on their watch, some of which include emails, text messages and more. The Approach S4 will be $350 when it becomes available later this fall.



Show full PR textGarmin® Expands Approach® Series with S4, a Sleek Golf Watch with High-Res Touchscreen Display and Smart Notifications
OLATHE, Kan./ October 15, 2013/Business Wire-Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the Approach S4 GPS golf watch-a feature-packed golf watch to expand the already popular Approach Series. The Approach S4 has a high-res touchscreen display that is sunlight readable and offers a dedicated Green View button. It boasts a rechargeable lithium-ion battery that can last for up to 10 hours in golf mode. The S4 comes preloaded with more than 30,000 international courses [1] with free lifetime course updates, so there are no additional fees or subscriptions. The Approach S4 also has Smart Notification technology when paired with a compatible Apple smartphone. This allows the watch to wirelessly receive information from the phone's notification center such as emails, text messages, so golfers can leave their phones in their bags while on the course. Like other Garmin Golf GPS devices, the S4 gives precise distances to the front, middle and back of the green, and incorporates layup, dogleg and shot distances all while keeping score and tracking statistics on the digital scorecard. The Approach S4 has a fashionable and functional design that is great on the golf course, and as a stylish everyday wristwatch.

"The Approach S4 is the natural evolution of wearable golf technology," said Dan Bartel, Garmin vice president of worldwide sales. "The hi-res touchscreen display makes it easier than ever for golfers to stay on top of their game, and the Smart Notification functionality allows them to stay connected while on the course. Plus, the extended battery life allows for a full weekend of golf on one charge. The Approach S4 will give golfers a competitive edge on the course, but the sleek form factor and smart watch technology makes it appropriate for everyday wear."

The Approach S4 is a golf watch like no other. The high-res touchscreen display is glove-friendly and easy to read, even in direct sunlight. Weighing only 2.06 ounces, and water resistant to 10 meters, the Approach S4 packs powerful features into a small, easy to wear package. It boasts the longest golf mode battery life in the Approach watch lineup with 10 hours. The Approach S4 incorporates Smart Notification technology, which allows golfers to stay connected while on the course. When paired with a compatible smartphone (iPhone 4s and above running iOS7.0 and above), the S4 acts as a wireless extension of the device through Bluetooth Low Energy so users can receive emails, text messages and more while on the course.

Like other Garmin golf GPS devices, the Approach S4 provides precise distance to the front, middle and back of the green. It also shows layup and dogleg distances, and adds a Measure Shot feature, which calculates yardages for shots played anywhere on the course. With the S4, users will even be able to input and save customizable yardage points, like water hazards or bunkers, to help golfers place shots more precisely. Additionally, the Approach S4 adds a dedicated button for easy access to the Green View screen. This feature shows golfers the true shape and layout of the green, and allows them to touch and drag the pin to the day's location so they'll know exactly how much power to put into their swing.

The S4 can be used all over the world, and because more than 30,000 courses are onboard, golfers will never have to worry about subscription fees or roaming charges. Golfers who are traveling, playing unfamiliar courses, or those who simply want to better understand their courses at home will be able to do so in style with the Approach S4. The digital scorecard feature allows individual scorecards to be saved, reviewed, shared and printed, so golfers are able to track their progress over time. Scores can be recorded in either Stroke Play or Stableford. The Approach S4 is also able to track golfer statistics, which allows players to enter information such as strokes, putts and fairways hit, along with their score at the end of each hole. This info is tabulated, and some stats like putts per round, greens in regulation and fairways hit, can be displayed at the end of the round. The S4 has an easy-to-use interface and comes equipped with an odometer and round timer so golfers can track the distance walked and time spent playing. The S4 will come in black and white, with optional colorful accessory bands sold separately.

The Approach S4 will be available in Fall 2013, and will retail for $349.99. It will be available at specialty golf retailers and golf course pro-shops. The Approach S4 is the latest addition to Garmin's outdoor segment, which focuses on developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' outdoor experiences. Whether it's golfing, hiking, hunting or geocaching, Garmin outdoor devices are becoming essential tools for outdoor enthusiasts of all levels. For more information about Garmin's other outdoor products and services, go to garmin.com/sports and facebook.com/garmin.

About Garmin International Inc.Garmin International Inc. is a subsidiary of Garmin Ltd. (Nasdaq: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation. Since 1989, this group of companies has designed, manufactured, marketed and sold navigation, communication and information devices and applications – most of which are enabled by GPS technology. Garmin's products serve automotive, mobile, wireless, outdoor recreation, marine, aviation, and OEM applications. Garmin Ltd. is incorporated in Switzerland, and its principal subsidiaries are located in the United States, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. For more information, visit Garmin's virtual pressroom at www.garmin.com/pressroom or contact the Media Relations department at 913-397-8200. Garmin and Approach are registered trademarks of Garmin Ltd. or its subsidiaries.

All other brands, product names, company names, trademarks and service marks are the properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.

Notice on Forward-Looking Statements:

This release includes forward-looking statements regarding Garmin Ltd. and its business. Such statements are based on management's current expectations. The forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this release may not occur and actual results could differ materially as a result of known and unknown risk factors and uncertainties affecting Garmin, including, but not limited to, the risk factors listed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, filed by Garmin with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission file number 0-31983). A copy of such Form 10-K is available at www.garmin.com/aboutGarmin/invRelations/finReports.html. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and Garmin undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

FCC Notice:

The Approach S4 has not been authorized as required by the rules of the Federal Communications Commission. These devices are not, and may not be, offered for sale or lease, or sold or leased, until authorization is obtained.

[1] Currently, there are no golf courses available in Asia for Approach S-series devices sold outside of Asia. For more detail, please see http://sites.garmin.com/clsearch/intosports/golfcourse.html.


