
 

The Garmin Edge 500 and 800 are pretty sweet GPS-enabled cycling computers, but they're also pretty expensive. The new Edge 200 shaves a cool Benjamin off the price of the aging 500 by cutting back on non-essential features. There's no navigation function or even the ability to pull in data from power meters, heart rate monitors or cadence sensors. It will, however, map your rides, let you download them over USB and share them via Garmin Connect. The 200 offers up basic info like speed, distance, calories burned and time without the need for additional harfware or a complicated set up. You can keep on pedaling for quite a while too, thanks to the roughly 130-hour memory and 14-hour battery life. The Edge 200 should start popping up sometime in Q3 for $150 and, before you go, check out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Garmin® Edge® 200 Cycling GPS Lets You Review, Relive and Plan 		OLATHE, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the Edge 200 GPS enabled cycling computer. Lightweight and stylish, the Edge 200 features a high-sensitivity GPS receiver, requires no calibration, can be switched quickly and easily between bicycles and can be used in all types of weather. 		"The Edge 200 was designed for those budget conscious cyclists looking for the basics - speed, distance, time and calories," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "With no set-up or sensors required, simply switch on, press start and go. The Edge 200 adds so much to your ride that no ride will ever be the same again." 		Whether you ride for fun, fitness or to feed your competitive edge, users will love seeing how far and how fast they rode - all without wires and sensors. Edge 200 stores up to 130 hours of ride data and sorts activities to quickly look up the fastest, longest or last ride – providing motivation and inspiration that'll keep cyclists on track. With a 14 hour battery life, Edge 200 features a USB interface for easy charging and data transfer. 		Weighing a mere 2 ounces, the Edge 200 is both lightweight and affordable. It features a high-sensitivity GPS receiver with HotFix® satellite prediction – meaning there's less time spent waiting and more time spent riding. The Edge 200 also allows users to set alerts for distance, time or calories to make it easier and more fun to achieve their goals. 		The Edge 200 helps cyclists bring new life to old rides with Courses, a feature that lets riders challenge their times on previous rides. A digital cyclist shows their speed relative to past performance, along with an indication of how far ahead or behind they are. These can be taken from rides stored on the Edge or downloaded from the huge and expanding Garmin Connect™ community (http://connect.garmin.com). Here users can quickly and easily log their rides, track their totals, set goals, share rides with friends and family and participate in an online fitness community of more than 70 million activities around the world. Garmin Connect displays metrics such as time, distance, pace, and elevation. This information is shown through charts, illustrations, reports and a variety of map representations including street, photo, topographic, and elevation maps. Use Garmin Connect's new Course Creator feature to plan new rides or convert a past activity into a Course. 		The new Edge 200 is expected to be available in the third quarter of 2011 and have a suggested retail price of $149.99. 		The Edge 200 is the latest from Garmin, which has spent more than 20 years developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' lives, making Garmin a household name in the automotive, aviation, marine, wireless, outdoor and fitness industries. For more about features, pricing and availability, as well as information about Garmin's other products and services, go to www.garmin.com, www.garmin.blogs.com and http://twitter.com/garmin. To watch step-by-step, feature-specific tutorial videos for Edge 200 and other Garmin products, visit the online learning center at www.garmin.com/learningcenter. 		About Garmin International Inc. 		Garmin International Inc. is a subsidiary of Garmin Ltd. (Nasdaq: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation. Since 1989, this group of companies has designed, manufactured, marketed and sold navigation, communication and information devices and applications – most of which are enabled by GPS technology. Garmin's products serve automotive, mobile, wireless, outdoor recreation, marine, aviation, and OEM applications. Garmin Ltd. is incorporated in Switzerland, and its principal subsidiaries are located in the United States, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. For more information, visit Garmin's virtual pressroom at www.garmin.com/pressroom or contact the Media Relations department at 913-397-8200. Garmin and Edge are registered trademarks Garmin Connect are trademarks of Garmin Ltd. or its subsidiaries. 		All other brands, product names, company names, trademarks and service marks are the properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
 