
 


	Looking to keep those New Year's resolutions past the first week of January in 2012? Garmin's out to help you stay the course with its FR70 fitness watches for both guy and gals. Using this trainer's timepiece, you'll be able to track your workout time, heart rate and calories burned right on your wrist. Powered by ANT+ technology, the FR70 can connect to compatible devices like treadmills, bikes, elliptical machines, your boyfriend's Segway, etc. For avid runners, pairing the watch with a wireless foot pod will clue you in on speed, distance and cadence during your training sessions. If biking is more your style, a pace sensor is available for you as well. Combine an FR70 with the Tanita BC-1000 system and you can track weight, water levels, body fat and a handful of other measurements that will be stored right on the device. Once all the data is collected, it can be sent to Garmin Connect whenever you return with range of your PC. The pair will be available in the UK, starting in November, for £129 / €139 ($197). If you need some reading while you're lacing up those Nikes, hit the PR button for the full skinny.
 

 		Show full PR text  Garmin FR70 Fitness Watch That Keeps You Motivated		Posted October 27, 2011 		Garmin the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the FR70 fitness watch – a sleek fitness watch plus workout tool that tracks users' time, heart rate, calories burned and when combined with one of Garmin's powerful accessories will track pace and speed. The FR70 is available in both a men's and women's version and comes with a premium heart rate monitor. 		"A lightweight, comfortable and stylish watch that helps users accomplish their goals is what the FR70 is all about," said Andy Silver, Garmin's EMEA Product Manager for Fitness. "Wear it as an every day time piece and keep it on during walks, runs or fitness routines to monitor these activities and progress. The FR70 is also the perfect Christmas gift for those looking to be inspired to return to fitness. A great gift idea that will motivate the recipient to stick to those New Year Resolutions for longer in 2012." 		Garmin the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the FR70 fitness watch – a sleek fitness watch plus workout tool that tracks users' time, heart rate, calories burned and when combined with one of Garmin's powerful accessories will track pace and speed. The FR70 is available in both a men's and women's version and comes with a premium heart rate monitor. 		"A lightweight, comfortable and stylish watch that helps users accomplish their goals is what the FR70 is all about," said Andy Silver, Garmin's EMEA Product Manager for Fitness. "Wear it as an every day time piece and keep it on during walks, runs or fitness routines to monitor these activities and progress. The FR70 is also the perfect Christmas gift for those looking to be inspired to return to fitness. A great gift idea that will motivate the recipient to stick to those New Year Resolutions for longer in 2012." 		The new FR70 men's and women's devices are expected to be available in November 2011. The FR70 has a suggested retail price of £129/€139. 		FR70 is the latest solution from Garmin's expanding fitness segment, which focuses on developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' lives and promotes healthy and active lifestyles. Whether it's running, cycling, or other athletic pursuits, Garmin fitness devices are becoming essential tools for athletes both amateur and elite. For more about features, pricing and availability, as well as information about Garmin's other fitness products and services, go to http://www.garmin.com/uk/products/sports-fitness/, http://garmin.blogs.com/uk/ and http://twitter.com/garminuk.
 