
 
 Third-party navigation apps still tend to fall apart when the keys are out of the ignition -- try to cut back on car use and you're often kicked over to another app with its own set of rules. Both Garmin's StreetPilot Onboard app and its Navigon equivalent are getting a much more holistic experience through respective upgrades due this fall. Android and iOS users alike can soon buy an Urban Guidance pack that factors buses, subways and other forms of public transportation into their on-foot routes. The playing field is leveling off for drivers willing to stretch their legs, too: iPhone owners with Navigon's app get the same last-mile walking directions and parking finder as their Android counterparts. StreetPilot iPhone app users are left out of this last addition, but they'll see compensation in the form of an optional Panorama View 3D mode and the Google Street View they're about to lose from Maps in iOS 6. The updated titles will still cost $30 for Navigon-only regional packs, $50 for editions with US-wide maps and $60 for all of North America, although you'll need to spend $5 more ($3 during the first two weeks) for Urban Guidance and $10 for the Panorama View 3D pack.



  Show full PR text   Garmin Smartphone Apps Help Navigate Cities with New Pedestrian and Public Transportation Features
  In conjunction with the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin, Germany, we today announced updates for our StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON smartphone navigation apps[1] to provide better orientation in cities. With Urban Guidance users are able to integrate public transportation into their route, complete with detailed itineraries of transit stops. The new Last Mile function automatically saves the location of the user's car when continuing by foot, making it easy to find it on the way back. To better depict the user's surroundings, the Garmin StreetPilot Onboard app for iPhone will now also include new graphical features such as Google Street View and Panorama View 3D.   "Taking into account the specific needs of city navigation, our upcoming app updates streamline directions for driving, walking and public transportation," said Joern Watzke, vice president mobile phone business at Garmin Wuerzburg GmbH. "Users can now get directions for different forms of locomotion, all integrated in one app right on their smartphone."
  Urban Guidance
  Urban Guidance considers public transportation options, such as trains, trams, busses and water taxis, whencalculating pedestrian routes. Users will be guided to a transit stop by foot and be able to look up detailed information on what line to take and where to get off. The feature even reflects the real colors of public transportationlines to provide better orientation at transit stops. The new feature will be available for the StreetPilot Onboard iPhone app and the NAVIGON app for Android and iPhone.
  Last Mile Navigation
  The new Last Mile feature provides users a streamlined navigation experience when continuing by foot after parking the car. When approaching a destination, users will be informed about parking garages nearby and can easily select an option to beguided there. Once the car is parked, the app will automatically save its position and switch into pedestrian mode to provide walking directions. Since the car's position is saved, the app can easily provide directions back to the user's car at any time. Last Mile Navigation is already available for the NAVIGON Android app but will be new to the NAVIGON iPhone app with the upcoming update. The Last Mile feature will not be available for the Garmin StreetPilot iPhone app at this point.
  Google Street View and Panorama View 3D
  Google Street View provides users a street-level view of their destination before starting a route and shortly before arriving. Users can even look at a full-screen 360° view to get a better understanding of their destination's surroundings.
  Panorama View 3D provides true 3D elevation views obtained from NASA's height and terrain data enable intuitive orientation and show users what lies ahead. Panorama View 3D is available as an in app purchase for $9.99.
  Google Street View and Panorama View 3D are already available for the NAVIGON Android and iPhone apps but will now also be added to the Garmin StreetPilot Onboard app for iPhone.   Availability
  Garmin will release updates for the StreetPilot Onboard iPhone app and the NAVIGON apps for Android and iPhone in fall 2012. The new In App Purchase Urban Guidance will be available at a reduced price of $2.99 (regular price $4.99) for the first two weeks.
   Garmin StreetPilot Onboard for iPhone: USA $49.99, North America $59.99  NAVIGON for iPhone: USA $49.99, North America $59.99, East, West or Central USA $29.99  NAVIGON for Android: USA $49.95, USA&CAN $59.95
 
