
Many running watches aren't very interesting to... well, watch. You can't say that for Garmin's new Forerunner 220 and 620, both of which carry one-inch color screens that provide clearer visual cues and new run / walk alerts. Either device will sync data to a PC or phone through Bluetooth, and the 620 (pictured at left) can connect through WiFi. The 620 is also keenly aware of its wearer's abilities. It can gauge peak oxygen volumes, and estimates race times based on likely endurance; an optional companion for the 620, the HRM-Run, measures gait with an accelerometer and suggests days off based on heart rate history. Interested athletes can pick up the Forerunner 220 and 620 this fall at respective prices of $250 and $400. They can also spend $50 more to bundle a heart rate monitor with the 220, or the HRM-Run with the 620.



Show full PR textThere's A Coach In Every Watch- Garmin® Forerunner® 620 and 220 With Color DisplayOLATHE, Kan./September 16, 2013/Business Wire - Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the Forerunner 620 and Forerunner 220 GPS running watches – two of the lightest, thinnest, most advanced offerings for runners from Garmin, and the next best thing to having a personal running coach. The Forerunner 620 offers advanced features like recovery advisor, race predictor and VO2 max estimate to help runners train smarter and achieve new race goals. When used with the NEW HRM-Run™ monitor¹, the 620 also provides feedback on running form. For indoor training, like on a treadmill, the 620 and 220's built-in accelerometer tracks distance and pace, so runners don't need a separate sensor. Both models boast Garmin's unique one-inch Chroma™ color display to easily interpret data.To see the Forerunner 620 and 220 in action, go to www.garmin.com/ForerunnerCoach.
"Whether running indoors or out, Forerunner 620 and 220 will change the way runners look at training," said Dan Bartel, Garmin vice president of worldwide sales. "Advanced features in the 620 such as recovery advisor, VO2 max estimate, race predictor and stats on running economy, combined with connected features and training plan options found in both the 620 and 220, make these watches must haves for runners of all levels. To keep runners motivated the watches also notice if runners hit any personal records on that run, like their fastest mile, 5k, 10k, half or full marathon or their longest run to date."
Regardless of a runner's experience, motivation, or how far or fast they go, they likely want to know how they can improve and objectively measure their fitness. Forerunner 620 does just that by estimating runners' VO2 max, which is a good indicator of athletic capability. Previously, the only way to accurately obtain VO2 max was by paying for a lab test. When used with a heart rate monitor, the 620 incorporates several pieces of data, like running speed, beats per minute and heart rate variability, into an advanced algorithm to estimate runners' VO2 max. The number itself indicates the maximum volume of oxygen a runner can consume per minute, per kilogram of body weight at their max performance. Theoretically, the more oxygen runners can use during high-level exercise, the more energy they can produce.A color gauge on the watch display shows how a runner's VO2 max data compares to other individuals of their gender and age range. Based on the VO2 max estimate, the 620 can predict a runner's race time for several distances. This can give runners a time target for their next race, assuming they've completed proper training.
When wearing HRM-Run, Forerunner 620's NEW recovery advisor and recovery check take the guesswork out when it comes to planning recovery time between hard workouts. Just like a coach, it learns the runner and their physiology based on heart rate data, so it factors this against their last workout and then shows how much time before they are fully recovered and ready for their next hard running workout. Color-coding on thehigh-resolution Chroma display gauge makes it easy to interpret - green, of course, means they are good to go. When runners see red on the display and a recovery time of more than 3 days, they might consider taking a rest day or just doing a light recovery run. HRM-Run also has an accelerometer in the module that measures torso movement in order to calculate 3 different running metrics:
· Cadence - the number of steps per minute. It displays the total steps (right and left combined)· Vertical oscillation - the bounce in runners' running motion. It displays the vertical motion of a runners' torso, measured in centimeters.· Ground contact time - the amount of time in each step that you spend on the ground while running, measured in milliseconds."The Forerunner 620 is a watch that runners have been waiting for", said Dr. Jack Daniels, famed running coach, author and exercise physiologist. "Being able to monitor runners' running dynamics and receive real-time feedback in a watch is a huge step in running innovation."Thanks to their Bluetooth®Smart wireless upload capabilities, Forerunner 620 and 220 can send runners' run data to the Garmin online community, Garmin Connect™, without being connected to a computer. It can transfer the data through the Garmin Connect Mobile app on their compatible smartphone. Additional connected features include live tracking, which allows runners' friends and fans to follow along and see their stats in real-time. Runners must have their phone paired with their 620 or 220 throughout the run to use the LiveTrack feature. Victories, goals achieved and successes can be shared on runners' social media sites by posting updates through the Garmin Connect Mobile app. And, for real-time coaching as they run, both the 620 and 220 are compatible with free training plans at Garmin Connect. Runners can also set up their Forerunner 620 to work with one or more Wi-Fi hot spots, such as their home and office networks, to automatically sync with Garmin Connect when in range. Syncing with Garmin Connect on a regular basis not only ensures the upload of runners' data, it also sends the next seven days worth of satellite data, to Forerunner 620 and 220, to ensure the fastest possible satellite acquisition- no more standing and waiting, and seeing runners with their wrists to the sky while waiting for a signal.With the growing popularity of the run/walk training method in the distance running community (example: a runner runs for five minutes, walks for one minute and repeats for the duration of the course), Garmin has included a run/walk alert. This alert allows Forerunner 620 and 220's other features, such as, Auto Lap and Auto Pause, to remain active during a run/walk session.
Both Forerunner 620 and 220 are water-resistant to 50m and can stand up to much more than rain, sweat and splashes. The Forerunner 620 has a touchscreen display responsive enough that it can be operated with running gloves, while the 220 is operated with easy to push buttons. Both models have rechargeable batteries lasting up to six weeks in watch mode and up to 10 hours in training mode.
Forerunner 620 is available in blue/black and white/orange, while Forerunner 220 is available in black/red and white/violet and are expected to ship fall 2013 and have suggested retail prices of $399.99/$449.99 (HRM-Run Bundle) and $249.99/$299.99 (Heart Rate Bundle) respectively. Forerunner 620 and Forerunner 220 are the latest solutions from Garmin's expanding fitness segment, which focuses on developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' lives and promotes healthy and active lifestyles. Whether it's running, cycling, or other athletic pursuits, Garmin fitness devices are becoming essential tools for athletes both amateur and elite. For more about features, pricing and availability, as well as information about Garmin's other fitness products and services, go to www.garmin.com/intosports, www.garmin.blogs.com and http://twitter.com/garmin.

