
 

The shrink wrap may be barely off the last nüvi refresh, but Garmin clearly wanted to keep a little something back for CES, and here it is: the new 3500 series, the Approach G6 golfing GPS and an Android app.

The new 3500s have the ultra-thin form factor of the company's "prestige" range, while adding an inch of screen space, taking it up to five. As these are the new top-of-the-line, all the nav-goodies you could want, like the Guidance 3.0 nav engine, Digital 3D Traffic and photoReal junction view (covering some 60,000 junctions in the US and Canada), as well as compatibility with its latest Android app (3590LMT only), but more on this shortly. The 3550LM gets free lifetime map updates and will cost $369.99 when it launches in February. The Bluetooth enabled 3590LMT gets all the same, plus lifetime digital 3D traffic updates plus that Smartphone Link support for an extra $30.

If you're more into tearing up the fairway than the freeway, Garmin's lawn friendly Approach G6 golfing GPS is likely more your cup of "tee". Weighing a touch over three ounces, it shouldn't affect your swing, and the number of mapped courses has been upped to 20,000 from the G5's 17,500. The G6 should also be out in February, just in time for that spring trip, and will take an estimated $299 out of your children's college fund.

The last of Garmin's new wares is the aforementioned Android app: Smartphone Link. Essentially adding functionality -- some free, some not so -- to your bluetooth enabled 2012 nüvi. Services such as traffic information, traffic camera images, weather and fuel prices can be piped in via the app (and your cell data plan) instead of being bundled into the GPS itself at an extra cost. Makes sense. Prices for each service will vary, but range from $4.99 to $19.99 for a year's access.

For the full PR, and a video demo of the app, click that link to see more.
      

 

    			Show full PR text  Garmin® Debuts New Top Tier GPS Navigator at CES 			OLATHE, Kan./January 9, 2012/Business Wire - Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the nüvi® 3500 series, the company's newest flagship personal navigation devices (PNDs) and the company's first GPS navigators that combine the ultra-thin form factor with a large, 5-inch glass display. The 3500 series is part of the Prestige line of 2012 nüvis and includes the most premium features available on any device such as the Guidance 3.0 navigation engine, Digital 3D Traffic and compatibility with Garmin's newest Android™ application, Smartphone Link. The nüvi 3500 series will be showcased in the Garmin booth (South Hall #38512) at this year's Consumer Electronics Show. 			"The nüvi 3500 series rounds out Garmin's 2012 line up of PNDs as the most full-featured, top tier navigators," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "This series offers it all, from the thin and stylish form factor and large display to the most premium capabilities like Digital 3D Traffic and Smartphone Link compatibility. What's more, all of these features are included with the purchase of the device, so customers don't have to worry about any additional costs, fees or subscriptions." 			As part of the Prestige line of nüvi models, these PNDs feature the Guidance 3.0 navigation engine, which provides a faster, more intuitive user interface to enhance the speed and accuracy of searches and routing. Lane assist with photoReal junction view realistically displays road signs and junctions along the route with photographic detail to clearly mark the correct lane to be in for interchanges and exits. Garmin's exclusive junction view database includes nearly 60,000 junction views in the U.S. and Canada, 25 times more than in previous nüvi models. Guidance 3.0 also includes myTrends™, the ability for the nüvi to automatically remember frequent favorite route destinations and predict the destination without the user needing to activate a route. 			To keep drivers moving instead of sitting in traffic wasting time and fuel, the nuvi 3590LMT offers subscription-free Digital 3D Traffic, which uses information from the HD Radio™ Broadcasting System to provide faster updates and more detailed coverage of side streets and other secondary roads in major cities. With Digital 3D traffic (available in the U.S. only) users will receive traffic updates as often as every 30 seconds, up to 10 times faster than traditional traffic receivers, giving drivers the most real-time depiction of the traffic situation along the route. As part of the world's most extensive traffic avoidance system, Digital 3D Traffic checks traffic conditions 2 billion times per month using a multidimensional feed of real-time traffic data from quality sources including other Garmin nüvi owners, cellphone users, radio feeds, news stations, historical traffic data and fixed traffic sensors on major roads.With trafficTrends™, the nüvi automatically learns patterns for traffic flow and predicts where traffic will be. 			The nüvi 3590LMT is also compatible with Garmin Smartphone Link, an Android app that provides live services to the PND. Smartphone Link creates a seamless navigation experience between the nüvi and an Android smartphone allowing them to communicate and share data. Among other functionalities, the app lets nüvi users add live services such as traffic information, traffic camera images,weather and fuel prices to their navigation device, utilizing the smartphone's mobile data plan. 			The nüvi 3500 series includes the 3550LM with free lifetime map[1] updates ($369.99) and the Bluetooth enabled nüvi 3590LMT with free lifetime digital 3D traffic updates[2] from the HD Radio System, voice-activated navigation, free lifetime map updates, and Smartphone Link support ($399.99). 			The new nüvi 3500 series is expected to be available in February 2012. For more information about individual models, features and pricing, visit http://www.garmin.com/move. 			The nüvi 3500 series is the latest solution from Garmin's automotive business segment, the worldwide leading provider of portable navigation devices for automobiles and motorcycles. From turn-by-turn navigation and fast and accurate search capability to traffic avoidance and lane guidance, Garmin's user-friendly PND solutions have innovative features that provide time- and fuel-saving benefits to meet the demands of everyday driving. 			Since its inception in 1989, Garmin has delivered 91 million GPS enabled devices – far more than any other navigation provider. Garmin's market breadth in the GPS industry is second to none, having developed innovative products and established a leadership position in each of the markets it serves, including automotive, aviation, marine, fitness, outdoor recreation, tracking, and wireless applications. Learn more about Garmin's products at Garmin.blogs.com or at http://twitter.com/garmin.   Garmin® Approach™ G6 GPS Takes Golf to a Whole New Level With Worldwide Preloaded Courses, No Subscriptions and Rechargeable Battery 			OLATHE, Kan./January 9, 2012/Business Wire - Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced Garmin® Approach™ G6 GPS golf device – a sleek, slim glove-friendly device weighing just over three ounces that comes preloaded with over 25,000 worldwide courses and is equipped with an internal rechargeablebattery giving golfers the opportunity for an entire weekend worth of play on one charge. The Approach G6 is the ultimate instrument for the serious player and was announced in preparation for the Consumer Electronic Show (CES) in Las Vegas, NV (January 10-13) and the PGA Merchandise Show in Orlando, FL (January 25-28, 2012) where it will be prominently displayed at Garmin booths in each location. 			"With its new features, the Approach G6 becomes a must-have tool for every serious golfer," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "It's small enough to fit in a golfer's shirt pocket and golfers who travel the world now have access to worldwide courses without hidden fees or subscriptions. The Approach G6 was designed to take golfers' games to the next level." 			With the Approach G6, Garmin continues to re-write the rules for golf course availability by offering over 25,000 worldwide courses (and growing). Golfers headed to Scotland to play a round on one of the sport's first courses, or those who are headed to Australia to soak up some sun during their swings will have many of their favorite courses right out of the box. Garmin offers free course updates throughout the year that add new courses and make minor edits to the current lineup that ensure accuracy. Just as courses change, so do the pin placements - the flag can be adjusted for the current day's pin placement with the simple touch of the screen and the large yardage number gives golfers the distance to the pin while the other two numbers give them distance to the front and back. 			Fitting in the palm of a user's hand, the Approach G6's 2.6" sunlight readable display provides large, bright, high-contrast graphics and numbering so that it does not slow down the game. The Approach G6 even offers layup arcs that are drawn on the map and offer at-a-glance references to 100, 150, 200 and (when applicable) 250 yards for layup decisions. Golfers can even touch the place on the layout map that they want to measure, judge layups or zero in on hazards or obstacles that may affect their shot, and zoom in for an even closer look at the landing area. Even with its enhanced graphics and robust features, the Approach G6's internal rechargeable battery lasts up to 15 hours in typical use, giving golfers an additional piece of mind when out on the links. 			Keeping track of a player's stats throughout the round like fairways hit, Greens in Regulation (GIR) and putts per round just became a whole lot easier with the Approach G6. Golfers can review these stats right on the device, or download and access a printable version on their computer. From an easy to reach menu option, users can select their club, and then measure the exact yardage of each shot they take. The stat tracking feature will calculate the average distance golfers hit with every club. With the new digital scorecard, Approach G6 allows users to keep track of strokes for up to four golfers using any of the new scoring options which include Stroke Play, Stableford, Skins and Match Playwith adjustable handicaps. 			The new Approach G6 is expected to be available in February 2012 and will have a suggested retail price of $299.99. Approach G6 is the latest solution from Garmin's growing outdoor segment, which focuses on developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' outdoor experiences. Whether it's Golfing, Hiking, Hunting or Geocaching, Garmin outdoor devices are becoming essential tools for outdoor enthusiast of all levels. For more information about Garmin's other outdoor products and services, go tohttp://www.garmin.com/us/products/onthetrail/, www.garmin.blogs.com and http://twitter.com/garmin.   Garmin Smartphone Link for Android Provides Connected Services to nüvi® Personal Navigation Devices 			OLATHE, Kan./January 9, 2012/Business Wire - Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the launch of Smartphone Link, the first Android app to provide live services to personal navigation devices (PNDs). Smartphone Link creates a seamless navigation experience between any Bluetooth® enabled 2012 Garmin nüvi and an AndroidTM smartphone allowing them to communicate and share data. Among other functionalities, the app lets nüvi users add live services, such as traffic information, traffic camera images, weather and fuel prices to their navigation device, utilizing the smartphone's mobile data plan. Garmin Smartphone Link is available at no cost in the Android Market and includes several free live services as well as premium content available through subscriptions. 			"Garmin Smartphone Link solves the problem of having to pay for an extra data plan to use live services on a PND by utilizing the existing connection of a smartphone," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "It is a great example of how smartphone apps can complement navigation devices, which offer key benefits such as bigger screens and better GPS reception." 			Free connected services include live weather information and myGarmin™ messaging, which provides update notifications and special offers from Garmin. Premium Live Services include the following: 			Live Traffic ($19.99 per year): Garmin Live Traffic provides the best-in-class real-time information to help users navigate in and around congestion. Live Traffic is updated every two minutes and receives more than 1,000 messages every update cycle, including details of traffic incidents, road conditions and delays. It covers major highways, interstates and main roads. 			photoLive traffic cameras ($9.99 per year): This functionality is an addition to Garmin's Live Traffic feature and provides drivers the ability to literally see traffic conditions ahead of time. It lets users easily look up real-time photos from traffic cameras to get aglance at traffic and weather conditions. Included are more than 10,000 traffic cameras across the U.S. and Canada that send images every couple of minutes. 			Fuel Prices ($9.99 per year): Users can find the best prices for any grade of fuel in their area by tapping the screen and selecting a station. 			Advanced Weather ($4.99 per year): Get current and 5-day forecasts tailored for major cities in the U.S. and Canada. In addition to what the free weather serviceprovides, Advanced Weather also allows users to receive severe weather alerts and view animated radar images on a map. Colors distinguish types of precipitation such as rain, snow and ice, to help you avoid bad driving conditions. 			In addition to using Garmin Live Services, Smartphone Link allows the Garmin GPS to share its favorite locations with the phone. And better yet, the app can help users find their way from a parking spot to their destination and back by displaying both on a map. 			Garmin Smartphone Link works with all Bluetooth enabled 2012 Garmin PNDs, the nüvi 2475LT, 2495LMT, 2595LMT, 3490LMT and the all-new 3590LMT, the company's most feature-packed 5" navigator. All of these models require a software update, except the nüvi 3590LMT. Garmin Smartphone Link is available from the Android Market at no cost. To learn more, go to http://sites.garmin.com/smartphonelink. 			The new nüvi 3590LMT features pinch-to-zoom touchscreen interaction, automatic dual-screen orientation and Garmin's most advanced ensemble of mapping and navigation features available: Guidance 3.0, free lifetime digital 3D traffic updates[1] from the HD Radio System, voice-activated navigation, free lifetime map updates[2], lane assist with photoReal junction view (a Garmin exclusive), Bird's Eye junction view, 3-D landmarks and terrain views, and exit services, among many other functions. The premium PND is expected to be available in spring 2012. For more information about individual nüvi models, features and pricing, visit http://www.garmin.com/move. 			Find details about Garmin's other smartphone apps for a wide variety of activities at http://garmin.com/apps. 
 