
 Garmin's StreetPilot Onboard and Navigon apps were recently updated to include public transport information and a parking finder, and a just-announced refresh will add even more navigational goodies: namely, integration with Foursquare and the location-sharing service Glympse. The Foursquare tie-in will help users find venues and access special deals -- and once a Foursquare account is linked, checking into locations can be done directly through the apps. Glympse, on the other hand, lets users share their location with contacts via email and text, with info on current location, ETA and even speed. Finally, the update brings iCloud support for syncing saved destinations across various Apple devices. Perhaps in light of the holiday hustle ahead of us, Garmin is offering the apps for 25 percent off until January 7th through App Store or Google Play. (Of course, the update is a free download for those who already have them.)



  Show full PR text   Garmin Smartphone Apps Combine Navigationwith Location-Sharing: Update Adds Glympse and Foursquare Integration
  Today we're releasing an update for our smartphone navigation apps that makes it easier for you to stay connected while on the road and to discover new places. The integration of location-sharing service Glympse allows you to easily share your location with friends and family, so they always know where you are. To help you discover new places, Garmin's apps now also integrate Foursquare locations and special deals. Additionally, you can also check into venues on Foursquare upon arrival – right from your Garmin app. The new features are available through a free update via the App Store and Google Play for the Garmin StreetPilot®Onboard iPhone® app as well as for the NAVIGON® iOS andAndroid® apps. Just in time for the holiday travel season, Garmin offers these apps for 25 percent off until January 7,2013.
  Share Your Location and Arrival Time with Glympse
  The new StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON app versions integrate Glympse directly into the mapping and navigation feature set. Users simply click on the Glympse icon in the sidebar, select any recipient from their address book, and then choose for how long to share their location – from a few minutes to a few hours. The selected recipients will receive either a text or email message with a link to a Glympse tracking map, where they can see the sender's current location, arrival time and speed. This feature is a great tool to help you meet up with friends or family, so they know where you are and when you will arrive.
  Find Locations and Deals with Foursquare
  The integration of Foursquare features allows you to easily search for locations, trending venues and special deals within the Garmin apps. This makes it easy to discover new places and directly navigate there with just a few clicks. If you link your Foursquare account, you'll also be able to easily check into venues and view personalized POI suggestions based on your check-in behavior.
  iCloud Support for iOS
  Garmin StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON for iOS now also support iCloud, allowing you to synchronize your favorite destinations across multiple iOS devices. 
 Holiday Price Reductions   Just in time for holiday travel season, we're reducing the prices of our navigation apps by 25 percent until January 7, 2013. Here's an overview of the reduced prices:
  StreetPilot Onboard iPhone USA: $39.99 instead of $49.99
  StreetPilot Onboard iPhone North America: $44.99 instead of $59.99
  NAVIGON iOS USA: $39.99 instead of $49.99
  NAVIGON iOS North America: $44.99 instead of $59.99
  NAVIGON iOS MyRegion: $22.99 instead of $29.99
  NAVIGON Android USA: $39.95 instead of $49.95
  NAVIGON Android North America: $44.95 instead of $59.95 
  Garmin's StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON apps provide premium turn-by-turn navigation for smartphones, helping drivers find their way andsafe time and money. Features include onboard maps, lane guidance, speed limit warnings, real-time traffic and public transit routing, among many others.Today we're releasing an update for our smartphone navigation apps that makes it easier for you to stay connected while on the road and to discover new places. The integration of location-sharing service Glympse allows you to easily share your location with friends and family, so they always know where you are. To help you discover new places, Garmin's apps now also integrate Foursquare locations and special deals. Additionally, you can also check into venues on Foursquare upon arrival – right from your Garmin app. The new features are available through a free update via the App Store and Google Play for the Garmin StreetPilot®Onboard iPhone® app as well as for the NAVIGON® iOS and Android® apps. Just in time for the holiday travel season, Garmin offers these apps for 25 percent off until January 7,2013.

   Share Your Location and Arrival Time with Glympse  The new StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON app versions integrate Glympse directly into the mapping and navigation feature set. Users simply click on the Glympse icon in the sidebar, select any recipient from their address book, and then choose for how long to share their location – from a few minutes to a few hours. The selected recipients will receive either a text or email message with a link to a Glympse tracking map, where they can see the sender's current location, arrival time and speed. This feature is a great tool to help you meet up with friends or family, so they know where you are and when you will arrive.  Find Locations and Deals with Foursquare  The integration of Foursquare features allows you to easily search for locations, trending venues and special deals within the Garmin apps. This makes it easy to discover new places and directly navigate there with just a few clicks. If you link your Foursquare account, you'll also be able to easily check into venues and view personalized POI suggestions based on your check-in behavior.  iCloud Support for iOS  Garmin StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON for iOS now also support iCloud, allowing you to synchronize your favorite destinations across multiple iOS devices.  Holiday Price Reductions  Just in time for holiday travel season, we're reducing the prices of our navigation apps by 25 percent until January 7, 2013. Here's an overview of the reduced prices:  StreetPilot Onboard iPhone USA: $39.99 instead of $49.99  StreetPilot Onboard iPhone North America: $44.99 instead of $59.99  NAVIGON iOS USA: $39.99 instead of $49.99  NAVIGON iOS North America: $44.99 instead of $59.99  NAVIGON iOS MyRegion: $22.99 instead of $29.99  NAVIGON Android USA: $39.95 instead of $49.95  NAVIGON Android North America: $44.95 instead of $59.95  Garmin's StreetPilot Onboard and NAVIGON apps provide premium turn-by-turn navigation for smartphones, helping drivers find their way andsafe time and money. Features include onboard maps, lane guidance, speed limit warnings, real-time traffic and public transit routing, among many others.

 
