
 
Runners love to tell you about their post-workout highs, but they rarely mention the mid-workout delirium that comes when muscles deprive your brain of blood, leading to doubts about how long you've been running, what your target heart rate should be, and indeed how to get home again. Garmin's updated Forerunner 410 (above) can help you out with all those things, and the larger touch bezel means oxygen-deprived cardio hounds can easily scroll through data describing things like pace and heart rate, even when it's raining -- or you're sweating excessively. Once back home and showered this $325 watch automatically syncs to a USB dongle via ANT+, uploading data to Garmin Connect, just like its predecessor the 405. Then there's the $300 210, pictured below, a follow-up to this spring's 110 and providing a more simple display of real-time distance and heart rate without a bunch of other confusing data. Both models will be on display at the upcoming Chicago and New York City marathons before pacing themselves into stores this fall.

Update: The 410 can indeed help you find your way back home thanks to a simple navigation mode that will direct you from one waypoint to the next. Great for finding new routes -- or new tactical insertions.
      

 

Show full PR textGarmin® Expands Forerunner® Family, Giving Runners More GPS OptionsOLATHE, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced two new Forerunner models, which will give runners an unparalleled range of GPS options for any level of training and experience. Forerunner 410 and Forerunner 210 complement the simple-to-use Forerunner 110 and multisport Forerunner 310XT. These new exciting models will be first displayed in Chicago during marathon weekend, and the new watches will also be featured in New York City at the marathon expo before hitting running stores."Whether you're a beginner or an elite athlete training on the streets, the trails or the treadmill, Garmin has an accurate and intuitive solution to help you get the most out of your running.""Forerunner 410 and Forerunner 210 are ideal for runners who want more options while enjoying the ease-of-use that has made Garmin an industry leader," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "Whether you're a beginner or an elite athlete training on the streets, the trails or the treadmill, Garmin has an accurate and intuitive solution to help you get the most out of your running."Forerunner 410Sleek and streamlined, Forerunner 410 introduces an enhanced touch bezel, a premium soft-strap heart rate monitor and new software features evolving from the revolutionary Forerunner 405, which Leisure Trends Group's RetailTRAK™ Running Report found to be the top-selling electronics item for 2009 in the running specialty channel, as published in Running Insight.In addition to the enhanced touch bezel that lets runners quickly scroll and select features on the run – in all types of weather – Forerunner 410 alerts runners before transitioning into power-save mode and allows users to manually shut down the power in preparation for long breaks in training. The new touch bezel provides unmatched reliability in sweaty, rainy conditions, and it processes information even faster than before. When your workout's done, Forerunner 410 keeps working by wirelessly uploading data to the Garmin Connect™ online training community when in range of your computer. It works via ANT+™ wireless technology and the USB stick that comes with your watch. No wires, no manual uploads, no sweat.Forerunner 410 lets you customize up to three training pages with more than 30 different types of data. You can even determine how many data fields are shown on each screen - whether you see one big field, two or three smaller fields. To get the most information during a run, you can set up your training pages to display and automatically scroll through the data you want, then lock the bezel before you take off. And when you set up advanced workouts on Forerunner 410, your running watch becomes your running coach by displaying detailed training plans and workouts while you're on the run.Forerunner 210As easy-to-use as the popular Forerunner 110, Garmin's new Forerunner 210 is ideal for runners who simply want to step outside, acquire satellites and start their workout. Forerunner 210 provides real-time data such as pace, distance and time by using a high-sensitivity GPS receiver with Garmin's HotFix® technology to quickly acquire and sustain satellite reception. For runners who want more training capabilities, Forerunner 210 lets you create customized interval sessions and see your pace for each interval. You can also set up heart rate alerts to notify you when you are above or below your targets. If you're using the 210 with Garmin's featherweight foot pod (perfect for running indoors or out), you will later be able to see your running cadence, or steps per minute, when you upload your data to Garmin Connect. Available in a stylish glossy black-on-black design, Forerunner 210 looks fashionable on the run, in the office or out on the town.Lasting up to 8 hours in GPS/training mode and up to three weeks in power-save mode, Forerunner 210 can be an everyday watch even on an off day of training. Users can save time by charging the battery and uploading workout data to Garmin Connect™ at the same time through an easy-to-use USB connection, which also is used to upload free software updates quickly from www.garmin.com.Get in the zone with heart rate trainingThe Forerunner 410 and Forerunner 210 bundles feature Garmin's premium soft-strap heart rate monitor for the most comfortable fit possible. Each of these new watches has five heart rate zones, which you can customize based on your exact zones. Forerunner 410 and Forerunner 210 provide heart rate-based calorie computations so you can more accurately track your calories burned.Store, share and analyze with Garmin ConnectBecause Forerunner 410 and Forerunner 210 store and display hundreds of hours of saved history, runners can see their totals even when they haven't had a chance to upload to Garmin Connect. But once at Garmin Connect (http://garminconnect.com), users can quickly and easily log their workouts, track their totals, set goals, share workouts with friends and family and participate in an online fitness community of more than 40 million activities around the world. Garmin Connect displays metrics such as time, distance, speed, elevation and heart rate. This information is shown through charts, illustrations, reports and a variety of map representations including street, photo, topographic, and elevation maps as well as the popular Google Earth application.Forerunner 410 and Forerunner 210 are the latest breakthroughs from Garmin, which has spent 20 years developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' lives, making Garmin a household name in the automotive, aviation, marine, wireless, outdoor and fitness industries. For more about features, pricing and availability, as well as information about Garmin's other products and services, go to www.garmin.com, www.garmin.blogs.com and http://twitter.com/garmin.About Garmin International Inc.The global leader in satellite navigation, Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries have designed, manufactured, marketed and sold navigation, communication and information devices and applications since 1989 – most of which are enabled by GPS technology. Garmin's products serve automotive, mobile, wireless, outdoor recreation, marine, aviation, and OEM applications. Garmin Ltd. is incorporated in Switzerland, and its principal subsidiaries are located in the United States, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. For more information, visit Garmin's virtual pressroom at www.garmin.com/newsroom or contact the Media Relations department at 913-397-8200. Garmin and Forerunner are registered trademarks and ANT+ and Garmin Connect are trademarks of Garmin Ltd. or its subsidiaries.All other brands, product names, company names, trademarks and service marks are the properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.This release includes forward-looking statements regarding Garmin Ltd. and its business. Such statements are based on management's current expectations. The forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this release may not occur and actual results could differ materially as a result of known and unknown risk factors and uncertainties affecting Garmin, including, but not limited to, the risk factors listed in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 2010, filed by Garmin with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission file number 0-31983). A copy of such Form 10-Q is available at www.garmin.com/aboutGarmin/invRelations/finReports.html. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and Garmin undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 