
 Garmin's got a lot of products showing up on its website we've never heard of, including two cycling computers in its Edge range -- the 510 and 810. Both have GPS-based tracking (the 510 is also GLONASS compatible) and do what pedallers want them to do: log distance, speed, gradient info and other measurements from ANT+ sensors if you got 'em. You can now also connect them to your smartphone via Bluetooth so the Garmin Connect Mobile app can add some additional features, including live web tracking if you know anyone that wants to watch you two-wheeling around a 2D map. It'll use your phone's data to show weather info on the Edge's display, and share details of your ride to social networks. You can head to the source for in-depth details on both models, but the main differences are that the 810 has maps / on-screen navigation capabilities, a bigger touchscreen and slightly shorter battery life. You're going to have to be a pretty keen cyclist to wanna pick one of these up. The 510 costs $330 and the 810 costs $500, with the latter available for purchase on Garmin's website right now.

 Update: A CES-triggered press release has been issued, along with our hands-on photos and a couple of press shots. If you want more info on the new Edge models and the Garmin Connect Mobile app, which isn't available until January 10th, that orange button is waiting below the fold.




  Show full PR text   Accuracy, Reliability and Connectivity- Garmin® Redefines The Cycling Experience with its NEW Connected Edge® 810/510 and Garmin ConnectTM Mobile App
  OLATHE, Kan./January 7, 2013/Business Wire - Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced the Edge 810/510 and Garmin Connect Mobile app for cyclists who want accuracy and reliability when tracking their statistics and location for racing, training and recreation. The Edge 810 and 510 are Garmin's first dedicated cycling devices with real-time connectivity and combine the most popular aspects of the industry-leading Edge 800/500 while adding advanced connected features through a smartphone. The new user-friendly interface, along with live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather updates make them perfect for training, touring and riding on the trail. The Edge 810 and 510 will debut at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES South Hall 4 - 35812), where they will be prominently displayed.

   "With these new connected Edge devices, riders can continue to expect robust data, industry leading accuracy and durability that cyclists have come to know from Garmin," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "Using the connectivity through smartphones, we will enable cyclists to take advantage of features such as real-time tracking and instant uploads, while keeping their phones safe in their saddle bags and relying on the power of the Edge on their handlebars, to provide accurate data in all conditions."

   The Edge 810 is the perfect choice for the cyclist who wants the ultimate performance and navigation machine. This new Edge features a sleek 2.6" color display, up to 17-hours of battery life, and a newly redesigned and simplified touchscreen interface. The 810 is compatible with optional detailed street or TOPO maps including BirdsEye Satellite Imagery, so it can guide cyclists for touring, commuting or extended activities where they might need onboard maps and navigation. Because it's GPS-enabled and its navigation capabilities require no data usage, the Edge 810 is a perfect choice anywhere in the world. With the use of optional Active Routing Maps, the Edge 810 provides cyclists with bike-specific routing guidance based on riders' bike type and preferences to further enhance the cycling experience.

   The Edge 510 was designed specifically for performance driven cyclists and is a light-weight (80g) compact option. The 510 features a similar user interface to the 810, boasts a new 2.2" sunlight readable touchscreen display and is compatible with both GPS and GLONASS satellites for faster satellite acquisition and improved signal lock. The 510 is suited for the most challenging conditions, such as canyons and adventures with heavy tree cover. The Edge 510 is rugged, waterproof and has up to a 20-hour battery life. The touchscreen is easy to operate, even with a gloved finger and when wet. It also comes with a tether to ensure the device doesn't travel far in the event of a spill.

   Both the Edge 810 and 510 accurately track speed, distance, time, GPS position, elevation, calories burned, climb and descent. For even more real-time data on display, the 810 and 510 sync wirelessly through ANT+TM technology with compatible third-party power meters as well as Garmin heart rate monitors and speed/cadence sensors. For extra-precise climb and descent data, they incorporate a barometric altimeter to pinpoint changes in elevation. The new activity profiles feature allows cyclists to customize data fields and device settings based on their cycling activity, such as training, racing, or road and mountain biking. Switch profiles with a simple swipe of the touchscreen and the device will be set up to show the data riders need for that ride. When a ride is complete, the 810 and 510 display any new personal records achieved, such as farthest distance, most ascent gained and more.

   The Edge 810 and 510 offer a suite of connected features when paired with a cyclist's smartphone (Apple® or AndroidTM) and the Garmin Connect Mobile app. This allows riders to gain comprehensive, accurate ride data from a dedicated device, while keeping their phone out of the elements and saving its battery incase of an emergency. The Edge tracks the data and sends it to the phone using a Bluetooth® connection. This connection allows cyclists to share all the details of their rides with friends, family and social media contacts. Cyclists can post an update immediately after their ride or race with details from their completed activity. Riders can create posts via their smartphone, and the robust ride data's already there, thanks to the interface with Garmin Connect Mobile.

  Live Tracking: The LiveTrack feature allows cyclists' friends and family to follow their races and training rides in real-time. Invite followers using email or social media, so they can view live data on a Garmin Connect tracking page on a smartphone, desktop or tablet. Once they receive an email invite, they can click to follow and see cyclists' stats like speed and distance, heart rate (optional), cadence and power (optional), and location on the map. If riders go out for a solo early morning ride, why not give loved ones the peace of mind by using Garmin's LiveTrack feature. The Garmin- Sharp professional cycling team, for which we have been a title sponsor since 2008, will be using this Livetrack feature during its training rides-giving team management and coaches a real-time look at their efforts.

  Weather: Get real-time weather conditions, forecasts and alerts directly on the Edge 810 and 510 when they're paired with a smartphone and the Garmin Connect Mobile app. This feature is useful for extended rides, and it lets cyclists keep their smartphone safe and dry, while the weather data they need is at their fingertips.
  Wireless Data Transfers: Now cyclists of all levels can instantly store, share and analyze every detail of their ride- all from the road. The Garmin Connect Mobile app allows for wireless uploads of completed activities from the Edge 810/510 as soon as cyclists finish recording an activity. Riders choose whether activities are automatically or manually uploaded. Once a ride has posted to Garmin Connect, their own "connections" can view them within one of the world's largest online fitness communities. Riders can also search their courses and workouts stored at Garmin Connect, download to their smartphone, then send directly to their Edge device - wirelessly. Cyclists can then navigate to the start of the course and use the Virtual Partner® feature on the Edge to follow and even race those previous rides in real-time.

   Mounting options include a new out-front mount for heads-up positioning and a standard quarter-turn mount.

   The Edge 810 and 510 are available now and have suggested retail prices of $499.99 and $329.99 respectively. The Garmin Connect Mobile app will be available January 10, 2013. The connected Edge 810 and 510 along with the Garmin Connect Mobile app are the latest solutions from Garmin's expanding fitness segment, which focuses on developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' lives and promotes healthy and active lifestyles. Whether it's running, cycling, or other athletic pursuits, Garmin fitness devices are becoming essential tools for athletes both amateur and elite. For more about features, pricing and availability, as well as information about Garmin's other fitness products and services, go to www.garmin.com/intosports, www.garmin.blogs.com and http://twitter.com/garmin.

 
