
 

Garmin, the company responsible for helping you navigate to the mall food court, is now hoping to help you work off those cheese fries with the introduction of its $.99 Fit App for Android and iPhone. The mobile app -- which works a lot like the Nike+ -- measures distance, time, calories and speed walked, run, cycled or traveled to capture your calorie burning journey. Connected users can also set goals, track their workouts and share results with others addicted to the burn. In addition to the app, Garmin is rolling out a $49.99 ANT+ adapter for iPhone, which monitors heart rate and cadence when paired with another optional sensor like a footpod. If you can't muster up the energy to try it out right now, we're sure you can at least head on past the break to check out the PR.
      

 

 		Show full PR text    Garmin Fit™ App and ANT+™ Adapter Keep You Connected and On The Move 		OLATHE, Kan./October 25, 2011/Business Wire - Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), the global leader in satellite navigation, today announced Garmin Fit™ for iPhone and Android – its first fitness app that lets users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories and with the help of Garmin accessories displays heart rate and cadence. Garmin Fit also maps and automatically uploads workouts to Garmin Connect™. Garmin also introduces its ANT+™ adapter for iPhone allowing users to use their Garmin ANT+ accessories with their iPhone. 		"Garmin Fit is the ideal solution for users who are new to the fitness tracking landscape and for those looking to stay totally connected," said Dan Bartel, Garmin's vice president of worldwide sales. "To be able to utilize Garmin's powerful fitness accessories with the same device that plays music, makes calls and uploads workouts automatically to share and analyze, makes Garmin Fit a must have app." 		Whether running on a local trail, cycling around the neighborhood or traveling for business Garmin Fit makes it easier than ever to see how far, how fast and where users have been. Garmin Fit ensures users will never be stuck without a way to track their workouts even when they forget to charge their Forerunner™ GPS enabled watch or fail to pack it for a trip. With the tap of a button Garmin Fit displays time, distance, pace and calories and even allows users to control their music from within the app. Never miss that important call - during a workout users will also be able to view and answer incoming calls and text messages without interrupting Garmin Fit. 		Upon completion of a workout, users will be asked to name the activity and will have the opportunity to input notes about how the workout went or what the weather was like. The data will then be automatically sent to the user's account in the ever-expanding and free Garmin Connect™ community (http://connect.garmin.com). Here users can quickly and easily log their workouts, track their totals, set goals, share workouts with friends and family and participate in an online fitness community of more than 70 million activities around the world. Garmin Connect displays metrics such as time, distance, pace, elevation and heart rate. This information is shown through charts, illustrations, reports and a variety of map representations including street, photo, topographic, and elevation maps. Garmin Fit will display the previous 30 days of Garmin Connect history as well as charts directly on users' smartphones -- giving them an extra tool to achieve their goals. 		With Garmin's ANT+ adapter for iPhone ($49.99 USD), users will be able to monitor and record their heart rate and cadence directly on their phone when paired with those optional accessories. One such accessory is a footpod sensor – which allows users who are training indoors to track their speed, pace, distance and run cadence. 		Garmin Fit is the latest solution from Garmin's expanding fitness segment, which has spent more than 20 years developing technologies and innovations to enhance users' lives, making Garmin a household name in the automotive, aviation, marine, wireless, outdoor and fitness industries. For more about features, pricing and availability, as well as information about Garmin's other products and services, go to www.garmin.com, www.garmin.blogs.com and http://twitter.com/garmin.
 