
 Sony apparently sees 2013 as a chance to colorize its aging PlayStation 3 console, today announcing yet another new color for the superslim packing 500GB of storage. To match the blood red tattoos found all over God of War star Kratos' body, Sony colored this one garnet red, and is pairing the console with God of War: Ascension -- thusly, the bundle arrives on March 12, the same day God of War: Ascension is scheduled to go up for sale. Unlike its "Classic White" brethren, you won't get a full-year subscription to PlayStation Plus in this bundle -- a disappointment considering this one costs $50 more. It does, however, include not just a copy of God of War: Ascension, but also God of War Saga (which collects the first three God of War games) and God of War: Origins Collection (which bundles the two God of War PlayStation Portable games). That's a total of six God of War games included in this bundle, so you'd better really be into spending time with Kratos should you pick this up.




  Show full PR text    GARNET RED PLAYSTATION®3 COMING SOON TO NORTH AMERICA INSIDE  GOD OF WAR: ASCENSION™ LEGACY BUNDLE  January 31, 2013 – Following the announcement of the availability of the Classic White  PlayStation®3 (PS3™) system in North America, Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC  (SCEA) today introduced a new Garnet Red PS3 system as part of a limited edition God of  War: Ascension™ Legacy Bundle. The new bundle includes God of War: Ascension, the newest  entry in the critically acclaimed franchise, along with the five previous games in the series,  making it the ultimate collectors' item for God of War fans. The limited edition bundle will hit  stores on March 12, 2013, day-and-date with the standalone game, for $349 (MSRP).  The Garnet Red PS3, boldly colored in recognition of Kratos' distinctive tattoo, comes with a  500GB hard disk drive (HDD), providing more than enough room for consumers to download  games, movies, and TV shows from PlayStation®Network, and store their personal media files,  including music, photos, and videos. A 30-day PlayStation®Plus trial membership is also  included, enabling purchasers to check out the PlayStation Plus Instant Game Collection along  with other benefits such as deep discounts, online storage for game saves, and exclusive access  to select demos and game betas.  "We're excited to introduce this stunning Garnet Red PS3 that pays homage to one of the best  franchises ever launched on PlayStation platforms," said John Koller, vice president of platforms  marketing, SCEA. "We wanted to give our fans a complete collection of the series in this bundle  so they can relive nostalgic memories of their first God of War adventure or experience the  adventure for the first time if they are new to the series."  The complete God of War collection comes with the highly anticipated release, God of War:  Ascension. A prequel to the epic series, Ascension takes fans back to where Kratos' journey  began, with sophisticated gameplay mechanics and combat systems that truly enhance the singleplayer experience. Also, for the first time in franchise history, a new multiplayer combat mode  has been added for fans to compete among their fellow warriors. The God of War Saga  completes the collection, with God of War, God of War II, God of War III, and God of War:  Origins Collection, which consists of God of War: Chains of Olympus and God of War: Ghost of  Sparta.  Since the franchise first launched in March 2005, the series has sold over 21 million units  worldwide*. The God of War series is one of SCEA's most successful franchises of all time and  has been acknowledged as one of the most critically-acclaimed franchises by key industry  publications and influencers.

 
