
 
Having trouble finding an all-in-one PC that fits you? We have no idea why, they're everywhere these days, but just in case you're still striking out you might want to check out Gateway's new ZX One series refresh. The desktops have a fresh little curved look to them, with prices starting at $900 for a 21.5-inch machine (ZX4951) with a 2.8GHz Pentium G6950 processor, while a 23-inch number (ZX6951) with a 3.2GHz Core i3-550 processor is a mere $100 more. If those prices sound steep to you for machines with Intel HD integrated graphics, you should know that multitouch screens and Blu-ray come standard in this lineup. Both computers are available now online and at retail.
      

 

Show full PR textGateway Expands Its Sleek and Popular Line of All-in-One PCs, Adding More Models and a New Industrial DesignIRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Responding to the success of its ZX One Series and the growing popularity of all-in-one desktop PCs among consumers, Gateway today expanded its line with additional models featuring an all new industrial design. The new AIO PCs join Gateway's existing ZX One Series, adding more design choices, configurations and price points.With MSRPs beginning at $899.99, the Gateway One ZX4951 Series and One ZX6951 Series feature 21.5- or 23-inch full high definition displays, powerful Intel® Pentium® or Core™ i3 processors and Blu-ray drives. Their compact size makes them perfect for small rooms, such as a dorm, home office or kitchen. In addition, the ZX6951 includes a TV tuner, so it can easily double as a TV and/or home entertainment center."The demand for all-in-one desktop PCs took off last year with the introduction of Windows 7 and its touch screen capabilities, and as the technology became more powerful and less expensive," said Steve Smith, senior business manager of consumer desktops, Acer America. "The newest additions to our ZX One Series of PCs expand the choices available, making these highly stylized PCs more accessible to a wider range of customers."Unlike most "square" all-in-one PCs on the market today, the new Gateway ZX One Series features a unique curved bottom edge, adding some flair to the traditional box-shaped PC design. A glossy black bezel and chrome and silver accents keep it modern and elegant. Lighting along the bottom edge of the PC can be set to four different brightness levels, adding ambiance to the room and lighting up the wireless keyboard.A chrome back-stand can be adjusted for different heights and viewing positions, while a back door covers the various ports and cables keeping the back of the PC clean and streamlined.The new Gateway One ZX4951 and ZX6951 models can easily function as a TV and/or home entertainment center, making them ideal for small rooms, such as a dorm or home office. VESA mountable, this design can be attached to a kitchen wall, freeing up limited counter space.Full high-definition widescreen LCDs, powerful components, 4GB of RAM (upgradeable to 16GB via 4 slots), 500 or 640GB(1) SATA hard drives, high-definition audio with 5.1 channel support, integrated wireless capabilities, and an integrated webcam make these great computers for PC-based entertainment, social networking and media sharing.The new models also include Gateway Touch Gadgets, a fun and useful way to use the PC's touch screen technology to interact easily with the Internet, social media, music playlists, photos, videos and more.Availability and PricingBoth models are available today at leading retailers nationwide. MSRPs range from $899.99 to $999.99, depending on configuration.
 