
 
Oh sure, Acer may have spent the first half of the week convincing us that its newest laptops and netbooks were the sweetest systems around, but now it's turning the attention to its Gateway brand only tempt us with equally as enticing options. The ID series has been on our radar ever since we saw its blue-glowing touchpad at Computex, and luckily both the 14-inch ID49 and 15.6-inch ID59 will hit US retailers for less than $800 in the coming weeks. The exact configurations are unclear, but they'll have Core i3 / i5 CPU options as well as NVIDIA Optimus graphics. On the netbook front, Gateway's bringing out the 10.1-inch LT23, which looks the same as the LT22 we caught a glimpse of a few weeks back. Powered by an Intel Atom N450 CPU, 1GB of RAM and a 250GB hard drive, the netbook will start at a tempting $329. Check out the gallery below for some shiny press shots and the full press release after the break. Oh and Acer, we're giving you permission to chill on the new laptops for a bit! 






Show full PR textGateway Launches Uber-Chic New Gateway ID Series NotebookModern, streamlined design features glowing aqua-blue touchpad; Select models have NVIDIA Optimus technology for ideal balance of graphics performance and battery lifeIRVINE, Calif., June 23, 2010 – Gateway today brings unique style elements to a new notebook PC line – the Gateway ID Series – which is designed to deliver the latest in mobile technology in a thin and lightweight design that is modern, chic and eye-catching.The Gateway ID Series comes in a sleek silver casing that is punctuated by a unique aqua-blue touchpad that glows when touched, acting as a beacon for accessing entertainment and information. The Gateway ID Series will be available in two sizes: the Gateway ID49 has a 14-inch HD Ultrabright LED-backlit display and weighs 5.07 pounds, while the Gateway ID59 has a 15.6-inch HD Ultrabright LED-backlit display and weighs 5.5 pounds. The Gateway ID Series is protected by an aluminium alloy lid and measures only a slim 1-inch thin, so the notebooks are comfortable to carry and easily slide into a briefcase or book bag.In addition, select models of the new Gateway ID49 Series feature NVIDIA Optimus graphics technology, which intelligently regulates the notebook's use of dedicated NVIDIA GeForce GT 330M graphics or integrated Intel HD graphics, depending on the task its performing. The notebook will use NVIDIA GeForce GT 330M dedicated graphics while running video, games and multimedia applications to ensure the visuals are incredibly crisp and clear. Alternately, the notebook will switch to integrated Intel HD graphics when less demanding programs are being used, such as browsing websites, or working on documents and spreadsheets. As a result, the NVIDIA Optimus technology ensures that battery life is extended for longer enjoyment.(1)"Notebooks are more than ever an expression of who we are and what's important to us," said Ray Sawall, senior product marketing manager for Gateway notebooks. "The look and feel of the Gateway ID Series notebooks is so unique that anyone will be drawn to them – especially to the touchpad that resembles a swimming pool inviting customers to 'dive in' and enjoy the notebooks' advanced capabilities and entertainment features. And with NVIDIA GeForce GT330M graphics with Optimus technology, consumers can experience improved graphics performance when it matters, backed by battery life preservation for longer use."Touchpad and Keyboard Comfortable, Enjoyable to UseThe most striking element of the new Gateway ID Series notebooks is the aqua-blue touchpad that resembles matte glass when not lit, and then glows when touched. The effect is enhanced as customers use the notebook's multi-gesture capabilities to more intuitively scroll through documents, rotate photos, and pinch to zoom in on websites.The Gateway ID Series was designed to be incredibly comfortable and easy to use. The keyboard is incredibly smooth with well-defined keys that provide the right response for smooth typing and blend seamlessly with the rest of the unit to further promote a streamlined feel. Additional features, such as the touchpad lock and programmable key, promote productivity. Plus, the larger screen size of the Gateway ID59 makes room for a dedicated numeric keypad for fast and easy number input. Stylish Mobile Performance and Entertainment On-the-GoReady for on-the-go mobile performance with the latest in technology and features, the Gateway ID Series includes Intel Core i3 and Core i5 processing technology boosted by up to 4GB of DDR3 memory. Both the Gateway ID59 and ID49 feature widescreen LED-backlit displays with a 1366x768 resolution, so visuals are crisp and clear. Images are enhanced on select models with the aforementioned NVIDIA Optimus graphics on the Gateway ID49, which switches between graphics solutions for an optimized balance of performance and battery life.Entertainment can be easily enjoyed with the many features in the ID Series. The capacitive touch multimedia keys provide easy control of features such as play, forward, pause and volume control. Customers can feel like part of the entertainment when enjoying video on the Super-DVD player and listening to high-fidelity Dolby Home Theater v3 audio. The new notebooks can be taken anywhere for use as a mobile home theater thanks to their HDMI port, which lets customers use a single, convenient cable connection to deliver crisp high-quality visuals and high-fidelity audio to a home theater or external LCD.The Gateway ID Series is ready for entertainment and productivity with all the ports customers need to connect to their devices such as camcorders and digital cameras, printers and a network connection. Also, the notebooks feature media card readers that accept popular media cards (Secure Digital, Multimedia Card, Memory Stick, Memory Stick Pro and xD) as well as hard drives up to 500GB in capacity,(2) so customers will be able to easily and quickly access, download, store and share their digital media content.Staying-in-Touch with Social Networking Key, Lots of ConnectivityGateway has featured a new integrated "social networking" button on its newest notebook and netbook lines, and that includes the new Gateway ID Series. The dedicated key gives customers quick access to their social networks on Facebook, YouTube and Flickr. Pushing the button launches an integrated widget that lets customers easily make updates to their own sites by posting information, images and video, while also enjoying updated status feeds of friends, family and colleagues.Gateway customers can use the ID Series to stay in touch via email and websites. The devices come with integrated 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi Certified for a reliable connection to hotspots and wireless networks. Plus, the integrated 1.3MP webcam enables a crisp and clear high-resolution image for real-time video streaming, online chatting and video conferences. The Gateway ID Series features two integrated digital microphones for improved sound recording via the webcam.Back-up with a Single TouchSince today's mobile-savvy customers want to take their video, photos and other files with them, the Gateway ID Series notebooks feature MyBackup functionality that gives them a way to quickly and easily back-up all their important files.Price and AvailabilityThe Gateway ID Series will be available in a variety of configurations to meet a range of budgets. The Gateway ID59 with a 15.6-inch display starts at a Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) of $799.99 while the Gateway ID49 with a 14-inch display starts at an MSRP of $679.99.Gateway Limited Warranty, Service and SupportThe Gateway ID Series notebook PCs are backed by a one year warranty.(3) Gateway's commitment to quality and reliability is evident in its award-winning line of PCs as well as in its exceptional service and support programs. In addition to the company's standard limited warranty options, its extensive online support center helps customers maximize their PC investment; it gives them easy access to customer support representatives and information on important issues such as warranties, technical issues and upgrading.(4)About GatewaySince its founding in 1985, Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway has been a technology pioneer, offering stylish, user-friendly products and world-class customer service. Gateway is a wholly owned subsidiary of Acer Inc., the world's second-largest PC company.(5) Through collaboration with suppliers, the company strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain. See www.gateway.com for more information.Gateway Updates LT Netbook Line with New Trend-Setting Design Stylish and portable netbooks are primed for mobility with 10.1-inch display, up to 8 hours of battery life for on-the-go performanceIRVINE, Calif., June 23, 2010 – Gateway Inc. today introduces the new Gateway LT23 Series netbook, which features a sophisticated all-new upscale design that elevates its status to "must-have" for every fashion-conscious mobile PC customer.The new design features an organic woven pattern that appears to be mosaic, making it a chic fusion of classical design with a modern twist. The color-on-color pattern appears on the matte cover as well as the palm-rest, bringing a cohesive feel to the design of the Gateway LT23 Series, and ensuring that it looks incredibly stylish from any angle. The Gateway LT23 Series design is available in champagne, pearl and black.The stylish chassis isn't the only thing that's impressive about its look. The Gateway LT23 Series netbook line has a 10.1-inch LCD LED back-lit display with a 1024x600 resolution that gives customers the ideal visibility for mobile use, yet it's small enough to ensure that the Gateway LT23 is incredibly portable; it measures only about an inch thin and weighs only 2.76 pounds."The Gateway LT23 netbook line is as beautiful as it is easy and fun to use," said Pete Dailey, senior product marketing manager for Gateway notebooks and netbooks. "Netbooks are so popular for their ability to keep people in touch nearly anywhere in a form factor that is incredibly portable, as well as easy-to-use and familiar to customers. The Gateway LT23 delivers the on-the-go mobile performance customers want while also taking fashion seriously."Excellent Mobile Performance and Enhanced Battery LifeGateway's LT23 netbook line is powered by Intel® Atom™ N450, so it delivers long battery life paired with the ability to handle multiple tasks such as web-browsing and reviewing documents. While delivering excellent mobile performance, the Gateway LT23 provides up to 8 hours of battery life with the 6-cell, 4400mAh battery.(1)Helps Customers Stay in Touch On-the-GoThe Gateway LT23 brings a new feature to netbook customers – an integrated "social networking" feature that can be easily accessed through the function keys. Customers can use it to quickly access their social networks on Facebook, YouTube and Flickr to enjoy real-time network updates on their status feeds, as well as provide updates to their own sites with information, images and video.Gateway LT23 users can also stay in touch with friends, family and colleagues in other ways. The line is equipped with an integrated HD webcam, so customers can capture memories on the go with still photos and live video that can then be posted using the social networking button. Also, video emails and video conferencing calls offer a more personal way to stay in touch. In addition, the line is ready to help people provide easy access to the Internet via Wi-Fi 802.11b/g/n wireless, so customers can browse websites, make VOIP calls, and stay in touch with friends and colleagues via email.Well-Equipped for Mobile PerformanceThe new Gateway LT23 netbooks are well-equipped with features and capabilities that let customers integrate the netbook into their lives. Revved with up to 1GB of memory and up to a 250GB hard drive space,(2) customers will have plenty of room for their files, music, photos and software. Plus, the Gateway LT23 netbooks have three USB 2.0 ports, Ethernet and VGA as well as a multi-in-one digital card reader, so they can be connected to a variety of devices such as cameras, camcorders, MP3 players and printers. The netbooks also feature a numeric keyboard that can be set with a function key for dedicated data input.The Gateway LT23 netbooks feature a productivity-enhancing multi-gesture touch-pad that lets users move around websites, documents and digital media in an incredibly intuitive way. For example, customers can swirl their fingers in a circular motion to scroll through web pages, long lists of files and music playlists. In addition, customers can move two fingers to flip through photos, web pages and PDF documents as well as make an inward or outward pinching motion to zoom in and out on photos and documents.Pricing and AvailabilityThe new Gateway LT23 is available now in several configurations at a starting manufacturer's suggested retail price of $329.99.Gateway Limited Warranty, Service and SupportThe Gateway LT23 netbook line is backed by a one year warranty.(3) Gateway's commitment to quality and reliability is evident in its award-winning line of PCs as well as in its exceptional service and support programs. In addition to the company's standard limited warranty options,(4) its extensive online support center helps customers maximize their PC investment; it gives them easy access to customer support representatives and information on important issues such as warranties, technical issues and upgrading.About GatewaySince its founding in 1985, Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway has been a technology pioneer, offering stylish, user-friendly products and world-class customer service. Gateway is a wholly owned subsidiary of Acer Inc., the world's second-largest PC company.(5) Through collaboration with suppliers, the company strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain. See www.gateway.com for more information.
 