
 
Remember the Gateway NV Series laptop that we reviewed? Of course, you do -- it's pretty hard to forget a laptop with a Blu-ray drive and Core i3 processor for $650. Well, Gateway didn't forget about it either, and has updated the 15.6-inch NV5 and 17.3-NV7 with new blue, black and red matte lid options, and a one-touch social networking button. The former is pretty self-explanatory, but the latter seems um, interesting. Apparently, a button on the keyboard deck will launch some sort of Facebook, YouTube and Flickr interface that will display a feed of updates. We're not sure why you wouldn't just launch your browser to check out those things, but we know, we know, it's hip to include social networking features. Other than that, the laptop still has an Core i3-330M processor, 320GB hard drive, Windows 7 Home Premium, and a 4x Blu-ray drive. The 15.4-inch NV59C09u will turn up on shelves at around $799, but we don't have final word on the 17-incher's price yet. Hit the break for the full PR, and sift on through the warm press images. 






Show full PR textGATEWAY NV SERIES BRINGS ELEGANT DESIGN TO CINEMATIC ENTERTAINMENT NOTEBOOKSStyle and the latest technology features elevate the Gateway NV Line;Dedicated one-touch button for social networking links customers to their favorite sitesIRVINE, Calif., May 13, 2010 – Gateway today debuted its newly-updated Gateway NV Series of notebooks with new models featuring the latest technology to boost productivity, first-rate cinematic entertainment and seamless social networking capabilities.The Gateway NV line features models in two different sizes – the NV5 Series with a 15.6-inch display and the NV7 Series with a 17.3-inch display. All models feature a High Definition Ultrabright LCD widescreen display with resolutions that deliver vivid lifelike details, vibrant color and superior image quality.The first model in the new series is available now – it is the Gateway NV59C09u, with a 15.6-inch HD Ultrabright LCD display, Blu-ray drive, Intel Core i3 processor and an integrated HD webcam for only $799.99. Additional models in the line will be available at retailers nationwide over the coming weeks.The new Gateway NV Series includes models ranging from all-around performance for students and families on a budget, to systems bursting with the latest technology for video editing and casual gaming. In all cases, the new Gateway NV Series models are well-equipped to deliver excellent performance with processors from Intel or AMD."Mobile entertainment means something entirely different today than it did just a few short years ago -- more often it comes in the form of video clips, photos and updates on friends' and fan pages by using popular social networking sites and tools," said John Nguyen, senior product marketing manager for Gateway notebooks and netbooks. "The Gateway NV Series notebook line is well-equipped to let customers have quick access to their entertainment and social networks with easy-to-use technology, such as the latest Wifi and HD webcam."Ready for Entertainment, Social NetworkingThe Gateway NV Series features an integrated "social networking" button that allows customers to access their social networks, including Facebook, YouTube and Flickr, with a single touch of a button. With it, customers can see real-time network updates on their status feed, as well as provide updates to their own sites with information, images and video.The Gateway NV Series' High Definition LED-backlit TFT Widescreen displays deliver compelling lifelike video with vibrant images that are crisp and detailed. The NV5 15.6-inch display models boast a 1366x768 resolution, while the Gateway NV7 Series will impress viewers with its image-enhancing 1600x900 resolution. Both provide a true cinematic viewing experience thanks to their 16:9 aspect ratio that is perfect for HD movies and video. Support for high definition audio and two built-in stereo speakers further enhance the overall experience. Also, the HDMI port lets customers use a convenient, single cable connection to deliver crisp high-quality visuals and high-fidelity audio to a home theater or external LCD.Select models in the new Gateway NV Series feature extras for even more entertainment capabilities. Blu-ray video players are featured on select models in both the NV5 and NV7 Series lines for movie-viewing in incredible detail, paired with DVD and CD recording capability. Also, the Gateway NV7 Series will feature models with ATI Mobility Radeon HD graphics for enhanced graphics capabilities when viewing the latest PC games.To further customers' ability to have fun and stay in touch with their social networks, the Gateway NV Series comes with 802.11b/g/n WiFi Certified connectivity. The integrated High-definition webcam allows web chats and video emails in incredible clarity thanks to its 1280x1024 resolution. Also, Gigabit Ethernet LAN connectivity ensures a fast wired online connection.Latest Technologies, Including Easy-to-Access MyBackupThe Gateway NV line delivers the latest in technology and features, starting with reliable processing technology including Intel Core i3 and Core i5 processors as well as AMD Athlon and AMD Turion processors. The notebooks have up to 4GB of DDR3 memory that is upgradeable to 8GB, so performance is further promoted. The notebooks also feature media card readers that accept popular media cards (Secure Digital, Multimedia Card, Memory Stick, Memory Stick Pro and xD) as well as large-capacity hard drives ranging from 320GB to 640GB of capacity,(1) so customers will be able to easily and quickly access, download, store and share their digital media content.To protect these media files, photos and video while on the go, the Gateway NV Series includes MyBackup functionality that gives customers a way to quickly and easily back-up all important files. Easily accessible with the integrated software, customers can conveniently back up files to another location such as a USB drive, external hard disk drive, or another hard drive partition. The notebook line is incredibly easy to use with a multi-gesture touchpad, touchpad lock, and dedicated numeric keypad.Ergonomics Meet Stylish Elegant DesignDesigned with special attention to ergonomics, the Gateway NV line has a slim and sleek profile that is easy to enjoy and transport. The glossy-black interior houses a comfortable palm rest and keyboard surround. The intuitively recessed touchpad provides the right amount of feedback and control for customers' web-browsing, photo-editing and extended typing. The multi-gesture touchpad further enhances control, allowing customers to scroll through documents, pinch to zoom in and out, as well as rotate and flip photos and other media files. The wide size of the notebooks provides room for an ample keyboard and dedicated numeric keypad.Ideal for today's style-conscious mobile PC users, the new Gateway NV Series models feature an elegant and modern design that is crisp and uncluttered. The systems feature a subtle wave pattern on the matte chassis lid. Plus, the combination of matte and glossy finishes create a contemporary blend of contrasts.Gateway NV Series Availability, Price and ConfigurationThe well-equipped NV Series will be available in a variety of configurations to meet a range of budgets at manufacturer's suggested retail prices starting at $529.99. The first model to be available will be the Gateway NV59C09u, a multimedia powerhouse that will deliver incredible responsiveness for entertainment and staying in touch.Model Number: Gateway NV59C09u; MSRP: $799.99• Intel® Core™ i3-330M Processor (2.13GHz, 1066MHz FSB, 3MB L2 cache) 2• Windows® 7 Home Premium 64-bit• 15.6" HD Widescreen Ultrabright™ TFT LCD Display• Mobile Intel® HM55 Express Chipset• 4096MB DDR3 Dual-Channel 1066MHz Memory Packaging and Documentation• Intel® Graphics Media Accelerator HD• 320GB 5400RPM SATA Hard Drive• 4X Blu-ray Disc™/DVD-Super Multi double-layer drive• 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™• 10/100/1000 Gigabit Ethernet LAN (RJ-45 port)• High-Def Webcam (1280 x 1024)• Two Stereo Speakers• Multi-in-1 Digital Media Card Reader• One HDMI port and three USB 2.0 Ports• Multi-Gesture Touchpad• Dedicated Numeric Keypad 3• 6-cell Li-Ion (4400 mAh) Battery; up to 4.5-hours of battery life(2)• Notebook weight: 5.72 lbsGateway Limited Warranty, Service and SupportThe Gateway NV Series notebook PCs are backed by a one year warranty.(3) Gateway's commitment to quality and reliability is evident in its award-winning line of PCs as well as in its exceptional service and support programs. In addition to the company's standard limited warranty options,, its extensive online support center helps customers maximize their PC investment; it gives them easy access to customer support representatives and information on important issues such as warranties, technical issues and upgrading.(4)About GatewaySince its founding in 1985, Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway has been a technology pioneer, offering stylish, user-friendly products and world-class customer service. Gateway is a wholly owned subsidiary of Acer Inc., the world's second-largest PC company. Through collaboration with suppliers, the company strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain. See www.gateway.com for more information.# # #All offers subject to change without notice or obligation and may not be available through all sales channels. Prices listed are manufacturer suggested retail prices and may vary by retail location. Applicable taxes extra. ©2008 Gateway, Inc. Gateway Terms & Conditions of Sale apply. Trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Gateway, Inc. in the United States and other countries. Intel and Core are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Other product or service names mentioned herein are the trademarks of their respective owners.(1) Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes; GB = 1 billion bytes.(2) Your computer's battery life may vary depending on product specifications, computer settings, and applications or features launched. All batteries' maximum capacity diminishes with time and use.(3) Service methods subject to change without notice or obligation. (4) Limited warranties and service agreements apply; visit gateway.com or call 1-800-846-2000 for a free copy. Service agreements are issued and performed by third parties. May not be available in all locations. Availability varies. Other conditions apply.
 