

Gateway has just announced updates to its line of desktop computers with the FX, DX, and SX Series. The new desktops will now boast Intel's Core i5 2300 processors, and Intel's HD67 Express chipset. In addition, the desktops will get a boost from newer graphics in the form of NVIDIA's GeForce GT440. The FX 6850-51 boasts 1.5GB of video memory, 1GB of RAM, and a 1TB hard drive. Several other FX models pack Intel Core i7 CPUs, up to 9GB of memory, and up to 1.5TB hard drives, plus a choice of Blu-ray / DVD combo drives. The DX Series also boast Blu-ray drives, a hard drive expansion bay, and an up to 1.5TB SATA drive (expandable to 3.5TB total). The Gateway FX6850-51 will be available starting next week for $999, while the new DX models, which include the DX4350-43, the DX4850-27, and the DX4850-45, will be available next week with prices ranging from $599.99 to $749.99. In addition, the newly thinned down SX Series desktops (including the SX2803-25e, the SX2851-09e, the SX2851-41, and the SX2851-41e) will now boast the device dock previously seen on the DX Series, and will also be available next week with a starting price of $499.99. Full press release is after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textGATEWAY UPDATES ITS DESKTOP PCs WITH POWERFUL NEWINTEL TECHNOLOGY, NVIDIA GRAPHICS AND NEW DESIGNS WITH SMART, USER- FRIENDLY FEATURESIRVINE, Calif., Jan. 7, 2011 – Gateway today announced powerful new models and updated designs across its line of multimedia, high-performance and small-form factor desktop PCs.Gateway's line of FX high-performance and DX multimedia PCs now offer the 2nd generation Intel Core i5 2300 processor and Intel HD67 Express Chipset, providing all the horsepower needed to fuel the most demanding CPU- and graphic-intensive applications. The FX line also sees the addition of the new NVIDIA GeForce GT440 graphics, providing an adrenaline shot of performance for intense and responsive, visually stunning graphics.The 2nd generation Intel® Core™ i5 processor delivers a boost in performance automatically when needed, using Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0. It also includes a rich set of new features for a stunning and seamless visual PC experience with no additional hardware required. Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology(2) enables each processor core to work on two tasks at the same time, delivering the smart multitasking performance you need to move between applications quickly and without hesitation."The new Intel® Core™ i5 Processor delivers approximately a 20 percent overall performance gain, while its graphics subsystem delivers performance comparable to an entry level discrete graphics card. This allows our new models to process video and play Blu-ray better than ever," said Irene Chan, senior business manager, consumer desktops, Gateway.Featuring bold new designs, Gateway's SX small form factor and DX Series of multimedia PCs now boast soft curves, glossy black finishes and internal side lighting, which provides a beautiful ambient glow that adds depth and character to the overall designs. In addition, the top front edge of the PCs are curved at a 45 degree angle, providing easy access to the digital media card reader and frequently used USB ports and headphone and microphone jacks.In addition, the SX Series now features a "device deck," a popular feature of the DX line. This small recessed area on top of the chassis is ideal for setting a camera, MP3 player or camcorder while using the USB ports to download media. An integrated rear compartment keeps the top of the PC clean and neat, and provides a way to store and hide excess wires."With the latest technologies and stylish new designs, Gateway offers a compelling range of PCs that are not only powerful, but easy and convenient to use," said Chan.FX Series – High-Performance Desktops for Intense Computing and Action Packed EntertainmentFor anyone who requires killer performance for blazing through digital media applications or PC-based gaming, Gateway's FX Series delivers exactly what the doctor ordered. The FX Series means the world of extreme gaming and turbo-charged fun isn't limited to high-priced systems costing thousands of dollars. These high-performance PCs bring gaming into the mainstream price range, delivering the performance, graphics and audio necessary for those who want to experience their digital entertainment full throttle.The newest model in the FX line is the FX6850-51, which offers the powerful second-generation Intel Core i5 2300 Processor, Intel HD67 Express Chipset and NVIDIA's new GeForce GT440 graphics card with 1.5GB of video memory. This high-performance model also includes 8GB of memory, a 1TB hard drive and 16x DVD+/-R/RW SuperMulti Drive.Other models in the FX line feature the Intel® Core™ i7-930 processor, up to 9GB of memory, 1TB or 1.5TB variable RPM green hard drives, and a choice of a Blu-ray drive, Blu-ray/DVD combo drive or a 16x DVD+/-R/RW SuperMulti Drive.The FX6850-51 has an MSRP of $999.99. It will be available next week at select retailers throughout the U.S. Additional information can be found at http://www.gateway.com/systems/category/529598148.php.DX Series -- Compact Mini-Towers Big on Performance and FeaturesGateway's DX Series of multimedia PCs are entertainment powerhouses, delivering extreme performance and incredible system response. They are ideal for digital photography, video editing, graphic/content creation or watching streaming video.In addition to its eye-catching yet simplified design, new technologies found in the DX line include the high-performance second-generation Intel Core i5 2300 Processor, Intel HD67 Express Chipset, wireless capabilities, Blu-ray and an additional easily accessible hard drive expansion bay. Adding to the 1TB or 1.5TB green product SATA drives (depending on model), users can now expand their total storage by another 2TB, allowing for up to 3TB or 3.5TB of massive storage space.All DX models also include top-of-the-line audio and visual entertainment features. Smooth video playback with extraordinary detail and film-quality game effects are achieved through NVIDIA GeForce graphics or Intel HD Graphics 2000. Theater-like sound is delivered through 5.1-channel high definition audio support.New models in the DX line include the DX4350-43, DX4850-27 and DX4850-45. Prices range from $599.99 to $749.99. They will be available next week at select retailers throughout the U.S. Additional information can be found at http://www.gateway.com/systems/category/529598140.php?cmpid=sectnav_dxseries. SX Series – Proving Good Things Come in Small PackagesDespite their tiny size, the SX Series packs a powerful punch, delivering the perfect set of features and technologies for use as a home theatre system or for every day use. The SX is unobtrusive when placed in a main living area or small bedroom or dorm room, and is perfect as a primary or secondary PC.In addition to a new design option, the SX Series includes models with AMD or Intel processors, up to 6GB of memory, Intel or NVIDIA graphics and up to 1TB hard drives. They provide enough performance to handle productivity and entertainment applications with ease, such as playing movies, home video, displaying digital photos, or casual gaming. In addition, an HDMI port delivers highest quality visuals and high-fidelity audio through a single cable to a big screen TV or external LCD.New models in the SX line include the SX2803-25e, SX2851-09e, SX2851-41 and the SX2851-41e. MSRPs range from $499.99 to $549.99. They will be available next week at select retailers throughout the U.S. Additional information can be found at http://www.gateway.com/systems/category/529598135.php. About GatewaySince its founding in 1985, Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway has been a technology pioneer, offering stylish, user-friendly products and world-class customer service. Gateway is a wholly owned subsidiary of Acer Inc., the world's second-largest PC company. Through collaboration with suppliers, the company strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain. See www.gateway.com for more information. # # #All offers subject to change without notice or obligation and may not be available through all sales channels. Prices listed are manufacturer suggested retail prices and may vary by retail location. Applicable taxes extra. ©2011 Gateway. Gateway Terms & Conditions of Sale apply. Trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Gateway in the United States and other countries. Intel and Core are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Other product or service names mentioned herein are the trademarks of their respective owners.(1)Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes; GB = 1 billion bytes. (2)(HT) Available on select Intel® Core™ processors. Requires an Intel® HT Technology enabled system. Consult your PC manufacturer. Performance will vary depending on the specific hardware and software used. For more information including details on which processors support HT Technology, visit http://www.intel.com/info/hyperthreading
 