
 
We're not sure why Gateway's waited so long to release the details and pricing on the LT32 -- considering it's pretty much a rebadge of the Acer Aspire One 721 we just reviewed -- but lo and behold the HD-capable, 11.6-inch ultraportable will be hitting the street soon for $450. Just like the $430 Aspire One 721, the LT32 is powered by AMD's 1.7GHz Athlon II Neo K125 CPU, runs Windows 7 Home Premium, and packs a 250GB hard drive and 2GB of RAM. It also has ATI Radeon HD 4225 integrated graphics, which as we saw on the recent Acers handles 1080p flash and local video like a champ. From the looks of things the LT32 also seems to have a similar chassis to the 721, so we're not totally sure why you'd choose it over the Acer when it's $20 more, but perhaps there's just some Gateway diehards amongst us. Hit the break for the full release.
 

Show full PR textGateway LT32 Netbook Delivers Mobile HD Entertainment, Enhanced PerformanceAdvanced performance with AMD NEO processors and ATI graphics combined with 11.6-inch HD Display and HDMI make it ideal for high-def entertainment on-the-goIRVINE, Calif., July 7, 2010 – Gateway today introduced the new Gateway LT32 Series netbook line that provides great performance and HD entertainment capabilities for consumers that want to take their fun to go in a compact, highly-functional device. The new line uses AMD Athlon™ II Neo processors and ATI graphics for enhanced responsiveness and smooth video playback.The Gateway LT32 has an 11.6-inch HD LED-backlit display, so HD video and other digital media content is stunning and vibrant. Additionally, the new Gateway LT32 line has HDMI 1080p output, which lets customers use a convenient single cable connection to deliver HD video and audio to an external source such as a home entertainment system or LCD display."The new Gateway LT32 is a true ultra-mobile entertainment powerhouse netbook," said Pete Dailey, senior product marketing manager for Gateway netbooks. "It delivers a heightened level of performance and HD entertainment with the powerful combination of AMD Neo processors, ATI graphics and the crisp and clear HD display. The HDMI port means that customers can enjoy their digital entertainment on a large external display wherever they go."All these advanced capabilities come in a compact size that measures less than an inch thin and weighs only 2.76 pounds. Thanks to the solid battery life of up to 5.5 hours with the six-cell battery, customers can stay in touch and productive. (1)Improved Netbook Performance, Graphics Boost Enhanced by Large HD DisplayThe Gateway LT32 netbook line uses an AMD Athlon II Neo K125 processor backed by 2GB of DDR3 system memory for speedy web-browsing, music downloads, moving through applications, and handling multiple tasks. Plus, the ATI Radeon HD 4225 Graphics with 384MB of dedicated system memory provides superb graphics and visuals. The result is sharper high definition images, richer color, and smooth video and games.Video and digital media look vibrant on the Gateway LT32's impressive Ultrabright high-definition 11.6" LED-backlit display. The screen's 1366 x 768 resolution boosts the detail and clarity while the screen's 16:9 widescreen aspect ratio is great for enjoying Internet video including Flash video and watching movies. The large screen reduces customers' need to scroll right and left through applications and websites, while also making room for a full-size keyboard for comfortable typing. Customers can take all the photos, video, music and documents they want on the go with a large 250GB(2) hard disk drive.Ready to Stay in Touch with 3G, WiFi, One-Touch Social NetworkingStaying in touch with the new Gateway LT32 netbooks is easy and fun. All models have Wi-Fi® b/g/n for connecting at wireless home networks and hotspots. The integrated HD webcam in the Gateway LT32 netbook line gives consumers an easy way to capture photos and video, record video emails and take part in video-conferencing. Plus, the built-in digital microphone conveys excellent voice quality, keeping background noise levels low and minimizing echoes.The Gateway LT32 netbook easily connects to peripherals such as printers, displays and digital cameras. It has an impressive three USB 2.0 ports for connecting multiple devices simultaneously as well as Gigabit Ethernet and VGA ports. Plus, it features a multi-in-one digital card reader for accepting popular digital media cards.Like the rest of Gateway's new notebook and netbook lines, the new Gateway LT32 Series features dedicated "social networking," accessed through a function key to launch today's most popular social networking sites – Facebook, YouTube and Flickr. With it, customers have a constant connection that is easy to access and will help them stay up-to-date with contacts on news and the latest posts.Enjoyable to Use, Stylish DesignsThe Gateway LT32 netbook line gives customers a boost in productivity with the multi-gesture touchpad that lets customers intuitively move through their applications and digital media. For example, customers can make a pinching motion to zoom in and out on documents, photos and websites, and a flipping motion to move quickly through photos, web pages and PDF documents.The LT32 netbook's look is sleek and modern, and features a matte chassis cover that resists fingerprints with a wave pattern that is subtle yet distinctive.Pricing, Availability and ConfigurationsThe new Gateway LT32 will be available at a starting manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP) of $449.99.Gateway Limited Warranty, Service and SupportThe Gateway LT32 netbook line is backed by a one year warranty.(3) Gateway's commitment to quality and reliability is evident in its award-winning line of PCs as well as in its exceptional service and support programs. In addition to the company's standard limited warranty options,(4) its extensive online support center helps customers maximize their PC investment; it gives them easy access to customer support representatives and information on important issues such as warranties, technical issues and upgrading.About GatewaySince its founding in 1985, Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway has been a technology pioneer, offering stylish, user-friendly products and world-class customer service. Gateway is a wholly owned subsidiary of Acer Inc., the world's second-largest PC company. Through collaboration with suppliers, the company strives to design environmentally friendly products and establish a green supply chain. See www.gateway.com for more information.# # #All offers subject to change without notice or obligation and may not be available through all sales channels. Prices listed are manufacturer suggested retail prices and may vary by retail location. Applicable taxes extra. ©2008 Gateway, Inc. Gateway Terms & Conditions of Sale apply. Trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Gateway, Inc. in the United States and other countries. Intel and Core are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Other product or service names mentioned herein are the trademarks of their respective owners.
 