
Ready to save some cash on your tech buys? Then you've come to the right place. Our friends at sister site gdgt track price drops on thousands of products every day, and twice a week they feature some of the best deals they've found right here. But act fast! Many of these are limited-time offers, and won't last long.

With the long winter season approaching, it's probably wise to make sure your home theater system is in proper working order. And while you're cooped up in the house, a new laptop could help you get some work done. So, with that in mind, we dug up some deals on Ultrabooks, speakers and more. Join gdgt and add the gadgets you're shopping for to your "Want" list; every time there's a price cut, you'll get an email alert!




ASUS VivoBook S500CA-US71TPrice: $735 (regularly $900)Buy: Newegg
If you haven't jumped on the Surface bandwagon and still prefer Ultrabooks to slates, this might be the deal for you. This ASUS laptop delivers Windows 8 with touchscreen functionality (the way it was meant to be experienced). Under the hood you'll find an Intel Core i7 processor, a 500GB HDD, a 24GB SSD and a 15.6-inch display. If you take advantage of the deal before October 31st, there's even an additional discount to be had.


Polk Audio Monitor 60 Series IIPrice: $100 (regularly $300)Buy: Newegg
Pre-packaged surround sound setups are fine, but if you have the space, why not piece together something really impressive? Good speakers don't always come cheap, so you might want to take advantage of this deal on Polk Audio Monitor 60 floor-standing speakers. They pack a pretty good punch and have a crisp, clean sound, too. Kaiju and Jaeger battles are even more impressive when you've got a proper sound system to blow your hair back.


Western Digital My Book 1TBPrice: $65 (regularly $96) Buy: Amazon
Extra storage space is always a must, especially with the holidays landing soon. You'll want to have room for all those Halloween photos and a place to stockpile turkey-themed party jams. This deal on the 1TB Western Digital My Book will get you all that virtual real estate, supports USB 3.0 and comes with a two-year warranty. You can even do your good deed for the day by getting one for that friend who still isn't backing up his PC. They're just going to call you for help when the inevitable crash occurs anyway.


Sony BDP-S5100 Smart 3D WiFi Blu-ray playerPrice: $100 (regularly $140)Buy: Best Buy
If want to smarten up your set and escape the humdrum DVD world, you might appreciate an upgrade to Blu-ray. This Sony device supports 2D-to-3D conversion, DVD upscaling, includes Netflix, Pandora, Hulu and boasts improved WiFi range over its predecessors. You'll still be able to play those aging discs, so you don't have to worry about losing that curated collection and this space-age design will look great next to your TV.


