
 
 GE spent the second half of 2011 teasing its WattStation solution for powering electric vehicles. Now that the company has captured your attention with that slick, Yves Behar-designed "pedestal," it's ready to deliver. In case you forgot, the WattStation Connect is a charging station / software platform developed in cooperation with Hertz that lets EV owners manage the power-up process remotely via a mobile app and the WattStation's three connectivity options: 3G, Wi-Fi and Ethernet. The app, expected to hit iOS and Android in the coming weeks, also help users locate stations and lets them virtually pay for juicing up their vehicles. While the charging platform will work its way into the hearts and homes of those who own an EV, GE will also deploy this tech to retailers and fleet owners looking to zero in on their electricity usage. It's not yet clear where the WattStations will be or are already available, but GE is apparently ready to start the rollout now. Get the full details in the presser after the break.



  Show full PR text   GE Energy Launches the Fully Networked WattStation™ and WattStation Connect  Software, a Complete Electric Vehicle Charging Platform
   * Innovative Electric Vehicle Solution from GE Combines Connectivity,  Convenience, Safety and Reliability in an Integrated Charging System  * GE Energy's Industrial Solutions Business Works with Hertz® to Provide EV  Users with a Secure and Easy-to-Use System  * WattStation Charging Station Features Stylish Modern Design and  Intelligent Retractable Cord

   SAE 2012 World Congress

   Business Wire

   DETROIT -- April 24, 2012

   GE Energy's (NYSE: GE) Industrial Solutions business unveiled its new  ecomagination™-approved WattStation™ and WattStation™ Connect today at the SAE  2012 World Congress in Detroit, Mich. A complete, user-friendly electric  vehicle (EV) charging station and software platform, the solution allows  WattStation owners to manage charging stations remotely, giving them the  ability to manage and set customer pricing for EV charging, provide access  control at their facilities, generate valuable reports and engage with  customers in new ways. Now available, GE's sleek, stylish and modern designed  WattStation pedestal EV charger is easy to use, customizable and features a  retractable cord.

   GE Energy is at work connecting people and ideas to create advanced  technologies like the WattStation and WattStation Connect. EV users can now  gather information and process payments in an easy-to-use, customizable,  reliable and secure system.

   The WattStation Connect full-service software platform helps meet a wide  variety of EV needs, whether it is a retailer looking to attract new  customers, a commercial property manager in need of information on electricity  usage or a fleet owner in search of better cost-allocation data. WattStation  Connect provides owners a user-friendly method to manage, monitor and maintain  their EV charging ecosystem network.

   "We worked closely with Hertz in the development of the WattStation Connect  software because Hertz is at the forefront of electric vehicle deployment,"  said Michael Mahan, product general manager, EV infrastructure for GE Energy's  Industrial Solutions business. "Their global EV solutions in the U.S., Europe  and China require the advanced, networked stations that we offer."

   Industrial Solutions is forming data acquisition agreements with key  navigation companies to share information on the installations and  availability of WattStations throughout the U.S. and Canada. This enables EV  drivers to view and locate GE's WattStations, obtain directions to the EV  charging stations, access pricing details and determine whether a unit is  available for charging. In addition to global positioningsystems (GPS), the GE  WattStation Connect data will be available through the Internet, mobile  app/device and future in-vehicle (built-in navigation) systems.

   GE Energy's Industrial Solutions business is working with a well-known online  payment company to enable drivers to safely and conveniently pay for charging  fees through the WattStation Connect mobile app. The app will be available for  download in the coming weeks. EV drivers can use the mobile app to scan the  quick response (QR) barcode on the WattStation charger. The QR code will  identify the station and the pricing structure for that individual charger.

   GE Energy's WattStation and WattStation Connect are designed to work within  the EV ecosystem, smart electronic commerce and monitoring systems, making it  energy efficient and providing customers with a no-hassle experience. The  award-winning WattStation^1 can be installed into any commercial, public or  retail location. EV users will be able to use this product at retail outlets,  hotels, office buildings, institutions such as hospitals, public and private  parking decks and street parking. Here are some of the benefits:

   * Combining functionality with a modern design by renowned industrial  designer Yves Behar, the GE WattStation pedestal uses smart grid  technology and enables utility companies to manage the impact of electric  vehicles on the local and regional power grids. Its sleek interface with  LED indicator lights helps to identify when it's available for use,  charging an EV or if a fault has occurred.  * The WattStation's intelligent self-cleaning cord management system allows  for use in a multitude of environments without compromising the life of  the product. The cord is self contained within the charger to keep the  cord organized and out of the way when the charger is not in use. The cord  only retracts when the charger is disconnected from a vehicle, preventing  damage when the charger is in use.  * The upgradeable WattStation is designed to grow with its users' needs. Its  modular design simplifies in-field upgrades and ensures that EV charging  facilities can expand without the need for costly replacement equipment.  * Three modes of communication (cellular 3G, Wi-Fi or Ethernet connections)  provide WattStation owners with flexibility for communicating back to the  WattStation Connect network. The WattStation Connect software offers the  flexibility of different packages (fleet, corporate and commercial) and  customizable payment options.  * GE's WattStation Connect mobile app enables EV owners to locate stations,  see station availability, pay for charging their vehicle and check the  status of the charge while their vehicle is charging. The mobile app will  be available at the Apple iTunes Store® and Android™ Market. Radio  Frequency Identification (RFID) technology provides secure access to the  charging station.  * Through the GE EV Certified Installer program, users can tap into GE's  network of service providers for the assistance they need to make their EV  charging projects a reality.  * Placing safety first, with ground fault protection and NEMA 3R  indoor/outdoor rating, GE's WattStation meets all UL and fire safety  standards.

   "GE has a full range of electrical distribution products required to support  EV deployment and to move power from the grid to the road, helping our  customers operate in a smarter, more networked world," added Mahan. "Our EV  charging solutions offer a variety of options that make sense for you and your  community. Whether you need durability, modern style, freestanding units,  software-enabled or simple charging functionality, GE has designed leading  technology for the delivery, management, conversion and optimization of  electrical power and can connect you to the most effective, convenient  solution for you."

   To earn ecomagination approval, a product is evaluated for its ability to  significantly and measurably improve the customer's environmental and  operating performance. Green Order, a consulting firm, helps verify the  rigorous, multi-tiered qualification process to ensure accuracy and thorough  documentation of technological performance.

   For more information on GE Energy's EV solutions, please visit its website,  check it out on Facebook or follow on Twitter @GEindustrial.

   Apple iTunes Store is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and  other countries.

   Android is a trademark of Google Inc.

 
