
 

The E3 2011 announcements from Microsoft just keep on coming, though this one's a little more superficial than the rest. An Xbox 360 console, specially refashioned with a set of blood-red Gears of War 3 visuals, is set to launch on September 20th, equipped with a 320GB hard drive, two matching wireless controllers, and the obligatory copy of its headline game (plus some DLC goodies). The whole bundle will set buyers back $400, but if you already have a 360 of your own and just want one of those snazzy-looking crimson controllers, your wait and expense will be significantly reduced -- you'll be able to buy the GOW3 control pads for $60 on August 11th. See a closeup of it after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Own a Piece of History with the Xbox 360 "Gears of War 3" Limited Edition Console 		LONDON - June 7, 2011 - Designed by Microsoft and Epic games, this limited edition Xbox 360 console commemorates the spectacular story conclusion to one of the most celebrated trilogies in videogame history. Inspired by the blockbuster Xbox 360 franchise, the Xbox 360 limited edition "Gears of War 3" Bundle includes an exclusive red and black console design with two custom-designed Xbox 360 wireless controllers, a 320GB hard drive and built-in Wi-Fi connection for easier access to the world of entertainment on Xbox LIVE, and will be available from 20th September 2011, 		The package includes a standard copy of "Gears of War 3," a wired headset, plus a download token for bonus game content including the Infected Omen Weapon Pack and the Adam Fenix character for use in multiplayer. The Infected Omen Weapon Pack gives fans the infected omen skin for use on the five starting weapons: Lancer, Retro Lancer, Hammerburst, Gransher, and Sawed-Off Shotgun. Also, the power and eject buttons have been customised with unique sounds from the "Gears of War" universe. 		Truly a collector's item for Xbox 360 and "Gears of War" fans, the console is incredible value with more storage than any other Xbox 360 console, and includes two customised limited edition wireless controllers. Customers can also purchase the customised Limited Edition "Gears of War 3" wireless controller separately. 		For more information on Xbox360 "Gears of War 3" limited edition bundle visit www.xbox.com.  
 