
 
 We'd have gone with "smaller than a breadbox," but book-sized seems to work just as well, when describing Giada's new mini-PC. The i53 packs an Ivy Bridge Core i5 processor standard (i3 and and i7 versions are also available), 4GB of RAM and a 500GB hard drive into its sub-one kilogram, bookshelf-ready form factor. The system supports USB 3.0 and HD video and comes with a colorful remote control, so you can boot it up from a distance. The i53 should sell for around $520. More info can be found in the press materials after the break.



  Show full PR text    Giada's i53: Powerful Performance in a Book-Sized Mini PC
  Giada, a brand of Shenzhen Jiehe Technology Development, Co., Ltd, today announces the i53 Mini PC. With full HD 1080P video, high connectivity, support, and an attractive design, Giada's new book-sized i53 Mini PC is an ideal choice for home entertainment, web browsing, and document writing.
  The i53 is based around Intel's Mobile HM76 Express chipset and Ivy Bridge technology platform. Even while offering great performance, this environmentally friendly PC only uses 35W.
  The Giada i53 comes standard with an Ivy Bridge Core i5 processor and 4GB of RAM which can provide plenty of computing performance for today's applications. The i53 is also available in Ivy Bridge i3 and i7 options.
  It's an ideal home theater PC (HTPC) thanks to the included infra red remote control that allows for remote boot-up; its support for full HD 1080P video and Intel HD Audio with 5.1 channel surround sound. The i53 comes with a 500GB HDD standard allowing you to store movies and music to be played at your pleasure. This system is compliant with Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP and Linux.
  The low power consuming Giada i53 runs cool and quiet, thanks to its advanced heat control technology, including a smart temperature-controlled fan. This Mini PC makes a perfect household download station - leave it downloading all night without being troubled by noise, heat or energy costs. Its slim design lets it fit neatly into even the tiniest space.
  Tiny in size, the i53 is very big on features, with many connectivity options. There are five USB connectors, including a super fast USB 3.0 socket. The i53 also provides a gigabit network socket, high speed 802.11n WiFi, Bluetooth, as well as HDMI and VGA video outputs. Rounding out the list of features, there's a multi-format memory card reader slot so you can easily transfer your video, photos and music to and from your camera, mobile phone, or media player.
  The book-sized Giada i53 Mini PC is so small that it could easily fit into the space taken up by a single desktop PC. It weighs less than 1kg: even smaller and more portable than a laptop. This mini PC is easy to carry anywhere and plug in and set up in seconds.
  The i53 blends unobtrusively into the background, but it's always ready to provide computing power and performance when you need it.
  The standard model of the i53 coming with an Ivy Bridge Core i5 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 500GB HDD is available for the suggested retail price of $520.
  
