
 
 It's only been a little over a month since Giada first introduced that itty-bitty, Ivy Bridge-loaded i53 mini PC, but the outfit wants to have something for everyone and is now announcing a lesser-specced i35G series. Although not as powerful as its i53 brethren, the i35G's got some nice attributes of its own, including -- you guessed it -- Intel's Cedar Trail CPU, a hot-off-the-press GeForce GT 610 GPU and 2GB of RAM with the base model (up to 4GB) -- not to mention an all-in-one card reader, five USB 2.0 ports plus VGA, HDMI ports. Additionally, the standard unit comes with a 320GB hard drive, though if you're looking for a quick boost, it's easily upgradable to some solid-state drive goodness. Giada's letting go of its petite i35G starting at $274, but you'll have to call North America home, as it's only available in Canada and the States.



  Show full PR text    Giada Announces i35G Series for Consumer & Commercial Applications  Low Power Consuming Mini-PC with NVIDIA GPU  August 14, 2012, San Francisco, California – Giada, a brand of Jehe Technology Inc., (JEHE) is pleased to announce the i35G mini PC series. The i35G series is built on the powerful Intel® Atom™ D2500 series processor, and with the NVIDIA® GT610 GPU this mini PC can offer impressive system performance in consumer and digital signage applications.

   Supporting 1080p Full High Definition graphics, the i35G series has up to 2GB of DDR3 memory with 512MB of VRAM on board. The i35G keeps power consumption to a minimum at 35W, while still having the flexibility to provide high performance solutions for digital signage for advertising, hospitality, brand promotion and digital menu boards as well as for consumers looking for a compact work station that also allows for light gaming.

   The ultra-compact dimensions of 192 x 155 x 26mm allow this mini PC to fit virtually anywhere, and when used with the optional VES Mount Kit the users can easily and securely mount the i35G behind the large display devices or monitors.

   For end users, the HDMI connection and remote control capabilities for playing and controlling music and movies permit even more versatility by allowing the i35G to become a home entertainment system. Connections to other devices the i35G includes VGA, Bluetooth, and 5 USB 2.0 ports. There's also a memory card reader port that supports SD, MMC, MS, and MS PRO. All these connections emphasize plug and play ease of use.

   The Giada i35G series is available now in the US and Canada for the suggested retail price of $274.

 
