
 

Intel told us to expect next-gen netbooks from a throng of manufacturers, but for some reason it forgot to mention little ol' Gigabyte. Perhaps that's why the Taiwanese manufacturer is being slightly standoffish when it comes to detailing its two new 10-inch slates, which both run on unspecified variants of Cedar Trail and have equally unknown launch dates and prices. What we do know is that the T1006M is a convertible tablet that sports 1366 x 768 densely packed pixels, a USB 3.0 port and what appears to be an optional 3.5G modem -- specs that are already familiar from our recent encounter at the FCC. Next comes the S1081, which is a straightforward Windows 7 business slate like its $680 predecessor and comes with a choice of HDD or SSD storage, an optical trackpad for extra "precision," USB 3.0, VGA and HDMI outputs, plus the same optional multimedia dock. Rest assured that we'll track these newcomers down on the CES floor to fill in the blanks and judge how well they stand out, now that the quiet trail has become a highway. Until then, feel free to read on for the press release -- which also reveals that the Booktop T1132, Booktop M2432 and P2532 gaming notebook are all heading to the US market.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  GIGABYTE Introduces Cutting Edge Mobile Products at CES 2012 		CES, Las Vegas – January 9, 2012. GIGABYTE today announced an outstanding lineup of ground breaking mobile computers at CES 2012. All products feature GIGABYTE's longstanding commitment to technological prowess in terms of quality, performance and design. Exciting products to be introduced at CES include the S1081, a 10.1" powerful slate for productivity; and the T1006M, an extraordinary 10.1" convertible tablet notebook. Other products to be presented are the BooktopTM T1132N, an 11.6" revolutionary 3-in-1 notebook, tablet and desktop; the P2532F, a 15.6" blazing fast Blu-ray gaming and multimedia notebook; and the BooktopTM M2432, a 14" notebook that delivers the perfect combination of style and performance.  S1081 - Powerful Slate for Productivity 		The S1081 is a high-performing 10.1" slate that offers the full productivity of Windows® 7 and is designed for business and professional users. The slate is powered by the new Intel® AtomTM Cedar Trail platform, which delivers fantastic energy efficient performance that is great for mobile multitasking. The slate has two excellent options for storage. The huge 500GB HDD version allows users to load all their important files and data and never worry about space limitations, while the SSD version provides a speedy user experience. Along with the responsive capacitive multi-touch display that is great for general use, there is also an optical trackpad when precision is needed. The slate also includes HDMI and VGA ports so that it can be connected to a TV or projector during presentations or business meetings. It also has USB 3.0, Bluetooth 4.0 and 1.3mp webcam. A keyboard (with USB cable) and a carrying case were also designed specifically for the S1081, which increases the functionality of the device and make it easy to stay productive while on the go.  S1081 - Multimedia Docking Station 		A docking station was designed for the S1081 and it comes with a DVD drive and a powerful audio system, including two stereo and two woofer speakers. The high-quality audio system is great to use for enjoying music, movies and other multimedia. The docking station also comes with many useful ports that bring excellent connectivity options.  T1006M - Extraordinary Convertible Tablet Notebook 		The T1006M is a premium 10.1" convertible tablet notebook that has terrific performance and comes with exciting features. The computer is equipped with an excellent capacitive multi-touch display that has a superb resolution of 1366x768, which is rarely found on devices this small. The computer is powered by the new Intel® AtomTM Cedar Trail platform that provides excellent processing power for mobile productivity. The T1006M also comes with USB 3.0 for blazing fast data transfers, and a 6-cell battery that delivers long-lasting battery life. The T1006M has a compact and lightweight design and is 3.5G ready, which makes it a great mobile notebook and tablet to accomplish daily tasks.  BooktopTM T1132N - Revolutionary 3-in-1 Notebook, Tablet and Desktop 		The 11.6" BooktopTM T1132N is a revolutionary new computer with an impressive 3-in-1 design that can be used as a notebook, a tablet and even a desktop through an innovative docking station. The computer is powered by a 2nd generation Intel® CoreTM i5 processor that delivers incredible performance. The NVIDIA® GeForce® GT520M with 1GB VRAM provides an outstanding multimedia experience and comes with OptimusTM technology that helps extend battery life. The T1132N has two high-quality dual-channel stereo speakers and two woofer speakers that combined with THX TruStudio ProTM technology provide a masterful audio experience that is normally found in live performances, films, and recording studios. The computer also comes with a 3.5G antenna built-in, USB 3.0 and HDMI. 		The T1132N can instantly transform into tablet mode and the bright and responsive capacitive multi-touch display makes the computer great for accomplishing business tasks and enjoying multimedia content. The T1132N also features an innovative docking station that when hooked up with peripheral devices transform it into a desktop. The docking station includes a dockable Super-multi DVD drive and multiple ports, including USB 3.0, HDMI and more, which provide excellent connectivity and expandability options.  P2532F - Blazing Fast Blu-ray Gaming and Multimedia Notebook 		The 15.6" P2532F is an exceptional gaming and multimedia notebook with a stunning design that is reminiscent of a premium sports car. The P2532F features a powerful quad-core 2nd generation Intel® CoreTM i7 2670QM processor and a NVIDIA® GeForce® GT555M with 2GB VRAM that provides blazing performance that is great for gaming and multimedia. The P2532F comes with a blu-ray drive and a brilliant and vivid Full HD 1920x1080 LED backlight screen that is great for crisp media playback. The notebook comes equipped with four terrific dual-channel stereo speakers and a woofer speaker that combined with THX TruStudio ProTM technology produce a tremendous audio experience that is great for music, movies and games. The notebook also has a 7200rpm 750GB HDD, 8GB of RAM, two USB 3.0 ports and HDMI. In terms of design, the P2532F features a unique dual heat sink design with dual air vents (one for the processor and the other for the GPU) that provide a powerful cooling effect even during long hours of use. With its impressive features and sleek design, the P2532F is an extraordinary choice as a mobile gaming and multimedia notebook.  BooktopTM M2432 – Sleek Notebook with Desktop Grade Performance 		The BooktopTM M2432 is a stunning new notebook that is thin and light and can also be transformed into a powerful desktop with a unique docking station. The notebook has a sleek and eye-catching design with a gorgeous aluminum hairline brushed finish and is powered by a high-performing 2nd generation Intel® CoreTM i5 processor that delivers fantastic performance. With a 14" LED backlight display that produces bright and crisp images and Intel's high-quality integrated HD 3000 graphics, the M2432 is great for enjoying multimedia. The notebook comes equipped with two excellent speakers and THX TruStudio ProTM technology that delivers a superb audio experience. The innovative docking station comes loaded with many exceptional features to provide a desktop-like experience. It has a NVIDIA® GT 440 GPU with 1GB VRAM GDDR5 built-in, which provides desktop level graphics performance back into the notebook and on up to two external displays. Like a desktop, it also includes full I/O connectivity, including six USB ports, HDMI, D-Sub, DVI, and other useful ports. With all the I/O connectivity, there is never any need to deal with the hassle of unplugging accessories or power cords and it's always ready to go.
 