
 
 What's the point of hitting the road for glamorous destinations if you can't brag it up? To that end, Glympse is launching a new voice-activated location-sharing app that works with Ford SYNC-equipped vehicles. You'll need to install it on a compatible iOS or Android smartphone, then connect to your SYNC system via Bluetooth, provided you're one of the 5 million Ford drivers so equipped. From there, you'll be able to share your location with contacts by saying "send a Glympse," forewarning Grandma via Facebook or Twitter to put the pumpkin pie in the oven -- without needing to take your eyes off the road or make a call. Your contacts can even go online to see a moving map presentation of your Napa Valley wine tour while they're slaving in front of a screen -- so head sideways after the break for more info.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Glympse Launches First In-Car, Voice-Activated Location-Sharing App for Ford SYNC AppLink
   More than One Million Ford Drivers Can Now Share their Location Directly from their Car, Making it Easy to Answer the Question, "Where are you?"

   Seattle, WA and Dearborn, MI – Jan. 7, 2012 – Glympse, Inc., the mobile technology company that pioneered temporary real-time location sharing, today announced the first location-sharing app for Ford Motor Company's SYNC® in-car connectivity system. Using the AppLink™ interface, drivers will be able to share their location with friends and family directly from their car using simple voice commands, eliminating the need to access their mobile phone while driving.

   "People typically share their location while in the car, and by integrating Glympse into Ford SYNC AppLink, we're providing drivers with a rich, real-time and hands-free way to share where they are," said Bryan Trussel, co-founder and CEO of Glympse. "At Glympse, we're dedicated to creating a more robust connected car experience, and working with Ford will help us to reach millions of consumers who will be able to just say 'Send a Glympse' to share their current whereabouts, eliminating the need to send a text or make a phone call."

   To use Glympse while in a Ford SYNC AppLink-enabled vehicle, drivers must have the app downloaded on a compatible iOS or Android-based smartphone. The car automatically recognizes the app when the phone is Bluetooth-paired or USB-connected. Once the app has been activated, to share their location, the driver simply needs to press the SYNC voice button on the steering wheel and say, "Send Glympse." Voice-activated commands help to navigate the driver to send a Glympse to one of their pre-set favorites, share via Facebook or Twitter, or to send a custom Glympse. Recipients can monitor the vehicle's progress via a real-time dynamic map, either on a smartphone or online.

   "Glympse is a great example of how smartphone app integration with the car can help us make the driving experience more convenient for our customers, thus adding perceived value to their vehicle," said Julius Marchwicki, Ford SYNC AppLink program manager. "By teaming up with an innovative company like Glympse, we are providing our customers with a dynamic way to share their location while removing the need to take their eyes off the road or hands off the steering wheel to pick up their smartphone."

   Glympse, available on both iPhone and Android devices, is now compatible with Ford SYNC AppLink. To download Glympse, visit HYPERLINK "http://www.Glympse.com/Get_Glympse" www.Glympse.com/Get_Glympse.

 
