
 


	GM has already done a fair bit of talking about electric vehicles this year, but it's not done just yet. The company announced this week that it will be producing an all-electric version of its Spark mini-car -- to be dubbed the Spark EV -- into production, with the first vehicles set to roll out sometime in 2013 (including "limited quantities" in the US). Complete details on the vehicle are otherwise still a bit light, but GM says it will use nanophosphate lithium-ion battery provided by A123 Systems. What's more, while there's no word on it going into production, GM has also confirmed that it's begun development of its next-generation EN-V concept vehicle, and that it will sport a Chevrolet badge this time around. As you may recall from our test ride, the existing EN-V is already plenty futuristic, so it'll be interesting to see what the automaker comes up with next. Head on past the break for a video of the Spark.
 

    		Show full PR text  Chevrolet to Produce Spark EV All-Electric Vehicle		Mini-car joins growing portfolio of electrified vehicles 		DETROIT – Chevrolet today announced it will produce an all-electric version of the Chevrolet Spark mini-car – the Spark EV. It will be sold in limited quantities in select U.S. and global markets starting in 2013, including California. 		"The Spark EV offers customers living in urban areas who have predictable driving patterns or short commutes an all-electric option," said Jim Federico, global vehicle chief engineer for electric vehicles at Chevrolet. "It complements Chevrolet's growing range of electrified vehicles, including the Volt extended-range EV and the 2013 Malibu Eco with eAssist technology." 		Feedback from participants in Chevrolet's electric vehicle demonstration fleets in Shanghai (Sail EV), Korea (Cruze EV) and India (Beat EV) are being incorporated into the Spark EV. 		"Our global demo fleets continue to provide insight into the needs of electric vehicle customers living in urban environments," said Federico. "The Spark EV is another step in Chevrolet's plan to provide customers with a variety of electrification solutions to address the lifestyle and transportation needs of people around the world." 		A123 Systems will supply the advanced nanophosphate lithium-ion battery packs that will power the Spark EV. Details on specific markets, range, quantities and pricing will be announced later. 		About Chevrolet 		Founded in Detroit in 1911, Chevrolet celebrates its centennial as a global automotive brand with annual sales of about 4.25 million vehicles in more than 140 countries. Chevrolet provides consumers with fuel-efficient, safe and reliable vehicles that deliver high quality, expressive design, spirited performance and value. The Chevrolet portfolio includes iconic performance cars such as Corvette and Camaro; dependable, long-lasting pickups and SUVs such as Silverado and Suburban; and award-winning passenger cars and crossovers such as Sonic, Cruze, Malibu, Equinox and Traverse. Chevrolet also offers "gas-friendly solutions including Cruze Eco and Volt. Cruze Eco offers 42 mpg highway while Volt offers 35 miles of electric, gasoline-free driving and an additional 344 miles of extended gasoline range, according to EPA estimates. Most new Chevrolet models offer OnStar safety, security and convenience technologies including OnStar Hands-Free Calling, Automatic Crash Response and Stolen Vehicle Slowdown. More information regarding Chevrolet models, fuel solutions, and OnStar availability can be found at www.chevrolet.com.
 