
  Rejoice frequent-flying lovers of the Interwebs. All systems continue to be a go for in-flight WiFi provider Gogo as the company inks a deal with yet another satellite operator. A new agreement with global satellite company SES puts Gogo closer to providing seamless WiFi for passengers on intercontinental flights that use its service -- SES' coverage area includes the United States, Europe and the Atlantic Ocean region. The agreement comes along the heels of deals signed by Gogo with Inmarsat for Ka-band frequency service and AeroSat to use its HR6400 satellite communication system for Ku-band connections. The company says Ku-band service could be available on commercial flights using Gogo's network as early as the end of this year, providing more options for, say, Airtime video chat hijinks. As long as Internet access prevents bored kids from kicking the back of our airline seats, then it's all good.



  Show full PR text   Gogo Partners with SES to Offer Broadband Aboard Commercial Airlines
  Partnership deal aims to connect passengers over the U.S., Atlantic and Europe
   ITASCA, Ill. and BETZDORF, Luxembourg, June 18, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Gogo, a leader in in-flight connectivity, and global satellite operator SES (Euronext Paris and Luxembourg Stock Exchange: SESG) today announced they have signed a strategic memorandum of understanding with the goal of bringing high-speed, satellite-delivered Internet access to passengers aboard commercial airliners.

   Gogo, a pioneer in wireless in-flight digital entertainment solutions, plans to utilize high-throughput Ku-band capacity on current and future SES multi-beam satellites serving the continental United States, the Atlantic Ocean Region and Europe. SES operates a worldwide fleet of 50 geostationary satellites.

   "By partnering with SES, Gogo aims to provide the reliable and seamless satellite coverage our current and prospective airline partners must have to meet airline passengers' demands for high-quality, high-speed Internet access on the fly," said Gogo president and CEO Michael Small. "With the addition of a trusted satellite operator and Ku-band connectivity solution, Gogo is well positioned to provide a broad range of airlines and aircraft with a variety of technology solutions. Whether it's Gogo's exclusive air to ground and ATG-4 technologies, SES's Ku-band satellites or, Inmarsat's Global Xpress Ka-band satellite technologies, we plan to offer a full range of connectivity solutions for any aircraft mission."

   "Like Gogo, SES is dedicated to connectivity without boundaries. This groundbreaking alliance between SES and Gogo represents an exciting milestone for commercial airlines and their passengers, who expect the same high-speed Internet access they're accustomed to on land during their flights," explained Ferdinand Kayser, Chief Commercial Officer for SES. "SES is looking forward to bringing the best satellites and expertise in the business to what promises to be an important advancement in regional and global airline travel."

   Gogo expects to use this technology to offer airlines connectivity services on international fleets flying transatlantic routes, as well as regional fleets flying within Europe and the United States. Gogo is actively working with SES and other operators to expand that coverage globally.

   Gogo also recently announced that it will partner with AeroSat to deliver the satellite antenna, radome, antenna control and modem unit and high power transceiver to Gogo. The AeroSat equipment will be coupled with Gogo's onboard hardware and software (server and access points) to deliver a complete solution to the airlines. The components have already been developed and are currently going through the airworthiness qualification and certification process. Gogo expects to be able to install the Ku-band systems on commercial aircraft as early as the fourth quarter of 2012.

   About Gogo

   Gogo is fast becoming everyone's favorite part of flying. By allowing travelers to get online, in air, Gogo keeps them connected to life. Using the Gogo exclusive network and services, passengers with laptops and other Wi-Fi enabled devices can get online on more than 1,500 commercial aircraft including all domestic AirTran Airways and Virgin America flights, all domestic mainline Delta Air Lines flights and select Air Canada, Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Frontier Airlines, United Airlines, and US Airways flights.

   Back on the ground, Gogo's 400+ employees in Itasca, IL, Broomfield, CO and London are continually redefining flying as a productive, socially connected, and all-around more satisfying experience. Connect with us at www.gogoair.com, on Facebook at www.facebook.com/gogo and on Twitter at www.twitter.com/gogo.

   About SES

   SES is a world-leading satellite operator with a fleet of 50 geostationary satellites. The company provides satellite communications services to broadcasters, content and Internet service providers, mobile and fixed network operators and business and governmental organisations worldwide.

   Source: PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1eVJe)

 
