
 
 Now that the legal dust has settled and Google's publishing woes in 'ol Gaul have been swept under the rug, it's back to business as usual. Starting today, the land of Jerry Lewis lovers will have access to books on Google Play, making it the fifth European country to participate in Mountain View's online ebook store. Initially, the available catalog of domestic titles will count in the "hundreds of thousands" -- a sizable library that will surely expand as publishers grow comfortable with the Play ecosystem and more deals are struck -- and is supplemented by existing arrangements with international publishers. So, if you always meant to brush up on your Flaubert or Fifty Shades of Grey, well, now's your chance La France. Official PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Books on Google Play arrives in France
   Wednesday, July 18, 2012 | 11:40 AM

   Earlier this year, we introduced Google Play, a digital entertainment hub where you can find, enjoy and share your favorite apps and movies on your Android phone or tablet. Today we're adding books to Google Play for people in France.

   Books on Google Play offers millions of books, including hundreds of thousands of French titles, from new releases to bestsellers and classics. It's easy to find great French authors such as Antonin Varenne, Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt, Fred Vargas and Dominique Sylvain, plus international bestsellers, in the country's largest ebookstore. With the launch of ebooks, Google Play becomes a one-stop-shop for the very best digital content available on the web.

   France is the fifth European country to launch books on Play, following in the footsteps of Germany, Spain, Italy and the UK. This follows on our recent announcement of a settlement of all outstanding litigation between us and French publishers.

   Books on Google Play is all about choice: we're offering many titles and many ways to access and read them, so that your library is literally at your fingertips no matter where you are. You can choose from great titles from hundreds of award-winning and diverse publishing houses at launch, not to mention the telethousands of international publishers Google works with around the world.

   With Google Play you can read on the device of your choice. And with your books in the cloud you can read on the web, a phone, or a tablet and pick up right where you left off. You can discover, purchase and read books on:

   Android phones and tablets - you can purchase books in the Google Play Store and begin reading them instantly in the Google Play Books app;  your computer - you can purchase and read books on the Google Play store and read in your web browser; and  iPhones and iPads -- you can read books in the Google Play Books app

   We're happy to make it even easier for all French book lovers to discover and buy whatever they want to read, whether that's the next bestseller, a new release from their favourite author or a well-loved classic. Whether you're a bookworm or casual reader, we hope you find something great to read on Google Play.

 
