
 

The second round of Google TV hardware will be in full swing at CES 2012, and the folks at Mountain View just officially announced LG is joining the list of hardware partners at the show. While we know Logitech was taking a pass on the latest hardware, previously announced partners Samsung, Sony and Vizio are still in and the latter two will have new hardware to show next week. While this morning's announcement by Marvell revealed the platform's switch to ARM processors from the Intel chips it launched on, the company mentioned MediaTek is also on board to build compatible chipsets, while the line of products from LG will run on the company's own L9 setup. LG's press release (included after the break) reveals the HDTVs it's bringing out will feature its Cinema 3D FPR technology as well as support for a "Magic Remote QWERTY" that combines its gesture and voice control Magic Remote with, you guessed it, a QWERTY keyboard. It will have two lines of TVs based on the Android OS, while it continues to feature its own NetCast setup in other displays. While Samsung is mentioned as building new devices, it does not appear they'll have any to show off just yet, which matches the rumors that had gone around earlier.

Update: LG has posted some pics of the Google TV sets (above, after the break) featuring its custom interface, although we're still waiting for a peek at that remote. According to the company, users will have the option of using LG's UI or the default Google TV build, so whichever way you prefer should work. The Google TV team has also uploaded a fresh trailer on YouTube ahead of CES, featuring several apps and promising this is just the beginning -- check it out embedded after the break.
      

 

   		Show full PR text  LG TO INTRODUCE GOOGLE TV AT CES 2012 		Combining Android OS with LG's 3D and Smart TV Technologies, LG's Google TV Provides Consumers with a New and Attractive Home Entertainment Option 		ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Jan. 5, 2012 – LG Electronics will introduce its highly anticipated Google TV at the 2012 International CES next week in Las Vegas. LG Smart TV with Google TV* combines the familiarity of Google's Android OS with the convenience and comfort of LG's 3D and Smart TV technologies, offering consumers a new and attractive home entertainment option. 		"LG has constantly strived to provide consumers with wider choices in home entertainment that bring the highest level of sophistication and convenience," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of the LG Electronics Home Entertainment Company. "Through Google TV, LG has merged Google's established Android operating system with LG's proven 3D and Smart TV technologies, offering consumers a new and enthralling TV experience." 		LG Google TV's most attractive feature is its ease of use, thanks to the combination of its Android-based user interface and the Magic Remote Qwerty designed by LG. LG Google TV's user interface and main screen have been designed for convenient browsing and content selection. Multi-tasking is also possible, as the search, social networking and TV functions can be run simultaneously. The user interface can be accessed using the Magic Remote Qwerty which combines the user-friendly benefits of LG's Magic Remote with a QWERTY keyboard. 		Equipped with LG's own CINEMA 3D technology, LG Google TV provides a home entertainment experience that is immersive, comfortable and convenient. Based on LG's own Film Patterned Retarder (FPR) technology, CINEMA 3D glasses are battery-free and lightweight. The glasses are also very affordable, making LG's Google TV ideal for viewing by a large group of family and friends when used in 3D mode. And with a single click of the remote, any 2D content can be viewed in 3D, thanks to the built-in 2D to 3D conversion engine. 		Alongside Google TV, LG will continue to advance its own Smart TV platform based on NetCast using open web technology such as Webkit browser and Linux. LG Smart TV with NetCast will be available globally in 85 plus countries at launch. With a growing collection of content and services, LG's Smart TV platform will continue to provide consumers with a unique user experience. 		LG Smart TV with Google TV will be available in two series at launch in the US in 2012. The first demonstration of LG's Google TV will take place at CES, Jan. 10-13. 		# # #
 