
 
 Love venting your E-Train frustrations with Boingo and Google Offers' free WiFi? While the Manhattan program ends on September 7th, the partnership has swelled its coverage to include a further 24 locations across the nation. From today, eight malls will offer WiFi in cities like LA, SF and Seattle -- while Airport hoppers will be able to get a 50 percent discount on 24-hour access at 16 airports including JFK, O'Hare and Midway, if you sign up with Mountain View's offers service. If you're at nearing the end of your data cap and need some free internet stat, head on past the break to find out more.



  Show full PR text   Google Offers Extends Boingo Wi-Fi Sponsorship to More Hotspots Nationwide
   Free and Discounted Boingo Wi-Fi is Now Available at More Than 250 Locations, Including Airports, Shopping Malls, New York Subway Stations and Manhattan Hotzones Courtesy of Google Offers

  LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Boingo Wireless (NASDAQ: WIFI), the Wi-Fi industry's leading provider of software and services worldwide, announced today that Google Offers is expanding its sponsorship of Boingo Wi-Fi from six New York subway stations and more than 200 Manhattan hotzones, to 24 additional locations across the country.

   Starting today, Google Offers will sponsor free and discounted Wi-Fi offerings at eight malls and 16 airports in major cities nationwide, including Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, Washington, D.C., and Seattle.

   Shoppers can stay connected, update their status or share their shopping experience while ensuring they don't exceed their monthly cellular data cap via complimentary Boingo Wi-Fi at select malls in cities such as Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle and Tampa, among others.

   Google Offers is also extending a discounted Boingo Wi-Fi access offer to travelers at 16 airports nationwide. Passengers traveling through airports including New York's John F. Kennedy and LaGuardia, Chicago's O'Hare and Midway airports, Houston's Hobby and George Bush Intercontinental, and more, can take advantage of a special Google Offer for 50% off a Boingo AsYouGo 24-hour access pass when they subscribe to Google Offers in their city and purchase the deal. This deal is limited to one per person.

   "The expansion of the Google Offers sponsorship is a testament to our ability to deliver specific, place-based brand introductions to new customers via the Boingo Wi-Fi network," said Dawn Callahan, vice president of consumer marketing for Boingo Wireless. "Our location-based media services provide a new way to reach mobile consumers with personalized messages where they work, shop and play."

   Boingo's fast, reliable Wi-Fi enables digital nomads on the go to stay productive and entertained, while local Google Offers deliver great local deals on restaurants, services and experiences for travelers and shoppers exploring cities from coast-to-coast.

   The Google Offers sponsored Wi-Fi in malls and airports is the company's second Boingo Wi-Fi sponsorship campaign. Google Offers is also currently sponsoring Boingo Wi-Fi access at six subway stations and more than 200 hotzones in Manhattan, through September 7.

   Boingo's distributed advertising and sponsorship network includes more than 60 leading airports worldwide, as well as more than 40 shopping centers, stadiums and arenas, quick service restaurants, mass transit stations and hundreds of metropolitan hotzones nationwide reaching more than 1.5 billion people each year.

 
