
 
You may recall from yesterday that early adopters were having a variety of issues after activating (or attempting to activate) Sprint's new Google Voice integration feature. Well, a full day has passed, and we've had several calls with GV lead Vincent Paquet as well as Brian Smith, Sprint's director of product development. Both executives have said that their respective companies have been hard at work on resolutions to each of the issues we outlined Thursday night, and some customers we spoke to yesterday are now back online. Jump past the break for a quick summary of what's been fixed, and what remains on the to-do list.
      

 

Our primary concern yesterday was a voicemail security bug that inadvertently granted management-level access to people that one user called from the Google Voice web app. Google is not commenting on this vulnerability, but has confirmed that it's not a threat today. The second issue was that some GV customers who were up and running with Sprint integration suddenly found themselves unable to use the service. This issue has been pegged to the removal of an accounting code -- GGLVOICE -- that some Sprint reps have accidentally removed. The carrier is working to prevent this from occurring in the future, and those already affected should soon be able to call in for support. Next up, some international calls were being processed through Sprint, rather than through GV, even after users activated their integration. This has been tied to the accidental removal of the same accounting code, and Google has offered to reimburse affected individuals (see the update on yesterday's post for full details).Finally, many users -- notably those on personal accounts with corporate discounts -- have been unable to activate GV integration. Sprint has promised a mid-May resolution, and we'll certainly keep you updated. Users with these issues are still being instructed to share their concerns on the Google Voice Forum, which as of now is finally getting the attention it needs. You can also post a comment below, as both companies have been monitoring here, too. Things are looking much better today than they were yesterday, but our position remains unchanged: Unless you've already activated Sprint/Google Voice integration, please stand by until both companies have had a chance to work out these (very significant) kinks. You've been able to hold out this long -- what's another few weeks?Update: Sprint customers on corporate and government accounts (paid for by your employer) are currently not eligible for integration. Eventually, Sprint will enable integration for some of these companies on a case-by-case basis.

       

 