
Google just hit our inbox with an email inviting folks who pre-ordered the Explorer Edition of Project Glass to two-day hackathons in San Francisco and New York, where they'll be the first group of developers -- not being paid by Page and Co. -- to collectively develop for Glass. Dubbed Glass Foundry, the events will introduce developers to Glass, set them up with access to the hardware and familiarize them with the API, called Mirror. Throughout the powwow, Google engineers will be on-hand to help out with development, and the second day will feature demos and "special guest judges." Hackers in San Francisco can look forward to the event on January 28th and 29th, while those in New York City can snag time with the device on February 1st and 2nd. Hit the jump for the full text of Mountain View's email.



Join us for an early look at Glass and two full days of hacking on the upcoming Google Mirror API in San Francisco or New York. These hackathons are just for developers in the Explorer program and we're calling them the Glass Foundry. It's the first opportunity for a group of developers to get together and develop for Glass.

We'll begin the first day with an introduction to Glass. You'l have a device to use while on-site. Next we'll take a look at the Mirror API, which gives you the ability to exchange data and interact with the user over REST. We'll then dive into development with Google engineers on site to help you at any point. At the end of the second day we'll have a lively round of demos with some special guest judges.

If you'd like to attend this first Glass Foundry, please choose and register by Friday, January 18th at 4pm PT. There is limited space. If you are accepted, you will receive a confirmation letter with additional details and required terms after registration closes. Please don't make any travel arrangements until your attendance is confirmed.

Glass Foundry San FranciscoJanuary 28th & 29th at Google SF

Glass Foundry New YorkFebruary 1st & 2nd and Google NYC


