
 
 Sony mentioned during CES 2012 that its Google TV-powered hardware would come to Europe this summer, and now it's official. Along with Google, it's announced preorders are available for the $200/£200/$199 NSZ-GS7 internet streaming set-top box in the US and UK (showing a ship date of July 9th, Sony says it should hit stores July 22nd), with plans to launch in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico and Netherlands later this year. The NSZ-GP9 with integrated Blu-ray player will arrive in October, priced at £280/€300/$299. UK users can expect localized content from The Guardian among other sources, and more reveals are promised at Google I/O this week. There's an internationally-aimed trailer (embedded after the break) and more information from Sony and Google at their respective sites, we'll see if the mix of reworked hardware and updated software makes this venture more successful than the last round.

 Update: It looks like buyers in other countries may not have to wait long, Sony Australia has already announced a "limited time" pack-in offer of the boxes with the purchase of a new TV starting this week. The box will be available solo at some unspecified time in the future.



  Show full PR text   Google TV from Sony Arrives in Store July 2012 25 June 2012  The Internet Player that lets any TV become a Google TV
   Sony Europe today announced the availability and pricing of the NSZ-GS7, Internet Player with Google TV, originally introduced in January at CES. Powered by the Google TV platform, the Internet Player will be available to buy in store from July, priced at £200/€200. Pre-orders begin in July online at www.sony-europe.com.

   In 2010, Sony pioneered the internet-TV convergence as one of the first manufacturers to launch products powered by Google TV. With the new Internet Player with Google TV, Sony will also be the first manufacturer to launch Google TV products outside of the United States, initially starting with the United Kingdom in July, followed later by Canada, Australia, France, Germany and Netherlands, Brazil and Mexico. The NSZ-GP9 Blu-ray Disc player with Google TV will be available in October initially in the United States, followed by Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Netherlands.

   In addition to the NSZ-GS7 Internet Player, Sony's newest Internet Blu-ray Disc™ player with Google TV, the NSZ-GP9, will be available in October priced at £280/€300.

   "Expanding the reach and interoperability of the powerful Android platform with Sony's smartphones, tablets and renowned Audio & Video products, we are proud to continue our relationship with Google through the introduction of the new Google TV Internet Player," said Gildas Pelliet, European Head of Marketing. "Entertainment content is available through so many channels and sites, and Google TV helps consumers easily find what they want to watch, listen or play with the freedom of the internet and using the familiar Chrome browser"

   TV and Internet, together as one  Sony and Google have come together to offer the freedom of the web on the big screen. You can search for anything you can imagine with fast speed Google Chrome browsing. Enjoy easy access to your favourite websites, YouTube and more at the touch of a button. Your home entertainment will never be the same.

   Total control at a touch  The dual-sided remote has a touch pad for cursor control on one side and on the other a full keyboard for searching, emails and social media updates. You can also use the voice search to find whatever you're after with the Blu-ray Disc™ Player with Google TV. It's a universal remote that controls your entire entertainment system and it has a motion sensor for playing games. You can even turn your smartphone or tablet into a remote with the free Media Remote app.

   Fun at your fingertips with Google Play  With the addition of Google Play, viewers have access a wide variety of apps such as YouTube or Twitter™, plus new apps optimized for TV added all the time.

    

