
 When it comes to major news, we didn't expect to hear much from Google in the run-up to I/O, but clearly, the company just couldn't wait that long. Google Now, a service that Android users have enjoyed for a year, just became available on iOS devices in the form of an update to the Google Search app, confirming those leaked videos we saw a few weeks ago. It won't have integration with notifications or alerts at launch -- it may come in a future update, but the company wasn't willing to divulge its future plans -- so you'll need to enter the app and swipe up to refresh your list of cards. The iOS version won't have every type of card that you'll find on Android, either: boarding passes, activity summary, events, concerts, Fandango and Zillow aren't included this go-round. Improvements and additional features will likely trickle in over time, but it's certainly better than nothing for iOS fans who've looked at Jelly Bean users with a slightly jealous eye. We've included Google's blog post in its entirety below, and you can jump to the source to download the app.



   Show full PR text   Google Now on your iPhone and iPad, with the Google Search app
   Many of us can no longer imagine life without our smartphones. We use them for all sorts of things, like getting reminders of important calendar appointments (say, a first date), and driving directions to the Italian restaurant where your table for two awaits. Today, with the launch of Google Now on iPhone and iPad, your smartphone will become even smarter.

   Google Now is about giving you just the right information at just the right time. It can show you the day's weather as you get dressed in the morning, or alert you that there's heavy traffic between you and your butterfly-inducing date-so you'd better leave now! It can also share news updates on a story you've been following, remind you to leave for the airport so you can make your flight and much more. There's no digging required: cards appear at the moment you need them most-and the more you use Google Now, the more you get out of it.

   Google Now for iPhone and iPad is available as part of the updated Google Search app. Together, Google Now and Search will make your day run a little smoother.

   In addition to the handy cards in Google Now, the Google Search app still gives you instant answers to all your questions. Try tapping the microphone and speak to your phone-you'll get quick answers spoken back to you. For example, ask Google, "Do I need an umbrella this weekend?" and you'll get the forecast. Or ask "Who's in the cast of 'Oblivion'?" to decide if you want to see it. Voice Search is particularly handy on the go-try "Show me nearby pizza places" and you'll see a map of restaurants around you with directions, phone numbers, ratings and hours.

   Get the Google Search app with Google Now from the App Store. Drag it to the tray, open it, sign in and you're ready to go.

 
