
 
 Pedaling your way through the streets of London Town and eager to avoid giant hills or dangerous traffic? Well, Google Maps is about to become your new best friend. The (still kinda-sorta) search company partnered with Sustrans to bring cycling directions to UK users of its mapping app. Now, alongside your typical driving, walking and public transit options you'll see an adorable little biking icon. Really, there's not much more to say, it's a feature we in the US have been enjoying for quite some time and we're happy that our friend across the pond are finally joining the party. There's a celebratory video and some PR after the break, if that sort of thing intrigues you.



 
  Show full PR text   Safe cycling routes to appear on Google for the first time  Issued on: Wednesday 11 July, 2012

   Contact: Press Office 0117 927 7555; mobile 07802 986728; E-mail: press@sustrans.org.uk

   Finding a safe route to ride your bike is set to be easier than ever as cycling routes are made available on UK Google Maps for the first time today at 5pm [Wednesday 11 July], following collaboration between charity Sustrans and Google.

   In a ground-breaking move for cyclists and would-be cyclists, National Cycle Network routes across the UK can now be navigated online using a new bicycle symbol on Google Maps, alongside the options of driving, public transport and walking.

   Cyclists can now plan their trips, make use of bike lanes, calculate cycle-friendly routes that avoid big hills and customise the map for cycling on smart phones and computers.

   The development follows news of the biggest ever increase in use of National Cycle Network – the nationwide system of off-road cycle paths and quiet streets for safe cycling – in 2011.

   Sustrans is marking the occasion with the release of new video, 'Lucy's Cycling Treasure Hunt', heralding the online mapping as a new beginning. View the video HERE.

   Sustrans' Chief Executive, Malcolm Shepherd said;

   "Safety is the number one concern for people who want to ride their bikes and now it's easier than ever to find the safest way to get from a to b on two wheels.

   "Google has given cycling equal status to driving and using public transport – we need our politicians and local councils to do the same."

   Ed Parsons, geospatial technologist at Google UK said:

   "We know how popular cycling is in London and the rest of the UK, especially ahead of a busy summer, which is why we are thrilled to bring cycling directions to Google Maps.

   "Thanks to Sustrans, we now have thousands of miles of trails and routes, as well as bike lanes and recommended streets for cities across the country.

   "We'll continue to add new trail information and urge commuters to swap their car for a bike as they can now find a convenient route that makes use of dedicated bike tracks and avoid hills whenever possible."

 
