
 Ubitus might call itself "the worldwide technology leader in cloud gaming solutions," but we've yet to hear of the Taiwanese cloud gaming company. But that's about to change, as Ubitus just announced a partnership with Google TV to bring "console and MMO games" to various GTV-enabled devices. That means both Smart TVs and set-top boxes with Google TV will now have access to Ubitus' library of cloud-based games; Resident Evil 5, Lost Planet 2, and Super Street Fighter IV are all shown in an image we got with the announcement. Whether that means worldwide or Japan-only remains unknown for now, but we'll be sure to find out as CES 2013 kicks off in earnest today.



  Show full PR text    Ubitus to Launch Cloud Gaming Services on Google TV  Las Vegas, Jan. 7th 2013 ─ Ubitus Inc., the worldwide technology leader in cloud gaming solutions, announced it is bringing console and MMO games to Google TV with low latency mode and broad range of gaming controller devices in the market.  TV is always the center of entertainment at home. As bandwidth quality keeps improving, it is foreseen there are tremendous opportunities to satisfy consumers' demand beyond existing TV/movie streaming services. By deeply optimizing for the Google TV platform to achieve low latency cloud gaming mode, Ubitus can enable OEMs to offer over-the-top (OTT) cloud gaming services to their customers at ease and timely.  Going forward, any Smart TVs and Set-top-boxes running on the combined solution will allow end users to access cloud gaming services with a single click of button. There are multiple benefits to end users:  Instant convenience – Pay for the service, not product: Instant access to rich library of AAA and MMO titles on big TV screens without buying them all at once;  Enjoyment – Game with friends, not computer: connect with friends from multiple locations with different devices to play the same game. This brings far more fun and convenience than previous scenario where all of the players must be using PCs with high CPU & GPU in order to connect to each other and enjoy the same game.  Social sharing – Share your joy, not being alone: instant share your gameplay session with your networks and have fun together.  "Google TV is an ideal platform for cloud gaming and we have tacked the obstacles to achieving low latency streaming game experience with multi gaming controller devices support on Google TV," said Wesley Kuo, CEO of Ubitus. "This brings tremendous benefits to consumers, particularly with the increasing adoption of Smart TVs and new generation of Set-top-boxes in every consumer's home.  " Ubitus will do live demonstrations of its cloud gaming solution on Google TV platform during CES in its private suite at Bellagio Hotel from Jan 8 – 10, 2013.   About Ubitus Inc.  Ubitus Inc., the technology leader in deploying Cloud-enabled rich media services, offers innovative cloud computing solutions for device manufacturers, wired/wireless communication service providers, telecommunication operators and digital content developers. Founded in 2007 and headquartered in Taipei, Taiwan, the company now has over 180 employees and offices in United States, Japan, Korea and China.

 
