
 
 Google and Boingo keep expanding their partnership, making GoGo a little jealous in the process were sure. Starting this week you'll be able to hop online for free at over 4,000 Boingo hotspots across the country. Among the complimentary WiFi bastions are major airports such as JFK and O'Hare, as well as many subway platforms across New York City. All this is coming courtesy of Google Play, which is footing the bill for your free wireless adventure. The deal wraps up at the end of the month, but that still leaves you almost three weeks to take complete advantage of Big G and Boingo. PR is awaiting you after the break.



  Show full PR text   Free Boingo Wi-Fi at Locations Across the Country Sponsored by Google Play
   Sponsored Wi-Fi Available Starting This Week at More Than 4,000 Hotspots

   LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Boingo Wireless (NASDAQ:WIFI), the Wi-Fi industry's leading provider of software and services worldwide, announced today that millions of people will have access to free Wi-Fi at more than 4,000 hotspots thanks to Google Play. The Wi-Fi hotspots are part of Boingo's Cloud Nine Media platform, a global advertising network that enables brand advertisers to reach a captive audience through Wi-Fi sponsorships.

   Starting this week, Wi-Fi users with Android phones and tablets, as well as Windows and Macintosh laptops, will be offered complimentary Wi-Fi at thousands of high-traffic locations in dozens of cities nationwide, courtesy of cloud-based digital entertainment destination, Google Play.

   Sponsored Wi-Fi locations include 15 airports, such as New York's John F. Kennedy, Chicago O'Hare and Seattle-Tacoma, Boingo-enabled Manhattan subway stations, and thousands of hotels, shopping malls, cafés and recreational areas.

   Consumers taking advantage of the free Boingo Wi-Fi sponsored by Google Play can get free content, check out the latest releases and stay entertained with instant access to their favorite music, movies, books, apps and more.

   "Google Play is the first to take part in our newly expanded Wi-Fi sponsorship network, which reaches millions of consumers each month with place-based brand engagements," said Dawn Callahan, vice president of consumer marketing for Boingo Wireless. "Sponsorships like this give users the free Wi-Fi they crave, advertisers the consumer interaction they need, and venues the revenue to offset the costs associated with providing a high-bandwidth Wi-Fi experience."

   The free Boingo Wi-Fi lasts through the end of September. With the recent acquisition of Cloud Nine Media, Boingo Wireless now offers brands a global advertising network that includes more than 70 leading airports, the New York City subway, shopping centers, stadiums and thousands of hotels, restaurants and recreational areas, reaching more than 1.5 billion people annually.

   About Boingo Wireless

   Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ: WIFI), the world's leading Wi-Fi software and services provider, makes it easy, convenient and cost-effective for people to enjoy Wi-Fi access on their laptop or mobile device at more than 500,000 hotspots worldwide. With a single account, Boingo users can access the mobile internet via Boingo Network locations that include the top airports around the world, major hotel chains, cafés and coffee shops, restaurants, convention centers and metropolitan hot zones. Boingo through its Concourse Communications Group subsidiary operates wireless networks at large-scale venues worldwide such as airports, major sporting arenas, malls, and convention centers, as well as quick serve restaurants. For more information about Boingo, please visit http://www.boingo.com.

   Boingo, Boingo Wireless, the Boingo Wireless Logo and Don't Just Go. Boingo are registered trademarks of Boingo Wireless, Inc. All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.

   Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

   This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that involves risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "seeks," "believes," "estimates," "expects" and similar references to future periods. These forward-looking statements include the quotations from management in this press release, as well as any statements regarding Boingo's strategic plans and future guidance. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Since forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include regional, national or global political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory conditions, as well as other risk and uncertainties described more fully in documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including Boingo's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the SEC on April 13, 2012. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this press release speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law.

 
