
Intel has just announced a new line of Chromebooks that run on Haswell. Chromebooks have previously run lower-powered processors like ARM and Atom, though the Pixel did break the mold by running on a dual-core 1.8GHz Intel Core i5. Upcoming Haswell Chromebooks include new iterations from Acer and HP, along with Chrome OS newbies ASUS and Toshiba. Sundar Pichai, senior vice president of Chrome and Android, came on stage to say that Haswell will offer superb battery life without compromising performance. At first glance, the Acer Chromebook on stage is a slim and light affair, while the HP model sports a larger display. Intel even showed off a special ASUS Chromebox that serves to be an extremely lightweight PC. As you might expect, there's no announcement of pricing or availability just yet, though we did hear we'll see them "over the coming months."


Update: The New Acer Chromebook and the HP Chromebook 14 pages are now live. So far, we have the most details about the Chromebook 14, which will arrive sometime this holiday shopping season for $300. It will have a 14-inch, 1,366 x 768 display and 16GB of built-in storage with HDMI, USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 ports. Unusually, too, it will be available in an array of punch colors, including "Snow White," "Ocean Turquoise" and "Coral Peach." Find the full press release embedded below.




Show full PR textHP Unveils Sleek and Colorful Chromebook
HP Chromebook14 offers powerful performance, new connectivity option
PALO ALTO, Calif., Sept. 11, 2013 - HP today announced the powerful HP Chromebook14, the first Chromebook powered by an Intel® processor based on the Haswell microarchitecture, offering fast access to the web to tackle tasks while on the go, a large display and optional 4G for enhanced connectivity(2) -in a range of eye-catching colors.The HP Chromebook14 boasts a large display, providing the immersive web experience and superb visual enjoyment that customers desire. The sleek, compact design-available in Snow White, Ocean Turquoise and Coral Peach-will be ready for the holiday season."There are customers telling us they are interested in new operating systems and in particular Chromebooks," said Ron Coughlin, senior vice president and general manager, Consumer PCs, Services and Solutions, HP. "We built the HP Chromebook to offer a great experience, choice and affordability, with a design that is truly unique."
HP Chromebook14 joins the HP SlateBook x2, the HP Slate7 and HP Slate21 All-in-One as part of HP's approach to offer the Google experience as part of a multiple operating system strategy.Accessing digital life has never been easier
The HP Chromebook14 offers a fast and easy way for customers to connect to favorite websites in seconds. It also offers a gateway to the Google experience, including Google Chrome apps like Gmail, YouTube, Google Drive and Google+ Hangouts for smooth, immersive work and play.Automatic software updates keep the browsing experience fast, fluid and current, while the HP Chromebook's 14-inch diagonal high-definition (HD) display delivers vivid color. The HP Chromebook14 also includes a 16GB solid-state drive for fast start-up times. With the HDMI, USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 ports and a combination headphone and microphone jack, customers can easily and quickly connect to displays and other devices.With no contracts or commitments, certain models of the HP Chromebook include up to 200 MB of free data per month for two years of fast 4G mobile broadband service on the T-Mobile network.(5) This incredible value allows customers to enjoy internet access without having to search for Wi-Fi.Customers can easily access their content from any internet-connected device-while at home or on the go-with 100 GB of free storage on Google Drive for two years. Plus, users can visit the Chrome Web Store to customize their HP Chromebook14 by installing applications for work or play.Pricing and availabilityThe HP Chromebook14 is expected to be available at hpshopping.com and select retailers in the United States before the holidays, starting at $299.99.Additional information about the HP Chromebook is available at www.hp.com/go/chromebook14and The Next Bench. Information about the 4G mobile broadband service is available at www.hp.com/go/freemobility.About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. With the broadest technology portfolio spanning printing, personal systems, software, services and IT infrastructure, HP delivers solutions for customers' most complex challenges in every region of the world. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com.

