
 

Want to catch every frame of your next extreme sports wipeout in all of its grotesque glory? GoPro knows where you're coming from, and has updated its line of high definition helmet cams to help you capture every bone-breaking moment. The HD Hero2 competitively boasts that it's twice as powerful its 2009 predecessor, the original HD Hero. The new helmet cam promises to capture 1080p 16:9 footage from atop your sweaty noggin at both narrow (90-degree), wide (170-degree) and medium (127-degree) angles, and can snap up to ten 11 megapixel photos per second. The camera's mini-HDMI port, composite out, USB, SD card and HERO ports will help you share the spoils of your spills when your adventure ends -- at least until this winter, when GoPro's WiFi BacPac promises to enable live broadcasting and camera control over WiFi. Best of all? The Hero2 kills the original HD Hero's confusing 3-digit code interface in favor of a simple language-based menu.

The HD Hero2 comes in three $300 configurations: outdoor, motorsports, and surf editions, all of which are compatible with existing accessories. Too rich for your blood? Then you'll be happy to know that the previous models are getting price drops -- $200 for the original HD Hero and a paltry $150 for its "960" variant. Hit the break for the official PR and a full list of features.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  GoPro® Launches HD HERO2® Camera		Announces Wi-Fi Remote Control and Video Streaming 		2x More Powerful in Every Way, The HD HERO2 Democratizes Professional Image		Capture and Broadcast with Support for Remote Control and Live Video Streaming		from Virtually Anywhere to the Web 		HALF MOON BAY, CA (October 24, 2011) – GoPro today announced the release of its new HD		HERO2® camera. Twice as powerful as GoPro's original HD HERO camera, the HD HERO2 enables consumers and professionals to capture and broadcast their lives most exciting moments in professional quality 1080p HD video and 11 megapixel photos. The new HD HERO2 is now available at GoPro.com, specialty retailers around the world, and at Best Buy for MSRP $299.99. 		Arguably the most versatile camera in the world thanks to its innovative mounting system, renowned durability and small form factor, the HD HERO2 surpasses its predecessor with several technology upgrades. The HD HERO2's new processor delivers twice the processing power, taking full advantage of a new high performance 11 megapixel sensor that delivers more than twice the image detail along with professional low light performance. A totally redesigned wide-angle lens was required to take full advantage of the HD HERO2's increased image processing, resulting in a lens thatʼs twice as sharp as the previous model. And with the arrival of GoPro's new Wi-Fi BacPac™ and Wi-Fi Remote products slated for release this winter, the HD HERO2 will enable video remote control via the Wi-Fi Remote, smartphones and devices, tablets and computers as well as enabling live GoPro video broadcast from anywhere there is Wi-Fi or a mobile hotspot. 		Famous for its globally best-selling HD HERO line of wearable and gear mountable cameras, GoPro spared no expense developing the HD HERO2.GoPro created a new category of camera with the HD HERO back in 2009, and itʼs gone on to become one of the best selling video cameras in the world," says Nicholas Woodman, GoProʼs founder and CEO. "With these big shoes to fill, we invested massively in engineering the HD HERO2 to be one of the greatest, most versatile cameras of all time. We think weʼve achieved our goal and weʼre very excited to see the content our customers around the world capture and share with their powerful new GoPros." 		2x as Powerful in Every Way: 		The HD HERO2 benefits from a complete redesign that results in dramatically enhanced image		quality and ease-of-use: 		List of HD HERO2 Feature Enhancements: 		• Professional 11MP Sensor		• 2x Faster Image Processor		• 2X Sharper Glass Lens		• Professional Low Light Performance		• Full 170º, Medium 127º, Narrow 90º FOV in 1080p and 720p Video		• 120 fps WVGA, 60 fps 720p, 48 fps 960p, 30 fps 1080p Video		• Full 170º and Medium 127º FOV Photos		• 10 11MP Photos Per Second Burst		• 1 11MP Photo Every 0.5 Sec Timelapse Mode		• 3.5mm External Stereo Microphone Input		• Simple Language-based User Interface		• Compatible with Wi-Fi BacPac™ and Wi-Fi Remote™		- Long Range Remote Control of up to 50 GoPro Cameras per Wifi Remote		- Wi-Fi Video/Photo Preview, Playback and Control via GoPro App		- Live Streaming Video and Photos to the Web 		Visit http://gopro.com/hd-hero2-cameras/ for more information on the HD HERO2, Wi-Fi		BacPac and Wi-Fi Remote products. 		Upgraded Professional Photo Quality and Features 		The HD HERO2ʼs photo capture performance has also been significantly upgraded. In addition to much improved low light performance, the HD HERO2 can capture up to ten 11 megapixel photos in a one second burst mode as well as automatic time-lapse photos with quick .5 second timing between photos. This dramatically increases the success-rate when attempting to capture magazine cover quality photos during fast action sports and activities. 		Simplified User Interface 		GoPro also placed a priority on redesigning the HD HERO2ʼs user interface for dead simple ease-of-use. The HD HERO2 features a totally new, straightforward language-based user interface that eliminates the need for instructions. 		"The HD HERO2 is much, much easier to use than the original HD HERO. If you know how to use a traditional camera, you can use the HD HERO2 straight out of the box without instructions. This makes the HD HERO2 very powerful as an every day, easy to use consumer camera while retaining all of the features, modes and performance that has made GoPro the best selling small form factor HD camera to Hollywood," said GoProʼs Director of Product Definition, Rudy Samuels. 		Specialized Right Down to the Packaging 		The HD HERO2 sells in three bundled-accessory configurations, each containing the necessary		mounts for particular genres of use or activity. The HD HERO2 is backwards compatible with all		existing GoPro mounts and accessories. 		HD HERO2: Outdoor Edition - $299.99 		HD HERO2: Motorsports Edition - $299.99 		HD HERO2: Surf Edition - $299.99 		The original 1080p HD HERO camera is now available for MSRP $199.99 - $239.99 (USD) (pre-		viously $259.99 - $299.99) through GoPro.com and GoProʼs worldwide authorized dealer network. The Wi-Fi BacPac and Wi-Fi Remote are also compatible with the original HD HERO camera, but functionality is limited to remote control only. Video and photo streaming is not supported.
 