
 GoPro owners have had a long wait, but the company's iOS remote app (Android "coming soon") is finally available and ready to work for those possessing both an HD Hero2 camera and WiFi BacPac accessory. While the hardware will cost you the app itself is free, and adds capabilities including remote control of all of the camera's settings, monitoring of battery life and storage space, date / time sync with your mobile device, live remote preview so you can see what you're shooting in real time and also access to GoPro's Photo of the Day / Video of the Day channels. Along with the app, GoPro is releasing the Protune firmware update that will let cameras record at a higher 35Mbps bitrate, 24fps and adjust the video for a different cinematic look.

 Still, it is a v1 release and while our reader Khena reports it's stable, it does have some rough edges. Currently you can't access or view any recordings already stored on the camera or control more than one camera, although GoPro says those features are coming, while other gripes include delay between the camera and the app's "live" viewfinder that can be as much as five seconds and the inability to preview the ProTune settings while recording. That's a bit frustrating after the wait for the app to arrive, but in an action camera market suddenly teeming with competition, they may be enough to keep GoPro fans from switching to another any time soon. Check out a quick tutorial video and press release after the break, or hit the link below to grab the app from iTunes (make sure your camera and BacPac are updated to the latest software first.)  [Thanks to everyone who sent this in]



   Show full PR text   GoPro® App Now Available for Free Download
  Remotely View and Control HD HERO2 Cameras with iOS and Android Smartphones and Tablets
   SAN MATEO, CA (October 9, 2012)- GoPro's new mobile app is now available for free download from Apple's App Store and coming soon to Google Play. Compatible with GoPro's best selling HD HERO2 camera, the GoPro App enables full camera control and live scene preview for easy shot framing on smartphones or tablets. The app also provides daily GoPro Photo of the Day and Video of the Day updates, serving up the most current and engaging GoPro content while you are on the go.

   "The GoPro App gives our customers more creative control and convenience than ever before," says Nicholas Woodman, GoPro founder and CEO. "Being able to use your smart device to remotely turn on and control your GoPro, seeing what your camera sees, opens up all sorts of interesting new use cases. We're excited to see the inventive ideas our customers come up with. As if getting Photo and Video of the Day sent to your smartphone wasn't already cool enough!"

   Example GoPro App features that expand the HD HERO2 experience:

   • Full camera control, including: Power On/Off, Recording Start/Stop, and all Mode settings

   • Live scene-preview prior to and during video and photo capture

   • Real time monitoring of the camera vitals including battery life and SD card capacity

   • Sync GoPro camera date and time to your smartphone or tablet

   • Daily GoPro "Photo of the Day" and "Video of the Day" updates

   Subsequent releases of the GoPro App will enable streaming playback of videos and photos from the camera to a smart device, sharing of photo and video content from the camera to social networks, controlling of multiple cameras, and streaming live video from the camera to the web.

   "This is just the beginning of our efforts to expand the versatility of our cameras while making it easy for people to share the incredible footage they capture with their GoPros," Woodman says.

   In conjunction with the GoPro App, GoPro is also releasing Protune, a free professional video mode for the HD HERO2 camera. Protune delivers professional content creators more flexibility and creative control than ever before with cinema-quality enhancements including higher data rates, higher dynamic range, neutral color, and support for 24 frames per second video capture. Protune is included free with the latest HD HERO2 camera software update available here.

   Download the GoPro App today from Apple's App Store and visit GoPro.com/App to learn more about the GoPro App and watch a GoPro tutorial video about the GoPro App.

   NOTE: The GoPro App is only compatible with Wi-Fi enabled HD HERO2 cameras. Your HD HERO2 camera may require a free software update. The GoPro App is not compatible with the Original HD HERO or prior cameras from GoPro.

   About GoPro

   GoPro makes the world's most versatile cameras and, together with its customers, also creates some of today's most immersive and engaging content. GoPro's products enable people to self-document their experience during their favorite activities. GoPro's products are used collectively by more consumers, professional athletes, and content production professionals than any other camera in the world. Based in San Mateo, California, GoPro's products are available in over 100 countries worldwide and online at GoPro.com.

   GoPro®, HD HERO2®, HD HERO® & BacPac™ are trademarks or registered trademarks of Woodman Labs, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other products/services are register trademarks of their perspective companies.

 
