
   We're not sure what took Grace Digital this long to release the Eco Terra, but hey, you can now grab one well ahead of the summer season. Priced at $149.99, this IPX7-certified boombox works just fine even when dunked in water -- the two 3-inch speakers will always float upwards to annoy fellow swimmers. There's no iPod dock connector here as the job's done using a 3.5mm jack inside the watertight compartment, but much like many iPhone headsets these days, you can use the buttons at the top to control music playback and volume on supported iPods or iPhones; whereas with other MP3 players you can only change the volume after flipping a switch.  Additionally, the Eco Terra comes with an air pressure release valve to allow easy compartment access across different altitudes. We assume this means someone somewhere has a habit of blasting out music while trekking. Of course, you'll need to install four C batteries to get things started, and that'll keep you partying in the wild for around 25 hours -- long enough to play the Baywatch soundtrack CD about 23 times. Hit the source link if you're ready to spend some cash. 




  Show full PR text  Grace Digital Audio Fully Submerges Your Music with the 100% Waterproof Eco Terra Boombox  San Diego, Calif. - (February 28, 2012) – Grace Digital Inc, a leading brand of wireless indoor & outdoor audio solutions, unveils the fully submersible, waterproof and shock resistant Eco Terra Boombox for your smartphone or mp3 player. IPX7 waterproof tested and approved, equipping your music with true 100% waterproof protection from rainstorms, ocean waves, pool parties or kayaking trips down the river. Eco Terra also floats, safeguarding your music player against a dip in the pool or a fall off the boat. Affordably priced at $149.99, the Eco Terra Boombox is available now at GraceDigital.com.  The Eco Terra Boombox is the perfect portable music solution for your iPod, iPhone, Blackberry, Android, mp3 player or any smartphone with a 3.5mm headphone jack. The internal waterproof casing houses your music player or smartphone, as well as some extra cash, credit cards, car key or driver's license. The outside poly-carbonate shell with rubberized impact bumpers, fortifies your device and the boombox's two 3" full-range forward firing speakers. Fully submersible, the Eco Terra also floats. When dropped into water the case will always rotate to point the speakers up, so there is no unwanted interruption while enjoying your tunes.  "The Eco Terra is the modern day boombox for your smartphone or mp3 player," says CEO of Grace Digital Audio, Greg Fadul. "The outdoor elements are the Achilles' heel of today's mobile electronics. A splash of water or grain of sand can completely destroy your smartphone. Like the boomboxes of old, the Eco Terra packs an audio punch allowing your music to play anywhere, anytime and now without fear of the 4 extremes: water, dirt, snow, and shock!"  Eco Terra's two large waterproof stereo speakers can be powered by 4 C-Cell batteries for up to 25 hours of play or unlimited play with the included AC wall charger. The Eco Terra comes with a shoulder strap and multiple carabiner clips, which is perfect for attaching to a kayak, boat, tent, or even hanging from a tree. At home even on a mountain top, Eco Terra is equipped with a uniquely designed air pressure release valve that keeps the case water tight yet easy to open at any altitude. Also outfitted with an IPX7 approved waterproof headphone jack, you can use Grace Digital's waterproof earbuds (sold separately) or any standard earphones to listen to music privately.  Grace Digital's Eco Terra Boombox is available now for $149.99, visit www.GraceDigital.com for more information. To request additional information about Grace Digital Audio, please contact PR Representative Brad Hobbs at (305) 371-9736 x 119 or by e-mail at bradhobbs@maxborgesagency.com.  The Eco Terra is part of the new growing line of ECOXGEAR products by Grace Digital Audio – No Worries. Just Play.
 