
When a TV, movie or games series is a big deal, it deserves, no, demands a limited-edition box set, preferably including either artwork or an article of clothing -- something that shows your commitment to the cause. Fortunately, Rockstar's decided to prep two different collector editions for Grand Theft Auto 5 players. The $80 version will include the physical game, artbook, and a blueprint map, alongside in-game ability boosts, stunt plane trials, bonus outfits and weapons. Dial the price up to $150, and you'll also get a branded security deposit bag, logo key, cap and even more extra content in-game. Those who decide to preorder the standard version of GTA 5 will get the keys to an Atomic Blimp bonus vehicle when all the editions land on September 17.




Show full PR textRockstar Games® Announces Grand Theft Auto V® Special Edition and Collector's Edition Details
Atomic Blimp pre-order bonus now available

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Rockstar Games is very proud to announce full details of the Special Edition and Collector's Edition of Grand Theft Auto V® for the PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system and Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, that are now available for worldwide pre-order from participating retailers.

In addition, consumers who pre-order the Grand Theft Auto V Special Edition, Collector's Edition or the standalone retail version now will be ensured access to the Atomic Blimp in-game vehicle. With every pre-order, players gain the ability to pilot the most iconic and leisurely aircraft in the Los Santos skies.

The Grand Theft Auto V Special Edition includes:

Full retail copy of Grand Theft Auto V;Collectible SteelBook with Exclusive Artwork - features custom color and metallic treatments to bring out the detail of the Michael, Trevor and Franklin artwork created exclusively for this SteelBook;Blueprint Map - exclusive, 21.5" x 26.75" map displays a blueprint view of Los Santos and Blaine County;Special Ability Boost - Michael, Franklin and Trevor each have a unique special ability. With this boost, the special ability bar will generate 25% faster;Stunt Plane Trials – single-player Stunt Plane Trials let players take on additional aerial challenges spread throughout Los Santos and Blaine County;Bonus Outfits, Tattoos and More - Michael, Franklin and Trevor get bonus outfits in their wardrobes, character specific tattoos at tattoo parlors, and special deals from shopkeepers across Los Santos and Blaine County;Additional Weapons - when visiting Ammunation stores in single-player, merchants will have special weapons in their inventory available for free: the Pistol .50, Bullpup Shotgun and melee Hammer.The Grand Theft Auto V Collector's Edition includes the contents of Grand Theft Auto V Special Edition plus:

Grand Theft Auto V Security Deposit Bag with Logo Key - inspired by the heists in Grand Theft Auto V, this custom 10.75" x 8.5" money bag features a pop-up style lock and laser cut logo key to secure important items. The reverse side features a pressed Rockstar Games logo on the security mount with a framed ID window;

Grand Theft Auto V New Era 9FIFTY™ Snapback Cap - this exclusive New Era 9FIFTY™ cap features an embroidered Los Santos logo on the front, a stitched, black Rockstar Games logo on the wearer's left side, a Grand Theft Auto 'V' logo applique on the opposite side, and snapback closure for an adjustable fit;

Custom Characters for Grand Theft Auto Online - get classic Grand Theft Auto characters to use within the Grand Theft Auto Online Character Creation System;

Unique Vehicles and Garage Property - players will instantly receive a garage to store custom vehicles. In single-player, the garage will be stocked with the 1930's style Hotknife hotrod and the CarbonRS sports bike. In Grand Theft Auto Online, players will get the high-end Khamelion electric car.The Grand Theft Auto V Collector's Edition comes packaged in a collectible outer box featuring a foil embossed Grand Theft Auto V logo on the top and finished with a matte, scuff-resistant film lamination housing all of the contents.

The Grand Theft Auto V Collector's Edition and Grand Theft Auto V Special Edition are the perfect way for fans to celebrate the return of this acclaimed series, with special digital content and exclusive Grand Theft Auto V physical items. Grand Theft Auto V Collector's Edition will retail for $149.99, while the Grand Theft Auto V Special Edition will retail for $79.99.


