
Unfortunately, as many predicted, the rollout of Grand Theft Auto Online on Tuesday did not go smoothly for many gamers. On launch day many were unable to connect, or connected but couldn't complete the tutorial, or got into the game and ended up losing created characters. Rockstar Games has posted a list of issues players have reported and says the team is working "around the clock" (presumably the members of the team that aren't busy counting that billion dollar haul) on fixes. A problem limited the number of concurrent PSN users has been squashed, and they're working on unblocking users that can't get through the tutorial. For the time being, the team has also disabled the ability to buy ingame cash with real money. If you're one of the players affected, keep an eye on the support page for all the latest updates, or contact Rockstar Support via Twitter or on its website, while general suggestions for the online experience should go to GTAOnline@rockstargames.com. We've had more success logging on in the last few hours, let us know if your online crews are connecting with any success. If they're not, check out Joystiq's early impressions of the multiplayer for a taste of what GTA Online has to offer, when it's working.


Update: Patches are out for both the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game.



 Last Updated 4:30 PM ET 10/2/13: Here are the latest updates as of this afternoon.

For PlayStation 3 users, a PlayStation Network server issue was detected that was limiting the amount of possible concurrent users. This was preventing most players from accessing GTA Online altogether and as of this morning, that problem was resolved.There is an issue that is preventing some players from getting through the first tutorial mission across both platforms. Many players have been able to get through this with repeated retries, and we are working on unblocking this for everyone as soon as possible.This morning, we experienced some instability across the GTA Online services which is affecting even people who have progressed beyond the tutorial mission. We are identifying these issues now and are working to restore stability for users as soon as possible.For the time being and until we have been able to get everybody access to GTA Online and things are running smoothly, we have disabled the option of purchasable GTA$ cash packs. Players can however keep on earning GTA$ by pulling off Jobs and other profitable gameplay activities rather than purchasing cash packs.


