
 
 
 Early next year, the traditional console giants will face a new challenger in the form of crowd-funded OUYA, and now Green Throttle Games has arrived to show you its take on the future of sofa-based gaming. Founded by familiar names such as Charles Huang of Guitar Hero fame, and Palm's Matt Crowley, the company asks why buy an expensive console when your Android phone or tablet has all the hardware you need? The idea is that not only can you play games on your touchscreen device, but when in range, hook it up to a TV, pair a couple of the Bluetooth Atlas Controllers, and have yourself a makeshift console. Green Throttle is making its own games for the platform, and already has some third-party developers on board, but wants more to bulk up its "Arena" app catalogue. From today, the free SDK is available for download, and hardware development packs -- complete with controllers -- released for purchase, although stocks of these are limited. More news on the consumer launch is expected "in the near future," but while you wait, let the founders walk you through their vision in the video above.



  Show full PR text   Mobile Gaming is Reimagined on The Television with Green Throttle  Games. New True Analog Controller and Games From Guitar Hero Creator  and Mobile Industry Veterans
  Developer portal now open, with access to SDK and developer hardware kits
  Santa Clara, CA ­ November 6, 2012 ­- Green Throttle Games announced  its new gaming solution that transforms Android phones and tablets  into consoles. Green Throttle's software developer kit (SDK) enables  multiplayer gaming on big screen televisions using the first true  analog wireless gaming controller. Green Throttle Games is founded by  Charles Huang, co-creator of the legendary Guitar Hero video game  franchise, and mobile industry veterans Matt Crowley, former Palm and  Nokia product lead, and Karl Townsend, lead electrical engineer for  the first two generations of the Palm Pilot. Green Throttle launched  the company's developer portal today and early access to controllers  so mobile and console game makers can begin making TV games in the  post-console world.

   Mobile gaming is exploding, and new smart devices are becoming  powerful alternatives to traditional consoles. We just need a simple  and fun way for people to play games both on the go, and on the  couch, said Charles Huang, co-founder of Green Throttle Games. Our  mission is to create great game experiences that bring people  together, a big screen experience where you can just start playing  games on a television, as simple as that.

   The Green Throttle Arena app will provide a central hub to find and  highlight games developed by Green Throttle and other independent  developers and publishers. Green Throttle is already working with  emerging and veteran development studios including nWay, Free Range  Games, Mercenary and Monstrous.

   Our team here at nWay has worked with a wide-range of different  consoles and platforms, said Taehoon Kim, co-founder and CEO at nWay.  Getting the Green Throttle controller up and running in just a matter  of a day with our latest action RPG title ChronoBlade was amazingly  easy given the simple tools provided in the SDK. Better yet, the  ability to add true analog controllers allows the precision that touch  screen controls just can't deliver for the sophisticated control of  our characters. Adding controllers to the mobile version of  ChronoBlade allows users to experience the game the way it was meant  to be played; bringing a true console-like proposition.

   New mobile phones and tablets are constantly releasing, and each  device is morepowerful than the last, said Chris Scholz, CEO of Free  Range Games. Green Throttle's vision of bringing mobile games to the  family room, adding multiplayer and reimagining games to have a cross  mobile and a big screen experience is critical to the evolution of  where games are going. We are excited to have a software kit  straight-forward enough to quickly get a multiplayer split-screen  snowboarding game running on a 60 TV using the phone I carry in my  pocket.

   The controller features full analog control sticks so that players  have the precise control and fluid motion they need for fast action  games. Green Throttle works with Android phones and tablets that  include a video-out port. Green Throttle's Software Development Kit  (SDK) is available for free download today at http://go.greenthrottle.com/developers/. The SDK will make it easy to  create new mobile focused games and easily bring existing mobile games  to the Green Throttle platform. A limited number of hardware  development packs are also available for purchase at www.greenthrottlestore.com for game creators.

    Green Throttle Games was founded by three men experienced in creating  industry-changing innovations in mobile devices, video games and game  peripherals. CEO Charles Huang popularized the rhythm game revolution  by creating a wireless guitar controller that made it possible for  people to unleash their inner rockstar with their friends playing  Guitar Hero. President and COO Matt Crowley helped to bring the Palm  Pre to life, along with leading innovative teams at Nokia. CTO Karl  Townsend was one of the original creators of the Handspring and Palm  Treo smartphones, some of the first devices to bring mobile email to a  mass market. Together, these three founders bring experience in  gaming, hardware and software to create a winning combination for  Green Throttle Games.

   The Green Throttle SDK and development kit are available today at http://go.greenthrottle.com/developers/. Consumer availability,  pricing and launch game titles will be announced in the near future.

 
