
 


	Sure, you could get a Peel Fruit to turn your iPhone into a universal remote, but if you want a totally wire-free solution Griffin's Beacon is finally available as an alternative. If you'll recall, the battery powered base -- controlled by Dijit's remote control app -- takes your iPhone or iPad's Bluetooth signal, converts it to IR, and blasts commands to your A/V gear. We spent some time with the device at CES and found the package to be quite nice thanks to the versatile base and relatively seamless app. If you're feeling the urge to switch up how you've been flipping through channels, $80 will get you one from Griffin's website or an Apple Store starting today.
 

 		Show full PR text  Griffin and Dijit Team Up to Transform Your Mobile Device into a Universal Remote 		Beacon Connects to iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch via Bluetooth, Turning Device into an Easy-to-Use, Never-Lost Remote 		NASHVILLE, Tenn., June 15, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Griffin Technology Inc., one of the world's foremost creators of innovations for everyday life, and Dijit Media, a San Francisco-based software company whose Personal Media Assistant App software integrates consumers' media viewing experience with their smart devices, have partnered to create Beacon™ Universal Remote Control System – a wireless AV controller that when paired with an iOS device enables complete control over the entire home entertainment system. 		"Beacon puts control of the home theater right at your fingertips," said Matt Brown, Director of Product Development at Griffin. "Thanks to our hardware and Dijit's App integration, we've created a powerful, pocket-sized tool that truly simplifies and customizes the entertainment experience at home." 		"Consumers have 21st-century home entertainment experiences but are stuck with remote controls that haven't been updated since the 1980s. Dijit is here to overhaul the control experience, and our partnership with Griffin Technology marks another milestone in making this happen," said Maksim Ioffe, Founder and CEO of Dijit Media. "Beacon is an amazing product that brings the power of fingertip search and discovery of all your entertainment content right from your smartphone to your HDTV." 		Transforms iPhones and other iOS devices into an easy-to-use, never-lost remote for home entertainment systems		Converts Bluetooth signals from iOS device into infrared signals required to control AV components		Beacon connects compatible iOS device via Bluetooth with Dijit's free Universal Remote App		iOS device's MultiTouch screen display becomes the remote with Dijit's Intuitive Program Guide, allowing users to change channels, volume, input, program DVR and much more		Dijit App uses a constantly updated device code library to make setting up controls for TV, set-top box, sound system, media player and more, simple and intuitive		For components not yet included in Dijit's library, the App also includes an integrated learning feature		Beacon's low-profile design blends unobtrusively with any coffee table decor		Powered by 4 AA batteries, eliminating messy wires and power cables  		The Beacon is $79.99 is now shipping and available at The Apple Store and www.griffintechnology.com. 		Dijit's Universal Remote App, a free download, can be found on The iTunes App Store, 		About Griffin Technology 		Founded on Paul Griffin's kitchen table in 1992, Griffin Technology Inc., is today one of the world's foremost creators of accessories for home, mobile and personal technology. Unique products such as iTrip®, PowerMate®, iFM®, iMic® and Evolve® Wireless Speaker System have broken new ground in consumer electronics and created loyal fans the world over. Today, Griffin products are conceived, designed and developed in-house, and continue to push the envelope of the industry they helped create. Learn more about Griffin's entire range of ingenious designs at www.griffintechnology.com. 		Follow Griffin Technology on Facebook (www.facebook.com/griffintech) and on Twitter @griffintech. 		About Dijit Media 		Dijit Media is the only company that provides consumers with the ability to control, discover and share their home entertainment experience, no matter where they are. Dijit's Personal Media Assistant application runs on iPhone, and can be used in conjunction with all cable and satellite providers as well as new content providers like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu in early 2011. Founded by entrepreneur Maksim Ioffe, the company's first product, the Dijit Universal Remote App is now available for download at www.dijit.com. Dijit is based in San Francisco, with partners nationwide.
 