
 


	It's been quite a while since we got our hands on Griffin's Beacon universal remote control, way back at CES. The IR converter has since hit the market for iOS users, but the Android community, until recently, had been left in the dark. That changed yesterday, however, when Griffin announced that its wire-free system is now available for Google-powered handsets and tablets. The transmitter, fueled by a quartet of AA batteries, converts an Android device's Bluetooth signal into infrared and sends out commands to your TV, DVD or Blu-ray player, effectively allowing users to place it anywhere around their home entertainment system. The remote control functions are handled by Dijit's customized app, where you'll be able to browse, search and call up TV shows, using the integrated guide. The app, like its iOS counterpart, is available for free, but the system itself will set you back about $70. If you're even remotely interested, check out the source links below, or the full PR after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Griffin and Dijit Announce Android-Compatible Beacon Universal Remote Control System 		New Beacon transforms Android phones and tablets into easy-to-use, never-lost remotes for home entertainment 		Nashville, Tenn. / San Francisco, Ca. – November 8, 2011 – Griffin Technology Inc., one of the world's foremost creators of innovations for everyday life, and Dijit Media, a San Francisco-based software company whose Universal Remote and TV Show Guide App software integrates consumers' media viewing experience with their smart devices, have announced a new Android-only version of the Beacon™ Universal Remote Control System. The wireless AV controller pairs with Android devices via Bluetooth and works with Dijit's free Universal Remote App enabling complete control over the entire home entertainment system directly from the Android interface. 		"With the proliferation of new Android-based phones being announced each week, Beacon for Android was a natural progression for us," said Mark Rowan, President of Griffin Technology. "We look forward to bringing the most powerful and easiest-to-use remote control to the Android user base." 		Beacon works by converting Bluetooth signals from smartphones and tablets into infrared signals required to control consumer electronics devices. Beacon gives users complete control over TVs, DVRs, stereos and other home entertainment devices, but with the flexibility of a touchscreen interface. Best of all, it's a remote that they'll never lose in the couch again. 		"Android now has a huge following, and we are really excited about bringing our remote control and tv show listings app to the Android Market," said Maksim Ioffe, Founder and CEO of Dijit Media. "Our mission is to create the greatest 'second screen' entertainment platform, and Android compatibility brings us one step closer to helping millions of people get a little bit more out of their TV experience." 		Beacon is powered by 4 AA batteries. Set-up is quick and easy: there are no bulky cases or dongles, no wires or cables. Just pair via Bluetooth and download the free Dijit app for Android, which now boasts compatibility with tablets and smartphones running Android OS 2.3.3 or greater. 		Features of the Dijit app for Android include: 		Tablet Interface: transforms your tablet into a powerful home entertainment console.		Consumer Electronics Support: Beacon is compatible with more than 200,000 devices		Search and Discover TV Shows: browse by time/date, search, discover new shows, and watch with just a tap using the Guide. 		Rich TV Show Listings: access tv episode details, upcoming schedules, and Cast & Crew info		Beacon for Android, $69.99, is now shipping and available at www.BestBuy.com and on http://www.griffintechnology.com/beacon-android. Dijit's Universal Remote App, a free download, can be found on the Android Market. To learn more visit www.griffintechnology.com/beacon and watch the video of Beacon in action.
 