
   As recovering amateur musicians, some of us still fancy well-made mobile recording gear from time to time. The ability to simultaneously record guitar and vocals using an iPhone 4S is what made the GuitarJack Model 2, in particular, catch our eye. We've taken iPad recording accessories for a spin in the past, but the compact stature of this kit, along with its ability to transform a smartphone into a 4-track recorder seemed quite compelling indeed. At $149, this generation of the GuitarJack costs a full Grant more than Apogee Jam -- excluding the added expense of well-suited apps, of course. So is that hefty investment worth it? Read on to find out. 




   Hardware   We'll just go ahead and get this out of the way early: the Guitar Jack Model 2 is quite the dapper peripheral. The adapter is housed in a polished metal shell that pairs nicely with the latest iPhone when the two are connected. Look closely and you'll see the side plates housing the input / output jacks are located are fashioned out of a lighter shade of aluminum. The kit also has a bit of weight to it, which bolsters its durability factor when coupled with that all-metal exterior. We won't recommend you go tossing the thing off your balcony to test its strength, but from the outside, it would appear to hold up much better than plastic adapters we've gotten our mitts on. There's only one tiny issue with the high-gloss aluminum coating: it loves to collect fingerprints. We found ourselves constantly wiping the adapter down to keep things somewhat presentable.  The top and bottom of the adapter only feature logos and text; the action really happens on the sides of the device. On the right-hand edge, you'll encounter a 1/4-inch guitar or instrument input and a 1/8-inch headphone jack. Moving around to the top, there's the built-in iOS dock connector that allows for recording sans cables. Heading over to the left side, you'll discover a single 1/8-inch microphone input. The way all the jacks are set up, cables will extend out from the sides of the unit, allowing you to lay the entire thing flat while capturing your next power ballad. There are also diminutive rubber pads on the bottom to keep the kit's chiseled frame from scratching whatever surface it might rest on. Software If you don't install an app that plays nice with the adapter beforehand, your iOS device will prompt you to do so the first time you connect the two. Sonoma Wire Works, the company behind GuitarJack, offers a few options in the app department when it comes to getting your adapter in the game. We'll tackle the free ones first. GuitarTone allows you to rock out (via headphones, of course) on your iPhone while having the freedom to switch amps, cabs, mics and set up an effects loop to test out new riffs on-the-go. As with most free guitar apps, in order to expand your rig you'll have to dish out $9.99 per 12-pack. While the GuitarJack is connected, though, access to AmpPack 1 is granted and lends 12 amplifiers to your mobile axe arsenal.


If acoustic guitars are more your style, the outfit has developed the TaylorEQ app for those looking to channel The Civil Wars. This application boosts the sound of Taylor acoustics when used with the aforementioned adapter through a set of EQ presets specifically designed for industry legend's signature guitar shapes. You'll also be able to create your own custom tone and jam along with The Boss should you be so inclined.  