
 Gift cards sure are convenient, but who likes futzing with all those useless, environmentally-unfriendly plastic rectangles? Certainly not us, which is why we dig free iOS application Gyft, an application that not only aggregates our gift cards, but allows us to buy and gift others with gift cards from a variety of major retailers (Gap and Sephora, among many others). And today, our Android-inclined brethren can get on board the Gyft train, as its headed to the Google Play store. To incentivize your use of the free app, Gyft's doling out $10 in free cards, so head over to the Google Play store and snag your free money.



  Show full PR text    GYFT LAUNCHES ANDROID PHONE APP, JUST IN TIME FOR THE HOLIDAY SHOPPING SEASON  Consumers Can Now Use Android Devices for All of Their Gift Card Needs   San Francisco, Calif. - Dec 14, 2012- Gyft, Inc, the newly launched service that allows customers to buy, store, send, receive and organize gift cards via mobile and social media, today announced that its app is now available for Android devices. This addition comes only two months after Gyft's launch and is based on overwhelming consumer requests to introduce a version for Android, just in time for the holiday season.

   Gyft is already adding thousands of new users per day with its iPhone app and has doubled its user base over the last month. By adding an app for Android, these numbers will continue to spike. With the gift card industry hitting $100 billion annually and 82% of Americans planning to purchase gift cards this holiday season, it is no surprise that Gyft has seen impressive momentum since launch.

   "Making Gyft available on Android was always part of our plan, and we are thrilled that we could deliver so that millions of additional consumers can benefit from our service before holiday shopping gets into full swing," said Gyft CEO and co-founder, Vinny Lingham. "Everyone deserves an easy-to-use app for storing, purchasing, managing and redeeming gift cards. Gyft makes it astonishingly simple to give the most wanted gift this year, on the fly, from your mobile phone."

   Gyft projects that gift cards will account for 20% of holiday sales this season. In addition to record gift card sales, mobile commerce has reached an all-time high, making Gyft a must-have app. To experience Gyft and receive $10 in free cards for the holidays, please visit www.gyft.com or download the app from Google Play or the App Store

   About Gyft:  Gyft, Inc. provides a gift card platform for consumers and retailers that enables customers to upload, buy, share[o6] , and redeem gift cards conveniently from their mobile device. Gyft is seamlessly integrated with Facebook so users can send gift cards to their friends around special events. Gyft is a private company funded by Google Ventures, Founder Collective and 500 Startups, with offices in San Francisco, CA. For more information, visit www.gyft.com.

 
