
  Haier just unleashed several new HDTVs (as an update to the one we saw a this time last year) and home audio gear here at CES. First up is the EV series of 3D HDTVs that sport a "virtually edgeless picture" thanks to a super thin bezel, and come in both 65- and 55-inch versions. The EV Series also packs 2D to 3D conversion tech, Yahoo Connected TV and the company's new Smart Home UI to access all of your media content, plus a double-sided QWERTY remote to navigate it. Next is the 23-inch Designer Series that sports an edge-lit 1920 x 1080 LED screen that comes in your choice of black, white, metallic grey or red to fit your every mood (and room color). Price has yet to be determined, but you'll be able to get a Designer TV of your own in Q2 of this year.Lastly, Haier is unveiling several new audio products. First, there's the $400 3D model that has an iPhone dock built in and delivers 230 watts of 5.1 surround sound using Absolute 3D technology. Next is a super slim profile soundbar that pumps out 280 watts of sound through 2.1 channels through a speaker that's only 1.07 inches deep for $350. Rounding things out is a ViewHD iDevice dock that works with iPads, iPhones and iPods. Priced at $99, it comes with a remote for controlling it from afar and has HDMI out in case your mobile's meager screen simply won't do. All you Haier-philes can dig deep into the details of all of these in the PR below.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Haier Designer Series LED Televisions  Haier, the Official HDTV of the NBA, introduces the Designer Series which offers unmatched style in a compact package that includes many of the best features of our larger TVs, like a 1080p Full HD display and Auto Volume Leveler. This sleek, sophisticated model comes in black, white, red or a modern metallic grey finish to match any décor. The side fins can be removed to mount the unit on a wall. With an Edge-lit LED display, ultra slim profile, and 23" screen, this television adds a chic touch to smaller spaces like a kitchen, bedroom, office, or dorm room. Another great function is the ability to connect to your laptop or desktop computer and use it as a monitor.  "The unique, sleek and compact cabinet offers space-saving solutions that fit comfortably, yet stylishly, into smaller areas," said Douglas Lane, president of the Digital Products Group for Haier America. "Add in the value of multiple inputs, and consumers can hook the television up to gaming consoles, Blu-ray or DVD players, video cameras, computers and more to get the best entertainment possible."  Edge-lit LED Edge-lit backlight technology in Haier LED HDTVs delivers enhanced contrast and color in an ultra-thin design, with lower energy consumption.  1080p Full HD 1080p delivers the highest quality picture possible from a high definition source. 1080p high definition televisions accept a 1080p signal to display a resolution of 1920 x 1080.  ENERGY STAR® Qualified televisions use about 40% less energy than standard units. By choosing ENERGY STAR® qualified electronics, you help prevent global warming and promote cleaner air without sacrificing the product quality and performance you expect, all while saving money on utility bills.  Auto Volume Leveler The Auto Volume Leveler lets you enjoy watching television without the annoying volume fluctuations between channels or when the program goes to commercials. Simply set the volume to your preferred listening level and the AVL automatically regulates the sound level.  LE23D2480 • Ultra-Slim cabinet – Depth less than 1.6" • Dynamic Contrast Ratio 1,000,000:1 • 2 HDMI, PC input, 1 component inputs • USB input for Audio and Digital Pics • 2x3W Output • Full Function Remote • Available in Black, White, Metallic Grey and Red • Availability: 2nd Quarter 2012   _______________________________   EV Series Features Unique Smart UI and Virtually Edgeless Bezel Design  Haier, the Official HDTV of the NBA, is introducing the new EV Series, including a 55" model (LE55EV29813D) with a new thin-bezel design that provides a truly immersive viewing experience with a virtually edgeless picture. The ultra slim cabinet design provides a sleek, polished look that makes these units the perfect centerpiece for your home theater.  Haier's premium line of LED televisions offers exceptional quality, style and features designed to transform the home theatre experience. Evoke series HDTVs come equipped for 3D viewing, and with integrated Wi-Fi, giving consumers instant access to streaming movies, music, and more. These HDTVs are also DLNA certified for easy content sharing with your home computer, cell-phone, and laptops.  Smart UI Haier's award winning Smart UI is the convergence of technology and entertainment. It allows straightforward access to the different functions of connected products at the same time while watching TV. There is total connectivity and interactivity between the internet, television, home electronics and appliances, making it possible to operate and check the functionality of all compatible electrical appliances, ultimately turning the TV into the centerpiece of the household. The Smart UI also features intuitive navigation with the double-sided QWERTY remote control; one side of the remote allows access to key TV functions, the other side has an intuitive keypad for easy access to different content available and allows you to communicate instantly with friends.  3D Passive polarization displays two images on the screen simultaneously, but with each image having a different polarization. Polarizing glasses consist of two polarizing films that allow light of different polarizations though. Due to the differing polarizations of the incoming light, one eyepiece allows one image through while the other eyepiece allows the other image through. This option provides rich colors and a flicker-free experience. 2D to 3D conversion creates a 3D-like effect when viewing non-3D video.  Net Connect Haier's Net Connect and Evoke series televisions are Internet ready with Wi-Fi capabilities. Get instant access to endless entertainment and web content for the TV, with no need for additional devices. Net Connect and EV Series HDTVs bring you streaming movies, music, and more, wirelessly and straight from your television.  Yahoo! Connected TV enables you to interact with your favorite Internet content while watching TV, all with your TV remote-no keyboard, mouse, or additional work required. Yahoo! Connected TV offers on demand movies, TV shows, and rich Web content developed for the way people use their TVs. For more information, go to http://connectedtv.yahoo.com/  One-Click Access Haier Internet Connected HDTVs feature a universal remote control with One-Click access to Netflix and Yahoo! Connected TV. Get instant access to streaming movies and TV shows with one push of a button.  Instantly watch TV episodes and movies by streaming from Netflix on your Haier Internet-connected HDTV.   Stream hundreds of top shows to your TV for a minimal monthly fee with Hulu Plus subscription service. Watch current season episodes, multiple back-seasons, and full-series runs, many in HD.  Edge-lit LED Edge-lit backlight technology in Haier LED HDTVs delivers enhanced contrast and color in an ultra thin design, with lower energy consumption.  1080p Full HD 1080p delivers the highest quality picture possible from a high definition source. 1080p high definition televisions accept a 1080p signal to display a resolution of 1920 x 1080.  Auto Volume Leveler The Auto Volume Leveler lets you enjoy watching television without the annoying volume fluctuations between channels or when the program goes to commercials. Simply set the volume to your preferred listening level and the AVL automatically regulates the sound level.  120Hz Full Motion By doubling the refresh rate and interpolating detail in fast motion scenes, 120Hz Full Motion Refresh Rate provides enhanced picture quality, reproducing crisp and detailed true-to-life moving images, so it's great for sports and action movies.  Ambient Light Sensor The Ambient Light Sensor detects light from the surrounding environment and automatically increases or decreases the TV backlight to compensate for low and high-light environments. It automatically lowers brightness when in a dark room, ensuring viewing comfort and exceptional picture quality.  ENERGY STAR® Qualified televisions use about 40% less energy than standard units. By choosing ENERGY STAR® qualified electronics, you help prevent global warming and promote cleaner air without sacrificing the product quality and performance you expect, all while saving money on utility bills.   • 4 HDMI1.4, PC input, 1 component input • USB input for Video, Audio and Digital Pics • H.264, WMV, MPG4, VC1, MPEG-2, MP3, JPEG • 2x10W Output • Availability: TBA   _________________________________    Haier Launches New 3D Soundbar with Sonic Emotion Technology  --Experience superior sound quality with Haier's 5.1 Ch. Soundbar--  NEW YORK, NY (Jan. 10, 2011) – Haier, a leading provider of home appliances and electronics, is introducing a new 3D Soundbar. Haier's 3D Soundbar, powered with sonic emotion Absolute 3D sound technology, takes home entertainment sound to the next level, creating true surround sound for everyone in the room. One Haier soundbar will immerse an entire room in 3D sound without the need for additional speaker systems, bringing any television content to life in 3D audio.  "The Haier Audio line was developed to offer consumers simplicity with an enhanced entertainment experience. One Haier 3D Sound Bar will replace an entire home theater sound system and provides a unique 3D sound quality, so every seat in the house is the best seat in the house," said Douglas Lane, president of the Digital Products Group for Haier America.  "We are excited to partner with a global brand such as Haier," said Rajeev Kapur, CEO of sonic emotion Absolute 3D. "As soundbars play a more versatile role in households, consumers are becoming increasingly aware of the fact that sound quality is important. The integration of our Absolute 3d sound technology along with Haier`s expertise in consumer electronics provides the winning solution for customers looking for an amazing sound experience in their home theater."  Based on wave field synthesis, the Absolute 3D technology creates an evenly balanced field of sonic waves in any listening area, regardless of its dimensions, so that all listeners perceive the ultimate 3D sound experience, independent of their location and device positioning. No matter the input format--stereo or 5.1ch--all television shows, music, movies, and games come to life in new sound dimensions.  Haier's 3D Soundbar is a simple plug and play setup so, unlike conventional surround setups and other sound bars, calibration is not required. Device positioning is independent of room dimensions, which eliminates the common problem of "sweetspots" that limit other sound bar and surround sound technologies.  5.1 setups Other sound bars Haier 3D Sound Bar  • Limited listening zone • Limited listening zone • Total audio immersion • Requires calibration • Room dependent • Room independent • Many speakers & cables   The 3D Soundbar features a dock for charging, playing, and watching content from iPod, iPhone, and iPad on your TV and a free app provides FM Radio and more. Unlike conventional surround units, calibration is automatic, and optical input makes for simple plug-and-play setup. Dolby® Digital audio encoding/decoding technology efficiently delivers up to 5.1 discrete channels of vibrant surround sound.   SVEV40-3D 40" 3D Sound Bar • 5.1 Channel, 230W Powerful 3D Home Speaker System • Sonic Emotion 3D technology delivers superior sound to every corner of the room • Choose Wall-mounted or stand-alone installation to suit your space and style. • Pairs perfectly with your flat screen television. • Optical Input provides simple, one cable, direct-to-device audio connection • Preset EQ Modes let you control sound output with individualized pre-configured settings for Music, Movies, and News.  The SVEV40-3D will retail for $399.99.   ______________________________   Haier Launches New Ultra Thin Soundbar  -- 1.1" Slim Profile Provides Streamlined Look for the Ultimate Home Theater --  NEW YORK, NY (Jan. 4, 2011) – Haier, a leading provider of home appliances and electronics, is introducing one of the slimmest soundbars on the market with the launch of the 40" SBEV40-SLIM soundbar. The 2.1 Channel Soundbar with wireless subwoofer and built-in panoramic virtual surround sound takes entertainment to the next level with crystal clear surround sound and enhanced audio packed into a slim profile.  "Haier's slim soundbar is one of the thinnest profiles in the market at 1.07" in depth, making this wall-mountable model the perfect accessory for an ultra-slim flat panel television," said Douglas Lane, president of the Digital Products Group for Haier America. "The HDMI connections provide easy one step setup for the user, which is in line with the strategy for all Haier electronics."  Haier's slim profile soundbar utilizes patented digital amplification and digital crossover technology to maximize the capabilities of the thin profile speaker, resulting in a fuller sound. The unit also has a 2.4GHz wireless subwoofer for easy setup and positioning options. The unique structure and harness of the speaker helps keep a very thin profile with a traditional paper cone speaker. The SBEV40-SLIM is a complete sound system with 4x3" mid-size speakers, 2x1" tweeters, and a 5" subwoofer. The speaker system is driven by two 40W Class D amplifiers for the mid-size speakers and tweeters, and 80W for the subwoofer.  Product Features: -Under 1.1" Slim profile provides a streamlined look that pairs perfectly with your flat screen television. -2.4GHz Wireless Active Subwoofer produces rich, thundering bass. Wireless configuration makes for a cable-free setup anywhere in the room. -Dual HDMI provides simple, one cable, direct-to device audio connection to two different sources, whether it's a Blu-ray player or gaming system. -2.1 Channel, 280W Powerful Home Speaker System -Panoramic Virtual Surround Sound widens the sweet spot, creating an enhanced sound experience for that ultimate theater feel. -Preset EQ Modes let you control sound output with individualized pre-configured settings for Music, Movies, and News.  The SBEV40-SLIM will retail for $349.99.   ________________________________   ViewHD   IPD-157B / IPD-157W Powerful docking station with video out through HDMI. Dock portrait style, or watch a movie in landscape view. With the video out function, you can watch photos and High Definition movies from Netflix and iTunes on your large flat panel TV. Built-in Haier Audio App for FM Tuner and other special features.  Works with iPad, iPad2, iPhone 3 and 4 series, and iPod Touch HDMI output for video content FM radio Rotates-Portrait or Landscape Remote Control   Product Special Features: ›› iPad dock with charging ›› Haier Audio App with FM Tuner included ›› HDMI Video Output ›› Dock adjusts to Portrait or Landscape   Accessories Included: ›› Remote Control (Battery Included) ›› UL Listed AC Power Adapter   MSRP $99.99
 