
  

In an effort to obviate the best efforts of Boxee, Logitech, Roku, and Apple, the new line of HDTVs from Haier aims to bring internet content and streaming video to your living room without such excess hardware. Rather than having another black box fighting for space in your entertainment center, Haier's Net Connect LED displays have WiFi capabilities and Yahoo's Connected TV baked in to deliver content. In addition to Yahoo's apps, the TVs will also provide viewers with access to Hulu Plus, Blockbuster on Demand, Film Fresh, and Netflix. Unfortunately, we don't have specs, prices, or a release date for the sets, but we do know that they'll have remotes with a dedicated Netflix button, which is sure to please the impatient movie watcher in us all.
      

 

Show full PR textHaier Launches New Internet Connected Television Line and Haier Audio Line at CES 2011January 6th, 2011 "Haier Wi-Fi Connected LED Line to be Powered by Yahoo! Connected TV Platform"LAS VEGAS (CES Booth #13632), Jan. 6, 2011 – Today Haier introduced its new line of Internet enabled televisions and new Haier Audio product line. Haier's Net Connect line of LED televisions is inspired by the evolution of the consumer lifestyle and evokes the experience of the home theater dream: wirelessly connecting to streaming movies, music, and entertainment from one source with a LED image that is deeper, richer, and bolder than ever. "Haier believes in innovating with our customers' needs firmly in mind and CES will showcase how we are making technology easy for the consumer to enhance their entertainment experience," said Douglas Lane, President, Digital Products Group, Haier America. "We have aligned ourselves with several new strategic content partners that will allow us to bring the best content straight to our devices at the touch of a button."With the introduction of the new Net Connect series of Wi-Fi connected televisions, comes the announcement of new content partner Yahoo! Connected TV. Yahoo! Connected TV provides consumers access to more than 50,000 TV shows and movies on demand and thousands of Internet content sources-specifically created for TV. Yahoo! features TV Apps from some of the most popular Internet brands, including Amazon VOD, Blockbuster VOD, Facebook, Twitter, CBS, Showtime, NBC, eBay, USA Today Sports, YouTube, Pandora internet radio, Yahoo! News, Yahoo! Weather, Yahoo! Sports, Yahoo! Finance, Yahoo! Video, and Flickr, so consumers can enjoy an incredibly enhanced TV viewing experience. "Increasingly, people desire instant access to the information and communities that are important to them-whether they are using a mobile device, PC, tablet, or a television," said Ron Jacoby, Vice President, Connected TV, Yahoo! Inc. "Yahoo! has partnered with Haier to bring a rich variety of Internet content and services, optimized specifically for the TV experience, so users can enjoy the best Internet-connected TV experience available today." Haier will also be demonstrating Yahoo! Connected TV's new broadcast interactivity feature at CES and has plans to participate in the pilot program. With broadcast interactivity, TV viewers can interact with broadcast programming by voting for a reality TV participant, accessing information about characters, or making e-commerce purchases of merchandise such as clothing, music, and more.Haier products also include Netflix. Buttons specifying Netflix-including some featuring the iconic red Netflix logo-will be situated prominently on remote controls that operate certain new Haier Blu-ray disc players, and the Netflix one-click button will be included on remote controls for select new Internet-connected TVs. Haier's growing list of content partners currently also includes Blockbuster on Demand, Film Fresh, and Pandora internet radio.Coming soon, Haier connected devices will allow users to stream hundreds of top TV shows with Hulu Plus subscription service. For only $7.99 a month, watch current season episodes from ABC, Fox, and NBC, full-series runs and multiple back-seasons of shows with hundreds of titles, many in HD.Haier will also display evolving global technologies like 3D television and Smart Life connected-appliance technology. Smart Life-integrated refrigerators, air conditioners, and wine cellars use the Internet, mobile communication, and fixed phone networks to allow customers to control their home appliances anytime, anywhere and retrieve information remotely. The newly launched Haier Audio line will include a suite of new products for the company including the introduction of sound bars and other iPad®/iPhone®/iPad® related accessories. Haier's top-of-the-line 3D Sound Bar powered by Sonic Emotion technology will immerse an entire room in 3D sound without the need for additional speaker systems, bringing any television content to life in 3D audio.Haier AmericaHaier America is the Sales and Marketing arm of the Americas for the multinational Haier Group, the world's largest white goods brand. Headquartered in the Haier Building at 1356 Broadway in New York City, Haier America is a leader for room air conditioner, compact refrigerator, and wine cellar sales, as well as a leading force in major appliances, compact appliances, portable electronics, and HDTV sales. Haier is an Official Marketing Partner and the Official High Definition Television of the NBA. www.haieramerica.com
 