
 
 Usually, at this time of year Haier rolls out a bundle of new HDTVs, but at CES 2013 it's upgrading some of its existing product lineups instead of hawking all-new gear. Turns out models from Haier's 2013 Core, Encore and Encore+model lineups will be Roku ready, meaning there's an MHL port round the back just for Roku streaming sticks. Of course, you've gotta bring your own dongle to enjoy this new benefit on most of Haier's TVs, unless you spring for Encore+ set bundled with one.

 Additionally, Haier's HXT 3D Smart TVs will debut packing Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 quad core silicon and running Android 4.2. The MPQ8064 chipset packs an Adreno 320 GPU to provide top-notch graphics, and the TV comes with a WiFi Direct QWERTY remote. Naturally, Haier's not saying how much any of these HD goodies will cost nor when they'll be available, so the info about them after the break will have to do... for now.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Haier Introduces New Television Capabilities through Roku Streaming at CES 2013
   LAS VEGAS (CES Booth #10939), Jan. 7, 2013 – Haier today announced its 2013 line of televisions characterized by new designs such as an ultra-thin frame, enhanced sound solutions, and other features such as Roku® streaming. This line-up continues Haier's plan to further its goal of making technology simple and accessible to the consumer, helping to take consumers' home entertainment experience to new heights.

   "As a global leader in consumer electronics, we are thrilled to be in a position to introduce consumers to technology in a simple and easy way that opens up new possibilities for them," said Thomas D'Angelo, svp digital products group, Haier America. "CES 2013 will showcase the breadth of our television line and the flexibility and options we offer."

   Select Haier televisions will come ready for use with the new Roku Streaming Stick™ which instantly gives consumers access to movies, television shows, music, casual games and other entertainment. The Roku Streaming Stick plugs into the MHL port of a Roku Ready™ Haier HDTV and streams entertainment from any household high-speed Wi-Fi connection. A number of new LED models feature ultra-thin frames that provide a virtually edgeless picture for a truly immersive viewing experience. Along with content and picture quality, Haier is focused on enhancing the audio experience by incorporating a 2.1 channel built-in audio solution into select models. These new developments come in response to the evolving consumer lifestyle that has accompanied the rapid emergence of smart and connected TV technologies in the past few years.

   The 2013 line-up will open up with the Core Series LED, which includes select Roku Ready models with a built-in speaker box for enhanced sound. The line then steps up to the Encore Series, which includes Roku Ready models engineered with their own 2.1sound system. The Encore+ series brings together Haier's LED technology and crystal clear high-definition picture with a bundle that includes the Roku Streaming Stick for effortless access to streaming entertainment.

   As the world's #1 white goods brand, Haier will also be displaying select home appliances. Highlights will include new cooktops, to be launched with cooking demonstrations by a special guest chef. Haier's appearance at CES will demonstrate how the brand is poised to become the complete home solutions provider for consumers.

  Haier's HXT Series Delivers Max Android Entertainment
   Haier is showcasing the HXT series with the next generation Smart TV platform powered by the market leading Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Prime Quad Core processor providing unsurpassed features and performance. The HXT series of super-slim LED 3D Smart TVs features an elegant borderless design. Haier is also planning this solution in the form of a Smart Box. The Smart Box will include a camera that is easily mounted on an existing TV, transforming it into a state-of-the-art Smart TV.

   Using the latest Qualcomm MPQ8064 chipset inheriting the architecture from the very fastest of mobile chipsets available today and featuring game-console quality Adreno 320 GPU and running Android 4.2, the HXT products will enable the user to access an infinite number of apps including the many new games now offered on Android devices, thus opening up a living room console class gaming experience without the mess of separate cables and equipment. The extra power of the quad core CPU architecture furthermore allows console class body tracking gaming and fitness apps. With a more affordable cost per game with Android, compared to dedicated consoles, the cost of ownership is greatly reduced.

   The HXT comes with a WiFi Direct connected remote that is great for everything consumers use the television for. From trivial things like changing input and channels on your cable box to more advanced functions such as searching streaming content on your favorite VOD service using QWERTY keys, to even fast action console-type gaming using motion or joystick control, the HXT remote is the only thing you need in your hand and the only remote you need to see on your living room table.

 
