
 
Microsoft announced a new top-down Halo spinoff today for PC and mobile: Halo: Spartan Strike. Developed by 343 Industries and Vanguard Games, Spartan Strike will arrive on Windows 8 devices and Steam on December 12 for $6. Spartan Strike bears strong resemblance to the developers' other third-person shooter that launched in July 2013, Halo: Spartan Assault, though it is not a direct sequel.

Rather, the upcoming shooter is set during the events of Halo 2 and has players guiding a Spartan through cities, jungles and other environments while using an "all-new arsenal of weapons, abilities and vehicles" such as the series' popular Warthog vehicle. Spartan Strike will include 30 missions filled with Covenant and Promethean enemies. Head past the break for Halo: Spartan Strike's launch trailer.

[Image: Microsoft Studios]





Show full PR text"Halo: Spartan Strike" Comes to Windows 8 Devices and Steam this DecemberMicrosoft Studios and 343 Industries, in conjunction with Vanguard Games, is excited to announce "Halo: Spartan Strike" – an all-new "Halo" top-down shooter – coming to Windows 8 devices and Steam on December 12, 2014 as a digital download for $5.99 ERP 1."Halo: Spartan Strike" includes a compelling new story, improved touch controls, updated graphics and an all-new score from award-winning composer Tom Salta. In addition to weekly challenges where fans can take the top position in leaderboards to showcase their skills, playing "Halo: Spartan Strike" will earn Xbox achievements that unlocks content for the upcoming "Halo: The Master Chief Collection," which will launch exclusively on Xbox One this November. 2Set during the events of "Halo 2," "Halo: Spartan Strike" tells a new chapter in the "Halo" universe. You play as a Spartan in a real-world, classified ONI simulation that starts on New Mombasa in 2552 and will take you through jungles, cities and more. Using your Spartan skills, an all-new arsenal of weapons, abilities and vehicles, including the iconic Warthog, you must lead UNSC troops through 30 challenging missions and prevent Earth from being overtaken by hordes of Covenant and Promethean enemies."Halo: Spartan Strike" delivers a full, epic adventure with thrilling battles and unparalleled visuals for mobile devices. No matter where you are or what platform you use, "Halo: Spartan Strike" will provide the definitive pick-up-and-play "Halo" experience to both experienced veterans and new recruits.Some of the key features included in "Halo: Spartan Strike" are:Crush your enemies using the iconic Warthog jeep, or sweep them from the battlefield using the all-new Kestrel VTOL.· Use all-new weapons (Suppressor, Scatter Shot, Binary Rifle and Incineration Cannon) and armor abilities (Proximity Mine, Bubble Shield, Teleport, Shock Chain and Airstrike) to dominate on the battlefield.Face off against new Promethean enemies; deadly mechanical warriors who seek mankind's annihilation.Experience an all-new story that will take you from New Mombasa on Earth to the enigmatic Gamma Halo located at the edge of charted space.· Take control! For this top-down shooter, you can choose between keyboard and mouse, USB Xbox controller, or touch-based virtual joystick.Earn achievements in "Halo: Spartan Strike" to unlock an exclusive emblem, nameplate, and avatar in "Halo: The Master Chief Collection" on Xbox One (sold separately). 21 Windows 8/8.1 Phone and Windows 8/8.1. Steam versions sold separately. Estimated retail price. Actual retail prices may vary2 Only available on Windows 8/8.1 and Windows Phone 8/8.1
 