
  By now, we hope you're mighty familiar with FXI's Cotton Candy -- the much anticipated pocketable computer that just became available for pre-order. We've previously shown photos of the device running both Ice Cream Sandwich and Ubuntu, but now we're able to bring you a video demonstration that may help you better understand what this tiny beast is all about. At the core of the Cotton Candy system is the Exynos 4210 SoC, which capably pushes 1080p video without batting an eye. As such, FXI hopes the miniature computer will gain traction with consumers who want an unobtrusive (and silent) media center or gaming setup in their home. To this end, the company will include the Polkast app for easy access to content and will also bundle games with the system -- though it's not yet able to share specific titles. Those with a sweet tooth may taste the delights of Cotton Candy in March, which will sell for $199.
      

 

   "For more coverage of MWC 2012, visit here."      Show full PR text  FXI Launches Cotton Candy Developers Site, Take Pre-Orders   TRONDHEIM, Norway and BARCELONA, Spain -26 Feb. 2012 @ Showstoppers MWC – FXI Technologies, Inc. today introduced the launch of cstick.com, a community website and technical forum where Cotton Candy development units are immediately available for pre-order.   "The world is anxiously awaiting Cotton Candy's release," said Borgar Ljosland, CEO and founder of FXI. "We've had interest in the any screen computer for everything from portable set top box gaming and entertainment to mobile any screen computing, in addition to a host of specialized medical, automotive and other applications. The size, raw horsepower and combined HDMI, USB and MicroUSB connectivity bring unprecedented flexibility to the portable market."   On display at this week's Mobile World Congress tradeshow in the Innovation Norway Booth (Hall 2.0-2A67), Cotton Candy is the world's first any screen cloud computer, weighing only 21 grams. It's unique architecture will allow the device to serve as an ideal companion to smartphones, tablets, notebook PCs and Macs as well as will add smart capabilities to existing displays, set top boxes and game consoles.   Specifications include an ARM® Cortex™-A9 (1GHz) CPU from Samsung, an ARM Mali™-400 MP (Quad-core, 1.2GHz) GPU, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, HDMI output and the Android operating system. It decodes MPEG-4, H.264 and other video formats and display HD graphics on any HDMI equipped screen. Operating systems supported to date include Android Gingerbread and Ice Cream Sandwich as well as Ubuntu. On-screen content can be controlled a wide variety of ways – wirelessly using smartphones with an app, Bluetooth peripherals like mice and RF remote controls; or by leveraging a notebook's integrated keyboard and touchpad.   To join the Cotton Candy development community, visit www.cstick.com.   
 