
 The latest to announce its entrance into the Ultra HD market with its 84-inch 4K LED TV is Toshiba. The L9300 series is also available in 65-inch or 58-inch models and will be available this summer with no word on price. According to a representative of the company, the key to Ultra HD is the processing as there won't be much native content at launch, and it has the best with its CEVO 4K Quad+Dual Core Processor and CQ Engine. The demo model on display sure impressed, but we'll hold our final judgement when the product finally ships.





 
  Show full PR text     LAS VEGAS, Jan. 8, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- CES 2013, LVCC Central Hall Booth #10926 – Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced the L9300 Series of 4K Ultra HD TVs. Featuring four times the resolution of today's 1080p full HD TVs, the new Toshiba L9300 Series TVs deliver the ultimate viewing experience for movies, TV shows, video games, photo viewing and PC applications. Powered by Toshiba's proprietary CEVO 4K Quad+Dual Core Processor, L9300 Series TVs deliver the highest quality UltraHD image processing, including Resolution Restoration to restore clean near UltraHD image quality from less than 4K content, Color Gamut Enhancement to create color intensity that matches the resolution impact and Surface Brilliance Enhancement that brings images to life like never before.

   (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130108/SF38842)

   "Ultra HD represents the new pinnacle of home theater image quality and Toshiba is already leading the way in this new and important TV category," said Scott Ramirez, vice president of product marketing and development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Digital Products Division. "Clearly, the best image processing will create the best picture quality and Toshiba has the advantage of introducing its second generation UltraHD processing in 2013 with the advanced CEVO 4K Quad+Dual Core Processor. Toshiba's L9300 Series models with Ultra HD, CEVO 4K, 3D and new Cloud TV functionality create the perfect centerpiece for anyone interested in creating the ultimate home theater."

   Featuring a new design that is modern, yet simple and elegant, the L9300 Series features a sophisticated gun-metallic trim and matching frame stand. L9300 Series UltraHD TVs will be available in 58-, 65- and super large 84-inch class screen sizes.

   Powerful Image Enhancement Technology

   In addition to UltraHD image processing, the L9300 Series includes a suite of technologies that enhance picture quality, including:

   ClearScan™ 240Hz refresh rate technology creates clearer and smoother fast motion video.  CQ Engine™ technology offers consumers superior picture quality controls, including Edge Enhancer, Dynamic Gamma, Color Master and Expert Mode Calibration Capability, and new UltraClear Dynamic Noise Reduction to create cleaner images without sacrificing image detail.  Color and Depth Adaptive Resolution+ to help create images with enhanced image resolution, lifelike color saturation and incredible picture depth.  Advanced Cloud TV

   Offering a smarter connected experience, the L9300 Series includes advanced Cloud TV functionality. Cloud TV takes the connected experience to another level by offering easy, personalized content discovery and acquisition, including news content; better mobile device interactivity; practical social interaction services, server-based upgradability and much more. Some of the key initial Cloud TV features and services include:

   Family Calendar to share family events  Personal Messaging to send and receive messages from family and friends  Photo Album to share digital photos  Streaming News to view news videos and slide shows  MediaShare to access content from other DLNA-enabled devices  MediaGuide, a TV programming guide with advanced search capabilities and program recommendations  Built-in Wi-Fi®, Miracast™ and WiDi for both router and peer-to-peer wireless capabilities  To extend the experience even further, Toshiba will also release mobile companion apps for iOS, Android and Windows 8 that enable easy location-free interactivity of many of the key social interaction services between the Cloud TVs and mobile devices.

   Availability

   The Toshiba L9300 4K UltraHD TV Series are scheduled to ship in summer 2013.

 
