
       
After months of speculation the wait is almost over and Hulu Plus is just about upon us. Hulu was nice enough to share an invite with us so we could to try it out -- sorry, we don't have any extras -- and we just so happened to have a Samsung LED LCD TV in the lab to give it a go. Of course, we also tried it the old fashioned way (in the browser) as well as via Hulu Desktop, on the iPhone, and on the iPad -- sadly it isn't live on the Xbox 360 or PS3 yet. The bottom line is it isn't perfect, but doesn't disappoint either, and you'll have to click on through for the rest.





You've all seen Hulu.com and Hulu Desktop, and we're happy to report that once you sign in with your Hulu account that is subscribed to Hulu Plus, you'll feel right at home. The addition of HD content is new, as is the improved selection, but other than that we didn't notice anything new. What is new, however, are the Samsung, iPhone and iPad apps, which are for the most part done as well as the other Hulu user experiences. The iPad app is the roughest around the edges, with the search screen being down right lame looking, and the iPhone and Samsung app aren't the best we've ever seen either, but at least they are responsive and intuitive. None of them worked perfectly, which explains why Hulu Plus is a preview and not live. The biggest problems we ran into were unavailable videos via the Samsung TV and a browser crash when trying to watch a show in HD on a Mac. But we also had a problem adjusting the picture settings on the Samsung when running any of the Internet TV apps, which was very annoying and prevented us from producing a decent video since it completely washed out the image. One slick aspect that works exactly as we envisioned is that the queue and subscriptions sync across platforms, and it lets you connect multiple times with the same account. We're not sure how our tests align with real use scenarios, but unfortunately the resume feature across devices only seems to work occasionally. 


