
  All work and no play makes even the hottest smartphone downright dull. It's with this in mind that Samsung is showcasing Rovio's latest creation, Angry Birds Space, running on the Galaxy Note at SXSW in Austin, Texas. We took a moment to get our feisty paws on the demo, which showcases the weightless, space-like trajectories that players must contend with in the game. Exclusive to the Galaxy Note, users will find a bonus level of play, in addition to the free Danger Zone add-on -- a collection of 30 levels that'll be available to the masses as an in-app purchase. If you haven't been keeping score, the game will make its official debut on March 22nd. So what're you waiting for? Hop the break for the PR and watch as we take revenge on those fiendish pigs!Myriam Joire contributed to this report.





    Show full PR text  Samsung GALAXY Note Becomes the Ultimate Entertainment Device at SXSW  Samsung and Rovio partner to unveil the new Angry Birds game to provide the ultimate on-the-go gaming experience  Austin, Texas, USA, March 9, 2012 – Today Samsung and Rovio will showcase Angry Birds Space for the first time on Samsung GALAXY Note at Samsung Blogger Lounge on the South by Southwest® (SXSW®) Conferences & Festivals (Austin Convention Center, Room 19AB at 4:15 pm). As an official launch partner, Samsung will provide the first ever hands-on Angry Birds Space game play opportunities on the GALAXY Note before the official game launch.  Angry Birds Space will be showcased on the Samsung GALAXY Note, which provides the ultimate on-the-go entertainment experiences. Samsung GALAXY Note is a perfect gaming device as it comes with a vivid and expansive 5.3-inch HD Super AMOLED screen and a dual-core processor, which ensures incredibly fast and smooth game play.  In celebration of the successful worldwide launch of Samsung GALAXY Note, a new category of mobile device all Samsung GALAXY device users will receive Samsung special offers in the new game.  For all Samsung GALAXY users, an exclusive Samsung GALAXY Note level will be provided in the Angry Birds Space game. In addition, "Danger Zone", a special package of 30 challenging levels normally available as an in-app purchase, will be made available for free to all Samsung GALAXY users from Samsung Apps and the Android Market (level pack compatible above Android 2.1) for 3 months. This exclusive offer will be available from March 22nd with the launch of Angry Birds Space.  Also, all game players will find extra fun playing the game with new Angry Birds Space characters. One of these special birds – the Lazer Bird – is introduced by Samsung, and reflects the personality of Samsung GALAXY Note. The bird's lazer vision resembles the best viewing experience on the crisp and expansive screen and its lazer strike super power the high performance. New characters, including the Lazer Bird in Angry Birds Space have unique superhero powers to help in their fight against the space pigs and bring their eggs safely back home.
 