

Hanvon (also known as Hanwang) hasn't exactly been churning out one product after the other as of late, but it has made a fairly respectable showing for itself at CES, where it's just introduced five new models in its WISEreader line. Those include the N500, N618 (pictured above), N628, N638, and N800, which all sport Vizplex e-ink displays that range in size form five to eight inches and, in all but one case (the N638), use an electromagnetic panel and pen for note-taking complete with handwriting recognition. Even more surprising, Hanvon says that the whole lot will be available in the US sometime this year -- although they could well show up under a number of different brands, as Hanvon also works as an OEM. Hit up the gallery below for a look at the rest, and head on past the break to peruse the complete specs in convenient press release form.





Show full PR textHanvon Debuts New Products For U.S Market at CESWorld leading eBook Reader Manufacturer Debuts Wide Range of eBook Readers and Electromagnetic Touch Tablet Devices at CESLAS VEGAS, NV (CES Booth #12240/TechZone), Jan 7, 2010 – Hanvon today unveiled an array of new products for the U.S. market including more than 10 eBook readers and electromagnetic touch tablet devices. A world leader in handwriting recognition technology, OCR (Optical Character Recognition) and Biometric Recognition related products, Hanvon is a leading eBook reader manufacturer in the world, both under its own brand and as an OEM.Hanvon's 25 year history in the handwriting technology and electromagnetic technology space has allowed them to develop a wide range of software and hardware solutions for partners and consumers worldwide.Debuting today, Hanvon's WISEreader eBook readers will be available in five, six, eight and 9.7 inch displays, and come in a wide range of categories. Hanvon's own electromagnetic touch tablet technology allows users to make annotations directly on the eBook page and save them on the device in clear handwriting and detailed annotations. The WISEreader also includes integrated wireless technology (Wi-Fi and EDGE/GSM) allowing users to download eBooks without having to connect to a PC. While four models of the five- inch display WISEreader's were launched in North America, Europe and Asia in 2009, the six, eight and 9.7 inch models will make their international debut in the U.S. in 2010, providing consumers with mobility, and the reading comfort of a larger screen.Hanvon also announced they are partnering with E Ink Corporation, a subsidiary of Prime View International (PVI), to become the first company to design a color eBook based on E Ink's Vizplex technology. The color eBook is slated to go into production at the end of 2010.Hanvon's professional graphic tablets and tablet PCs also feature Hanvon's unique electromagnetic touch tablet technology for accurate writing and easy -to -use on screen drawing via the wireless pen. The technology enables the tablets to recognize highly detailed information such as pen the inclination and pressure to render drawings and writing just as clear as a pen would on paper."Hanvon's deep roots and experience in the Chinese eBook reader market has given us the background and know-how to produce products that are both innovative and appealing to a wide range of consumers," said Hanvon Founder and Chairman of the Board Liu Yingjian. "We are excited to bring our on-screen handwriting technology to the U.S. market, and are confident that our innovative designs and wide range of eBook readers will fill a niche in the eBook reader space that partners and consumers have been waiting for."Hanvon developed and launched its first eBook reader in 2008. Today, Hanvon is the leader in the eBook reader market in China with 95% of the market share, shipping close to 100,000 units in December 2009, ten times more than the previous year. In just over one year, Hanvon also became the world's second largest eBook reader manufacturer in the world.For detailed product information please stop by CES booth #12240 in Central Hall or visit: www.hanvon.comNew Products highlights:Hanvon N500- Display: 5" E-ink Vizplex display- Grey levels: 8- Full keypad QWERTY Key- Electromagnetic panel with electromagnetic pen- On-screen handwriting with letter and word recognition technology- Weight: 275g(without cover)- Dimensions: 176.4mm×124.4mm×10.2mm (without cover)- OS: WinCE- Storage: MicroSD card up to 32GB- Wireless: TD/ GPRS- Supported Formats: TXT, PDF, HTML, JPG, BMP, PNG, GIF, MP3, WAV, WMA- Power: Li-ion 1500mAh- Launch date in USA: 2010Hanvon N618- Display: 6" E-ink Vizplex display- Grey levels: 16- Electromagnetic panel with electromagnetic pen- On-screen handwriting with letter and word recognition technology- Weight: 260g(without cover)- Dimensions: 176.6mm×124.8mm×10.5mm (without cover)- OS: WinCE- Storage: TF card up to 32GB- Wireless: Wi-Fi- Supported Formats: TXT, HTXT, PDF, HTML, XLS, DOC, JPG, TIF, BMP, PNG, GIF, MP3, WAV, WMA- Power: Li-ion 2350mAh- Launch date in USA: 2010Hanvon N628- Display: 6" E-ink Vizplex display- Grey levels: 8- Electromagnetic panel with electromagnetic pen- On-screen handwriting with letter and word recognition technology- Weight: 308.3g (without cover)- Dimensions: 181mm×137.5 mm×11.4mm (without cover)- OS: WinCE- Storage: TF card up to 16GB- Wireless: TD/EDGE/GPS- Supported Formats: TXT, PDF, HTML, DOC, MEB, XLS, HTXT, JPG, PNG, BMP, GIF, PNG, TIF, MP3, WAV, WMA- Power: Li-ion 1500mAh- Launch date in USA: 2010Hanvon N638- Display: 6" E-ink Vizplex display- Grey levels: 16- Full keypad QWERTY Key？- Weight: 266.4g(without cover)- Dimensions: 203mm×134 mm×10.35mm (without cover)- OS: WinCE- Storage: MicroSD card up to 32GB- Wireless: Wi-Fi- Supported Formats: TXT, PDF, HTML, JPG, PNG, BMP, GIF, MP3, WAV, WMA- Power: Li-ion 2500mAh- Launch date in USA: 2010Hanvon N800- Display: 8" E-ink Vizplex display- Grey levels: 16- Electromagnetic panel with electromagnetic pen- On-screen handwriting with letter and word recognition technology- Weight: 480g(without cover)- Dimensions: 226.3mm×163.5 mm×10.2mm(without cover)- OS: WinCE- Storage: TF card up to 32GB- Wireless: Wi-Fi- Supported Formats: TXT, HTXT, MTXT, HTML, PDF, DOC, CEI, HCEI, PPT, XSL, EPUB, CHM, JPG, BMP, PNG, TIF, PPM, JIF, PCX, MP3, WAV, WMA, LRC, AMR- Power: Li-ion 2200mAh- Launch date in USA: 2010About Hanwang Technology Co. Ltd.:Founded in 1998 under the leadership of current Chairman of the Board Mr. LIU Yingjian, Hanwang Technology Co. Ltd. is a pioneer in the research and development of handwriting recognition, OCR (Optical Character Recognition) and biometric recognition technologies in China. Mr. LIU created the first computerized Chinese handwriting recognition product in 1984, and led Hanvon to become the no. 1 supplier of handwriting technology solutions to all IT industry giants such as Microsoft, Lenovo, Nokia, Samsung, Huawei and Haier. Hanvon is also a major eBook reader OEM for many of its partners.
 