
A part of all its audio announcements during IFA, Harman's showing off new multimedia speakers. The $499 Onyx leads the pack with a leather-wrapped standing circular design, compatibility with Airplay and DLNA, Bluetooth (aptX and AAC) with NFC paring and a six-hour rechargeable battery. A duo of three-inch woofers and 3/4-inch tweeters are housed in its enclosure, all of which are independently powered for a total peak output of 60-watts RMS. The speaker also uses Harman's DSP and packs dual passive bass radiators for optimal lowend response. A stainless steel handle makes it easy to carry between rooms and there's a 3.5mm input to ensure your jams never stop pumping if wireless connectivity is an issue. Expect it to be available later in the year.


Aside from that centerpiece, two new speakers are coming out of the JBL division. Getting less serious, the $130 Spark is an indoor Bluetooth speaker with a quirky transparent design that's shaped like a megaphone. The unit needs to plug into a wall for power, but features stereo output via two 40mm drivers, an inline controller on its fabric cable and a hook if you want to mount it to a wall. Lastly, the brand's $59 Pebbles are a coupled pair of USB-powered desktop speakers. The enclosures can stand vertically or horizontally and pack dual 50mm drivers aided by DSP. An auxiliary input is also onboard for your mp3 player, as is a cable management system for when you need to pack 'em up. Both the Spark and Pebbles will be available in a range of colors when they eventually hit shelves. Press releases for all the speakers mentioned are viewable after the break. 




Show full PR textThe Harman Kardon® Onyx™ Wireless Speaker System Delivers Rechargeable Portability 
Legendary Harman Kardon sound with a wealth of wireless streaming options for every listener
STAMFORD, CT – HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, is proud to introduce a full-range sound system in a compact, sculptural enclosure. The Harman Kardon Onyx Wireless Speaker System is designed with connectivity in mind, with built-in Bluetooth®, AirPlay®, DLNA, and audio AUX-in.
"Listeners today collect, store, and carry their music in so many different ways, using so many different devices," said Michael Mauser, President of HARMAN Lifestyle. "We set out to provide people with a single great sound system that's convenient to use, and able to connect via Bluetooth, AirPlay® for Apple iOS users, DLNA for others, and stereo AUX-in. And do it smoothly and cleanly, without sacrificing sound quality. And then we made it look great."
The Harman Kardon Onyx wireless speaker system delivers uncompromising audio excellence.Four channels of amplification provide a total of 60 watts rms of power through four matched speakers. Dual aluminum passive radiators and Digital Signal Processing enhance the sound, blending clear highs with warm mid-ranges and rich low frequencies. The Harman Kardon Onyx packs all this great sound technology in a sophisticated, sculptural enclosure with a distinctive shape, an elegant finish, and luxurious appointments, including real leather and a stainless steel handle.
Being able to reproduce great sound is only half the story of a great wireless speaker system. Install the Harman Kardon Remote app on your iPhone, iPod, tablet or smartphone and you're connected and in control. NFC makes Bluetooth setup as easy as a single tap. Or join your Wi-Fi network with AirPlay® for Apple, or DLNA for Windows, Android, and other devices in the Harman Kardon ecosystem. And for devices that demand a wired connection, the Harman Kardon Onyx features a 3.5 mm auxiliary mini-jack and a USB port that simplifies setup and charges your phone or tablet while it plays. The Harman Kardon Onyx represents quality sound married to total ease of use, in an elegant portable enclosure with its own 6-hour rechargeable battery.
Download the Harman Kardon Remote app for your iPhone, iPad or Android smartphone to stream your music collection from anywhere on your network to a Harman Kardon speaker in any room of the house. The app also simplifies product setup and gives you control of product specific features for full wireless control.
Harman Kardon Onyx Wireless Speaker System with Rechargeable Battery
Cutting-edge balance of beauty, performance, and connectivity
Performance-tuned transducers: 2 x 3" woofers and 2 x 3/4" tweeters
Four channels of amplification deliver 60W of power
Dual aluminum passive radiators for exceptional bass response
Harman Kardon DSP for improved soundstaging and voicing
Frequency response: 55 Hz to 20 kHz
NFC makes Bluetooth setup as easy tapping your phone on the speaker
Wireless Bluetooth streams music from your stereo, smartphone, or MP3 player, with aptX and AAC codecs for superior streaming audio quality
Wireless AirPlay® streams music from Apple and iOS devices with lossless audio quality
DLNA streams music from Android, Windows, and Harman Kardon devices
3.5 mm stereo audio in jack for wired connections
Built-in rechargeable battery gives up to six hours of playtime
Sleek leather-clad enclosure with stainless steel handle
Compact round shape complements any surroundings
Harman Kardon Remote App compatible
Comes with power adapter 
Pricing and Availability
For additional information on the Harman Kardon Onyx Wireless Speaker System (MSRP $499), or to purchase, visit www.harmankardon.com
###
JBL® Pebbles Desktop Stereo Speakers Work Great with Your Computer, Look Great on Your Desk
Outstanding JBL sound in a distinctive, compact, award-winning computer speaker design
STAMFORD, CT – HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, announces JBL Pebbles, a compact USB powered stereo speaker system for the desktop, with digital signal processing and SlipStream™ Technology for outstanding audio, as well as an award-winning design that looks as good as it sounds.
"JBL Pebbles delivers great audio is a given, or we wouldn't put the JBL name on it," said Michael Mauser, President of HARMAN Lifestyle. "But these speakers are also made to be displayed on your desktop, like the work of art that they are."
So much of your entertainment experience centers around your computer. Therefore, JBL Pebbles plug-and-play stereo speakers are designed to connect to your computer in the quickest, most efficient way possible through your computer's USB port. JBL Pebbles minimalistic, curved design will seamlessly blend with your desk. Built-in cable management and the fact that USB provides digital audio and power through one cable keeps away cable clutter. The unique rotating volume control syncs up with your computer. Proprietary technology engineered by HARMAN delivers best-in-class natural sound, with clarity in the high end and deep, sonorous bass. Also, because your computer is not the only place you store your music, JBL Pebbles features an AUX-in port for your smartphone or MP3 player.
Pebbles Stereo Computer Speaker SystemA distinctive-looking stereo speaker system for your desktopDigital signal processing and SlipStream™ Technology ensure outstanding audioUSB port connects directly to your computer for digital audioAUX-in audio port for smartphones and MP3 playersDual 50 mm drivers, 80 Hz to 20 kHzBuilt-in cable management does away with clutterPowered by your USB portAvailable in a range of striking colors
Pricing and AvailabilityFor additional information on the JBL Pebbles Stereo Computer Speaker System (MSRP $59.00), or to purchase, visit www.JBL.com
###
JBL® Spark Combines Professionalism and Fun in a Unique Wireless Stereo Speaker
Outstanding sound, distinctive design, and bright, fun colors in a portable stereo speaker
For more information: www.JBL.com
STAMFORD, CT – HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, announces the marriage of functionality and fun in JBL Spark, a wireless stereo speaker system that looks like nothing else you've ever seen.
"The bright colors and megaphone shape catch your eye immediately," said Michael Mauser, President of HARMAN Lifestyle, "but it's the unmistakable JBL sound that catches your ears and won't let go."
JBL demonstrates that professionalism in audio reproduction can be fun with JBL Spark wireless stereo speakers. The unique megaphone-like shape is functional and playful: excellence in speaker enclosure design stripped down to its essentials. JBL Spark puts the megaphone shape to good use, with two high-performance JBL drivers and a tuned bass port. The result is crisp, clean, high-end, sound with a warm, rich bass response in a versatile shape that you can take anywhere. JBL Spark adds a splash of sound and color to any room, whether you hang it on a wall, set it on a table, stash it on a shelf, or lay it handy on a couch or cushion. Wireless Bluetooth streaming gets the sound from the player to the speaker, and JBL Spark fills the room with true, rich sound. 
JBL Spark Wireless Stereo Speaker System
Legendary JBL sound in a funky, fun shape
Two high-performance 40 mm JBL drivers 
Frequency response: 76 Hz to 20 kHz
Wireless Bluetooth streams music from your smartphone or tablet
Unique megaphone shape with room filling sound
Crisp, clean, highs and warm, rich bass
Fun, bright colors lighten up any decor
Compact size (7" / 180 mm diameter x 6.5" / 165 mm height)
Translucent body with cool mesh grill
Comes with stainless steel hanging hook, fabric cord with inline control, and power adapter
Pricing and Availability
For additional information on JBL Spark Wireless Bluetooth Stereo Speaker (MSRP $129), or to purchase, visit www.JBL.com 
###

