
Business professionals who've dreamt of having a portable conference system and Bluetooth speaker combo have just had their wish granted. Harman Kardon's aluminum and leather-clad Esquire portable speaker features two drivers, a bass port and noise-cancelling conference microphones. Placing the unit upright adjusts its mics for one person, while laying it flat works best for multiple people. The design is relatively clean, but you'll find physical buttons at its side for power, playback, mute, volume and Bluetooth pairing (NFC-pairing is also an option). An internal battery keeps it juiced for up to ten hours and its wall charger has three USB ports to handle your smartphone and extra gizmos. The Esquire will be available for your business travels later this year in white, black and "camel."


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!

Show full PR textPortable Elegance Meets Versatile Functionality in Harman Kardon® EsquireTM Wireless Speaker and Conferencing System 
Uncompromising Harman Kardon sound and teleconferencing in a sophisticated, portable footprint
STAMFORD, CT – HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, marries hi-fidelity sound with state-of-the- art teleconferencing in the Harman Kardon Esquire, a new compact, all-in-one sound system.
"Today's digital lifestyle means people carry their favorite music, games, movies, and TV shows with them wherever they go, but can't always enjoy room-filling audio with it," said Michael Mauser, President of Harman Kardon Lifestyle. "Our new Harman Kardon Esquire system solves that problem by delivering a refined, crystal clear audio experience wherever they want to enjoy it, whether on vacation, at the office, or anywhere their mobile life takes them"
The Harman Kardon Esquire is a wireless speaker and teleconferencing system with the right balance of sound quality and portability. Every road warrior will appreciate how easy the Harman Kardon Esquire is to travel with, and how perfectly it complements any mobile communication device, from smartphones to tablets. Esquire gives superb sound and sophisticated telecom functionality. Dual performance-tuned drivers and a built-in bass port deliver rich sound. Custom- tuned microphones with noise-cancellation technology ensure crystal-clear conference calls from your Bluetooth-enabled smartphone. An adapter with three built-in USB ports that can charge your speaker, phone and tablet at the same time and Harman Kardon Esquire 10-hour rechargeable battery will never leave you in the lurch.
Download the Harman Kardon Remote app for your iPhone, iPad or Android smartphone to stream your music collection from anywhere on your network to a Harman Kardon speaker in any room of the house. The app also simplifies product setup and gives you control of product specific features for full wireless control.
Harman Kardon Esquire Wireless Portable Speaker and Conferencing System Hi-fidelity sound and speakerphone designed for the road warrior Two high-performance drivers and bass port Dual mode teleconferencing with smart orientation detection SoundClear® echo and noise cancellation technology for vocal clarity Easy NFC-assisted Bluetooth setup Wireless Bluetooth connectivity for phone calls and music streaming Built-in rechargeable battery gives ten hours of wireless operation Sleek leather-paneled aluminum enclosure Compact shape travels well Three-port USB adapter, USB cable and premium carrying pouch
Pricing and availabilityFor additional information on the Harman Kardon Esquire Wireless Speaker, or to purchase, visit www.harmankardon.com

