
Not into Harman's over-ear CL headphones? The outfit has you covered at IFA: introducing Soho, a scaled down variant with a similarly classy design. These these headphones differ from their bigger sibling thanks to a headband with adjustable sliders and supra-aural earcups. The Squared leather earpads feature memory foam padding and stay in place with magnets for easy access to the replaceable cabling (separate cables for both iOS and Android are included), and each earcup houses a 30mm driver. The cans even fold flat for easy stowing and come with a matching carrying case. The Soho headphones will hit shelves later this year for roughly $200 in your choice of "camel," black and tan. For now, we're left to wonder how these ended up looking so much like B&W's P3 headphones.

In addition to Soho, two new reference-class headphones are being introduced under the AKG brand. The K545 model builds on the design of its K550 with lighter materials and detachable smartphone-ready cabling, while the K845BT adds Bluetooth and NFC into the mix. Both models feature 50mm drivers, studio-style design and over-ear fits -- they'll also fold flat for when you need to travel to your next listening session. Set to hit later this year, the K845BT will be available in four colors for $350, and the K545 will come in silver and black for $250. 





Show full PR textNew Harman Kardon® SOHO Headphones Achieve a New Benchmark in Portable Sound 
Harman Kardon SOHO headphones combines best-in-class audio with best-in-looks aesthetics, in a travel-friendly design
STAMFORD, CT – HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, unveils the Harman Kardon SOHO stereo headphones featuring a distinctive new look. Combining premium style in black, white or camel with a heritage of high-frequency clarity and stunning bass, Harman Kardon SOHO headphones are designed to appeal to the designer, as well as the audiophile, in everyone. 
"Our new Harman Kardon SOHO headphones aren't just about outstanding sound alone," said Michael Mauser, President of HARMAN Lifestyle. "They make an unmistakable visual design statement, as well as being remarkably convenient to use and travel with." 
Harman Kardon SOHO headphones are markedly different, even at first glance. Their genuine leather and stainless steel appointments and distinctive, oblong rectangular shape set them apart as a statement in timeless design. But, as a style statement, Harman Kardon SOHO headphones sacrifice nothing in the way of convenience. These headphones don't just fold; they fold flat down to less than 1.25 inches (about 30 mm) to fit inside their own sophisticated travel pouch. 
The richness of the Harman Kardon SOHO headphones exterior is equally matched with rich sound. Specially selected 30 mm drivers and neodymium transducers deliver precision Harman Kardon sound quality across all frequencies. The generous shape of the cups is comfortable and kind to the ears during extended listening. For convenience in taking phone calls, Harman Kardon SOHO is available in a choice of remote control straight microphone cables: a universal remote/mic for Android users, or an Apple iOS- compatible remote/mic for users of iPhone. 
Harman Kardon SOHO Folding Stereo Headphones 
 Best-in-class sound and looks Distinctive, oblong shape identifiable at a glance Genuine stitched leather and stainless steel Euro-styled craftsmanship 30 mm drivers deliver crisp highs and rich, refined bass Comes with choice of straight cable or iOS/Android-compatible inline remote  Folds flat for travel to less than 1.25" thickness Includes sophisticated ultra-slim carrying case
Pricing and availabilityFor additional information on Harman Kardon SOHO Folding Stereo Headphones, or to purchase, visit www.harmankardon.com 
###

New AKG K845BT and AKG K545 over-ear reference headphones feature studio-quality sound
The noise isolation of a closed-back headphone with the spacious sound and feel of an open-back design
The two new models of lightweight over-ear AKG headphones blend studio quality sound with forward-looking design. The AKG K845BT delivers the same outstanding sound with wireless Bluetooth connectivity. The AKG K545 comes with a choice of detachable inline control microphone cables for both Apple and Android users.
"The new AKG K845BT and AKG K545 headphones build on what we learned with our award-winning AKG K550 model headphones," said Michael Mauser, President of HARMAN Lifestyle. "Starting with the strong noise-isolating qualities of the closed-back design, we applied new materials science and cutting-edge acoustic engineering and married it to the spacious, multi-dimensional sound of open-back headphones. The result is a lighter, more portable, and more consumer-friendly reference- monitor-class headphone that delivers the legendary, exceptional sound that AKG is famous for. The breakthrough features of the AKG K545 model has already garnered it recognition with a Red Dot design award."
The AKG K845BT takes the best features of the iconic AKG 550s and applies them to its lightweight wireless design. It starts with AKG's largest 50 mm drivers, and AKG's decades of audio design savvy. Together they are responsible for the 20 Hz to 20 kHz frequency response and full-bodied bass. Bluetooth wireless streaming gets the music from your player to the AKG K845BTs, with an assist from Near Field Communication (NFC) that makes Bluetooth pairing as easy as pressing a button. Users will appreciate the soft, comfy protein leather ear cushions, which are not only easy on the ears, but host a microphone for phone calls. Control buttons allow for taking and ending calls and commanding music playback without having to remove the headphones.
The AKG K545 features the same 20 Hz to 20 kHz frequency response and rich bass, using the same AKG 50 mm drivers as its wireless cousin, in a wired headphone design that's ideal for private listening. Smartphone users will appreciate the two detachable inline control microphone cables, one for iOS users, and one for Android that let you control the music and take calls without missing a beat. Users will also appreciate the soft touch of the protein-leather ear cushions and the lightweight of the cups and headband.
The AKG K845BT wireless headphones are available in two color combinations, and the AKG K545 wired phones come in four funky, fun colors. Both models feature a fold-flat swiveling mechanism, and come with a carrying case, making them compact and easy to travel with.
###

