
 
 Harman has joined several other companies in jumping the CES gun, announcing five new products it's bringing to the show. First up is the JBL Charge, a hardy Bluetooth speaker which promises an impressive 12 hours of tunes on a single charge. If you are willing to sacrifice some of that play time, you can siphon power from the internal battery to other kit via the speaker's USB port. Expected to start shipping in Q1 2013, you should be able to pick one up for around $149. Joining JBL's OnBeat range are the Mini and Rumble speaker docks, which are both compatible with Apple's Lightning connector. The Mini is a fairly standard dock which will play and charge for up five hours on battery power, and should be available this coming March for around $149. The Rumble, however, is a little more equipped, with both Lightning and Bluetooth streaming options, as well as a 4.5-inch, "down-firing subwoofer" for bass junkies. That extra muscle is reflected in the price, though, which is likely to be $399 when it hits stores next spring.

 A couple of new Kardon-branded A/V receivers from Harman are also coming along to CES -- the AVR 2700 and 3700. Both have multi-zone functionality, are stacked with wireless features including internet radio, AirPlay and DLNA connectivity, and can be controlled using iOS and Android apps. The AVR 2700 has eight HDMI ports and 4K video scaling for when you get round to buying that UHDTV, as well as 7.1-channel audio (at 100 watts per channel). The AVR 3700 adds WiFi connectivity, and has 7.2 channels (at 125 watts per channel) for adding a second woofer to your setup. When they become available to purchase in Q1 2013, expect wallet damage to the tune of $799 for the 2700, or $999 for the 3700. You can get a closer look at all the Harman products in the press shots below (complete with unnecessary reflection), and if you're into PRs, there are a whole bunch awaiting you after the break. 




  Show full PR text   Wireless JBL® Charge Delivers Crisp, Loud Sound and Recharges Portable Devices for Ultimate Convenience
  Bluetooth®-powered portable speaker does double duty as two drivers and built-in bass port bring big performance, while 12-hour battery charges smartphones and tablets on the go
  LAS VEGAS – Music fans seeking great sound and a long battery life from a portable music player will love the JBL® Charge, a loud and powerful go-anywhere wireless speaker that fits easily into a backpack, beach bag or briefcase. The JBL Charge, introduced today at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show by parent company HARMAN International Industries, connects to smartphones, portable music players and tablets via Bluetooth wireless streaming. The clever JBL Charge also includes a USB port to charge a smartphone or tablet.

   The JBL Charge is on display during the CES® show at the HARMAN booth – Central Hall, booth number 10431 - from Jan. 8 through Jan.11.

   The cylindrical speaker can be placed horizontally or vertically, and features a built-in bass port and digital sound processing to create room-filling lows combined with accentuated highs. The JBL Charge is a stereo speaker with two 1-5/8-inch (40-millimeter) full-range drivers and a 2 x 5-watt amplifier. The wireless speaker, 2 inches (50 millimeters) wide by 6 inches (150 millimeters) long, provides 12 hours of playback from a single charge thanks to a built-in 6000mAh Li-ion rechargeable battery. Long-lasting playback and the ability to power portable devices make the JBL Charge ideal for beach parties, family camping trips, neighborhood picnics and everyday use around the house.

   "The JBL Charge is a durable speaker that goes wherever you go, providing a high-quality audio experience and the convenience of long-lasting power," said Sachin Lawande, executive vice president of HARMAN and co-president of HARMAN Lifestyle and Infotainment. "It is a sophisticated speaker with two high-performance drivers and a built-in bass port that is unmatched in the market. Music fans will hear the truth with the JBL Charge."

   The portable stereo speaker was built for durability and active lifestyles, as it features a rugged exterior and grille, plus rubber end rings and a rubber cap for the USB port. A visible LED light informs users when the battery needs to be recharged as well as when the speaker is in Bluetooth listening or pairing mode. The JBL Charge also includes a standard 1/8-inch (3.5-millimeter) stereo mini jack to use with older devices not equipped with Bluetooth technology, and it ships with a Neoprene carrying pouch. It will be available in several colors, including black, blue and green.

  Pricing and availability  The JBL Charge has a suggested retail price of $149 and will be available from select retailers or JBL.com during the first quarter of 2013. For additional information, visit the HARMAN booth during the CES show at Central Hall, booth number 10431.

  Portable and Powerful JBL OnBeat™ Mini: the Perfect Partner to Dock New Lightning-Connected iPad mini
  Featuring the new Apple Lightning connector, the JBL OnBeat™ Mini brings high-performance audio to the iPad mini, iPad 4th generation, iPhone 5 and new iPod models
  LAS VEGAS – The JBL® brand will unveil the first portable speaker dock with a Lighting connector designed specifically for Apple Inc.'s latest line-up of iOS® devices, including the iPad mini (pictured, right), at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES®). The acoustically sophisticated JBL OnBeat™ Mini fits into a backpack or travel bag, providing a portable charging dock for the office, dorm room, business trip or bedroom. The JBL OnBeat Mini includes two full-range transducers and built-in digital signal processing to deliver crisp, room-filling sound.

   The JBL OnBeat Mini is on display at HARMAN's CES booth – Central Hall, booth number 10431 – from January 8 through 11.

   The JBL OnBeat Mini provides up to 5 hours of playback when used with batteries and charges the iPad mini, iPhone 5, iPad 4th generation and new iPod models when used with the included AC adapter. The portable speaker also includes a built-in USB connector to power and play other portable devices.

   "This portable Lightning dock continues our leadership in being first to market with high-quality docking stations designed specifically for Apple iOS products," said Sachin Lawande, executive vice president of HARMAN and co-president of HARMAN Lifestyle and Infotainment. "The JBL OnBeat Mini delivers a truly robust listening experience and goes wherever you go, a feature today's mobile consumer demands so they can hear the truth."

   The JBL OnBeat Mini joins the well-reviewed JBL® OnBeat Venue™ LT and JBL OnBeat Micro as the first docks available for consumers to use with Lightning-compatible devices. The JBL OnBeat Mini includes a battery-saving auto-standby feature that turns the dock off after 10 minutes of non-use and an LED status indicator to alert users when new batteries are needed. The JBL OnBeat Mini is available in black or white.

  Pricing and availability  The JBL OnBeat Mini has a suggested retail price of $149 and will be available from select retailers or JBL.com in March. For additional information, visit HARMAN's CES booth at Central Hall, booth number 10431.

  Thunderous JBL® OnBeat Rumble™ Brings Serious Bass to Lightning-Equipped Wireless Loudspeaker
  Whether docking a new Apple iOS® device or streaming sound via Bluetooth® wireless connection, the JBL® OnBeat Rumble™ loudspeaker and its oversized subwoofer provide a dynamic, thumping bass performance the listener will feel
  LAS VEGAS – The JBL® brand will unveil a room-rattling loudspeaker for the iPhone 5, iPad mini, fourth-generation iPad and other Lightning-equipped Apple Inc. mobile devices at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES®). The JBL OnBeat Rumble speaker dock will thrill music fans who love to live loud as it pumps out 50 watts of power with booming bass, thanks to an oversized, down-firing subwoofer.

   The JBL OnBeat Rumble will be on display during the CES show at the HARMAN booth – Central Hall, booth number 10431 - from January 8 through 11.

   The JBL OnBeat Rumble includes HARMAN's exclusive TrueStream™ technology to guarantee the highest-quality sound when streaming audio from an Apple product or another smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth® connection. The forceful speaker dock combines a 4-1/2-inch (114-milllimeter) subwoofer with proprietary Slipstream port technology to deliver pounding bass with low distortion, so there is no unwanted boominess to the sound whether the music source is docked or streamed. The loudspeaker charges Apple Lightning products when they are docked.

   "JBL is a brand synonymous with rock music, and we know our fans will love the capabilities and performance that will resonate from this loudspeaker," said Sachin Lawande, executive vice president of HARMAN and co-president of HARMAN Lifestyle and Infotainment. "The JBL OnBeat Rumble is the premiere speaker dock in our growing portfolio of Lightning-equipped audio products. The bass performance is unmatched in the market, and music fans will hear the truth with this special speaker."

   Also, you can download a DJ mixer app from the Apple App Store, so when the JBL OnBeat Rumble dock is connected to an iPhone or iPad via Bluetooth wireless, users can scratch, stream and mix their favorite playlists for a music party.

  Pricing and availability  The JBL OnBeat Rumble speaker dock has a suggested retail price of $399 and will be available from select retailers or JBL.com in the spring. For additional information, visit the HARMAN booth during the CES show at Central Hall, booth number 10431.

  New Harman Kardon® Networked Audio/Video Receivers Will Thrill Music, Cinema Buffs via AirPlay
  The Harman Kardon® AVR 2700 and AVR 3700 deliver immersive sound, stunning high-definition video and multizone flexibility to movies, music, games and content delivered from the cloud
  LAS VEGAS – The Harman Kardon® brand is unveiling two dynamic, feature-rich audio/video receivers with AirPlay wireless playback during the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES®) that are designed to delight music and movie lovers with breathtaking sound and video reproduction. The Harman Kardon AVR 2700 and AVR 3700 (right) feature the brand's peerless sound reproduction, which audio and video enthusiasts can use as the centerpiece of a next-generation home entertainment center. The two wireless-enabled audio/video receivers extend the leadership of audio's top innovator, as the Harman Kardon brand launched the world's first audio receiver in 1953 and the first stereo receiver in 1958.

   The Harman Kardon AVR 2700 and AVR 3700 are on display during CES at the HARMAN booth – Central Hall number 10431.

   "These Harman Kardon audio/video receivers deliver world-class sound but also provide the connectivity flexibility entertainment consumers demand today," said Sachin Lawande, executive vice president of HARMAN and co-president of HARMAN Lifestyle and Infotainment. "Consumers want superior sound quality to match the playback convenience of our smart devices. These Harman Kardon AVRs express beautiful sound in performance and style, a hallmark of Harman Kardon."

   The Harman Kardon AVR 2700 and AVR 3700 have multizone features so users can simultaneously play two different audio sources in two different zones and they were designed with a digital-power supply to make the units eco-friendly by significantly reducing weight and material consumption. The two Harman Kardon AVRs include multiple wireless features, including AirPlay playback from any Apple iOS® device, vTuner™ Internet radio to connect with thousands of terrestrial and Web-based stations and podcasts from around the globe as well as DLNA 1.5 Certified® connectivity to stream from compatible devices on a home network. The Harman Kardon AVR 3700 also includes Wi-Fi® connectivity. Multiple HDMI® inputs – including those for 3D playback, CEC and Deep Color – as well as analog and digital jacks are included to connect with all home entertainment needs.

   Easy-to-use on-screen menus make setup a snap, and the Harman Kardon EzSet/EQ™ automatically sets system parameters for the listening room. The free, downloadable HK remote control app controls the AVRs from Apple and Android™ smartphones or tablets.

  Highlights
  The Harman Kardon AVR 2700 is a 7.1-channel network-connected audio/video receiver offering 100 watts per channel. It features eight HDMI inputs – including one on the front panel – for high-definition content playback from Blu-ray™ or DVD discs, 3D TV and Blu-ray 3D™ playback, video games, MP3 files, CDs, HDTV and 4K video scaling for all inputs to assure compatibility for next-generation video displays. Wireless audio and video playback is achieved via AirPlay, vTuner and DLNA 1.5 Certified Ethernet connectivity. The Harman Kardon AVR 2700 provides Dolby® TrueHD and DTS-HD Master Audio™ decoding for superior audio reproduction that delivers cinema sound as the filmmakers intended you to hear it. A front-panel USB port allows easy connection for any smartphone, tablet or content stored on a flash drive as well as with compatible Apple products.

  The Harman Kardon AVR 3700 is a 7.2-channel network-connected audio/video receiver offering 125 watts per channel. The 7.2-channel receiver allows for a second subwoofer to produce superior bass in large listening rooms. The multizone receiver includes a second remote control so users in the second room can make their own playback choices. The system includes an intuitive high-definition graphical menu for easy setup and navigation. The Harman Kardon AVR 3700 includes eight HDMI inputs – including one on the front panel – for high-definition content playback from Blu-ray or DVD discs, 3D TV and Blu-ray 3D playback, video games, MP3 files, CDs, HDTV and 4K video scaling for all inputs to assure compatibility for next-generation video displays. Wireless audio and video playback is achieved via Wi-Fi, AirPlay, vTuner and DLNA 1.5 Certified Ethernet connectivity. The Harman Kardon AVR 3700 provides Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD Master Audio decoding for superior audio reproduction that delivers cinema sound as the filmmakers intended you to hear it. A front-panel USB port allows easy connection for any smartphone, tablet or content stored on a flash drive as well as with compatible Apple products.

  Pricing and availability  The Harman Kardon AVR 2700 has a price of $799 and the AVR 3700 has a price of $999. The audio/video receivers will be available from select retailers or HarmanKardon.com during the first quarter of 2013. For additional information, visit Harman Kardon at the HARMAN booth during CES at Central Hall number 10431.

 
