
  Now that all of the Harry Potter movies have been released, Warner Bros. has seen fit to slide them together in one truly epic set. Harry Potter Wizard's Collection spans 31 discs including the theatrical version of each movie, extended cuts of the first two flicks, 3D versions of the last two, Ultraviolet digital copies and several bonus discs with ten hours of new to disc bonus content and 5 hours of never before seen extras. Of course, we should also mention the incredibly detailed box it all comes in, seen in the CG video above. Of course, you can't always have everything, and some fans are upset about what this collection doesn't include -- extended versions of the last six movies. Those still interested can preorder the $499 MSRP set (currently selling for $349 on Amazon) for delivery September 7th, and get an early preview of one of the special features embedded after the break.
      

 

   Show full PR text  Synopsis: The magical film franchise is now available in a spectacular limited-edition collectible box set. The most comprehensive Harry Potter movie collection yet features all eight films, exclusive never-before-seen content and must-have memorabilia. This new limited and numbered 31-disc collection contains all eight Harry Potter movies on Blu-ray, DVD and UltraViolet Digital Copy and more than 37 hours of special features including all previously released materials and more than 10 hours of new to disc bonus content, and 5 hours of never-before-seen material. In addition to the theatrical release of every film, the collection also includes the extended versions of Harry Potter and The Sorcerer's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets; and the 3D versions of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows –- Parts 1 and 2. Films Included in Collection – All on Blu-ray, DVD and UltraViolet Digital Copy · Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone Theatrical Version and Extended Cut · Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Theatrical Version and Extended Cut · Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban · Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire · Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix · Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince · Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 2D and 3D Versions · Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 2D and 3D Versions  Special Features for Hours of Entertainment · Harry Potter Wizard's Collection Bonus Disc o Nearly 4 hours of features including: All New! "The Harry Potters You Never Met" - Watch how thrilling stunts from the films were performed, and learn about the tricks behind the major stunts in the series.  · Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 Bonus Disc o Over 2 hours of features including: All New! "Creating the World of Harry Potter, Pt. 7: Story"  · Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 Bonus Disc o Over 4 hours of features including: All New! "Creating the World of Harry Potter, Pt. 8: Growing Up" and All New! Extended "A Conversation with JK Rowling and Daniel Radcliffe" with 15 minutes of new footage
 