
 
Starting today, DirecTV subscribers with HBO and Cinemax (or possibly without, in our experience) have access to the HBO Go and Max Go online portals that stream original content like the upcoming Game of Thrones and various movies. While DirecTV mentioned it would roll out TV Everywhere style offerings of its own, this is the first we've seen that actually offers viewers their content away from the dish. Also notable in the announcement was a mention of Android and iOS clients for the Go portals, since the last we'd heard of them was word of an iPad app expected in six months... eight months ago. No word on what's causing the delay (there's already an app for Samsung's latest TVs that support Flash) but they're expected later this year -- we won't even bother asking about the new DirecTiVo.
      

 

Show full PR textDIRECTV to Launch HBO GO® and MAX GO®, April 12thLatest Online Offerings from HBO® To Bring More Than 1400 Titles To DIRECTV Customers Who Subscribe to HBO, With an Additional 400 Titles to Cinemax® SubscribersEL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- DIRECTV, the world's largest pay TV provider, is giving customers even more control over their viewing experience with the launch of HBO's new authenticated online video destinations, HBO GO and MAX GO, beginning tomorrow, April 12th. The services are provided free, with unlimited access, to DIRECTV customers who subscribe to the premium channels. HBO GO and MAX GO allow subscribers to instantly watch every episode of every season of the best shows from HBO, plus hundreds of Hollywood hit movies, indies, cult favorites and more from Cinemax - any time and from any U.S. location through a broadband connected computer."The addition of HBO GO and MAX GO is the next step in bringing quality video content to our customers anytime, anywhere," said Derek Chang, executive vice president, Content Strategy and Development, DIRECTV. "Giving our customers the opportunity to experience their favorite programming, no matter where they are, truly enhances their overall viewing experience and helps them get the most out of the content they subscribe to."With more than 1400 titles offered online, HBO GO includes instant access to the best and latest HBO shows and hit movies including highly anticipated upcoming series like Game of Thrones® (premiering April 17), current award-winning series like Boardwalk Empire® and True Blood®, HBO classics like The Sopranos®, Sex and the City® and Deadwood®, plus HBO original films, miniseries, sports, documentaries and specials, as well as a wide selection of blockbuster theatricals.HBO's sister service, MAX GO, adds more than 400 titles of Cinemax programming online, featuring Hollywood's hottest hits, the best in new cinema, action-packed thrillers, comedies, classic screen gems and the Max After Dark series.With these online services, DIRECTV customers will also have access to:New titles immediately after their premiere on the networks;The ability to create a "Watchlist" that keeps track of bookmarked content for later viewing;Bonus content including interviews, recaps, and behind-the-scenes extras;Customizable views showing titles in slideshow, grid or list format;And the ability to pause, rewind and view at their convenience.In addition, HBO GO can be personalized through a "Series Pass®" capability which automatically alerts viewers to new episodes of favorite HBO programs when they arrive on the service. MAX GO includes "Browse by Tags," a feature that allows users to find titles via keywords.To view online, DIRECTV's HBO and Cinemax subscribers can go to HBOGO.com and MAXGO.com, sign in with their DIRECTV user ID and password, make their selections and view. DIRECTV customers can also go to DIRECTV.com/watchonline to learn how to gain access to HBO GO and MAX GO. DIRECTV's HBO and Cinemax subscribers will be able to access this new service through mobile devices, including the Apple iPad and iPhone and Android products later this year.HBO GO and MAX GO are the latest additions to HBO's digital offerings and a perfect complement to HBO On Demand® and Cinemax On Demand® with even more viewing choices. On both services, most programming is available in high definition.About DIRECTV:DIRECTV (NASDAQ: DTV) is the world's largest pay TV provider delivering the premiere video experience through state-of-the-art technology, unmatched programming and industry leading customer service to more than 28 million customers in the U.S. and Latin America. In the U.S., DIRECTV offers its 19.2 million customers access to more than 160 HD channels and Dolby-Digital® 5.1 theater-quality sound (when available), access to exclusive sports programming such as NFL SUNDAY TICKET™, award winning technology like its DIRECTV® DVR Scheduler and higher customer satisfaction than the leading cable companies for ten years running. DIRECTV Latin America, through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia, and other Latin American countries, leads the pay-TV category in technology, programming and service, delivering an unrivaled digital television experience to 9 million customers. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three Regional Sports Networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 65 percent interest in Game Show Network. For the most up-to-date information on DIRECTV, please call 1-800-DIRECTV or visit directv.com.HBO GO® is only accessible in the US where a high speed broadband connection is available. Minimum connection of 3 Mbps required for HD viewing. Select titles not available in HD. ©2011 Home Box Office, Inc. All rights reserved. HBO® and related channels and service marks are the property of Home Box Office, Inc.iPad® and iPhone® are trademarks of Apple Inc.Android™ is a trademark of Google Inc. Use of this trademark is subject to Google Permissions.
 