
 
 The HBO Go streaming app has been available on Android since it launched last year, however despite a steady flow of updates and even Android 4.0 support, until now it hasn't supported Android tablets. That changes today, however for now at least the only one on the list is Amazon's Kindle Fire, while other tablet owners will have to fall back to their browser and Flash streaming workarounds for access. There's a press release and quick video trailer promoting the launch after the break, while Fire owners who are also HBO subscribers (and satellite / cable TV subscribers, of course) can grab it for free on Amazon's Appstore now.



   Show full PR text    HBO GO® LAUNCHES ON AMAZON'S KINDLE FIRE   More Than 1,400 HBO® Titles Available for Streaming Via HBO GO App,  Downloadable From the Amazon Appstore for Android   New York, N.Y., June 6, 2012 –– HBO GO, the wildly popular streaming service from HBO, is launching on Amazon's Kindle Fire, beginning today. Available via the Amazon Appstore for Android, HBO GO consumers will be able to instantly access more than 1,400 titles, including every episode of every season of the best HBO shows. HBO GO is available at no additional cost to HBO customers who subscribe through a participating television provider.   HBO subscribers can use the HBO GO for Kindle Fire for on-the-go viewing of current critically acclaimed and award-winning series like Game of Thrones®, Boardwalk Empire® and True Blood® as well as all seasons of classic shows like The Sopranos®, Sex and the City® and Deadwood®®; plus HBO original films, miniseries, sports, documentaries and specials; in addition to a wide selection of blockbuster theatricals. For a peek at HBO GO for Kindle Fire, go to: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cxufTimGB2E. Follow HBO GO on Twitter at: @HBOGO.   "We are thrilled to offer HBO GO to the growing community of millions of Kindle Fire owners," said Aaron Rubenson, Director of the Amazon Appstore. "The HBO GO app will offer instant access to HBO's incredible lineup of shows. Kindle Fire owners already download and use apps and games frequently on their devices, and we expect that only to increase with the addition of HBO GO and all of its popular content."   The best-selling Kindle Fire is the most successful product launch ever on Amazon.com and already a major platform for content providers and app developers to reach millions of people who love entertainment, whether its books, movies, music, apps or games. Kindle Fire offers customers a fully-integrated service with instant access to over 20 million movies, TV shows, magazines, newspapers, books, songs, apps and games. And, all of your Amazon content is always backed up and stored for free in the Amazon Cloud. Kindle Fire is available for $199 at www.amazon.com/kindlefire.   Subscribers can also personalize HBO GO through a custom "Watchlist" that keeps track of bookmarked content for later viewing and the "Series Pass®" capability, which automatically loads the Watchlist with new episodes of favorite HBO programs when they arrive on the service. Additionally, HBO GO customers get new titles simultaneously with their premiere on the network; the ability to resume viewing from the Watchlist on any mobile device including the Kindle Fire; bonus content including interviews, recaps and behind-the-scenes extras; customizable views showing titles in slideshow, grid or list format; and the ability to pause, rewind and view at their convenience.   About HBO  Home Box Office, Inc. is the premium television programming subsidiary of Time Warner Inc. and the world's most successful pay-TV service, providing the two television services – HBO® and Cinemax® – to approximately 93 million subscribers worldwide. The services offer the most popular subscription video-on-demand products, HBO On Demand® and Cinemax On Demand® as well as HBO GO® and MAX GO®, HD feeds and multiplex channels. Internationally, HBO branded television networks, along with the subscription video-on-demand products HBO On Demand and HBO GO, bring HBO services to over 60 countries. HBO programming is sold into over 150 countries worldwide.

    Forward-Looking Statements This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Actual results may differ significantly from management's expectations. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that include, among others, risks related to competition, management of growth, new products, services and technologies, potential fluctuations in operating results, international expansion, outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, seasonality, commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, foreign exchange rates, system interruption, inventory, government regulation and taxation, payments and fraud. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings.

 
