
 HBO is determined to maintain its position as pay TV's top dog and will break the bank to ensure it does. It's inked a decade-long extension to a deal that gives it exclusive rights to Universal Studios movie catalogue until 2022. While neither HBO nor Universal have talked figures, Hollywood sources "in the know" think the Emmy Award-farm is paying around $200 million a year. All of these exclusive deals make us slightly nervous -- after all, it looks like we'll have to sign up with four or five different providers just for a decent selection...oh, so that's the idea then.



  Show full PR text   UNIVERSAL PICTURES AND HOME BOX OFFICE EXTEND FILM OUTPUT DEAL
   New York City, New York - January 6, 2013-Universal Pictures has renewed its domestic output deal with Home Box Office agreeing to a long-term extension with the subscription pay TV service, it was announced today by Rick Finkelstein, Vice Chairman and COO, Universal Pictures and Bruce Grivetti, President, Film Programming, HBO.

   The renewal will keep Universal Pictures' and Focus Features' films heading to HBO in the domestic pay TV network window into the next decade, extending the long-standing relationship between Universal Pictures and HBO, which dates back to 2003. The negotiations were led by Frances Manfredi, President, NBCUniversal Cable & New Media Distribution and Doris Casap, Senior Vice President, Film Programming, HBO.

   "With HBO's far-reaching network of premium services, ranging from the traditional in-home experience to its mobile applications, we are pleased to continue this relationship and bring Universal and Focus Features' films to HBO subscribers for many years to come," said Finkelstein. "With our upcoming slate of films, HBO will continue to offer outstanding film content to their already vast library of movies, specials and award-winning original programming."

   "We are very pleased to continue our strong partnership with HBO to bring Universal and Focus films to HBO's loyal subscriber base - evidence of the continued strength of Pay TV," added NBCU's Manfredi.

   "Through our long and successful partnership with Universal Pictures, HBO has been able to deliver some of the biggest and best Hollywood theatricals to our subscribers," said HBO's Grivetti. "We are excited to extend our relationship with Universal Pictures and have now solidified HBO's position for first-run theatricals into the next decade."

   About HBO  Home Box Office, Inc. is the premium television programming subsidiary of Time Warner Inc. and the world's most successful pay TV service, providing the two television services – HBO® and Cinemax® – to over 100 million subscribers worldwide. The services offer the most popular subscription video-on-demand products, HBO On Demand® and Cinemax On Demand® as well as HBO GO® and MAX GO®, HD feeds and multiplex channels. Internationally, HBO branded television networks, along with the subscription video-on-demand products HBO On Demand and HBO GO, bring HBO services to over 60 countries.

   About Universal Pictures  Universal Pictures is a division of Universal Studios (www.universalstudios.com). Universal Studios is part of NBCUniversal. NBCUniversal is one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBCUniversal owns and operates a valuable portfolio of news and entertainment networks, a premier motion picture company, significant television production operations, a leading television stations group and world-renowned theme parks. Comcast Corporation owns a controlling 51% interest in NBCUniversal, with GE holding a 49% stake.

   About NBCUniversal Cable & New Media Distribution  The NBCUniversal Cable & New Media Distribution division is responsible for sales of all NBCUniversal content to pay and basic cable, as well as new media platforms domestically. This includes all current television and film content from Universal Television, Universal Cable Productions, Universal Pictures, Focus Features; various acquired and original content; and NBCUniversal's vast library of film and television. The division is also responsible for the sale of NBCUniversal content to non-theatrical markets including airlines worldwide.

 
