
 
We just got an email which stated that the HD DVD group is canceling its CES press conference; tail severely between legs over today's explosive news that Warner -- the last "undecided" studio -- was going to the other side and doing Blu-ray discs exclusively. We're not sure if that's because the HD DVD group was in 11th hour negotiations with Warner or what, but the mood at that camp has to be beyond somber right now, so it's pretty hard to thump the tub when you've just been dealt a hard losing hand. Notice posted after the break.Update: Toshiba, masters of the HD DVD format, just issued a press release expressing their "particular disappointment" with Warner, also implying that the move to go Blu-ray exclusive is actually in breach of contract. The particularly depressing release is also posted after the break.Update 2: Doing a little victory dance of its own, Blu-ray is touting its CES presence as "Best Booth of All Time". No, not at all puerile. Nyah.
      

 

--snip (cancellation email)--Notice of CES Press Conference Cancellation by North American HD DVD Promotion Group Based on the timing of the Warner Home Video announcement today, we have decided to postpone our CES 2008 press conference scheduled for Sunday, January 6th at 8:30 p.m. in the Wynn Hotel. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. We are currently discussing the potential impact of this announcement with the other HD DVD partner companies and evaluating next steps. We believe the consumer continues to benefit from HD DVD's commitment to quality and affordability – a bar that is critical for the mainstream success of any format. We'll continue to keep you updated on new developments around HD DVD.--end---snip (the release of disappointment, PR cousin to the walk of shame)--Toshiba's Comment on Announcement from Warner Bros. Entertainment of Its Exclusive Support for Blu-ray Disc FormatTOKYO, Jan. 4 /PRNewswire/ -- Toshiba is quite surprised by WarnerBros.' decision to abandon HD DVD in favor of Blu-ray, despite the factthat there are various contracts in place between our companies concerningthe support of HD DVD. As central members of the DVD Forum, we have longmaintained a close partnership with Warner Bros. We worked closely togetherto help standardize the first-generation DVD format as well as to defineand shape HD DVD as its next-generation successor.We were particularly disappointed that this decision was made in spiteof the significant momentum HD DVD has gained in the US market as well asother regions in 2007. HD DVD players and PCs have outsold Blu-ray in theUS market in 2007.We will assess the potential impact of this announcement with the otherHD DVD partner companies and evaluate potential next steps. We remain firmin our belief that HD DVD is the format best suited to the wants and needsof the consumer.--end--

       

 