
 
We had a feeling that after Microsoft removed the draconian OEM requirement from Windows 7 Media Center that we'd see more CableCARD tuners and we're glad to say we were right. The original ATSC/QAM HDHomeRun was love at first sight for us three years ago, so we were very pleased to learn that the crew over at Silicon Dust was working on a network based CableCARD tuner. The dual tuner model in development will require just one CableCARD and one coax input, but will allow you to record two HD shows at once, and all for $249 -- less than the single ATI CableCARD tuner sells for today. The nice thing about the networked tuner approach that has made the HDHomeRun so popular, is that even if you have your heart set on a small form factor PC like the Dell Zino HD, you can still have access to premium content even without any empty PCI-E slots. The only bad news is that the press release after the break has no mention of when this little guy might be available.
      

 

Show full PR textSilicondust USA, Inc. announces First Network Attached Dual Digital Tuner with CableCARD™ SupportLAS VEGAS, NV - Jan. 7, 2010 - Silicondust USA, INC., based in Livermore, CA, today announced the development of their latest addition to the HDHomeRun® product line, by adding the First Network Attached TV tuner with CableCARD™ Support, for PCs with Windows7 Windows Media Center. Computer network environments incorporating the HDHomeRun® CableCARD™ will be able to support high-definition and other digital TV including premium cable channels, eliminating the need for a cable set-top box.Silicondust's HDHomeRun® CableCARD™ builds on the success of their original Network Attached ATSC / QAM Dual Tuner which allows HDHomeRun® customers to stream digital broadcast video across the home network, without being tethered to one computer, in one location in the home. The HDHomeRun® CableCARD™ has dual digital cable tuners, a single RF input and ethernet connectivity allowing PCs with Windows7 Windows Media Center access to watch or record digital TV, including premium channels. The HDHomeRun® CableCARD™ will be introduced to the consumer market beginning at $249. The HDHomeRun® CableCARD™ supports Switch Digital Video (SDV) in conjunction with a cable providers tuning adapter.The HDHomeRun® CableCARD™ conforms to the OpenCable™ OCUR and DRI specifications."Silicondust is excited to introduce a Network Attached solution to the CableCARD™ consumer market," said Theodore Head, President and Chief Executive Officer of Silicondust USA, Inc. "this allows our customers the freedom to access TV from any Windows7 Windows Media Center PC in their home."About Silicondust USA, INC.Silicondust USA, Inc. is a San Francisco Bay Area based technology company that develops computer network attached digital TV devices for consumer and commercial solutions. With detailed knowledge of network platforms and extensive hardware and software engineering, Silicondust continues to introduce revolutionary tuner designs that enable freedom of TV viewing from all computers on a home or office network.For more information about Silicondust USA, Inc and HDHomeRun® products and solutions visit www.hdhomerun.com.Additional information, press only:
 