
 Who
likes to buy service plans? Anyone? No one does. People feel that if
they are spending X amount of money then it should last as long as the
24-inch Zenith that they purchased
after they got married in ’86. Well folk, I got news for you. Most
modern TVs technology are not made to last. This edition of HD
Beat HDTV Buying Guide is going to take you through different questions
to help you determine if an extended warranty is worth your money.
Different people will use their new HDTVs differently so there is not a
standard for buying these warranties. You need to look at the warranty
being offered and compare it against you lifestyle. For example: You
are buying a 20-inch TV for a third bedroom that is going to be used
more for looks, more then likely you do not need that warranty. But if
that same TV is going to be used as an office TV to watch MSNBC for 12 hours a day and the warranty costs 10-20% of the starting price of the TV; then yes, I would buying it. [More after the jump]
 
          
 
 
 The very first thing you need to consider when buying the warranty is yourusage. Do not look at the price yet; determine how much you plan onusing it and for what. Start with how much you watch it everyday, butdo not forget the amount you leave it on just for “noise” or for thedog. The average time for Americans is six hours a day. Two inthe morning for the news and “noise:” four in the afternoon for thekids cartoons and primetime. Those six hours a day equates to 2100hours a year. If you see yourself using this TV as a primary set, thenconsider the warranty every time. Once you havedetermined how the set is going to be used, take a look at the cost andbenefits. Retailer’s warranties may vary greatly in cost but so cantheir benefits. There are some very good questions you can ask the salesman to determine how good the warranty coverage is.1.    Who does the service work?2.    How long is the turn around time? Loaner TV?3.    Who backs the warranty?4.    Is there a deductible?5.    How many bulbs do you replace in this DLP/LCD RP?6.    When does it start?7.    It is in-home service, right?8.    Do I have to have original paperwork?Lets take each one so I can expand on the importance of them.1.    Who does the service work?Thisfirst question can tell you a lot. If the salesman does not know thenthat person probably does not work out of the store. In fact, theserviceman may be sub-contracted which means the store would not havethat much control on the quality of the workmanship due to lack ofaccountability. Avoid this. You want the salesman to know who thewarranty is done by; it is great if they can even tell you their name.2.    How long is the turn around time? Loaner TV?Letssay you live 45 minutes away from a large town, but that large town isjust a suburb of a larger metropolitan area 1:30 hours away. Therepairman could be coming up from the larger city, which would mean itcould take days till your TV is fixed. Lets say the repairman cannotfix the TV in your home, how long would it take to get fixed if theyhave to send it to a service center? Can you get a loaner?3.    Who backs the warranty?Mostlarge stores warranties are actually someone else. Circuit City uses GEservice contracts and serviceman. The warranty would still be honoredif they go the way of Montgomery Wards. So if you are buying this TV ata going out of business sale, make sure a good company backs it.4.    Is there a deductible?Wouldn’tit just be terrible if you spent $400 on a service contract and then beslapped with a deductible of $49 just to have the TV looked at? Do notbuy a warranty if it has a deductible. It should be a one time cost.5.    How many bulbs do you replace in this DLP/LCD RP?DLP/LCDprojections are ran by lamps and they need to be replaced. I do notknow of a manufacture that covers the lamp under their OEM warranty anymore. It is a user replaceable part and they expect the consumer toreplace it when they have burn through it. (think ink-jet cartridge)These TVs are not designed to be on 6-8 hours a day but if you aregoing to buy one and use it as a primary TV, make sure you know howmany bulbs the warranty will replace. Check out the cost of the bulbfrom the manufacture (do not ask the salesman) and if the cost of theservice plan is less then one bulb, buy at least a short two-yearwarranty. You will use it if this TV is going to be a primary TV.6.    When does it start?Letssay you are buying a TV for Christmas now but do not plan on takingdelivery of it till right before the 25th. The warranty should notstart till you receive the TV. With that being said, buy the TV if youthink it is a great deal, but do not take delivery till you need it.That way your warranty is not being used even if the TV is sitting inthe basement till the new media room is finished.7.    It is in-home service, right?Pleasemake sure that the warranty is in-home. You do not want to beresponsible to bring a big plasma or rear-projection to a servicecenter.8.    Do I have to have original paperwork?Ifyou talk to 10 different people they will tell you 10 different badexperiences with warranties, but the most popular story will havecommon thread of Best Buy. They are notorious of not servicingsomething if they do not have the original proof of purchase. Not an instore copy but the original receipt. The salesman should be able to answer allof these questions and if they cannot, find someone that can. These areimportant questions that you need to know. The extended warranties area big money maker for retailers but they are important to consider inyour HDTV purchase. Salesman will love to talk about theservice contracts and if you bring up the subject early, there is agood chance you could get a better deal. Shop around for extendedwarranties before you go to the store via the Internet. Most storeswill not match the price of other retailers because they are alldifferent and they will use the comparison of “not Apples to Apples.”But it does not hurt to ask. Sometimes they will met you half way oreven give you all of the difference.The most important thing isto understand how you plan on using the HDTV and how the TV works. Youmay want to glance back at the HDTV Buying Guide: Choosing the Right Kind.Do not simply discard the salesman warranty pitch but rather, look atthe service plan to see if it relates to how you plan on using the TV.Listen and ask those eight questions. Did you buy a service plan on your HDTV? Why or why not? 

       

 