
 
This is a game I'vebeen waiting for since the impressive demo Sony used to advertise their PS3 at E3 last year,and EA's Fight Night Round 3 has notfailed to impress. Every bone cracking punch, every drop of sweat and blood, almost every boxer you could ever want tofight is ready in glistening 720p. If you were waiting for the "next generation" feeling to hit you, put yourgloves on and find your mouthguard because it is here.
      

 

We really can't say enough aboutthe visuals of this game, except to assure you that what you see here in these screens is exactly the way the gamelooks, but missing the motion and impact that help them come across in real time. This game doesn't even require you touse a HUD to display the strength of each boxer, you can tell how the fight is going by how they move in the ring andtheir expression. Watching your opponents eyes widen as he realizes there's a haymaker coming with his name on it isbeautiful.Ali, Frazier, Jones Jr., Hopkins,Wright and many others are in the game and they look and move exactly like their real-life counterparts. Even more thanthe Madden 2006 screens we showed you,this game really takes advantage of HDTVs. This game is up there on the must-buy list for sure. I'd love to tell youmore about it (or to have finished this post yesterday), but Winky Wright needs to be put in his place by Richard"The Undertaker" Lawler. (All screens from Xboxyde)A few high definition trailers for your perusal: Capcom's Lost Planet (also available for download on Xbox LiveMarketplace) THQ's The Outfit Ubisoft's Ghost Recon:Advanced WarfighterNo trailers or screens from the Playstation 3 again, although we continue to heargood things are coming at E3. Also, if you have a 360 you can download a 720p version of the Elder Scrolls: Obliviontrailer. As much has been said about being able to download highdefinition movies from XBLM downloading high definition games is much preferred, the Fight Night demo sold meimmediately. Demos for The Outfit and GR:AW are also on deck.

       

 