
 Well,
that graph says it all, doesn't it? This is the Windows Media Center
Network Performance Tuner in action and it could spell doom for HDTV
over WiFi. Let me explain a little. We showed you a video where we
streamed high-def content from a Media Center PC to an Xbox 360 via
WiFi. Luckily it all worked out, but there's some things you need to
know if you plan to go this route.
 

If you recall, we were demonstrating the Windows Media Extendertechnology with the Xbox 360 for high-def. I'll say right up front, itworks as advertised: you can stream high-definition content to the 360that's hooked up to an HDTV set. I've been completely impressed withthe quality of the streaming; both recorded HD as well as live. Thebest way to say it: there is no noticeable difference if I'm watching HDvia my over-the-air tuner or from the Xbox 360.So what's thekicker? Bandwidth, baby...bandwidth. Those MPEG-2 streams I used towatch OTA can be up to 19.39 megabits-per-second. If you don't have thepipe for that bandwidth, your video will be choppy, will stutter, orwill even be dropped for a time. "OK," you say, "so for me todo this via WiFi, I need to have fast WiFi capability." You guessed it,but your options are VERY limited if you want to use the Xbox 360 forone reason and one reason only. The WiFi adapter for the unit iscapable of the three main 802.11x standards: a, b, and g. Don't evenconsider the 802.11b network for this purpose. It's fine for Xbox Live,but the 11 Mbps speed won't even come close for high-def streaming.Thisgives you the 802.11a or 802.11g choices, both of which are advertisedat up to 54 Mbps. Sounds plenty fast enough, right? On paper, yes; inpractice, not necessarily as evidenced by the graph below. For example: I'm using an802.11g router in my office. My office is on the second floor of myhome and the Xbox 360 is in the room directly below the office. Thedirect distance between the router and the 360 is roughly 15 feet andthere are no metal vents or anything else in the floor between the two.I also have the Linksys Range Extender antennas on the router thatboost the signal 7 dbs. Youcan see that until I positioned the router antennas "just right" Ididn't have a signal stable enough for high-def streaming. Even when Idid, I'm cutting it really close as evidenced by hours of actualtesting. All it takes is for one of our cats to walk past the 360 andwe get a stutter or two (on the video, not on the cats!)So,what can you do? Well, Microsoft does provide a website that makes somesuggestions, but most of these were common sense to me. "Don't hide yourrouter behind a plant" should be a standard rule for WiFi users ingeneral. There were some valid suggestions that might help, however.Firstoff, if you can use an 802.11a router, you're less likely to haveinterference from other radio signals. The 802.11a routers run at 5Ghz, while the 802.11b & g routers run on the 2.4 Ghz spectrum,making them more succeptable to interferance. You can also trydifferent radio channels on your router to see if that helps.Onething that did help was getting my router out of "mixed mode". Mixedmode provides backwards compatibility for 802.11b routers, but it slowsdown the network as a whole. Your router configuration may bedifferent, but on my Linksys, it was a simple task to run in the faster"g" mode only. This will prevent devices that have a "b" radio fromaccessing your network, but it does keep things humming a little faster. The other thing I did on my own (this wasn't indicated as a tip fromMicrosoft) was to enable Frame Bursting. Again, your router may nothave this function or it may be called something different.   After trying to take advantage of the WiFi streaming for high-def, I'ma little disappointed. As I mentioned, the quality of the video isgreat, but only when you can see via your network. 802.11 a, b, and gstandards for WiFi are getting a little old and tired. Additionally,the real throughput is essentially half of the advertised speed; andthat's a best case scenario. It would have been nice for Microsoft to offer a wireless networkadapter with one of the newer WiFi standards, such as Super-G, MIMO,pre-N, etc.... I'm sure they will, but of course then I'll have toshell out more dollars and dump the $99 adapter I bought! In the end,I'll likely go with a wired connection, so watch for updates on theproject.   If you have any other suggestions to help speed up the HDTV over WiFi, we're all rabbit ears! 
 