
 
 It was just two days ago that a Google product manager let slip that Google was working with Hisense on a low-cost Google TV box. At the time, we didn't know much -- not even a product name -- but Google did intimate this mystery item would sell for under $100. Now, Hisense is stepping in to clarify a few key details. For starters, this thing is called the Pulse, and it will arrive in November priced at "under $99," more or less as expected. Other than the fact that it's built on Android (duh), it supports resolutions ranging from 480i to 1080p and has HDMI, USB and Ethernet sockets. (It also has WiFi, of course, in case you'd rather not make use of that wired internet connection.) Hisense also says it will ship with a double-sided remote, with a full QWERTY keyboard on one side, and a touchpad and dedicated Netflix button on the other. The Pulse is slated to arrive in mid-November, but there's a good chance we'll see it before then -- it's going to be on display at IFA, where we'll be reporting live this week.



  Show full PR text    I WANT MY TV, INTERNET, GAMES AND MORE: HISENSE LETS CONSUMERS HAVE IT ALL WITH THE NEW HISENSE PULSE WITH GOOGLE TV
  Hisense Pulse with Google TV brings Apps, Web, Search and live TV in a flexible package, allowing consumers to upgrade any TV for enjoying a broad range of rich content.
  Suwanee, Georgia, August 27, 2012 - Offering the highest level of operating performance, standards-based compatibility and freedom of choice in home entertainment, the Hisense Pulse with Google TV connects to any television with an HDMI input and enables consumers to enjoy the richest web, search, apps and TV content experience possible. Hisense USA, maker of highly affordable consumer electronics products for the US market will debut the Hisense Pulse with Google TV in North America this fall after its official unveiling at IFA, Germany, August 31st- September 5th.
  The new Hisense Pulse with Google TV offers true plug-and-play versatility, with easy set up and connectivity right out of the box. Built on Android, Google TV brings TV-optimized versions of your favorite Google services: Chrome, Google Play, Search, TV & Movies and YouTube. Similar to the way Google Search finds web content, Google TV delivers a new way to find what to watch on television. Google TV can intuitively search and sort through millions of channels and shows across live television, content services, your home network, apps, and the web, discovering and delivering what is most meaningful to each viewer. Supporting content and screen resolutions from 480i up to 1080p, as well as H.264, MPEG-4 and AVC formats, the Hisense Pulse with Google TV brings users the most flexible platform available for home entertainment today. With Picture-In-Picture and Picture-Outside-Picture you can simultaneously watch while searching the web or social networking.
  "This box effectively bridges the gap to the latest in home entertainment, without the need for expensive hardware upgrades," said JoAnne Foist, Director of Marketing at Hisense USA. "Most people have at least one HDTV in their home and with the addition of a Hisense Pulse with Google TV, we offer the liberty of accessing not just TV, but a host of streaming content, web surfing and TV apps (such as Pandora Radio, CNNMoney, Motor Trend, and Thuuz) that are available in Google Play. Compared to other streaming devices, the Hisense Pulse with Google TV allows consumers to experience a new level of smart content discovery and viewing recommendations. Hisense delivers a low cost device that provides the outstanding performance and quality for which our brand is known."
  The Hisense Pulse with Google TV features various connectivity options, including HDMI input and output, USB, Ethernet and built-in Wi-Fi. Also included in the box is a double sided remote control featuring a built-in touchpad and dedicated Netflix button on one side and a QWERTY keyboard on the other side allowing easy web and search features. The Hisense Pulse with Google TV takes up very little space (4.5" square x 1.4" tall), and weighs in at just 1.5 pounds. Power consumption is only 20 watts while operating, and less than 1 watt during standby mode. In addition to the consumer benefits, Google TV's platform also allows content providers an easy, scalable platform to bring Android apps to a growing audience, enabling them to engage directly with users.
  "For consumers who already have an HDTV and want to enjoy all the benefits of streaming content, the convenience of web access and apps, Google TV is the answer," continued Foist. "It allows users to take advantage of their existing cable/satellite TV subscriptions and their existing high-definition TVs to bring many features straight to their fingertips. The lines between traditional TV and Web content are blurring - people want to watch all types of content, and the Hisense Pulse with Google TV provides exactly that."
  The Hisense Pulse with Google TV will be available in mid-November 2012 at select retailers with an MSRP of under $99. In addition, Hisense produces a range of integrated consumer electronics devices. For more information, visit www.hisense-usa.com.
  
