
While Hisense's Sero 7 LT and Sero 7 Pro tablets were good deals when they first shipped, the competition  hasn't stood still. The company clearly wants to stay ahead of the value curve, as it just knocked $20 off the prices of both Android slates. The basic Sero 7 LT now costs $79 and the Tegra 3-packing Sero 7 Pro has dropped to $129. Both price cuts are already in effect at Walmart, so there's no reason to hesitate if you were looking for a better bargain in Hisense's tablet line.



Show full PR textBack to School Is Suddenly More Affordable...And More Tech Savvy!
Hisense Announces New, Lower Pricing for Sero 7 Series Tablets
Suwanee, GA, August 8, 2013 - With the new school season almost upon us, Hisense today announced that it is offering the new Sero 7 LT for $79 (was $99) and the Sero 7 Pro for an impossible to beat $129 (was $149) – becoming the most affordable, high-performance companion on the market for students of all ages.
"We believe that everyone should have access to the newest technology, and schools across the country have embraced the addition of tablets as an advanced, yet simple to use, learning tool," said Jonathan Frank, Vice President of Marketing, Hisense USA. "The educational community is constantly evolving, and at these new price points students, teachers and administrators simply cannot go wrong."
In addition to being Google Play certified which provides users with an almost-endless array of apps, educational games and more, the Hisense Sero 7 tablets come preinstalled with VUDU, Kingsoft Office for word processing and presentations, Nook eReader, Pandora Internet Music, Facebook and NVIDA's TegraZone applications.
To handle today's homework, the Sero 7 Series delivers category-leading battery performance, stunning screen quality and innovative wireless capabilities. The Hisense Sero 7 tablets are available today in Walmart stores across the country at these exceptional price points. Visit www.walmart.com to check in-store availability.

