
 
Not like we need our 2.5-inch external drives to get that much smaller, but who are we to kvetch about progress? Hitachi GST has just outed what it calls the thinnest 2.5-inch external hard drive in the world. The G-Drive Slim is encased in a 128.6- x 82- x 9.9mm aluminum enclosure, and tucked within is a slimmer-than-usual 7mm Travelstar Z5K320 hard drive. The USB-powered unit comes formatted for use with Macs, but a quick reformat on your Windows machine will have its mind changed in no time flat. For now, it's only available in a 320GB flavor for $99.99, and you'll only find it at your local Apple Store.
      

 

Show full PR textG-Technology Puts Super Sleek USB Storage in Your PocketKnown for its Premium External Storage Solutions that are Trusted by Creative Pros, G-Technology(TM) by Hitachi Makes Quality Storage More Affordable for ConsumersSAN JOSE, Calif., Nov 02, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Portable storage has never looked so good with the new G-Technology G-DRIVE(TM) slim from Hitachi GST. Just in time for the holidays, and making a perfect external storage companion to the Apple(R) Macbook(R), MacBook(TM) Pro or Macbook Air(TM), the new G-DRIVE slim external hard drive gives users 320GB of storage and ubiquitous USB 2.0 connectivity in an amazingly slim form factor. The new drive is designed from the inside out to emulate G-Technology's known quality and style for the Apple Mac market, providing simple, reliable and affordable external storage for college students, business professionals and consumers on the go.The new G-DRIVE slim leverages Hitachi GST's rugged, 7mm Travelstar(TM) Z5K320 drive, making it the thinnest, 2.5-inch external hard drive in the world. With its diminutive footprint -- just a mere 128.6 mm (L) x 82 mm (W) by 9.9 mm (H), -- sleek design and recyclable aluminum enclosure, users now have a stylish drive to help them move, work and play with their digital content. Lightweight and compact, weighing in at approximately 144g (5 oz), users can easily carry up to 80 hours of high-definition video, 320 hours of standard video, 114 movies, 80,000 songs or 160 games(1) wherever they go.Rugged on the inside, the Hitachi Travelstar Z5K320 drive gives the G-DRIVE slim superior operating shock protection and quiet acoustics for use in the home, in the office or on the road. On the outside, the G-DRIVE slim's solid aluminum enclosure acts as a heat sink, keeping the internal drive cool and data protected. Because of G-Technology's ongoing commitment to quality, the G-DRIVE slim can be easily stowed and transported in a purse, backpack or briefcase.Formatted for Macs with simple plug n' play connectivity, the G-DRIVE slim is Time Machine(R) ready for added backup protection. It is USB-powered, so there is no need to carry around an extra power cord."Our new G-DRIVE slim is yet another way that we're making high quality storage more accessible and affordable for consumers," said Mike Williams, vice president and general manager, Hitachi GST Branded Business. "There's been mounting interest from our global network of retailers and distributors to provide a G-Tech-quality, entry-level portable offering and the G-DRIVE slim is that drive. It gives users a simple external storage solution with the same quality and attention to detail that we put into our entire line of premium external storage solutions."The new G-Technology G-DRIVE slim comes with a three-year limited warranty and is currently available online and at Apple Retail Stores. The manufacturer's suggested retail price for the 320GB drive is $99.99.For more information, or to find other G-Technology external drives with higher capacities, faster interfaces or screaming throughput for HD video editing, please visit www.g-technology.com.Stay connected with G-Technology:G-Technology drives are engineered specifically to meet the needs of the content creation and Apple Mac communities, including heavy users of multimedia content, Final Cut Pro(R) digital audio/video specialists and other pre/post production professionals. From rugged portable drives to ultra-fast rack-mount arrays, G-Technology's USB, FireWire, eSATA, SAS and Fibre Channel storage solutions support virtually all levels of AV production and can be found in post-production facilities worldwide.Hitachi Global Storage Technologies (Hitachi GST) develops advanced hard disk drives, enterprise-class solid state drives, and innovative external storage solutions and services used to store, preserve and manage the world's most valued data. Founded by the pioneers of hard drives, Hitachi GST provides high-value storage for a broad range of market segments, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Personal Storage. Hitachi GST was established in 2003 and maintains its U.S. headquarters in San Jose, California. For more information, please visit the company's website at http://www.hitachigst.com.
 