
 Remember the Pavilion m6? It was one of many, many lightweight laptops HP announced last spring. To recap, it didn't technically fit Intel's Ultrabook specifications, but it was still quite thin, and offered features not normally found on ultraportables -- things like discrete graphics and a subwoofer. In any case, HP is expanding that particular line: it just announced the Envy m4, a 14-inch companion to the 15-inch m6 that went on sale this summer.

 Like the m6, it has an aluminum design, along with Beats Audio and a subwoofer. Spec-wise, it'll be offered with Core i3 and i5 processors, up to 8GB of RAM and either a solid-state drive or up to 1TB of HDD storage. The display resolution is fixed at 1,366 x 768 -- typical for mid-range laptops. (Note: only one configuration will be available in the US, though additional variants will be offered in other countries.) Intel Wireless Display is standard, and the battery promises up to eight hours of runtime. It also has a fingerprint reader, which you can use with HP's SimplePass technology to log into the PC and as well as websites.

 Meanwhile, HP added two models to its growing line of Sleekbooks (read: thin-and-light laptops that for whatever reason don't meet Intel's Ultrabook requirements). These new models include the Pavilion Sleekbook 14 and 15, which look like the company's entry-level G series, but are significantly trimmer. The laptops, available in black and red, will be offered with Ivy Bridge chips, optional discrete graphics, 1080p displays, up to 8GB of RAM and up to 1TB of HDD storage. In both cases, the battery life is said to max out at six hours -- less than the m4 or most Ultrabooks, but still decent.

 Last thing -- and this really is apropos of nothing -- HP also mentioned in its press release that the existing 11-inch Pavilion dm1 will be offered with an HSPA+ radio capable of running on T-Mobile's network. HP says it will offer up to 200MB of free data per month, for two years. That deal is effective next month, on October 26th.

 The Envy m4 will start at $900 while the Pavilion Sleekbook 14 and 15 will go for $500 and $560, respectively. These, too, will arrive on the 26th, the day Windows 8 launches. For now help yourself to photos galore past the break.






