
 
Man, remember when transferring data to your printer required a big fat cable and physical proximity to your ink spitter? Thankfully, we live in more refined times now and HP and Google have hooked up to deliver the first printers with driverless Cloud Print support, making the whole thing that extra bit easier. HP ePrint printers were already sophisticated enough to receive instructions via email and now they're casting aside the need for a connected PC to talk to Google's Cloud Print service as well. All you need is your machine's @hpeprint.com email address and then you're away, zipping pictures and text from your smartphone, tablet or laptop to the HP paper decorator. It's all seamless and wireless and probably feels like the future when you're doing it. We'd tell you, but we stopped printing stuff in 2004.
      

 

Show full PR textHP ePrint-enabled Printers First to Support Google Cloud PrintEasily and securely print from Google apps without a PC connection or print driverPALO ALTO, Calif., March 31, 2011HP today announced that Google Cloud Print users can print directly to any HP ePrint-enabled printer from any Google Cloud Print supported app on any computer or smartphone.HP's portfolio of web-connected and cloud-aware printers for home and business are the first to support Google Cloud Print out of the box.The combination of Google Cloud Print and HP ePrint printers makes printing from any web, mobile or desktop app that supports Google Cloud Print more intuitive, accessible and useful by eliminating the need for a print driver or PC connection to the printer. Apps supported by Google Cloud print currently include Gmail for Mobile, Google Docs for Mobile and Chrome OS, and will expand to include third-party apps."Making it easy for our customers to print where and how they want is a top priority for HP," said Stephen Nigro, senior vice president, Imaging and Printing Group, HP. "With HP ePrint and cloud-aware printers, you get the best experience printing via Google Cloud Print."Users simply add the unique email address of their HP ePrint-enabled Photosmart, Officejet or LaserJet Pro to their Google account, which provides the ability to print easily and securely from Google apps to the selected HP printer."Users are rapidly migrating to web and mobile apps, and Google Cloud Print brings full-featured printing capabilities to these apps," said Mike Jazayeri, director, Product Management, Google. "We are excited that HP has brought the first-generation of cloud-ready printers to market. While cloud printing is possible with any printer that is connected to a PC, users can achieve a more streamlined, intuitive experience by printing directly to a cloud-ready printer."A full list of HP printers compatible with Google Cloud Print and more information on HP ePrint is available at www.hp.com/united-states/campaigns/hp-eprint-google-cloud-print/.
 