
What do you do if your home turf of PC sales is being eroded by tablets? If your answer is "sell tablets as desktops," then you're on Meg Whitman's wavelength. At an event in Beijing, HP announced a 21.5-inch, Android-powered tablet that's expressly designed as a desktop unit. The HP Slate 21 AIO comes with a full-HD touchscreen and NVIDIA's Tegra 4 internals, running Android 4.2.2. Prospective owners won't need to purchase an artists' easel, however, as there's a handy rear kickstand that'll let you stand it upright or at a 30-ish degree angle (pictured after the break), making us hope that its digitizer is sensitive enough for pen-based drawing. There's no word on pricing or availability, but there's a press release, translated from Chinese, after the break, if you'd like to know more.


Update: You'll now find the English-language PR after the break. The unit will launch in the US in September at a starting price of $400.




Show full PR textHP Introduces Android-Based Central Command Center for Home Entertainment and Productivity
HP's first Android All-in-One PC simplifies work and play for families and Android enthusiasts

PALO ALTO, Calif., June 24, 2013 – HP today unveiled the HP Slate21 All-in-One, the company's first All-in-One PC built with the AndroidTM 4.2 operating system. The HP Slate21 All-in-One enables families to enjoy cloud-based entertainment features such as TV streaming and Android apps.

The HP Slate21 All-in-One expands upon HP's portfolio of multi-OS products and is ideal for family activities, providing easy access to entertainment and productivity features, plus fun Android apps. Through Google Services, customers can reach shared content such as calendars, email, notes and documents, which can be created with the built-in productivity apps; users can also print wirelessly from anywhere in the house (1), organize content, and connect to other devices.

"Customers are looking for technology that simplifies their lives while keeping them connected to the entertainment they enjoy and the content they need," said Jun Kim, vice president and general manager, PC Displays and Accessories, HP. "The HP Slate21 allows families to easily access content through the cloud and enjoy it together on a large, interactive screen."

Full HD touchscreen, high-quality graphics, and sound improve user experience

To further enhance productivity and entertainment, the Slate21 All-in-One offers a 21.5-inch Full HD (2) diagonal reclining IPS touchscreen with wide-viewing angles for vivid graphics and better shared viewing. With dual-band technology, users can stream music or movies and browse the web (3) at the same time, and built-in DTS Sound technology offers a rich concert-like experience. It comes pre-installed with an HP TrueVision HD Webcam and Wireless Direct (4) which enables users to share videos, photos and data between devices without the need for a network connection, and multi-user support with the latest Android OS Jelly Bean 4.2. Additionally, it offers speed and performance with a powerful Tegra 4 quad-core NVIDIA processor, as well as an intuitive optical touchscreen with true pinch and zoom functionality.

The HP Slate21 All-in-One is expected to be available in the U.S. in September, with a starting price of $399 (5) Additional information about the HP Slate21 All-in-One is available on The Next Bench.


