
 
See that up there? That's the new HP dm4, and you better believe that this aluminum housed 14-inch laptop not only packs a Core i5 processor and plenty of sex appeal, but starts at $729. In a nutshell, that's basically the whole story of the four new HP Pavilions -- gone are the glossy lids and LED touch shortcuts, though remaining in tact are the affordable prices and mainstream power. The inch-thick dm4 happens to be our favorite of the bunch -- it's got a soft etched pattern along the lid, chiclet-style keyboard, on-board optical drive, and is available with different Core i5 CPU and ATI discrete graphics options. And if that 14-incher isn't for you, there's also the 14.5-inch dv5, which instead of the brushed aluminum lid, has a matte imprinted cover that's available in black, red and champagne. Starting at $649, the dv5 is available with Core i3, i5 and AMD's upcoming Turion II processors, and while it doesn't have discrete graphics options, the Intel versions will support Intel's WiDi technology. 

Going on up in size, the 15.6-inch Pavilion dv6 is all about choices -- you can configure it with either a brushed aluminum or HP Imprint finish, a mulitouch screen, and AMD or Intel Core 2010 processors. The AMD variant will start at $530 and the Intel Core i5 version at $649. Last but not least is the dv7 powerhouse, which now has a Beats Audio option. No surprises here, the 17-incher can be pimped with quad-core AMD or Intel CPUs and ATI discrete graphics. We're planning to review at least a few of these models before back to school laptop shopping season gets fully underway, but for now, feel free to head on past the break for the full press release and feast your eyes on some of these far-from-budget-looking lappies down in the galleries below. 



 


Show full PR textHP Expands Design Leadership with Updated Consumer Notebook PC PortfolioPALO ALTO, Calif., May 5, 2010 – HP today unveiled a redesigned portfolio of consumer notebook PCs that delivers distinctive design elements, new materials, enhanced performance and better experiences to consumers.With updates across the HP ENVY, HP Pavilion and HP Mini lines, HP is fusing style and efficiency to offer stylish notebook PCs that meet the personal computing needs of every consumer.The models reflect HP's "MUSE" (materials, usability, sensory appeal and experiences) design philosophy of fusing a rich mix of materials that create textured finishes, easy-to-use features for improved usability, a blend of artisan elements for sensory appeal, and intuitive features for simple experiences.Etched metal finishes, touchable textures and a mix of high-quality materials create a simple, clean look that seamlessly fits into the lives of consumers. These new notebook PCs also can be customized with a choice of 15 exclusive wallpapers, including 12 designed by well-known artists from around the world."With these new designs, we offer customers a broad portfolio of notebook PCs and Minis that are innovative on the outside and the inside," said Kevin Frost, vice president and general manager, Consumer Notebooks, Personal Systems Group, HP. "Each notebook provides a unique experience for the customer and allows customers to express their personality."HP ENVY 14 and 17The new HP ENVY 14 and 17 deliver premium experiences to satisfy the most demanding customers. The notebooks offer the ideal balance of design and technology by combining the latest in manufacturing with artistic expression and world-class performance.Both ENVY notebooks feature powerful Intel® processors(1) and ATITM Mobility Radeon discrete graphics for gaming, videos and 3-D images. They come with a backlit keyboard, slot-loading optical drive, HP TrueVision high-definition (HD)(2) webcam, a mini DisplayPort Connector and the latest in wireless(3) and connectivity options.The notebooks also include Beats™ Audio, a unique, high-performance technology developed by HP and Beats by Dr. Dre™ to provide the optimal sound experience when playing music or audio through headphones or external speakers – the way the artist intended it.The slim and light ENVY 14 features a precision-crafted design with a 14.5-inch diagonal HD(2) Radiance display that offers picture quality up to 59 percent brighter than any notebook with a standard display. With up to 13.75 hours of battery life,(4) the ENVY 14 is one of the thinnest and lightest quad-core notebooks available in the world.(5) The ENVY 14 also offers optional WWAN/3G.(6)With up to 2 terabytes(7) (TB) of storage capacity, the ENVY 17 has the horsepower and flexibility for the most demanding tasks. The ENVY 17 offers enhanced performance with ATI Eyefinity Technology for multiple external display support and an HP Triple Bass Reflex Subwoofer for outstanding sound.HP Pavilion PCsThe new HP Pavilion notebook PCs, including the dm4, dv5, dv6 and dv7, meet a wide variety of power, performance and mobility needs at prices that fit most budgets.Thin and light, the HP Pavilion dm4 offers mobility paired with a sleek, metal finish and cool etched patterns, making it a stylish and ideal choice for all-day computing.At just 1 inch thin and weighing only 4.4 pounds,(8) the dm4 features a stunning full-metal chassis with an elegant etched pattern on its brushed aluminum finish. Powered by an Intel CoreTM processor, it includes a 14-inch diagonal BrightView HD(2) LED display, internal optical drive, fingerprint reader and up to 6.5 hours of battery life.(4)The high-performing HP Pavilion dv5, dv6 and dv7 are ideal for any type of media-rich experience, offering the latest in graphics, audio and video.- With exterior bold finishes and touchable textures, the HP Pavilion dv5 and dv6 are designed to suit every consumer's personal style. The dv5, available in black cherry, champagne and Sonoma red Imprint finishes, features a unique 14.5-inch diagonal HD(2) display, ideal for work and play.- Available in the same Imprint finishes, plus a brushed-aluminum finish etched with a stream design, the dv6 is the first HP Pavilion notebook PC available with an optional touch screen in the United States. Dolby Advanced Audio and Altec Lansing speakers are available on the dv5, dv6 and dv7 Imprint finishes.- The HP Pavilion dv7 is the ultimate balance of power and performance for entertainment. With an HD(2) display, Altec Lansing speakers, an HP Triple Bass Subwoofer and the option of Beats Audio, the dv7 provides a superb audio and virtual surround sound experience, bringing out the best of every song, TV show or movie. The notebook also comes with Corel® PaintShop Photo Pro X3 and Corel VideoStudio Pro X3 for creating photo and video content.The Pavilion dm4, dv6 and dv7 with metal finishes also come with HP SimplePass, providing consumers enhanced security access to all their passwords with a simple swipe of a finger.All of these new HP Pavilion notebook PCs include exclusive technology such as HP TrueVision WebCam, which optimizes video for any light setting, and HP QuickWeb, which gives users access to the web(3) without booting up the notebook by simply pushing a button.HP Mini netbooksHP also has expanded the HP Mini 210 line with two new designs, preppy pink and white crystal. The pink, plaid-like design on the preppy pink HP Mini 210 features HP Imprint 3-D, the industry's first 3-D PC surface technology, which debuted on the HP Mini 110 by Studio Tord Boontje. Multiple layers on the top and bottom covers make the design appear to float on the surface while casting shadows onto lower layers. The HP ClickPad also features the preppy pink finish and tiny cupcake Imprint at the bottom of the unit.The updated HP Mini 110, HP's entry-level Mini, now offers an integrated six-cell battery that provides up to 8 hours of battery life.(4)Pricing and availability(9)- The HP ENVY 14 is expected to be available in the United States on June 27 with a starting price of $999. The HP ENVY 17 is expected to be available in the United States on May 26 with a starting price of $1,399.99.- The HP Pavilion dm4, dv5, dv6 and dv7 metal editions are expected to be available in the United States on May 19 with starting prices of $729.99, $649.99, $649.99 and $799.99, respectively.- The HP Mini 210 and Mini 110 are expected to be available in the United States on June 15 with starting prices of $354.99 and $279.99, respectively.Matching accessories are available for most of these notebook PCs and Mini netbooks. Notebook sleeves, which include an exterior pocket, and notebook mice, which include advanced 2.4 GHz wireless technology(3) for less interference and longer range of operation, start at $29.99.Register for availability notification at www.hpdirect.com/go/newfromhp. Additional information is available at www.hp.com/personal.About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com.(1) Intel's numbering is not a measurement of higher performance.(2) High definition (HD) content is required to view high-definition images.(3) Wireless access point and Internet service is required and sold separately.(4) Battery life will vary depending on the product model, configuration, loaded applications, features, use, wireless functionality (including the wireless functionality) and power management settings. The maximum capacity of the battery will naturally decrease with time and usage. See MobileMark07 battery benchmark www.bapco.com/products/mobilemark2007 for additional details.(5) Dual Core/Quad Core is a new technology designed to improve performance of certain software products. Not all customers or software applications will necessarily benefit from use of this technology.(6) Broadband use requires separately purchased service contract. Check with service provider for local coverage and availability.(7) For hard drives, GB = 1 billion bytes. Actual formatted capacity is less. Up to 20GB of hard drive is reserved for system recovery software.(8) Weight will vary by configuration.(9) Estimated U.S. street prices. Actual prices may vary.ATI is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Intel and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Corel is a registered trademark of Corel Corporation or Corel Corporation Limited.This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2010 and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2010 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice.The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 