
 Remember last week when HP leaked a 14-inch Chromebook on its own site? That was a big surprise, to say the least -- the company has never put out a Chrome OS system before, and we weren't aware this was even that popular a category. Well, HP just officially announced the Pavilion 14 Chromebook, and pretty much the only surprise is the availability date: we had heard it would go on sale February 17th, but it's actually available today for $330.

 Suffice to say, that's more than what you'll pay for Samsung's Chromebook ($249) or Acer's C7 ($199). For the money, it offers similar specs as the Acer C7, but the design appears considerably more polished. Meanwhile, with a 1.1GHz Intel Celeron 847 CPU and 2GB of RAM, it should perform a bit better than the Samsung model, which has a nice design, but chugs along on a lower-powered ARM processor. Like most other Chromebooks, this one has 16GB of built-in flash storage, along with a 1,366 x 768 display. Users also get 100GB of Google Drive space (free for the first two years).
 All told, this 14-inch system weighs about four pounds, making it not only the biggest Chromebook on the market, but the heaviest. At least that 0.8-inch chassis makes room for a good selection of ports: HDMI output, three USB 2.0 sockets and an SD reader. It even has an Ethernet jack, something that Samsung's removed from its latest Chrome OS device. Unfortunately, though, a bigger footprint doesn't mean a bigger battery: the Pavilion 14 Chromebook is rated for four hours and 15 minutes of runtime, putting it behind Samsung's model. So, are a sleek design and stronger performance worth the premium? We'll tackle that in our eventual review, but if you buy today you'll just have to make that call yourself. Check the PR after the break or Google's Chrome Blog (linked below) more info. 




  Show full PR text   HP Unveils Pavilion 14 Chromebook
   MultiOS approach offers customers more choices

   PALO ALTO, Calif., Feb. 4, 2013 - HP today announced its first Chromebook, widening the company's extensive PC and workstation portfolio and expanding its multiOS approach to offer customers more choices.  The HP Pavilion 14 Chromebook boasts a display that's approximately 2 inches wider (diagonally) than any other Chromebook in the market today. It provides a fast and easy gateway to a seamless Google experience with popular products like Search, Gmail, YouTube, Google Drive and Google+ Hangouts for multiperson video chat as well as access to apps in the Chrome Web Store.(1) A 14-inch diagonal design provides an ideal balance of mobility and comfort, while the HP BrightView display lets users see and surf easily.  The HP Pavilion Chromebook joins HP's PC portfolio as an ideal companion PC for the home.   "Google's Chrome OS is showing great appeal to a growing customer base," said Kevin Frost, vice president and general manager, Consumer PCs, Printing and Personal Systems, HP. "With HP's Chromebook, customers can get the best of the Google experience on a full-sized laptop, all backed up by our service and brand."

  Instant access to digital life
   With the HP Pavilion Chromebook, customers can effortlessly and quickly access Google applications, social networks, websites(1) and other content such as photos and documents. Constant automatic updates to applications and the Chrome OS mean that software and security is effortlessly kept up to date.   Powered by an Intel® Celeron® processor and Intel high-definition (HD) graphics,(2) the HP Pavilion Chromebook includes a 16GB solid-state drive for fast start-up times. Extra hardware security via the built-in Trusted Platform Module (TPM) protects against unauthorized access to sensitive data and credentials so customers can feel confident that personal data is protected. The HP Pavilion Chromebook weighs just under 4 pounds.(4)   A full array of ports including HDMI, USB 2.0 and Ethernet jack, and a combination headphone and microphone jack allow for fast and easy connections to displays and other devices.   The HP Pavilion Chromebook features an HP Imprint design in sparkling black, up to 4 GB of memory and a removable battery. An HP TrueVision HD Webcam(3) offers superb viewing experience, even in low lighting conditions.   With 100 GB of free storage on Google Drive for two years,(4) (5) customers can access their content from any internet-connected device-while at home or on the go. Plus, users can visit the Chrome Web Store to customize their HP Chromebook by downloading applications for work or play.  Pricing and availability
   The Chromebook is available in the United States with a starting price of $329.99(6) at HPDirect.com   Additional information about the HP Chromebook is available at www.hp.com/go/chromebook.
 
