
 
 You may have noticed that HP unleashed a torrent of laptops today, but at the heart of it all, even more crucial than those Ultrabooks and business laptops, are the notebooks Hewlett-Packard plans to sell to college kids during the all-important back-to-school season. This go-round, the company's redesigned both its mainstream Pavilion dv series, as well as its entry-level "g" laptops, though the range of sizes (14 to 17 inches) is pretty predictable. In addition, the outfit also introduced the Pavilion m6, a slim 15-incher that isn't technically an Ultrabook, but nonetheless joins a growing group of thin-and-lights with unexpectedly large screens. Throughout, as you'd expect, HP's refreshed its laptops on the inside too -- namely, with newer Intel and AMD chips, along with fresher GPUs. We've got a full break-down of prices, design notes and availability details after the break, though we've also got photos and the full press release below if you've got some important study session to hurry to.




  Pavilion dv series. Starting with HP's redesigned line of mainstream Pavilion dv laptops, these models have a more pared-down look, with recessed keyboards, soft-touch accents and some subtle chrome trim ringing the touchpad. (The Beats Audio branding, of course, hasn't gone anywhere.) In addition to those Ivy Bridge CPUs, these will be offered with optional discrete graphics from NVIDIA. We're also told the two larger models will make use of HP's CoolSense technology, but for whatever reason the dv4 won't. All three are hitting shelves June 20th, with the dv7 starting at $800 and and the dv4 and dv6 priced at $550 and up.  Pavilion m6. Though HP isn't using the word "Ultrabook" to classify the m6, it's clear this guy is meant to compete with other affordable, 15-inch thin-and-lights, such as Acer's Timeline Ultra series. For this particular number, HP went with an aluminum-clad design, featuring Beats, along with a subwoofer and optional backlit keyboard. On the inside, you'll have your choice of Intel and AMD chips, and because this is a "full-fledged" laptop, it'll be offered with discrete graphics, too. Pricing for the m6 hasn't been announced yet; all we know is that it will go on sale sometime this summer.  G series. And the parade of reserved-looking laptops continue. Though the g series has long been HP's entry-level line, it's fine-tuned this latest batch by erring on the side of simplicity. This time around, look for a recesessed "bowl" keyboard, beveled edges and a glossy finish whose fine pattern seems promising for masking fingerprints. The g6 and g7 will both be available on July 25th, starting at $450 and $500, respectively.  Show full PR text    HP Launches Consumer Notebook PCs Reflecting New Design Philosophy  Company also unveils web-connected e-All-in-One printer  SHANGHAI, May 9, 2012 - HP today unveiled HP Pavilion notebook PCs that include enhanced features and reflect the company's new HP Mosaic design approach.
  The company also unveiled the HP Photosmart 5520 e-All-in-One printer, featuring HP wireless direct printing and HP ePrint, enabling users to print from virtually anywhere.
  - For stylish on-the-go computing, the HP Pavilion m6 is the ideal balance of mobility, performance and entertainment wrapped in a sleek, brushed silver aluminum design.  - The redesigned HP Pavilion dv-seriesandg-seriesnotebookPCsofferperformanceina simple yet distinct and colorful design.
  - For users that want to balance affordable printing and brilliant quality at home, the HP Photosmart 5520 e-All-in-One is a compact, web-connected all-in-one printer for the home.
  The new HP Mosaic design approach, reflected in its new HP Pavilion notebooks, is an extension of the company's MUSE (materials, usability, sensory appeal and experience) design philosophy, introduced in May 2010.
  The Mosaic design fuses together the multifaceted elements of MUSE, including rich colors, premium materials and purposeful shapes, to form one comprehensive design language that spans the consumer notebook portfolio. Similar to a mosaic art piece, each HP notebook series represents a small piece of the canvas that, when combined, builds into a beautiful picture of the HP product family.
  "Featuring precise lines and tapered profiles, the new HP Pavilion notebook portfolio evokes dynamic energy and movement," said Stacy Wolff, vice president, Design, Personal Systems Group, HP. "These notebooks utilize premium materials that are rich to the eye and to the touch, delivering unique sensory experiences."
  HP Pavilion m6-sized for life on the go  With a large display packed into a super-slim design, the HP Pavilion m6 is the notebook users will want with them all day. Movies and games come to life on the 15.6-inch diagonal LED backlit high-definition (HD) BrightView display, and rich audio is made possible with Beats Audio, dual speakers and subwoofer.   The brushed-aluminum HP Pavilion m6 can achieve up to eight hours of battery life and features the latest Intel and AMD processors, an optional backlit keyboard and discrete graphics for running the most demanding tasks without pauses or interruptions.
  The HP Pavilion m6 is also loaded with HP innovations. HP CoolSense technology automatically adjusts performance and internal fan settings for a noticeably cooler PC, and HP ProtectSmart locks the hard drive to protect photos, music and memories in case the notebook is accidentally dropped. Optional HP SimplePass remembers passwords and provides easy access to online accounts with the swipe of a finger, and the HP TrueVision HD Webcam provides brighter and cleaner HD images.
  HP Pavilion dv-series notebook PCs-powerful yet graceful  With a tapered chassis, slim top view and infinity waterfall edge-all inspired by kinetic energy-the new HP Pavilion dv6 and dv7 boast a metal finish, and the HP Pavilion dv4 is available in black licorice, linen white and carmine red.
  Coupled with a soft-touch panel at the base of the display cover, the sleek HP Pavilion dv6 and dv7 conform comfortably to the hand, making the notebooks easy to hold.  A speaker bar integrated into the display enhances the HP dv-series' Beats Audio experience, projecting audio directly toward the user.
  The HP Pavilion dv6 and dv7 also include HP CoolSense, HP ProtectSmart, HP TrueVision HD Webcam and HP SimplePass.
  Optional NVIDIA GeForce notebook graphics processing units also are available on the HP Pavilion dv line and help deliver amazing visual gaming and multimedia experiences.
   HP Pavilion g-series notebook PCs-simple yet distinct  The redesigned HP Pavilion g6 and g7 feature curved, beveled edges with elements of precision. A bowl-shape keyboard deck and textured touchpad further define the series' distinct form.
  The HP Pavilion g-series features audio that is enhanced with both design and functional elements. A chrome strip bordering the speaker serves as a visual cue for audio, while the exposed speaker bar provides great sound projection.
  The HP Pavilion g-series will be available in ruby red, linen white, sparkling black, winter blue and bright purple.
   HP Photosmart 5520 e-All-in-One-print from any web-connected device  The HP Photosmart 5520 e-All-in-One enables users to print from wireless-enabled mobile devices-without a network-using HP wireless direct printing. It also offers the latest web-connected printing technologies, such as print apps from DreamWorks and Coupons.com, and HP ePrint, which enables users to print from virtually anywhere.
  The printer has four individual ink cartridges that produce lab-quality photos, and it enables everyday documents to be scanned directly to email without a PC. ENERGY STAR® qualified, the HP Photosmart 5520 e-All-in-One helps conserve resources with automatic two-sided printing and copying.
  Pricing and availability  - HP Pavilion m6 will be available this summer at BestBuy, BestBuy.com and HP Direct with pricing to be determined.  - HP Pavilion dv4, dv6 and dv7 are expected to be available in the United States on June 20 with starting prices of $549.99, $549.99 and $799.99, respectively.  - HP Pavilion g6 and g7 are expected to be available in the United States on July 25 with starting prices of $449.99 and $499.99, respectively.  - The Photosmart 5520 e-All-in-One is expected to be available in the United States in June for $99.
  
