
At this point, all-in-one desktops tend to follow a formula: most of them have a touchscreen, along with an articulating stand so you can use it in tabletop mode, at a near-flat angle. All told, that gives folks a good deal of flexibility, but HP wants to go even further. The company just introduced the "Recline" series of all-in-ones, which incorporate a patent-pending hinge that allows the touchscreen to hang off the table, close to your lap. (Yep, HP's market research team found there are, in fact, people who would prefer to use their all-in-one this way.) Et voilà! That's why this thing is named the Recline: you can position it with the touchscreen half off the desk, and it won't topple over because the PC's center of gravity is halfway between the base and the display.


Available in 23- and 27-inch screen sizes, the Recline will be available with a mix of Haswell processors, up to 16GB of RAM, up to 1TB of storage (sometimes paired with an SSD), a 1GB NVIDIA GT 730A GPU, Beats Audio and 1080p displays. All of the configurations will have 802.11ac WiFi and the Recline 27 in particular adds NFC. As an added bonus, you also get 50GB of free lifetime storage through Box.com. Additionally -- because HP would do something like this -- the company will also sell a special Beats-branded version with a red hinge (pictured above). That version will be available with a 23-inch screen only, and will feature slightly lesser specs (a Core i3 CPU and less RAM to start).





Otherwise, though, the specs will be the same as on the regular models. The standard 23- and 27-inch models will be available on HP's site tomorrow, September 6th, with the 23-incher starting at $1,349 and the Recline 27 at $1,399 and up. The 23 is also hitting retail stores later this month, at which point you'll be able to find some lesser-specced models for $999 and up. Oh, and if it's the colorful Beats version you're after, that won't ship until November, but we're told it will have a lower starting price of $1,099 in retail, or $1,249 for the specific model to be sold on HP's site.




