
 
 HP is in full-on laptop-unveiling mode, and the company's business line isn't getting left out -- in fact, it has five new models -- including an 11-incher, a first for this series. The boardroom-bound EliteBooks are making the step up to Ivy Bridge, but it's also adding the option of LTE across the board. All models will ship with SRS Premium Sounds PRO and an optional 720p webcam. We have a complete breakdown of the models past the break, and you can find hands-on shots, along with the official press release below.




 The 2170p is the first 11-incher in the EliteBook line, and weighs in at 2.9 pounds. It's compatible with the same dock as HP's w-, p- and b- series, so businesses that want to upgrade to newer EliteBooks won't have to invest in new peripherals. So far, we simply know the processor is an ultra low voltage Ivy Bridge CPU, predictably coupled with Intel integrated graphics. Keyboard backlighting will be a customization option. The entry-level configuration will go for $999.

 If the naming doesn't give it away, the 2570p is an update to the ultraportable EliteBook 2560p. It has the same 12.5-inch display and weighs 3.6 pounds, making it slightly lighter than the 2560p. The 2570p is clearly the 'tweener of the EliteBook series: more powerful than the 2170p but a step below the larger models. The 2570p will start at $1,099 and, along with the 2170p, will be available on June 22nd.

 Moving on up, the 14-inch 8740p makes its official debut. We saw this business-rugged laptop last month, when a review leaked ahead of Intel's Ivy Bridge launch schedule. The 8470p replaces last year's 8460p, and it keeps the starting weight at 4.56 pounds. It makes similar claims about battery life as the previous model, too, promising 36 hours of runtime with both the extended battery and SSD. The 15-inch 8570p, a refresh of the 8560p, offers similar specs minus the display size. Both the 8740p and 8570p are available with dual- or quad-core Ivy Bridge CPUs, integrated graphics or an AMD Radeon 7570M graphics card with 1GB of dedicated memory and a choice of hard drives, SSDs and self-encrypting drives. Both models are also made to withstand the elements outside the office, and they pass MIL-STD 810G testing for dust, vibration and more. Both models will go for $899 starting on June 4th.

 Last is the EliteBook 8470w workstation, available with a 14-, 15- or 17-inch screen. The 14-incher has AMD graphics, while the 15-inch and 17-inch versions have an NVIDIA GPU with 4GB of video memory -- up from 2GB. HP retooled the trackpad and added a 50-percent brightness option to the backlit keyboard (for the 15- and 17-inch models only), but it kept the chassis from last year's w-series workstations. Availability and pricing aren't yet clear; HP simply says the 8470w will ship this summer.

 Dana Wollman contributed to this report.
  Show full PR text  
   SHANGHAI, May 9, 2012 - HP today expanded its industry-leading computing portfolio with more than 30 new products engineered to address the design, reliability, security and performance demands of end users and IT departments across businesses of all sizes.
  Among the products announced are:
    New Ultrabook systems for business-including the HP EliteBook Folio 9470m, HP's first no-compromise Ultrabook for business users-which deliver the style and simplicity users demand, combined with security and manageability to help businesses keep control of their IT.
    HP EliteBook p-series notebooks that are designed to MIL-STD810G testing for vibration, dust, altitude, temperature and drops. The new series features the HP EliteBook 2170p, the smallest, lightest HP business notebook, as well as new additions to the highly configurable HP ProBook b-series and the redesigned HP ProBook s- series.
    Four desktop PC series-the HP Compaq Pro 4300 Business Desktop and All-in-One PC, the HP Compaq Pro 6300 and the HP Compaq Elite 8300- balancing secure manageability, flexibility and trusted reliability.
    New commercial displays, including the HP Compaq L2206tm multitouch-enabled monitor and the HP Compaq LA2405x LED backlit monitor.
    New software solutions, including HP Premier Image for a cleaner, faster user experience with streamlined deployment and HP BIOS Protection, which offers hardware-level protection against virus attacks and other security threats to meet National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines.
    "Our business customers today are challenged not only with competitive and economic pressures, but also an onslaught of IT-based issues such as the consumerization of IT and the management of exponential data growth," said Dan Forlenza, vice president and general manager, Commercial Client Segment, HP. "With innovative, reliable hardware designs and predictive software technologies, these additions to HP's award-winning commercial product portfolio make it easier for customers to keep their businesses running securely and efficiently."
  On-the-go productivity, durability and reliability
  Designed from the ground up for business users, the HP EliteBook Folio 9470m Ultrabook combines the sleek, lightweight design users crave with the business features and reliability IT demands. Measuring 19 millimeters thin and weighing in at just over 3.5 pounds, this 14-inch diagonal Ultrabook offers enterprise-class docking capabilities and security features, and boots quickly from sleep.
  In addition to a full array of ports and connectivity options for built-in 4G wireless WAN, Ethernet, VGA, DisplayPort and USB 3.0, the Ultrabook offers the option for a secondary battery that provides extended run time. The HP EliteBook Folio features long life cycles and stable, consistent images, making it easy to buy and deploy. The Ultrabook is also available in consistent global configurations that allow for product standardization in up to 151 countries as a part of the HP Global Series Program.
  The sleek HP SpectreXT Pro Ultrabook and HP ENVY Pro Ultrabook also deliver Windows 7 Professional for business productivity, providing an answer to the "consumerization of IT" trend. The HP SpectreXT Pro offers an embedded TPM security chip that protects data in email as well as information on the solid state drive for security-conscious users. All three Ultrabooks also feature optional a-band wireless capabilities and optional three- year limited warranties.
  The HP EliteBook 2170p is the company's smallest and lightest-weight business notebook. Ideal for road warriors, the new 11.6-inch diagonal notebook weighs in under 2.9 pounds, yet still supports enterprise-class connectivity, security and management features. With up to nine hours of battery life, the HP EliteBook 2170p is also compatible with the common docking stations used across the HP business notebook portfolio for maximum efficiency.
  The new HP EliteBook 2570p steps up to a 12.5-inch-diagonal high-definition (HD) display and also packs an optical drive and extensive connectivity options, including 4G wireless WAN for LTE for no-compromise ultraportable productivity. Also new today, the HP 2570p Docking Station and a long-life battery support the HP EliteBook 2570p with advanced features for maximum productivity.
  The HP EliteBook 8470p and 8570p premier business notebooks offer business-critical durability, manageability and security features as well as expanded battery options, including an HP EliteBook 8470p configuration that delivers the best industry battery life-up to 36 hours of run time on a single charge when combined with the optional HP Ultra Extended Life Notebook Battery. The notebooks respectively tout 14- or 15.6- inch diagonal displays and deliver smooth audio quality from SRS Premium Sound PRO, which is available across the HP EliteBook p-series for crisp, powerful sound directly from the notebook.
  All of the new HP EliteBooks also employ HP's design framework, which embodies a timeless construction. Precision-engineered durability features are designed with the environment in mind, and the four systems also sport third-generation Intel® CoreTM processors for great performance and long battery life.
  The new, highly configurable HP ProBook b-series mainstream notebook PCs offer 14- or 15.6-inch diagonal displays with UMA or discrete graphics. Protected by a durable case with a wear-resistant tungsten-colored finish, the HP ProBook b-series also helps keeps data safe with the HP 3D DriveGuard, which helps the notebooks withstand the bumps common with mobile use. Intel vPro Technology provides enhanced IT manageability capabilities on the HP ProBook 6470b and 6570b, and the HP ProBook 6475b delivers the latest AMD technology for affordable business productivity.
  Sporting a new industrial design, the HP ProBook s-series notebook PCs provide easy-to- use security for small and medium businesses, combined with an aluminum casing that strengthens the exterior. Measuring 13.3 to 17.3 inches diagonally, the notebooks offer multimedia capabilities for videoconferencing in the office and entertainment consumption after hours in both Intel and AMD-based configurations.
  Designed to enhance HP notebook platforms and business productivity, HP is debuting a range of new business notebook accessories. HP Docking Stations and HP Advanced Docking Stations offer expansive connectivity for a true desktop experience, with convenient port replication, USB 2.0 and 3.0 compatibility, battery charging, and an upgrade bay for additional storage.
  HP Port Replicators enable quick access to USB 2.0 and 3.0 devices and expand productivity with a connection to one or two external displays-all through a single USB cable.(14) New wireless and USB keyboards and mice also stylishly complement HP notebook platforms and help create a total workspace solution at the desk.
  Flexible desktop solutions for increased business productivity
  The latest all-in-one desktop solution for businesses, the HP Compaq Pro 4300 All-in- One is HP's most space-efficient commercial all-in-one built for business-class performance with the latest PC technologies. The versatile design is equipped to collaborate with multimedia-rich features and impressive graphics, as well as smart connectivity enhancements like a serial port and expandable storage, including solid state and self-encrypting hard drives. It features a 20-inch diagonal, LED backlit display and is powered by third-generation Intel Core processors and Intel HD Graphics.
  Ideal for small businesses, the space-saving HP Compaq Pro 4300 Small Form Factor Desktop PC offers the latest Intel processors backed by affordable, business-class quality and reliability.
  The HP Compaq Pro 6300 Series offers proven technologies combined with the right blend of expansion capabilities and deployment options. The latest Intel processors and integrated Intel HD Graphics in two chassis options also provide optimal performance. All of the new HP business desktops also feature a choice of optional discrete graphics solutions from AMD and NVIDIA.
  HP's top-of-the-line commercial tower PCs, the HP Compaq Elite 8300 Series, incorporates the latest management, security and expansion with a premium support experience through the unique HP Elite service program. A broad portfolio of available chassis options and the latest Intel processors are designed to match the needs and deployment scenarios of businesses.
  Designed for high-traffic, customer-facing areas and users who benefit from multi-touch capabilities, the new HP Compaq L2206tm 21.5-inch diagonal LED backlit monitor features optical touch performance with three sensors for on-the-spot touch recognition. The display supports finger input or passive stylus input for improved precision in drawing and handwriting applications, plus height, tilt and pivot adjustments.
  The HP Compaq LA2405x monitor delivers 24-inch-diagonal high-quality viewing and comfort-focused height, tilt, swivel and pivot adjustments. Smart connectivity and brushed-aluminum design accents complement the design of HP's business desktops, and the widescreen display offers full HD 1,920 x 1,200 resolution screen with LED technology that enables a thinner profile and solid-state reliability.
  Professional Innovations for a simplified, secure computing experience
  HP business PCs incorporate an array of hardware features and software solutions designed to enhance security, improve ease of use, and help ensure reliability while keeping the environment in mind. The new HP Premier Image includes the full suite of HP EliteBook business software and anti-virus protection, while eliminating trial-ware and other distractions. The cleaner image eases business PC IT deployment, management and support.
  HP also includes multilayered client security features that safeguard data, devices and user identities. The latest addition to the HP Client Security portfolio is HP BIOS Protection,(3) which offers hardware-level protection against virus attacks and other security threats. An advanced set of security policies alert IT to unauthorized changes to the system BIOS, detects possible corruption or attack, and then automatically reverts to a functional state to help prevent data loss, reduce downtime and lower IT support costs.
  Pricing and availability
    The HP EliteBook Folio 9470m is expected to be available in October.
    The HP Spectre XT Pro Ultrabook and HP ENVY Pro Ultrabook start at $1,049 and $849, respectively, and are expected to be available in June.
    The HP EliteBook 2170p and HP EliteBook 2570p start at $999 and $1,099, respectively, and are expected to be available on June 22. The HP EliteBook 8470p and 8570p start at $899 and are expected to be available on June 4.
    The HP ProBook 6470b and 6570b start at $769, the HP ProBook6475b starts at $669 and the HP ProBook s-series starts at $589. All three HP ProBook series are expected to be available on June 4.
      The HP Compaq Pro 4300 All-in-One is expected to be available in Asia on June22, and in the Americas this fall. The HP Compaq Elite 8300 and HP Compaq Pro 6300 start at $679 and $579, respectively, and are expected to be available on June 4. The HP Compaq Pro 4300 SFF starts at $499 and is expected to be available on July 9.
    The HP Compaq LA2405x starts at $269 and is expected to be available on May 9.The HP Compaq L2206tm starts at $279 and is expected to be available on June 4.
  The company also unveiled new Ultrabooks, consumer PCs and business computing and printing solutions, demonstrating its commitment to providing the latest personal computing technology to its customers.
    
