
 


	It's shaping up to be a wild day for HP: in addition to revamping its Envy laptops and announcing its first Ultrabook, the outfit went and refreshed the mid-range Pavilion dm4. While it has the same metal-heavy design that bowled us over in our review, it trades Altec Lansing audio for Beats and gains a subwoofer. Otherwise, its entry-level specs -- a Core i3 CPU, 6GB of RAM and a 640GB 5,400RPM hard drive -- closely match the starting config available today.

	And, while the company was at it, HP also announced a red-and-black-spangled Beats Edition. An inevitable move, if you ask us: HP has been pushing its partnership with Dr. Dre so heavily that it went so far as to redesign its Envy laptops with a prominent Beats dial. Then again, this is the first time HP's given the Beats special edition treatment to anything other than a top-shelf machine. In any case, you better be pretty sweet on that red backlit keyboard -- the gussied-up, Dre-approved version starts at $900 (headphones not included). Then again, at least you get beefier specs for the money: a Core i5 CPU, 8GB of RAM and a 750GB hard drive. If nine hundred bucks isn't what you had in mind, the classic dm4 starts at $630. Both will be available December 18th. If you're curious, find the full PR after the break, along with some rubbernecking hands-on shots below.



 

 		Show full PR text   HP Expands Thin and Light Notebook PC Portfolio			Company launches two HP Pavilion dm4 notebooks, offering users powerful performance, enhanced audio			PALO ALTO, Calif., Nov. 16, 2011 – HP today expanded its ultraportable consumer notebook PC portfolio with thin and light products that provide the ideal balance of mobility and high performance. 			- With powerful performance in a small package, the HP Pavilion dm4 includes the latest Intel® Core™ processors, Beats Audio™ and a 14-inch high-definition (HD) LED display for a rich multimedia experience.			- The HP Pavilion dm4 Beats™ Edition delivers the ultimate listening experience with Beats Audio and features the signature black-and-red Beats Audio design.  HP Pavilion dm4 – mobility, entertainment and performance			Designed to help users tackle daily tasks on the go with uncompromising performance, the HP Pavilion dm4 boasts a profile that is 1-inch thin in the front and features a 14-inch HD LED display for an ideal, mobile entertainment experience. 			Weighing less than 4.5 pounds and offering up to seven hours of battery life, the HP Pavilion dm4 features the latest Intel Core processors with optional AMD Radeon™ HD 7470M discrete graphics. 			Available in a brushed aluminum dark umber or steel gray metal finish with optional backlit keyboard, the HP Pavilion dm4 includes optional Intel Smart Response Technology, which provides faster boot times and application loads. 			With the added subwoofer and Beats Audio, the Pavilion dm4 offers a full audio experience. The notebook also includes innovations such as HP TrueVision HD Webcam, HP CoolSense and HP SimplePass with fingerprint reader for storing passwords in one place.  HP Pavilion dm4 Beats Edition – ultimate listening experience			The sleek HP Pavilion dm4 Beats Edition reflects the signature Beats blackand-red design. The black metal exterior features a red Beats logo and a striking black keyboard that is backlit in red. The soft-touch surface on the palm rest provides a smooth, silk-like tactile experience.			The Pavilion dm4 Beats Edition also includes exclusive Beats wallpaper and a Beats microfiber sleeve. Solo HD Headphones with an HP exclusive red design – are available via an optional bundle. 			Beats Audio technology was developed by HP in collaboration with legendary artist and producer Dr. Dre and chairman of Interscope Geffen A&M Records and Beats co-founder Jimmy Iovine. 			HP also introduced its first Ultrabook™, the HP Folio 13 , as well as new HP ENVY notebook PCs.  Pricing and availability 			The new HP Pavilion dm4 and Pavilion dm4 Beats Edition are expected			to be available in the United States on Dec. 18. 			- The HP Pavilion dm4 has a starting price of $629.99.			- The HP Pavilion dm4 Beats Edition has a starting price of $899.99. 			Additional information is available at www.hp.com/personal and			http://shopping.hp.com/go/newfromhp. 
 