
The Envy x2 has never been our favorite Windows 8 tablet, but that hasn't stopped HP from selling loads of them. The device has been such a success, in fact, that the company is expanding the x2 series to make room for two follow-on products: the Split x2 (a Windows 8 hybrid) and the SlateBook x2 (an Android tablet). Starting with the Split (pictured above), this is the first time HP's made a laptop / tablet hybrid with a laptop processor inside, though Microsoft and others have of course done this already. In brief, it's a 13-inch slate with a 1,366 x 768 display and your choice of Core i3 or i5 CPU (these are Intel's Y-series Ivy Bridge chips we're talking about). As you'd expect, the keyboard dock packs a second battery, though it also makes room for an optional 500GB hard drive to complement the SSD inside the actual tablet. Other specs include two USB ports (one 2.0, one 3.0), HDMI, Beats Audio, WiDi and expansion slots for both microSD and full SD cards.


The SlateBook (shown below) is a 10-inch tablet with a Tegra 4 chip -- one of the first to be announced by any company, in fact. Though it's a companion to the $169 Slate 7, it packs considerably higher-end specs. There's that Tegra 4 SoC, for one, as well as a 1,920 x 1,200, 400-nit IPS display and the latest version of Jelly Bean (4.2.2). As with other dockable tablets, its keyboard has a battery built in. Here, though, the keyboard also includes a shortcut for Google voice search. There's even a laptop-style trackpad supporting multitouch gestures -- a rarity on products like this. The hardware itself weighs about 2.8 pounds in total, with a spec list that includes two one USB socket, stereo speakers and SD / microSD readers. Both products will be available in August, with the Split x2 priced at $800 and the SlateBook x2 going for $480 (docks included). Now all we need are some battery life claims. In the meantime, check out our hands-on photos below. (Pssst: the Split unit we photographed was just a mockup.)



 
Edgar Alvarez contributed to this report.
Show full PR textHP Expands x2 Detachable PC Portfolio to Enable Ultimate FlexibilityNew two-in-one detachable PCs with Android or Windows 8 offer mobility, productivity

PALO ALTO, Calif., May 15, 2013 - HP today announced the HP SlateBook x2 and the HP Split x2, two detachable PCs that offer the full functionality of a notebook with a removable screen that also is a sleek tablet. Powered by the Android and Microsoft® Windows® 8 operating systems (OS), respectively, these versatile two-in-one devices combine power and portability, giving customers the flexibility to create, consume and share content in more places.

HP's unmatched portfolio of next-generation PCs is designed to enable users to connectwith their information on devices that easily adapt to their needs. By releasing themagnetic hinge, users can move elegantly between the two form factors-tablet andnotebook PC-all in one device.

- The HP SlateBook x2 is the first Android detachable device with the NVIDIA Tegra 4 mobile processor, providing users more realistic gaming, fast web browsing and smooth high-definition (HD) video playback.- The HP Split x2, powered by the Windows 8 OS, features a 13.3-inch diagonal display and powerful processor and is ideal for work or play.

"Customers want to access and share content anywhere, anytime, on any internet connected device-and they expect those connections to be seamless," said Ron Coughlin, senior vice president and general manager, Consumer PCs, HP. "The HP SlateBook x2 and the HP Split x2 are next-generation devices and the latest examples of our continued commitment to evolving the computing experience by providing the flexibility necessary for customers to be productive at home, at the office or on the go."

The HP SlateBook x2 and Split x2 join the award-winning HP ENVY x2 as part of HP's detachable PC portfolio. The HP SlateBook x2 also joins the HP Slate7 as part of HP's push to offer access to the Google experience, and to provide access through multiple operating systems.HP SlateBook x2The HP SlateBook x2 enables users to shift effortlessly from entertainment to work by combining tablet portability with notebook productivity in a sleek, lightweight device that uses the popular Android operating system. With an advanced magnetic hinge design and dual battery system-one battery in the base and one in the tablet-users can easily switch from notebook to tablet and back, even while on the go.

Ensuring users don't trade functionality for portability, the HP SlateBook x2 features Android Jelly Bean 4.2.2 and delivers the Google experience with services like Google Now, Google Search, Gmail, YouTube, Google Drive and Google+ Hangouts for multiperson video chat as well as access to apps and digital content through Google Play.

The SlateBook x2 features an NVIDIA Tegra 4 mobile processor, enabling users to access the TegraZone app and experience Tegra 4-optimized games. The 10.1-inch HD touchscreen display delivers crisp lines, sharp images and precision color while reducing glare. The SlateBook x2 also includes 64 GB of storage and DTS Sound+ Solution for accessing and enjoying photos, music and videos.

HP's exclusive native printing capability allows users to print directly from most applications.

HP Split x2The HP Split x2 is a versatile, two-in-one detachable PC that combines power and portability with the Windows 8 operating system and powerful 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processor family. Consumers can now enjoy a high-performance ultraportable notebook suited for virtually any intensive task, and that doubles as a 13-inch tablet to give unparalleled entertainment capability for playing games, videos and more.

Whether being used as a high-performance notebook or a tablet, the vibrant 13.3-inchdiagonal HD touchscreen display makes it easier to view and share content, play gameswith friends and family, or enjoy high-quality music with HP Connected Music and Beats Audio, which provides the best-sounding, richest audio experience on a PC.

An optional hard disk in the base expands storage capacity while dual batteries allowusers to stay ultramobile.

The HP Split x2 offers an eye-catching design with a soft-touch coating that provides acomfortable hold and shows fewer fingerprints. The HP Split x2 also offers exclusive HPinnovations such as a 2-megapixel HP TrueVision Full HD webcam and the HP ClickPadfor precise multifinger and gesture navigation.

HP complements its new PCs with a suite of exclusive solutions and services that providean array of simple and easy-to-access support tools and resources to help customers take full advantage of all the features that HP has to offer. Customers can add to the standard product limited warranty with HP Care Pack services to protect new HP products, and enhance the overall experience with accidental damage protection that helps consumers breathe easier when accidental drops, spills, and surges occur.

For the HP SlateBook x2, customers can purchase the HP Care Pack with Accidental Damage Protection, which helps them avoid out-of-pocket repair or replacement costs and provides door-to-door service to the consumers' homes so they are back up and running in no time. For the HP Split x2, customers can buy the HP Care Pack with Accidental Damage Protection bundled with Lojack, which allows customers to take immediate action to prevent data access if the PC is stolen.

Pricing and availabilityThe HP SlateBook x2 and HP Split x2 are expected to be available in the United States in August with starting prices of $479.99 and $799.99, respectively.

Additional information about the HP SlateBook x2 and the HP Split x2 is available at www.hp.com/x2 and The Next Bench.


