
 

It's hitting the airwaves a few hours later than promised, but HP's TouchPad finally has the long-awaited webOS update that early adopters have been clamoring for. Wondering what webOS 3.0.2 brings to the multi-touch table? Aside from performance and reliability enhancements, it also adds "improved functionality to several core webOS apps," most of which are direct responses to user feedback. Indeed, "hundreds" of improvements are promised, including bolstered scrolling within the email app, the ability to set your wallpaper from photos in the Photos app, Just Type searching within Calendar and improved autocorrection of contractions. Yeah, seriously. A more detailed changelog awaits you after the break, and you can let us know if your bell has been rung down in comments below.
      

 
  webOS 3.0.2 		HP webOS system update 3.0.2 provides increased system performance and stability and addresses a number of bugs. 		HP webOS system update 3.0.2 offers improvements in the following areas.		Core applications		Calendar 		* Quicker Just Type event search and event creation		* Improved handling of meeting cancellations 		Email 		* Faster scrolling		* Improved message content and image display		* Improved management of multiple emails in Draft and Outbox views 		Music 		* Reduced audio skipping when the device is running other applications		* Better display of album art 		Photos & Videos 		* Added ability to set wallpapers		* Faster and more reliable handling of individual photos and albums 		Text Assist 		* Improved speed and accuracy of auto-corrections 		Web 		* Increased scrolling support compatibility within web pages		* Improved performance of remote HTML5 video playback		* Improved responsiveness of auto correction within the browser 		webOS System 		* Fixed issues with oversensitive screen rotation 		Security 		This release addresses a number of security issues with HP webOS software. 		Individuals interested in contacting HP to report suspected security issues can find more information at hpwebos.com/security .

