

 HP has been rolling out a steady stream of Ivy Bridge-based upgrades over the past few weeks, and now it's the turn of the pro-oriented EliteBook W-series to get the long-awaited upgrade. The 8470W, 8570W and 8770W draw on Intel's faster dual Core i5 and quad Core i7 chips with respective choices of 14-, 15.6- and 17.3-inch screens. All of them pack AMD's FirePro for video duties, although big spenders at the larger two sizes can opt for one of NVIDIA's Quadro K-series graphics chips as well as an IPS-based display for color-sensitive work. Options will get you niceties such as a 24GB SSD cache, 3G and up to 16GB of RAM, although the EliteBooks' signature military-spec resistances to dust, shock and temperature are thankfully par for the course. The range costs $1,329, $1,449 and $1,699 as you move up the screen size ladder, and all three will be available before June is over.

 If you prefer your workstations to be more powerful but slightly more stationary, you're still welcome in HP's world: the equally fresh Z220 desktop carries Intel's new quad-core Xeon E3 processor or, if that's a bit too rich for your blood, a Pentium or quad Core i7. AMD FirePro and NVIDIA Quadro video cards are both made-to-order upgrades, and the modern underpinnings add both USB 3.0 as well as headroom for up to 32GB of RAM, if the fear of paging to disk keeps you awake at night. HP has both tower and small form factor versions of the Z220 starting off at $699, and they too will be ready to stretch IT budgets later this month. 




  Show full PR text   HP Delivers High-performance Desktop and Mobile Workstations
  PALO ALTO, Calif., June 4, 2012 - HP today announced the new HP Z220 Workstations and HP EliteBook Mobile Workstations, packed with reliable and professional-class features.  HP's most affordable, no-compromise workstations, the Z220, features next-generation Intel® Core and Intel® Xeon® processors, the latest integrated and discrete professional graphics from Intel, NVIDIA and AMD and four integrated USB 3.0 high-speed ports. The Z220 entry-level workstation is available in a choice of an exceptionally expandable, Convertible Mini-Tower (CMT) or a highly compact Small Form Factor (SFF) that's 65 percent smaller and perfect for tight spaces.
  The HP EliteBook w-series is HP's best combination of high-performance features and graphics in a business-rugged design, featuring next-generation Intel Core™ i7 quad-core or i7 or i5 dual-core processors and up to 32 GB of system memory.  Both desktop and mobile workstations offer a breadth of independent software vendor (ISV) certifications for professionals across a range of industries from product development to media and entertainment.
  "The addition of the new HP Z220 and EliteBook Mobile Workstations strengthens our already-robust lineup and reinforces our position as the market leader in the workstations industry," said Jim Zafarana, vice president and general manager, Commercial Solutions Business Unit, HP. "For design, animation and engineering customers, creativity can strike while out in the field or back at the office-we've designed HP Workstations to complement the needs of professionals who demand quality and reliability where ever they are."
  More power, less energy, still affordable
  HP Z220 Workstations deliver new technologies to improve overall system performance and energy efficiency. Designed for 24x7 operations under heavy workloads, they continue to set the standard for affordable entry-level workstations and bring unbelievable value to demanding professionals in a range of market and business segments from product development / mechanical computer-aided design (MCAD), architecture/engineering/construction (AEC) and professional video editing to education, healthcare and government.
  Both Z220 Workstation models offer an array of choices from the new Intel Xeon processor E3-1200 v2 family and third-generation Intel Core processor family. They feature the latest Intel HD Graphics P4000 professional graphics option on selected Intel Xeon E3v2 processors, and a selection of entry, mid-range and high-end discrete graphics cards from NVIDIA and AMD, including support for the next generation PCIe Gen3 graphics cards as they become available.
  Other performance enhancements include up to 32GB of 1600MHz DDR3 memory (ECC or non-ECC) and Intel® Smart Response Technology, an easy to install disk caching technology that can significantly improve storage IO performance, for faster boot time and frequently accessed applications. An optional handle in the top optical bay makes it very convenient to move the Z220 CMT. In addition, HP Z220 Workstations feature 90 percent efficient power supplies as standard and are BFR/PVC free.
  Workstation performance on the go
  HP's most powerful mobile workstation, the HP EliteBook 8770w, offers the highest-performing professional graphics and extreme processing power, and is highly configurable with a 17.3-inch diagonal display. The versatile and portable HP EliteBook 8570w includes high-end professional graphics, robust processing power and a 15.6-inch diagonal display. HP's most travel-friendly mobile workstation, the HP EliteBook 8470w, features workstation-caliber graphics and powerful processing along with a business-rugged design that's optimized around a 14-inch diagonal HD display.
  The HP EliteBook Mobile Workstations are ideal for professionals who need workstation power wherever the job might take them-whether it's editing video at a remote film location or tweaking designs on a construction site. Since color accuracy is critical for many workstation customers, the HP EliteBook 8570w and 8770w are available with HP DreamColor Technology as an option, providing an IPS display with a consistent color experience throughout development.
  Designed specifically for the needs of professionals on the go, the HP EliteBook w-series features a magnesium aluminum chassis, a radial-brushed display cover that resists fingerprints, glass touchpads and precision aluminum-alloy hinges and HP Easy Access Doors to make them easy to open and keep them secure when closed. They meet stringent military standards (MIL-STD-810G) for dust, vibration, shock, altitude, drop, high temperature, low temperature, temperature shock.
  Other business-features on the EliteBook w-series include Intel Smart Response Technology for faster system boot and application startup, and SRS Premium Sound PRO for smooth audio quality when engaging in a video conferences, web-based trainings or streaming videos.
  All HP Workstations come preloaded with HP Performance Advisor, which provides a consolidated report of the workstation's hardware and software configuration that can be used to tune the workstation specifically for professional application workloads with just one click, reducing time spent troubleshooting.
  Pricing and availability
  Quad-core configurations of the HP Z220 Workstation start at $699 and the HP EliteBook 8770w, 8570w, 8470w Mobile Workstations start at $1,699, $1,449, and $1,329 respectively, The workstations are expected to be available in the United States in later this month.
  More information about HP Workstations is available at www.hp.com/zworkstations.
 
