
 

Lest you think the desktop is an endangered species, HP, at least, begs to differ. The company just unveiled three of 'em: the Pavilion p7, Slimline s5, and the Pavilion HPE h8 -- all festooned with black finishes, rounded edges, sliding port covers, and metallic panels designed to blend in with the electronics already populating your living room. Of the three, the p7 is the most mainstream, with a non-threatening chassis that's about the size you'd expect a tower to be. The Slimline s5 has a similar look, but is about half the size, making it look more like a media hub. Lastly, there's the HPE h8, whose red accents and beastlier shape mark it as the power tower it is. For the money, you'll get discrete graphics, optional Beats Audio, and support for dual displays. The p7 and h8 go on sale May 18, starting at $299 and $599, respectively. For the petite s5, you'll have to step up to a $329 starting price. Look for it on June 15.





 		Show full PR text  HP Introduces Sophisticated New HP Pavilion Consumer Desktop PCs  New consumer offerings include sleek, modern towers and micro-thin display designed to complement any home decor			PALO ALTO, Calif., May 16, 2011 			HP today announced a new lineup of HP Pavilion consumer desktop PCs that deliver the latest technologies in sophisticated designs. 			With clean lines, soft forms and contrasting materials, the redesigned HP Pavilion desktops match the style and preferences of today's consumer, fitting anywhere from dorm-room desks to media cabinets. 			A glossy, black front panel layered over a metallic base gives depth and dimension to the new towers, while sliding front panels hide ports and drives for a polished, clean appearance. Select models also offer a valet tray integrated into the top of the PC and equipped with USB ports for easy access and charging of smartphones, digital cameras and MP3 players. 			"Consumers demand the best of both worlds from their desktop PCs – performance and expandability with a design that fits them and their environment," said Randall Martin, chief design strategist, Desktop PCs, Personal Systems Group, HP. "HP's new Pavilion PCs offer intuitive features and enhanced aesthetics, bridging the gap that sometimes exists between form and function."  Versatile design, powerful features 			In addition to a refined industrial design, the new HP Pavilion consumer desktop PCs are available with powerful processors and graphics for a superior computing experience. Additionally, innovative technologies like Beats Audio and HP LinkUp are now available on select models to offer consumers the latest in sound and convenience. 			Music lovers will enjoy hearing their favorite music the way the artist intended it with Beats Audio, a high-performance sound technology developed by HP and Beats by Dr. Dre™. For those who crave a truly connected digital world, HP LinkUp lets users view and interact with content and programs from their notebook PCs on an HP Pavilion desktop PC wirelessly via a home network and without file mix-ups or complex synchronization. Viewing applications and editing files from a notebook on the desktop's larger display and with a full-size keyboard creates a more comfortable and productive experience. 			The HP Pavilion consumer desktop family includes: 			HP Pavilion p7 series PCs: For everyday computing at a great value, the HP Pavilion P7 series PCs offer generous hard drive space for photos, music and video. Premium graphics enhance picture quality, and built-in support for multichannel surround sound offers a powerful audio experience. 			HP Pavilion Slimline s5 series PCs: Fitting in even the smallest space, the HP Pavilion Slimline s5 performance series PCs are less than half the size of conventional PC towers, but configurable to offer maximum storage and processors to support the most demanding multitaskers. 			HP Pavilion HPE h8 series PCs: The HP HPE h8 series PCs are the most powerful Pavilion PCs to date. Select models are available with up to three internal hard drives, AMD Phenom or Intel® Core™ i7 processors, and high-end NVIDIA or ATI graphics. The HPE h8 series PCs offer the ultimate computing experience in a sleek and simple design. The PCs also support multiple displays so users can be more productive with up to three monitors.  A perfect partner: the HP x2301 Micro Thin LED backlit monitor 			HP also introduced the HP x2301 23-inch Micro Thin LED backlit monitor. The HP x2301 is crafted to take display design to a new dimension, offering consumers a striking micro-thin profile (9.8 mm) complemented by a translucent aquamarine base and brush anodized aluminum accents. 			Users will appreciate not only its sleek aesthetics but also its high-dynamic contrast ratio, full high-definition resolution, glare-reducing BrightView technology and fast response time. The HP x2301 also is ENERGY STAR® 5.0 qualified and EPEAT® Silver registered, containing mercury-free LED backlights and arsenic-free display glass to reduce environmental impact. It's the ideal partner for any new HP Pavilion desktop PC.  Pricing and availability 			The HP HPE h8 series PCs are expected to be available on HP Home & Home Office on May 18 at a starting price of $599.99 and at select U.S. retailers on June 19.			The HP Pavilion p7 series PCs are expected to be available on HP Home & Home Office on May 18 at a starting price of $299.99 and at select U.S. retailers on June 19. 			The HP Pavilion Slimline s5 series PCs are expected to be available on HP Home & Home Office on June 15 at a starting price of $329.99 and at select U.S. retailers on June 19. 			The HP x2301 consumer monitor is expected to be available on June 10 in the United States at a starting price of $279.99. 
