
       
No, we wouldn't say we've been looking at AMD lately, HP -- but we've got a strong feeling that we're about to with the slew of not-yet-announced processors that are powering these new affordable business laptops. The HP ProBook 4325s, 4425s, and 4525 may look like their brushed-aluminum business laptop brethren, but instead of Intel inside, they can be configured with AMD's new Phenom II quad-core, Phenom II triple-core, Turion II or Athlon II processors -- all which are apparently 69 percent faster than previous generation HP AMD laptops. Add in an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 530v discrete graphics option and an $619 starting price, and the S-series may just be our new favorite HP sub-brand -- though we'll reserve final judgment until we test these puppies and check out the battery life. In addition to those three, the 14-inch 6445b and 15-inch 6555b pack the same new processor options, but for $799 they have a more durable case with a spill-resistant keyboard. Oh don't worry Intel, the ProBook line hasn't forgotten about you: there's still some Core i3, i5 and i7 love in the new HP ProBook 6450b and 6550b, which now also have vPro remote management technology. 

And just when you thought HP couldn't go any lower in price with its business line up, the 14-inch HP 425 and 15.6-inch 625 emerge at $550. While these guys aren't exactly the thinnest or lightest of the bunch, they should still provide an ample amount of performance with AMD's new 2.3GHz Turion II dual-core, 2.1GHz Athlon II dual-core and V Series processors and ATI Radeon HD 4200 integrated graphics. Not a bad time to be in the boardroom, huh? Head down below for some glossy press shots and the full releases. 






Show full PR textHP Delivers Affordable Notebook PCs Across All Business SegmentsPALO ALTO, Calif., May 5, 2010 – HP today introduced nine affordable business notebook PCs tailored for corporate and small to midsize business customers. With prices starting at $549,(1) the new notebooks deliver HP's best combination of features, functionality and value for businesses. The introduction continues a series of announcements that provide businesses the broadest mix of products to update aging desktops, workstations and notebooks. Additions to the HP notebook portfolio include:- The HP ProBook 6455b/6555b series offers the latest VISION Pro technology from AMD to deliver cost-effective performance, while the notebook's security features maintain a more secure, mobile environment. - The HP ProBook 6450b/6550b series features Intel® vPro technology to help businesses cut costs and increase efficiency, as well as flexible docking and battery options and a range of wireless connectivity choices.(2,3)- The HP ProBook 4325s/4425s/4525s series sports brushed-aluminum metal cases in caviar or bordeaux. The notebooks offer a range of configurable options, including new AMD Phenom™ II, AMD Turion™ II, AMD Athlon™ II or AMD V-series processors(4) that deliver different levels of performance at varying prices. - The HP 425 and HP 625 are the company's most affordable notebook offerings. Features such as optional wireless technologies,(2,3) a 2-megapixel webcam,(5) an integrated microphone and a spill-resistant keyboard keep users connected and protected while on the go.HP customers get improved performance on popular applications with the updated AMD multicore processors. For example, an HP notebook that employs a new AMD Phenom II Dual-Core N620 processor offers up to 69 percent faster performance than previous generation HP AMD-powered notebooks(6) and gets up to 24 percent longer battery life.(7) This performance, coupled with flexible battery options, provides hours of battery use. Exceptional visual performance via UMA graphics gives users hassle-free, efficient computing.The new HP ProBook 6450b and HP ProBook 6550b notebooks offer the latest Intel Core™ i7, i5 and i3 processors.(8) The Core i7 and Core i5 include optional Intel vPro technology(9) to deliver intelligent performance, flexible graphics options, and unique hardware-assisted security and manageability features.A choice of Intel HD Graphics or ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 540v graphics processor delivers amazing visual performance.Users can choose a 14-inch (6450b/6455b) or 15.6-inch (6550b/6555b) diagonal high-definition (HD)(10) LED-backlit display and extensive wireless connectivity options, including HP Mobile Broadband(2) and optional dual-pointing devices(11) that offer greater ease of use. Other features include multiple battery options, including the HP Long Life Battery, compatibility with the HP 12-cell ultra-capacity battery, an eSATA/USB 2.0 combo port and optional dual hard drive support.(11)All of the new HP ProBook b-series feature a spill-resistant keyboard with drains. This helps protect sensitive electronics and key components from minor spills by combining a thin layer of Mylar film under the keyboard with a drain system that funnels the fluid through a hole in the bottom of the notebook. All ProBook b-series notebooks are designed to work with the recently introduced HP 90W and HP 120W Advanced Docking Stations.(11) The docking stations connect to notebooks in one easy step and eliminate the need to plug and unplug peripherals or accessories into the notebooks every time they are used. The HP 120W Advanced Docking Station allows users to expand the notebook's functionality with an integrated Upgrade Bay.Cost-effective performance for a secure, mobile environmentIdeal for budget-conscious mobile professionals, the new HP ProBook 4325s (13.3-inch diagonal), HP ProBook 4425s (14-inch diagonal) and HP ProBook 4525s (15.6-inch diagonal) notebook PCs feature a range of configurable options and essential office and multimedia applications to assist small business professionals with everyday needs.The new notebooks offer a choice of processor technology from AMD and a choice of UMA or discrete graphics options depending on the model. Users also can choose multiple wireless connectivity options, including HP Mobile Broadband, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth®.(2,3) The HP ProBook s-series features new multimedia controls for video and comes loaded with the new ArcSoft TotalMedia Suite to allow users to play, edit and create video and audio files. They also feature ClickPad Gestures to allow for a more intuitive document navigation experience.The b-series and s-series notebooks also include several HP Professional Innovations, including HP Power Assistant software to allow users to more easily monitor energy usage(12) and Central Management for HP ProtectTools,(13) which offers remote security management, deployment, monitoring and auditing from one central location. Central Management for HP ProtectTools can be used on HP or other industry-standard notebooks so IT administrators can manage all the notebooks in their environment with one easy-to-use software application.HP DayStarter(14) allows users to get a head start on the day's activities with access to key information such as their calendar and battery status, even before the operating system boots, while HP QuickWeb(15) allows users to access the web in seconds when the notebook is shut down. The application resides outside the notebook's operating system, so there is no need to wait for the computer to boot up; users can simply push the dedicated button.Full-function performance, affordability and valueWith a new industrial design featuring a stone gray microfiber pattern texture for a clean professional look, the HP 425 and HP 625 notebook PCs are ideal for small business users looking for a versatile notebook at a smart value.The notebooks feature VISION Pro Technology from AMD with AMD Phenom II, AMD Turion II, AMD Athlon II and AMD V-Series processors to deliver the right level of performance. The HP 425 and HP 625 business notebooks are available in two display sizes – 14-inch or 15.6-inch diagonal respectively, in a choice of HD LED-backlit or LED-backlit BrightView HD displays.An optional integrated 2-megapixel webcam(5) and integrated microphone allow for video conferencing as well as video and still-image capture. The HDMI port provides connectivity to HD(10) displays with one convenient HDMI cable. Like all HP business notebooks, the HP 425 and HP 625 undergo more than 100,000 hours of rigorous quality testing to ensure the highest standards in design, materials and components.(16)Financing options(17)HP is offering businesses zero percent vendor-direct financing plans for the new HP ProBook and HP lines through HP Financial Services, the company's leasing and life cycle asset management services subsidiary. Customers can choose from two plans – a 12-month lease with a $1 purchase option or a 36-month lease with a fair market value purchase option. Qualifying transactions must be between $1,500 and $150,000 in the United States and between $5,000 and $150,000 in Canada. More details on these financing options are available at www.hp.com/go/totalfinancing.Pricing and availability(1)Product availability will vary by region and country.The HP ProBook 6455b and 6555b notebook PCs are expected to be available in the United States in June and start at $779. The HP ProBook 6450b and 6550b notebook PCs are expected to be available in the United States in June and start at $859. The HP ProBook 4425s Notebook PC is expected to be available in the United States later this month and starts at $619. The HP 425 Notebook PC is expected to be available in the United States in June and starts at $549.More information about the products, including product specifications and images, is available at www.hp.com/personal. About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com. (1) Estimated U.S. street prices. Actual prices may vary.(2) Wireless access point and internet service is required and is not included. Availability of public wireless access points limited.(3) WWAN or Gobi requires separately purchased service contract. Check with provider for availability and coverage.(4) Systems require a 64-bit operating system and 64-bit software products to take advantage of the 64-bit processing capabilities of AMD technology. Dual/quad/triple-core processing available with AMD technology is designed to improve performance of this system. Given the wide range of software applications available, performance of a system including a 64-bit operating system and a dual-core processor will vary.(5) Requires separately purchased internet service.(6) SYSmark 2007 performance comparison between HP ProBook 6555b with AMD Phenom II N620, AMD M880G graphics and Genuine Windows® 7 Professional and HP Compaq 6735b with AMD Turion Ultra ZM-84 processor, ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics and Genuine Windows XP Pro SP3.(7) MobileMark 2007 battery life comparison between HP ProBook 6555b with AMD Phenom II N620, AMD M880G graphics, LED display, 6-cell 55 WHr battery and Genuine Windows 7 Professional and HP Compaq 6735b with AMD Turion Ultra ZM-80 processor, ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics, CCFL display, 6-cell 55WHr battery and Genuine Windows XP Pro SP3. Battery life will vary depending on the product model, configuration, loaded applications, features, use, wireless functionality and power management settings. The maximum capacity of the battery will naturally decrease with time and usage. See MobileMark07 battery benchmark www.bapco.com.(8) 64-bit computing on Intel architecture requires a computer system with a processor, chipset, BIOS, operating system, device drivers and applications enabled for Intel 64 architecture. Processors will not operate (including 32-bit operation) without an Intel 64 architecture-enabled BIOS. Performance will vary depending on hardware and software configurations. More information is available at www.intel.com/info/em64t. QuadCore is designed to improve performance of multithreaded software products and hardware-aware multitasking operating systems and may require appropriate operating system software for full benefit. Not all customers or software applications will necessarily benefit from use of this technology. Intel's numbering is not a measurement of higher performance.(9) Some functionality of this technology, such as Intel Active management technology and Intel Virtualization technology, requires additional 3rd party software in order to run. Availability of future "virtual appliances" applications for Intel vPro technology is dependant on 3rd party software providers. Compatibility of this generation of Intel vPro technology-based hardware with with future "virtual appliances".Intel AT security requires an Intel AT-enabled chipset, BIOS, firmware release, software, separately purchased Absolute LoJack service subscription and must be activated and configured. Certain functionality may not be offered by some ISV's or service providers. Intel and HP assume no liability for lost or stolen data and/or systems or any other damages resulting therefrom. See http://www.intel.com/technology/anti-theft/. Enabling Advanced Encryption Standard AES-NI requires a computer system with an AESNI-enabled processor and third party encryption software to execute the instructions in the correct sequence. AES-NI requires Intel Core i7-600 or Intel Core i5-500 Mobile Processor series and is not available in all countries. http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-advanced-encryption-standard-aes-instructions-set/. Tracking and recovery is supported by an embedded BIOS agent on HP business notebooks, which is shipped turned off, and must be activated by the purchase of a subscription for terms ranging from one to five years via LoJack Pro. Service is limited, check with Absolute for availability outside the U.S., certain conditions apply. For full details visit: http://www.absolute.com/products/lojackforlaptops.(10) HD content required to view HD images.(11) Sold separately or as an optional feature.(12) Power calculations and cost calculations are estimates. Results will vary based on variables, which include information provided by the user, time PC is in different power states (on, standby, hibernate, off), time PC is on battery or AC, hardware configuration, variable electricity rates and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by HP Power Assistant for reference only and to validate impact in their environment. Environmental calculations were based on U.S. EPA eGRID 2007 data found at www.epa.gov/egrid/. Regional results will vary; requires Microsoft Windows. (13) HP ProtectTools requires Microsoft Windows.(14) Requires Microsoft Outlook and HP QuickLook must be installed. User must opt in to activate feature.(15) HP QuickWeb is accessible when the notebook is off and requires Microsoft Windows-based systems. Internet access required. Timing may vary depending on system configuration. To enable the feature following the removal of the battery, reboot the notebook prior to subsequent use. Not available on HP ProBook s-series or most HP Mini PCs.(16) Testing was not intended to demonstrate fitness for U.S. Department of Defense contracts requirements or for military use. Test results are not a guarantee of future performance under these test conditions.(17) Financing options available in United States and Canada only.HP Teams with AMD to Introduce More Than a Dozen Notebook PCsPALO ALTO, Calif., May 5, 2010 – HP today unveiled its broadest selection and largest single introduction of AMD-powered notebook PCs.The company introduced 14 notebooks utilizing VISION and VISION Pro Technology from AMD, giving consumers and businesses a wide range of mobile products and a vivid visual experience at virtually every price and performance level.Consumers have a choice of VISION Technology across HP Pavilion notebooks, including the dm and dv lines, as well as Compaq notebooks. Business customers can tailor new HP ProBook s-series, HP ProBook b-series or HP notebooks with the VISION Pro Technology from AMD featuring AMD Phenom™ II, AMD Turion™ II, AMD Athlon™ or AMD V-Series processors."Businesses and consumers can turn to HP not only for the deepest portfolio of notebook products, but also for a wide range of technology choices to meet specific mobile computing needs," said Ted Clark, senior vice president and general manager, Notebook Global Business Unit, Personal Systems Group, HP. "HP's commitment to providing customers a choice of technology helps us maintain our position as the worldwide leader in notebook sales."HP customers get improved performance on popular applications with the updated AMD multicore processors. For example, an HP notebook that employs a new AMD Phenom II Dual-Core N620 processor offers up to 69 percent faster performance than previous generation HP AMD-powered notebooks and gets up to 24 percent longer battery life.(1)This performance, coupled with long battery life and exceptional visual performance, gives users hassle-free, efficient computing – all at a price that makes sense."Our close relationship has evolved to today's expansive consumer and commercial product line-up, providing outstanding technology innovation and performance competitiveness that ultimately benefits the customer," said Chris Cloran, corporate vice president and general manager, Client Division, AMD. "VISION and VISION Pro Technology from AMD enables an exceptional visual experience, great system performance and is designed to simplify the PC purchasing experience."The new HP products span all customer segments, including consumer, small and midsize business, and the enterprise. Highlights include:- Thin and light, the HP Pavilion dm3 offers ultra-mobility and fast performance paired with cool etched patterns and a sleek metal finish. With an internet connection, consumers can stay connected with Skype, instant messaging and HP QuickWeb.(2) At less than 1-inch thick and weighing 4.2 pounds, the dm3 boasts a battery life of up to 7 hours,(3) ensuring that consumers can take it anywhere, leaving cords behind at home.- The HP ProBook 4425s features a sophisticated brushed-aluminum metal case in caviar or bordeaux. Weighing only 4.71 pounds, it offers enhanced graphics capabilities, outstanding performance and a long battery life. Designed for small and midsize business professionals who want stylish, affordable notebooks for everyday office applications, the HP ProBook 4425s includes various productivity enhancing HP Professional Innovations, as well as Central Management for HP ProtectTools.(4)Additional newly announced HP notebooks powered by AMD VISION and VISION Pro Technology include:- HP Pavilion dm1- HP Pavilion dv5- HP Pavilion dv6- HP Pavilion dv7- HP ProBook 4325s- HP ProBook 4525s- HP ProBook 6455b- HP ProBook 6555b- HP 425- HP 625- Compaq CQ42/G42- Compaq CQ62/G62More information about the products, including product specifications and images, is available at www.hp.com/personal.
 