
 
HP's just rather quietly announced a new display hot on the heels of tomorrow's Windows 7 launch. This 21.5-inch, 1080p bad boy boasts an optical multitouch panel with one finger scrolling and two finger mousing capabilities. Stylus fans will also be overjoyed to hear that the Compaq L2105tm has a stylus of its own that tucks into the side of the monitor when not in use. HP is calling this one the first "Windows 7 certified" monitor, meaning you should be able to pull it right out of the box, plug it in and get moving. The Compaq L2105tm will be available tomorrow for $299. Full press release is after the break.  [Via Display Blog]

 

Show full PR textHP Boosts Windows 7 Experience for Consumers, Businesses with New PCs and ServicesPALO ALTO, Calif., Oct. 21, 2009HP, the world's leading PC company, today announced Windows® 7 will be available across its portfolio of consumer and business PCs after midnight tonight.In addition, HP will provide customers with advanced tools and services to assist their transition to the new operating system.HP shared its award-winning touch technology and best practices with Microsoft Corp. to guide the development of touch technology within Windows 7. The deep collaboration between the companies offers customers one of the industry's most advanced touch computing experiences."HP is celebrating the evolution of touch computing with the entry of Windows 7 to the market," said Carlos Montalvo, vice president, Experience Marketing, Personal Systems Group, HP. "We are proud of the HP touch framework that we developed for Windows Vista and the collaboration with Microsoft to bring touch into Windows 7."For businesses of all sizes, the combination of Windows 7 Professional with a new HP business desktop PC can run up to three times faster while consuming only half the energy(1) compared to previous versions. Business notebooks feature start-up times up to 41 percent faster and shut-down times up to 30 percent faster.(2) Connecting an HP printer and accessories also is simplified with the automatic search and installation technology in Windows 7, so customers can be up and ready faster."We are thrilled with the level of collaboration between HP and Microsoft," said Nick Parker, general manager of Worldwide Sales for HP at Microsoft. "The combination of HP's new PC portfolio and Windows 7 innovations will bring enhanced experiences, improved performance and energy savings to our joint customers."HP has worked with Microsoft to give customers the "7 Days of 7" program, which offers special discounts on select HP consumer and business PCs from Oct. 22 to 29. More details are available at www.hp.com/go/windows7.Support services for Windows 7HP is hosting a series of free Windows 7 Experts Days, where more than 45 experts from HP, Symantec and other companies will answer questions and share tips to help customers get the most out of Windows 7 and HP printers, desktops and notebooks. The first session is scheduled for Nov. 5.HP offers agents trained in Windows 7 and dedicated phone lines for efficient customer support. The company's consumer and business support boards, where community members and HP employees exchange tips and answers, will address questions about Windows 7.HP Support Assistant(3) is a simple software application that comes installed on Windows 7 PCs and allows them to run smoothly right from the start. Part of HP Total Care services and support, the software maintains PC performance and resolves problems with automated updates and tune-ups, onboard diagnostics and guided assistance.HP's Windows 7 Onsite Upgrade Service(4) provides businesses support for the transition to Windows 7. The HP service includes the installation of Windows 7, data migration, training on how to operate Windows 7, and reinstallation and use of legacy Windows XP and Windows Vista® software.Services for business customersHP Enterprise Business services help customers plan, implement and support an accelerated migration to Windows 7 with lower risk and reduced costs. Whether customers manage the Windows environment in-house or they outsource, HP's trained and certified experts can help support customers' deployment of Windows 7 with minimal disruption to the business.  •  HP Migration Services offer security, stability and functionality to customers transitioning to Windows 7. HP provides client automation services using advanced devices and tools, while managing the deployment and support based on the customers' specific requirements. With early adopter implementations, HP has documented optimized processes for migrating outsourcing clients to a new standard image and managing the environment on an ongoing basis. These proven best practices for Windows 7 migrations will be extended to all outsourcing clients.  •  HP Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) Services help customers improve desktop management, control and security, while reducing total desktop costs through the centralization of the Windows environment. Together with the customer, HP defines a plan through strategy workshops, and then HP tests the plan and delivers implementation and support services.  •  Windows XP Mode support assists customers implementing Windows XP Mode to run legacy applications.  •  HP Client Collaboration Services allow customers to increase productivity and reduce risk through integration of a wide variety of client and mobile technologies, including Windows 7 clients, into a unified communications and collaboration environment. Together with Microsoft, HP offers a comprehensive set of unified communications and collaboration solutions, beginning by jointly defining the business value objectives.Printing made simpleWindows 7 provides features across HP's printing and imaging portfolio to enable easier connectivity for wireless print devices, richer device management and location-aware printing.  •  The new Device Stage technology in Windows 7 streamlines interaction with compatible devices connected to a PC. From Device Stage customers can see a printer's status and run common tasks from a single window, including ordering supplies online and accessing HP Total Care and Snapfish, HP's online photo sharing site.  •  For customers who routinely print to multiple printers, Windows 7 can automatically and easily switch printers when changing locations. Windows 7 remembers which network and printer were last used and automatically switches the default printer to match.A wide range of HP's imaging and printing products are supported by Windows 7, including its newest lineup of touch-enabled printers. Software also is available for current and new imaging and printing products at www.hp.com/go/Windows7.HP's first Windows 7 multitouch certified monitor for businesses now availableHP also introduced the HP Compaq L2105tm Widescreen Touchscreen Monitor, its first Windows 7 multitouch certified monitor. The monitor's optical touch panel technology can increase the speed and efficiency of work performance and productivity by allowing inputs to be recognized quickly, accurately and without drift. One finger is used to scroll through screens, while two fingers can replace a mouse to perform common multitouch gestures. The HP Compaq L2105tm also includes a hard stylus that tucks away neatly into the side of the monitor for easy storage.Available tomorrow, the HP Compaq L2105tm Touchscreen Monitor starts at $299.(5)Also available for Windows 7 based PCs is the HP Carbon Footprint Calculator, a tool to help reduce the environmental impact – and costs – of computing. In just a few clicks, customers can estimate how applying power-saving technologies or upgrading to more efficient features can lower power bills, energy use and carbon footprints.Recently announced consumer and business products available with Windows 7 include:  •  touch-enabled PCs – HP TouchSmart 300 and 600 PCs, HP TouchSmart tx2 notebook PC and the HP TouchSmart 9100 for business;  •  thin and light and premium notebooks – HP ProBook 5310m, HP Pavilion dm3, and HP ENVY 13 and 15;  •  desktop PCs – HP Elite 7000 Business Desktop PC, HP Compaq 6000 and 6005 Pro, Compaq 500B and 505B, HP ProBook 6545b; and  •  new companion PCs – HP Mini 110 by Studio Tord Boontje, HP Mini 311 and HP Pavilion MS200.Pricing and availability(5)Windows 7 Onsite Upgrade Service is expected to be available Nov. 1 in the United States at the following price per PC seat: 1-10 seats at $199 each, 11-50 seats at $189, 51-100 seats at $179 and 100+ seats at $169.HP offers flexible financing solutions for customers deploying next-generation HP technology and services through HP Financial Services, the company's leasing and lifecycle asset management services subsidiary. HP Financial Services makes it easy for customers to deploy technology that meet their business needs.Additional information on recently announced products is available at www.hp.com/personal.About HPHP, the world's largest technology company, simplifies the technology experience for consumers and businesses with a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com/.(1) PCMark05 scores and the following tested configurations. System config for D530: 80G PATA HDD, 3 x 512 MB DDR1-400-MHz PC3200, CPU Intel® Pentium® 4 2.8-GHz / Pentium 2.8G, CD-ROM, XP SP2. System config for 8000 Elite: Intel Core™ 2 Duo E8400, 2 x 1 GB RAM DDR3, 160 GB HDD, integrated graphics, Lightscribe DVD/RW, Windows 7 Pro 32. Dual-core CPUs were tested – Intel-based systems used E8400, AMD-based systems used B55. Power testing was done with EPA and non-EPA power supplies. EPA Power testing results used. All new products were tested with Windows 7 Pro 32. Power and performance profiles: PCMark05 and power measurements were done with the "as shipped" defaults. Power measurements for idle, off and sleep/standby were conducted per ENERGY STAR® 4.0/5.0 guidelines. The PCMark05 power measurements are from a single run of the PCMark05 full suite.(2) Test results compare HP ProBook 5310m systems with identical configurations with one system running Microsoft Windows Vista® SP1 and the second system running Microsoft® Windows 7. Actual results may vary based on system configuration and performance will vary over time depending on software installed.(3) HP Support Assistant also is preinstalled on select PCs with Microsoft Windows Vista.(4) Customer to purchase OS software separately; customer to perform necessary hardware upgrades before onsite service; customer to complete installation of software following training; customer compatibility with Windows 7 to be confirmed at point of scheduling; customer responsible for backing up data prior to upgrade.(5) Estimated U.S. street prices. Actual prices may vary.Microsoft, Windows and Vista are U.S. registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Intel, Pentium and Core are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. ENERGY STAR is a U.S. registered mark of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2009 and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.HP Boosts Windows 7 Experience for Consumers, Businesses with New PCs and ServicesPALO ALTO, Calif., Oct. 21, 2009
 