
 
Looking to make the wild and not-entirely-wondrous world of printers exciting for the first time in decades, HP has just unveiled the "world's first web-connected printer." If you're wondering how it plans on accomplishing such an impossible mission, let us just say this: the Photosmart Premium is going the way of the widget. Up on the 4.33-inch front panel is Touchsmart Web, a touchscreen interface with several bundled, online apps to accommodate usual paper-friendly tasks such as printing Google maps, tickets from Fandango, coupons, recipes, Sudoku, etc. There's even a full-on HD Apps Studio just in case downloading new apps on one's printer really becomes the new hotness. The API's being made open for the entire realm of developers, but we have to wonder what kind of interest we'll see here. Pricing is set for $399, and if you're thinking "why not just buy a cheap netbook and plug it into my current model" we hear ya, but we get the impression this is aimed squarely at another crowd. Lots more details are just past the break.

Update: We just had a chance to try the printer / Touchsmart for ourselves. First off, surprise, the screen is capacitive touch, and it works well -- but only one finger at a time. We asked a rep about multitouch and were told that while technically feasible, it's not gonna be supported at this time. The widgets are created with a combination of HTML5 and Java, and much to our surprise, video streaming has been implemented. The Monsters vs. Aliens trailer we saw was decent resolution, but really, it's not a place where we need pristine quality. More screens in the gallery below.





HP Photosmart Premium with TouchSmart WebOverviewHP Photosmart Premium with TouchSmart Web is the world's first Web connected homeprinter. Powered by touch and empowered by the Web, this sleek device provides quick,simple touchscreen access to important, useful and personal online content.(1) With thelargest LCD touchscreen of any all-in-one inkjet printer (4.33-inches), the HP TouchSmartWeb control panel conveniently connects users to the Web(1) via pre-loaded HP apps.Part of an entirely new Web-based printing platform, these apps enable easy printing ofmaps, coupons, movie tickets, recipes and more from partners including Google,DreamWorks Animation, Fandango and Coupons.com, among others.Users can also connect to Snapfish and directly from the HP Photosmart Premium withTouchSmart Web, which saves time and enables customers to archive or print photosfrom the site like never before... just touch, print and go.(2) People additionally canaccess projects from the HP Creative Studio.A versatile printing solution with print, fax, copy and scan functionality, the HPPhotosmart Premium with TouchSmart Web is perfect for multi-tasking households –meeting all their high-quality home printing needs in one premium product, from laserqualitytext to lab-quality photos. With a full range of wired and wireless connectivityoptions, this printer provides the freedom and flexibility to print directly from Wi-Fienabled PCs, Bluetooth®-enabled devices, the iPhone™ and the iPod touch™ using HPiPrint Photo.(3)This ENERGY STAR-qualified all-in-one helps users save paper with automatic two-sidedprinting and reduces packaging waste by using an innovative, reusable bag.Key Features and Benefits• Customize the HP TouchSmart Web screen with a variety of Apps(1) and add newones simply by touching "Get More" right on the screen. Current partners include:o Google Maps for printing mapso Fandango for movie ticketso Snapfish for accessing and printing photo albumso Google Calendar for viewing and printing personal calendarso USA TODAY for the latest newso DreamWorks Animation for movie trailers and family printables such ascoloring pageso Coupons.com for printing coupons and recipeso Nickelodeon for activities kids can enjoy based on the network'scharacterso Weathernews Inc. for up-to-date weather informationo Web Sudoku for printing puzzles• Download new apps as they become available on the HP Apps Studio, to suit avariety of interests and needs.• Create and share apps to customize the printing experience starting in late 2009.• Quickly print fun and useful templates such as fax cover sheets, calendars, notebookpaper and games such as Sudoku, with the convenient Quick Forms button.(1)• Use the HP TouchSmart Web control panel to edit and print photos, send faxes, scandocuments and make copies, in addition to printing from the Web.(1)• Easily drag and drop photos to a desktop icon from virtually anywhere – folders,applications, e-mail and websites – for printing with the HP Photo Print Gadget.(4)• Prevent common printing mistakes and save paper by ensuring that prints are loadedcorrectly and that settings are optimized for image quality and print speed with HPAuto Sense technology.(5)• Simply touch one button for wireless set-up-making adding the printer to a homenetwork easier than ever.(6)• Print borderless 4 x 6-inch photos stored on an iPhone or iPod touch using HP iPrintPhoto, the first photo printing application of its kind(3)-available for free in the AppleApp Store.• Directly print from a PLAYSTATION 3 (PS3) – capture and print screens to show off asproof of achievements.(7)• ENERGY STAR® qualified – use less energy, save money and help reduce theenvironmental impact of printing.• Easily print web pages with HP Smart Web Printing(8) and save both ink and paperby combining multiple web pages onto one printed page.• Use Windows Live Photo Gallery to easily edit, store and print photos, make photocards, calendars and more.• Enjoy convenient and responsible ink cartridge recycling at no additional costthrough HP Planet Partners.(9)• Identify features that reduce environmental impact with the HP Eco Highlights label.• Replace each cartridge separately when it's needed with individual inks.• Original HP inks: Print photos with enhanced detail using dual-drop volumetechnology that delivers an extremely small drop size.Technical Specifications• Print Specifications(10)o Print speeds of up to 33 pages per minute (ppm) black and up to 32 ppm color;4 x 6-inch photos as fast as 18 seconds• Scan Specificationso 4800 x 9600-dpi optical resolution scanning(11)o 48-bit color scanning• Copy Specificationso Up to 33 copies-per-minute (cpm) in black and up to 32 cpm in color(10)o Up to 4800 x 1200 dpi black copying with 1200 scan dpio Up to 4800 optimized dpi color copying• Fax specificationso Store up to 60 phone numbers• Dimensions/Weighto 17.99 inches (w) x 19.33 inches (d) x 7.76 inches (h)o 16.53 lbs.• Support/Connectivityo Pictbridgeo USB High-speed 2.0, 802.11 b/g/n wireless, Ethernet and Bluetootho Microsoft® Windows Vista™ or XP SP1 or higher; Mac OS X v10.4, v10.5 orv10.6o Windows 7 ready. Some features may not be available.(12) For more informationgo to www.hp.com/go/windows7.o HP products are backed by HP Total Care-service options in and out ofwarranty plus access to 24/7 real-time award-wining chat support and e-mailresponse in about an hour.o Enhanced support services include an exclusive toll-free number featuring trainedexperts and one-year repair with "Next Business Day Turnaround," includingbrand new units for the first 30 days after purchase. More information isavailable at www.hp.com/support.Original HP Printing Supplies(13)• HP 564 Black Photosmart Ink Cartridge: $11.99• HP 564 Photo Black, Yellow, Cyan and Magenta Photosmart Ink Cartridges: $9.99each• HP 564XL Black Photosmart Ink Cartridge: $34.99(14)• HP 564XL Photo Black, Yellow, Cyan and Magenta Photosmart Ink Cartridges:$17.99(14) each• HP Advanced Photo Paper (50 sheets, 8.5 x 11-inch): $21.99(14)• Everyday printing papers with the ColorLok logo. Available in all regions.Pricing and AvailabilityTarget U.S. street price of $399.99.(13)Expected to be available for purchase September 2009 in North America. 1 Requires an internet connection to the printer. 2 Requires a Snapfish.com account and an internet connection to the printer. 3 Using HP iPrint Photo software. Free download available from Apple's App Store, details at www.hp.com/go/iPrintphoto 4 Requires Windows Vista™ 5 When using HP Advanced Photo Paper. 6 Requires a WPS router with an integrated push-button. Wireless performance depends on physical environment and distance from access point. 7 Printing screen captures is only available on games that support this feature. 8 For Windows only. Requires Internet Explorer 6.0 – 8.0. 9 HP ink cartridges return and recycling is available in 41 countries and territories around the world; see www.hp.com/recycle for details. 10 After first page. More information about print speeds is available at www.hp.com/go/inkjetprinter. 11 Maximum resolution may be limited by PC system and scan size. 12 Does not support Windows XP Professional x64. 13 Estimated U.S. street price. Actual price may vary. 14 Not included, please purchase separately.
 