
 

Llano laptops are like buses. You wait two years for just one to arrive and then eleven come out at once. Yep, AMD's long-awaited hybrid CPU / GPU has finally gone official today and HP is wasting no time in introducing laptops harnessing its Accelerated Processing powers. On the consumer side, the Pavilion dv (dv4, dv6, dv7) and g (g4, g6, g7) series are both getting in on the action, with the dv models touting fancier additions like Beats Audio and CoolSense as justifications for their dearer pricing. For the more demure or business-oriented AMD fans, ProBook laptops of both b (6465b, 6465b) and s (4535s, 4435s, 4436s) varieties are also getting A-series processor options. Pricing starts out at $600 on the dv line and $450 for the g series, with both expected to ship in July, whereas the ProBook models will be a bit more punctual and arrive on June 27th, provided you have at least $519 to splash out. Ful PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  HP Introduces New Notebook Portfolio Powered by AMD 		PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--HP (NYSE:HPQ) today expanded its consumer and business notebook portfolios with 11 new models utilizing AMD's latest VISION Technology for exceptional performance at an affordable price. 		Powered by AMD's A-series Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that combine leading-edge CPU cores and powerful discrete-graphics onto a single die of silicon, HP's new notebooks offer solutions for consumers, small and midsize businesses (SMBs) and large corporations. 		The HP Pavilion dv-series (Pavilion dv4, dv6 and dv7) provides the ultimate entertainment notebook experience and is equipped with innovative features such as HP CoolSense, HP True Vision HD webcam and HP Beats™ Audio (Pavilion metal dv6 and dv7). The dv-series also offers more than two times the graphics performance compared with previous-generation integrated graphics.(1) 		The HP Pavilion g-series (Pavilion g4, g6 and g7) balances productivity with efficiency for ideal everyday performance. The addition of AMD technology provides rapid page loads, which can enable programs such as Internet Explorer 9(2) to run even faster. 		The HP ProBook b-series (HP ProBook 6465b and ProBook 6565b), featuring AMD VISION Pro technology, offers enhanced security and increased performance, while sporting an attractive new tungsten-colored design with a bead-blasted aluminum display enclosure and smudge- and wear-resistant HP DuraFinish. 		The HP ProBook s-series (ProBook 4535s, 4435s and 4436s) combines a durable brushed-aluminum finish in a metallic gray color in addition to a touchpad with gesture support and an integrated high-definition (HD)(3) webcam. 		"HP is dedicated to providing customers a choice when it comes to notebook computing," said Ted Clark, senior vice president and general manager, Notebook Global Business Unit, Personal Systems Group, HP. "As the worldwide leader in notebook sales, HP continues to develop customizable, reliable and affordable PCs with innovative designs suited for on-the-go consumers to corporate road warriors." 		Powered by AMD Fusion APUs, the HP Pavilion dv- and g-series builds upon HP's "MUSE" consumer notebook design philosophy, while the HP ProBook b- and s-series furthers the company's "FORGE" business notebook design framework.  AMD solutions for long-term value and performance 		The new notebooks offer AMD A-series APUs, designed to deliver increased processing speed and visual performance with longer battery life.(4) For consumers, HP Pavilion dv- and g-series notebooks offer optional dual graphics, balancing performance with power needs by switching between single- and dual-graphics modes. AMD Image Enhance with AMD Perfect Picture HD(3) also automatically adjusts for dynamic color and contrast, making skin tones appear realistic and video smoother and more vivid. 		Business productivity is improved with AMD VISION Pro Technology and AMD Radeon™ Dual Graphics(5) on the ProBook s-series and UMA graphics on the ProBook b-series, enabling optimal multitasking for video-conferencing, web browsing and graphics-intensive applications. Additionally, AMD Turbo Core Technology balances performance and battery life for more efficient computing, while AMD AllDay™ Power allows for extended notebook runtime.(6) 		"HP and AMD's relationship continues to evolve as we collaboratively make strides to benefit customers through outstanding technology innovation and improved performance," said Leslie Sobon, corporate vice president, Worldwide Marketing, AMD. "AMD Fusion APUs offer the perfect mix of power, performance and brilliant graphics to enable the next generation of digital experiences, while VISION Technology from AMD simplifies the PC purchasing experience."  Pricing and availability 		Pricing and availability varies. Not all models are available in all regions. 		The HP Pavilion dv6 starts at $599.99 and the Pavilion dv7 starts at $699.99. The Pavilion dv6 and dv7 are expected to be available in July.		The HP Pavilion g4 starts at $449.99, the Pavilion g6 starts at $498 and the Pavilion g7 starts at $499. The HP Pavilion g-series is expected to be available in July.		The HP ProBook b-series starts at $679. The HP ProBook b-series is expected to be available on June 27.		The HP ProBook s-series starts at $519 and is expected to be available on June 27.
 