
 
So here it is, after months of details coming to light an inkdrop at a time, the HP eStation all-in-one printing solution. But we're not gonna dwell but on half of that: the 7-inch tablet skinned out by Yahoo and powered by Android 2.1. As we expected, though, the Google experience is decidedly less that you're accustomed to: search is Yahoo only, and our attempt to find an alternate method was met with a barebones settings menu (search via the browser page still works). Additionally, there is no access to Android Market, relegating your customization instead to HP's print-heavy app store -- sorry, no games, as that's not what the company wants to focus on here, according to the rep. That also means no native Gmail, much to our dismay. What Yahoo has provided is a suite of apps and widgets that actually work well in their simplicity, from weather to stocks and search.

We were reminded at numerous points that this is a prototype build, and for good reason -- the responsiveness was questionably slow, especially in the browser. That said, the Nook store and e-reading app was as fluid as you'd ever need. WiFi is equipped on both the tablet and the printer for cloud-based connectivity on the go. Battery life is measured at four to six hours, and Android 2.2 is expected by holiday still sans Market, but beyond Flash (and at this point we question its performance on this hardware), there's probably not a lot of value-add in the update. Expect this AIO to be shipping the in the next few weeks. 






Show full PR textHP Unveils Print Solutions, Including 10 Industry-first Innovations, that Transform Print Features into Digital Content SolutionsNEW YORK, Sept. 20, 2010 – HP today announced multiple innovations across its printing portfolio, including 10 industry-first technologies that significantly improve how customers interact with their digital content.The new solutions are designed to help enable all customers – from consumers to small and midsize businesses (SMBs) to enterprise organizations – to better manage and access digital content, convert information from paper to digital with one touch, and quickly unlock content repositories in the enterprise.HP made the announcements from the stage of a global news conference, joined by prominent partners and customers, including Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo!; Ivanka Trump, renowned entrepreneur, co-founder of the Trump Hotel Collection and founder of the Ivanka Trump Collection; Rob Lips, vice president of QuickBooks Product Marketing at Intuit; Ed Febinger, vice president of Inventory and Manufacturing Strategy at Pearson PLC; and Matias del Campo, founder and principal at SPAN Architecture & Design."HP is unleashing innovation and has once again made the future a reality," said Vyomesh Joshi, executive vice president, Imaging and Printing Group, HP. "We have transformed the flow of content for all customers letting them access, share, print and manage content virtually anytime or anywhere in the world."Highlights include:- Disruptive new category of printers powered by the web and empowered by the cloud spanning the HP Photosmart, Officejet, LaserJet and Designjet lines starting at $99 for consumer models and $149 for the office(1);- Unlocking billions of pages by giving people the freedom to print photos, documents and more from mobile devices;- Breakthrough technology with HP FutureSmart Firmware and HP Open Extensibility Platform that enables SMB and enterprise customers to use current and future third-party and workflow solutions on hardware that dates back to 2005.(2)Offerings for the digitally connected consumerHP introduced two content devices designed to serve the access and print needs of digitally connected consumers. In addition, the company has simplified the print experience from mobile devices by offering HP ePrint(3) on all new HP Photosmart devices as well as direct printing from Apple iPad, iPod touch and iPhone devices with iOS 4.2.(4)- The HP Photosmart eStation All-in-One combines the full features of an HP All-in-One with web browsing and access to HP print apps and widgets – plus a detachable, 7-inch, full-color touchscreen for mobile freedom in the home.(5,6) Additional features include access to Barnes & Noble's expansive eBookstore with more than 1 million digital titles as well as one-touch access to customized content from Yahoo!, Yahoo! Mail, Yahoo! Messenger, Yahoo! Search and Yahoo! Weather direct from the display. Customers also can fax without the need of a phone line.(5) The ENERGY STAR® qualified HP Photosmart eStation is currently available in select countries for $399.(1)- The HP ENVY 100 e-All-in-One is a sleek, slim-line printer designed to complement modern home décor and features a high-resolution touchscreen display, whisper-quiet operation and a retractable paper tray. The ENERGY STAR qualified HP ENVY 100 e-All-in-One is the planet's first PVC-free printer(7) and is expected to be available worldwide next month for $249.(1)- New print apps(8) available this fall on HP eAll-in-One Photosmart Printers include: Delta Air Lines to quickly print boarding passes; NBA.com for access to game schedules and information; Sesame Street eBookstore for stories and learning activities; Bing Maps for maps and driving directions; Martha's Everyday Food™ from Martha Stewart for quick and easy dinner recipes; LeapFrog for kids' educational activities; Photobucket, SmugMug and Facebook® for easy access to personal photo albums; Howcast for how-to content for daily life and enjoyment; MyRecipies.com for recipes from magazines such as Cooking Light, Southern Living and Real Simple; and DailyCandy for daily lifestyle news and offers.- Snapfish by HP, the No. 1 online personal publishing service, is building a rich assortment of unique card designs after adding 130 new designers and more than 3,000 new designs to its recently launched Snapfish Publisher platform. Snapfish also is working with a selection of developers who will introduce their own range of merchandise for this holiday season, including custom lunchboxes and puzzles.More information about the HP Photosmart e-All-in-One portfolio is available at www.hp.com/go/innovationsummit. HP printers are backed by HP Total Care, the company's award-winning service, solutions and support, both in and out of warranty.HP Wall Art: Fun, affordable wall designs for the familyLater this fall, HP plans to launch Wall Art – personalized wall decor that is fun and easy to mount. The first Wall Art available will feature images from popular Nickelodeon shows, including "SpongeBob SquarePants," "Dora the Explorer," "Go Diego Go!" and "iCarly." Parents and their kids will be able to go online, choose the images and customize the Wall Art to fit their chosen room. More partners and options will be added in 2011, including television characters, movie heroes, music stars and even personal photos.Empowering SMBs to do business anytime, anywhereHP's new portfolio of web-connected printers for SMB customers makes it easy to access HP print apps,(8) share information and ePrint(3) wherever business happens. HP also is working with Intuit's Partner Platform to deliver an app that will allow small businesses to easily scan, store and manage financial materials via Intuit's QuickBooks.- The wired and wireless HP LaserJet Pro CM1415fnw Color MFP is the first HP LaserJet printer that prints from the web and mobile devices(9,10) and offers a 3.5-inch color touchscreen control panel that allows users to easily print, scan, copy and fax. Available now for $449.(1) HP ePrint and print app support are expected to be available this winter.- The HP Officejet Pro 8500A e-All-in-One series allows small businesses to make their best impression with professional-quality color prints, marketing materials or other business documents for up to 50 percent lower cost per page and while using up 50 percent less energy than color laser printers.(11) Available now starting at $299.(1)- The HP Officejet 7500A Wide Format e-All-in-One produces professional-quality color documents for the lowest cost per page compared with in-class, wide-format inkjet all-in-ones on a range of paper types and sizes.(12) The 7500A includes integrated wired and wireless networking for sharing with multiple PCs(3) and includes a 2.36-inch color touchscreen display. Available now for $299.(1)- The wired and wireless(6,13) HP Officejet 6500A e-All-in-One series lets users produce professional-quality, lowest-cost-in-class color documents,(14) plus fax, copy and scan. The 6500A uses 40 percent less energy than comparable laser printers(15) and includes a 2.36-inch color touchscreen display. Available now starting at $149.(1)Additionally, HP introduced an expanded portfolio of printers with HP ePrint technology, expected to be available this winter, and a compact scanner.- The HP LaserJet Pro CP1025nw Color Printer is the world's smallest color laser printer(16) and one of the world's most energy-efficient color laser printers.(17) Expected to be available in November for $229.(1)- The HP LaserJet Pro CP1525nw Color Printer is expected to be available in November for $299.(1)- The HP LaserJet Pro M1536dnf MFP is available now for $299.(1)- The HP Scanjet Pro 3000 Sheet-feed Scanner is expected to be available in November for $449.(1)Transform imaging and printing into a strategic advantageHP FutureSmart Firmware and the latest version of the HP Open Extensibility Platform (OXP) help extend the life of an imaging and printing fleet while helping to increase office productivity and simplify fleet management.These technologies enable SMB and enterprise customers to use future solutions on hardware purchased today as well as extend those capabilities to OXP-enabled devices dating back to 2005,(2) providing significant investment protection. Together, they allow HP and solution partners to develop advanced applications, making HP multifunction printers a document workflow kiosk for multiple business processes that enhance productivity.The new printing products announced today and all future networked, office-class HP LaserJet printers are based on HP FutureSmart Firmware. The new products, services and solutions are designed to help HP Managed Print Services customers cut costs, improve productivity, mitigate risk and drive business results.New products include:- The HP Color LaserJet Enterprise CM4540 Multifunction Printer series is expected to be available this winter for $3,799 to $5,549.(1)- The HP Color LaserJet Enterprise CP5520 Printer series is expected to be available this winter for $2,499 to $4,399.(1)- The HP Scanjet 7500 Enterprise Flatbed Scanner is expected to be available this winter for $1,399.(1)New solutions include:- The HP Insurance Policy Accelerator Solution accelerates insurance policy document workflows from proposal to payment, helping to speed time to revenue, reduce operating costs and improve the customer experience.- HP Dynamic Marketing, based on the HP Exstream customer communications solutions platform, allows customers to create, manage and deliver meaningful, relevant marketing materials and customer communications across the enterprise in a timely manner.- The HP and TROY Secure Document Printing Solution enables organizations to print high-value black-and-white documents with antifraud security features using plain paper and enterprise-class HP PCL5 LaserJet printers and MFPs.New services include:- HP ePrint Enterprise(18) for BlackBerry® smartphones is enhanced with pull-printing integration for greater security and more robust search functionality.- Enhanced HP Telecommuter bundles help ensure high productivity for enterprise telecommuters with new ePrint enabled devices and portable printers that offer excellent print quality, IT manageability and low cost of ownership.- The HP Security Action Plan provides a comprehensive roadmap to help enterprise customers identify and address common security risks across their imaging and printing environments for enhanced data protection and improved compliance.HP's alliance with Canon continues to yield global results. HP UPD (Postscript) currently supports the imageRUNNER ADAVANCE color products and will support the newer monochrome MFPs this fall. HP Web Jetadmin and HP Remote Monitoring support even the newest Canon products, such as imageRUNNER ADVANCE 6000 Series and 8000 Series monochrome multifunction devices. HP continues to invest in technologies and solutions to enable a common user experience across HP and Canon devices.Game-changing, web-based collaboration solutions for design professionalsHP has extended its ePrint platform to the graphics market for the first time, redefining the large-format printing experience for design professionals. The new solutions help design teams collaborate across multiple locations, streamline processes and reduce costs.- The HP Designjet T2300 eMultifunction Printer (eMFP) is the industry's first web-ready large-format system with scan, print and copy functionality, enabling design professionals to easily scan and upload documents to the web and print drawings wherever needed.(19)- HP ePrint & Share is a web-based printing solution available through HP ePrintCenter that allows design professionals to automatically create, print, share and manage project files online using desktop or mobile devices.(20)- The HP Designjet T7100 Printer is a high-speed monochrome and color printing system with breakthrough total cost of ownership compared to competitive technologies.(21)- The HP Designjet Z6200 Photo Printer series is the world's fastest, professional-quality large-format photo printer in its price class,(22) delivering photo-quality prints with a resolution of 2,400 dots per inch and versatility for indoor applications from line drawings to photographic output to signage. HP Vivid Photo Inks, featured in the HP Designjet Z6200 Photo Printer, offer improved scratch resistance, gloss levels and gloss uniformity and a wider color gamut with deeper blacks than previous HP inks.Additional information about HP's collaborative print solutions for design professionals is available in a related news release.More information about HP's product launch is available in an online press kit at http://www.hp.com/go/InnovationSummit.About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com.(1) Estimated U.S. street price. Actual price may vary.(2) OXP-supported devices include: HP LaserJet M3035MFP, M4345MFP, M5035MFP, M9040/9050MFP; HP Color LaserJet CM3530MFP, CM4540MFP, CM4730MFP, CM6030MFP, CM6040MFP; HP 9250C Digital Sender; HP Scanjet 7000n.(3) Requires an internet connection to the printer. Feature works with any internet- and email-capable device. Details at www.hp.com/go/ePrintCenter.(4) AirPrint will work with iPad, iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS and iPod touch (third generation and later).(5) Requires a wireless access point and an internet connection to the printer. Touchscreen menus are in English or English/French only. Availability varies by region. Services may require registration. Details at www.hp.com/go/ePrintCenter.(6) Wireless performance is dependent upon physical environment and distance from access point.(7) HP ENVY 100 e-All-in-One is polyvinyl chloride-free (PVC free); meeting the evolving definition of PVC free as set forth in the "iNEMI Position Statement on the 'Definition of Low-Halogen Electronics (BFR-/CFR-/PVC-free)." Plastic parts contain less than 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of bromine (if the Br source is from BFRs) and less than 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine (if the Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers). All printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate laminates contain bromine/chlorine total less than 1,500 ppm (0.15%) with a maximum chlorine of 900 ppm (0.09%) and maximum bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Printers sold in Korea are not PVC free. USB cable, required in limited geographic areas, is not PVC free.(8) Requires an internet connection to the printer. Services may require registration. Apps availability varies by country and language. Details at www.hp.com/go/ePrintcenter.(9) May require an internet connection to the printer. Feature works with any internet- and e-mail-capable device and requires a firmware upgrade. Details at www.hp.com/go/ePrintCenter.(10) Requires an internet connection to the printer. Services may require registration. Apps availability varies by country and requires a firmware upgrade. Details at www.hp.com/go/ePrintCenter.(11) Majority of color laser all-in-ones less than $600, March 2010; details at www.hp.com/go/officejet. HP Officejet Pro ISO yield with highest-capacity cartridges based on continuous printing; details at www.hp.com/go/learnaboutsupplies. Energy use based on HP testing using the ENERGY STAR program's TEC test method criteria.(12) Letter cost per page comparisons for B-size inkjet all-in-ones with fax less than $300 from major vendors as of March 2010. Details at www.hp.com/go/officejet. HP Officejet ISO yield with highest-capacity cartridges based on continuous printing. Details at www.hp.com/go/learnaboutsupplies.(13) Available only in the HP Officejet 6500A Plus e-All-in-One.(14) Compared to inkjet all-in-ones with fax less than $200 from major vendors as of March 2010. Details at www.hp.com/go/officejet. Excludes HP Officejet Pro All-in-Ones. HP Officejet CPP based on ISO yield of products offered as of September 2010 with highest-capacity cartridges based on continuous printing. Details at www.hp.com/go/learnaboutsupplies.(15) Majority of color laser all-in-ones less than $600, March 2010; details at www.hp.com/go/officejet. Energy use based on HP testing using the ENERGY STAR program's TEC test method criteria.(16) Based on personal color printers as defined by IDC and shipping as of June 2010 as measured by volume (WXDXH) using manufacturers' specifications or as measured by operational "A4" size.(17) Energy consumed based on competitive TEC measurement results found at energystar.gov and eu-energystar.org for single-function color laser printers as of June 2010. TEC based on mono pages in mono print speed. Individual product configuration and usage will affect power consumption.(18) HP ePrint Enterprise solution requires BlackBerry Enterprise Server deployment, internet- and email-capable BlackBerry smartphone OS 4.5 with separately purchased wireless internet service, HP ePrint app and HP ePrint server. Solution works with PCL5/6, PCL3, PCL3GUI printers (HP and non-HP).(19) Internet connection is needed.(20) Upgradeable functionality will be available in 2011. May require an internet connection to the printer. Feature works with any internet- and email-capable device. Details at www.hp.com/go/ePrintCenter.(21) The HP Designjet T7100 Printer offers up to 66 percent lower total cost of ownership over three years compared to competitive color devices and up to 50 percent compared to competitive monochrome solutions, based on HP internal testing.(22) Based on published manufacturer specifications as of June 2010.Apple and iPod are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. The BlackBerry and RIM families of related marks, images and symbols are the exclusive properties and trademarks of Research In Motion Limited. ENERGY STAR is a registered mark owned by the U.S. government.This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2010 and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2010 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 