
 
We know the story: all you want is an HP Envy 14 or 17, but you just don't have the cash. Well, as it turns out, HP's been thinking long and hard about your issue, and its new Pavilion dv6 and dv7 may very well be what the doctor ordered. Pulling out some of the higher-end Envy features, the new 15.6- and 17.3-inch laptops have been refreshed not only with Beats Audio speakers, HD webcams, and HP's CoolSense technology, but they've also been given "dark umber" metal lids / palm rests. Oh, and did we mention the light-up touchpads? Okay, so it's not the same as the Envy's etched-metal case, but they're certainly a step up in design from the previous glossy rigs, and for their respective $750 and $1,000 starting prices, there's no arguing that it's a pretty sweet deal. Spec-wise the machines are just as impressive -- they boast Intel's latest Sandy Bridge Core i5 and i7 processors, AMD Radeon 6000M graphics, and USB 3.0 ports. Additionally, both models will be available with Blu-ray drives and up to two terabytes of storage. Want it tomorrow? We don't blame you, but you'll have to wait until "sometime in March" to order these bad boys. 

On the lower end, HP's refreshed its Pavilion g-series, and you know what? For under $500, they don't look half bad. Yep, HP's gone ahead and given its budget mainstream line a total makeover with colorful lids (name a color, they've got it), a pseudo-chiclet keyboard, a touchpad that is totally flush with the palmrest, and Altec Lansing speakers. But while you may be able to take the bargain look out of the laptop, it's hard to remove those bargain specs -- the 14-inch g4, 15.4-inch g6, and 17.3-inch g7 get cut off at AMD's Athlon and Turion and Intel's Pentium and Core i3 processors. Still for the $450 to $600 price points, it's not too shabby. The g-series will be available on March 13th, but until then enjoy the hands-on shots below and the full press release after the break. 






Show full PR textHP Unveils New Designs for Consumer Notebook PCsUpdates across HP Pavilion line deliver unmatched usability, entertainmentPALO ALTO, Calif., Feb. 8, 2011 – HP today revealed a redesigned consumer notebook PC portfolio that enhances the user experience with sleek looks and the latest technologies.With updates across the HP Pavilion line, the new notebooks draw inspiration from culture, art and fashion, and build on HP's MUSE (materials, usability, sensory appeal and experience) design philosophy.Introduced last May, MUSE includes a mix of materials such as metals, alloys and plastics; easy-to-use features for improved usability; a blend of artisan elements for sensory appeal; and intuitive features for simple experiences.The new notebooks also can be personalized with a choice of 17 exclusive wallpapers designed by six artists from around the world. These wallpapers and more are now available to download from HP's Facebook page.HP's new Pavilion notebooks provide world-class audio, stylish metal and gloss finishes, and advanced cooling technology,‖ said Stacy Wolff, director, Notebook Design, Personal Systems Group, HP. ―The result is a line of notebooks that provide the best combination of power, entertainment and style available.HP Pavilion dv6 and dv7At the forefront of the redesigned lineup, the HP Pavilion dv6 and dv7 Notebook PCs offer performance, entertainment and security features that work together to fit seamlessly into the lives of users.Available in a dark umber metal finish, the Pavilion dv6 and dv7 use design elements from the award-winning ENVY line such as sleek metal finishes and HP's exclusive Beats Audio. They also incorporate HP CoolSense Technology, USB 3.0 and on-board quad speakers to create the best possible personal computing experience.Beats Audio, which was created by Beats by Dr. Dre co-founders Dr. Dre and Jimmy Iovine, restores the emotion that is missing from digital music. Working in collaboration with HP, Iovine and Dr. Dre tuned and applied the signature Beats sound profile across HP's premium notebook and desktop lines to provide the optimal sound experience – the way the artist intended it – when playing music or audio through headphones or external speakers.The Pavilion dv6 and dv7 also include newly optimized on-board quad speakers, and the dv7 features a subwoofer for additional depth and power.HP CoolSense Technology combines advanced hardware and intelligent cooling software for a notebook that feels noticeably cooler. The technology automatically adjusts cooling levels according to a customer's personal preferences.The Pavilion dv6 and dv7 feature 15.6- and 17.3-inch diagonal high- definition (HD) BrightView displays,(1) respectively, and are available with an optional integrated Blu-ray disc player(2) and a built-in HP TrueVision HD Webcam(1) that offers crisp, clear video chatting even in low-light conditions.Available with second-generation Intel® CoreTM i5 or i7 processors and optional AMD RadeonTM 6000M graphics, the Pavilion dv6 and dv7 provide superb performance. The notebooks include USB 3.0 for faster sharing and transferring of files and offer ample multimedia storage with up to 1 terabyte (TB) of storage for the Pavilion dv6 and up to 2 TB for the Pavilion dv7.(3)To protect personal information and simplify password management, the Pavilion dv6 and dv7 include HP SimplePass, which provides enhanced security for access to online accounts and passwords with the swipe of a finger. In addition, all HP Pavilion dv-series notebooks feature HP ProtectSmart, which locks the hard drive to protect photos, music and memories in case the notebook is accidentally dropped.HP Pavilion g-seriesStriking a balance between design, performance and affordability, the 2/4new HP Pavilion g-series is ideal for the everyday user, offering reliable performance, attractive designs and essential features at a great value.Available in a variety of colors and patterns to fit any style or personality, the HP Pavilion g4, g6 and g7 offer full connectivity for surfing the internet and connecting with friends.(4) The notebooks also include a HD BrightView display(1) with Altec Lansing speakers and SRS Premium Audio for enjoying movies and music.HP consumer notebooks are backed by HP Total Care, the company's award-winning support program for both in- and out-of-warranty products. HP Total Care includes 24/7 access to phone support agents, online support options like the HP consumer support forum and more.Pricing and availability(5)- The HP Pavilion dv6 is expected to be available in the spring in the United States, with pricing to be determined.- The HP Pavilion dv7 is expected to be available in the spring in the United States, with pricing to be determined.- The HP Pavilion g4, g6 and g7 are expected to be available on March 13 in the United States, starting at $499.99, $449.99 and $599.99, respectively.Additional information is available at www.hp.com/personal. About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com.(1) HD content is required to view HD images. (2) As Blu-ray is a new format containing new technologies, certain disc, digital connection,compatibility and/or performance issues may arise, and do not constitute defects in the product. Flawless playback on all systems is not guaranteed. In order for some Blu-ray titles to play, they may require a DVI or HDMI digital connection and your display may require HDCP support. This Blu-ray drive does not support writing to ultra-high speed CDRW media (16X to 32X advertised performance). HD-DVD movies cannot be played on this PC.(3) For hard drives, 1 GB = 1 billion bytes and 1 TB = 1 trillion bytes. Actual formatted capacity is less. Up to 20 GB of hard drive is reserved for system recovery software.3/4(4) Wireless access point and internet service required and not included. Availability of public wireless access points limited.(5) Estimated U.S. street prices. Actual prices may vary.Intel and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; the development and transition of new products and services (and the enhancement of existing products and services) to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2011 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 