
 
 
When almost every other computer manufacturer has copied its touchscreen all-in-one, what's a company like HP to do? Create a totally crazy pivoting and reclining one, of course! Yep, HP's newest TouchSmart 610 and 9300 Elite Business PC may look like typical 1920 x 1080-resolution, 23-inch all-in-ones when positioned upright, but that all changes when their screens recline up to 60 degrees or the entire body of the rig swivels around to do a 180. It's one seriously flexible AIO, but the new design isn't just about yoga-like tricks -- it aims to make touch interaction more comfortable and ergonomic, and on that vein HP has also updated its TouchSmart 610 consumer model with its latest TouchSmart software layer, which includes finger-friendly Hulu, Netflix, and Twitter apps as well as a TouchSmart Apps Center. The 9300 Elite Business all-in-one, as you may have caught from its name, is meant for enterprise and "customer spaces" (aka kiosks, counters, etc.), and thus only comes loaded with Windows 7. 

Spec-wise, the 610 can be configured with Intel and AMD desktop processors, up to 16GB of RAM, a terabyte of storage, a Blu-ray drive, while its 1.3 megapixel camera and Beats Audio speakers come standard. Naturally, the 9300 has to keep up its professional reputation, and though it cuts out the Beats, it gains Intel's latest Sandy Bridge processors, a 160GB SSD option, and a higher quality two megapixel cam with facial recognition software. You know, for "enhanced security." So, when can you pick up one of these monsters? The $900 610 is expected to start shipping on February 9th, while the 9300 will hit in May for an undetermined price. We're hoping to bring you a full review of the 610 soon, but we can tell you from our early look at it that the viewing angles were sufficiently wide and the tilting mechanism fairly rigid. Man, it's already turning out to be quite a week for HP -- that webOS event is coming up on Wednesday, but in the meantime you'll want to hit the break for the full TouchSmart press release and a short video of the reclining mechanism in action. 






Show full PR textHP Redesigns the TouchSmart PC ExperienceHP TouchSmart PCs offer high style and performance with reclining display for exceptional comfortPALO ALTO, Calif., Feb. 7, 2011 – HP today unveiled its first touchscreen desktop PCs to feature a 60-degree reclining display, enabling users to adjust the display's position for a comfortable user experience.With a sleek, clean appearance, the new HP TouchSmart610 Consumer PC and HP TouchSmart 9300 Elite Business PC recline from upright to almost flat, providing consumers and business users increased comfort for longer-term use and making it easier for businesses to engage customers."As a leader in touch computing, HP has made each iteration of the TouchSmart PC more intuitive, resourceful and fun for users," said James Mouton, senior vice president, Desktop Organization, Personal Systems Group, HP. "The latest generation is no exception with a new design that makes it easier and more comfortable to use, and it allows businesses to integrate the TouchSmart where convenience, space constraints and appearance matter."Ergonomic design enables users to do more and share more From creating art projects, to playing games, to enabling natural front- desk interaction where eye contact is important, the new HP TouchSmart PCs offer consumers and businesses increased range of motion, superior viewing and an intuitive touch experience.Both the TouchSmart610 Consumer PC and TouchSmart 9300 Elite Business PC feature a 23-inch diagonal high-definition (HD) display(1) that reclines up to 60 degrees and tilts forward up to five degrees.The wide-angle, LED backlit LCD screen provides optimal viewing angles, even when reclined, while advanced multitouch technology allows for an accurate response.The TouchSmart PCs' simple one-cord setup and slim, all-in-one designsave space and allow them to fit into any room or business environment. For a clean and uncluttered appearance, control features are conveniently located to the right and left sides of the display.Intuitive software, Beats Audio for immersive, personalized entertainmentWith its refined industrial design and the latest version of HP TouchSmart software, the TouchSmart610 consumer PC makes it easier and more comfortable than ever to surf the web, edit photos or access social networks.(2)In addition to touch- optimized applications from Hulu, Netflix, Rhapsody® and Twitter, as well as HP's exclusive RecipeBox and webcam applications, users can add new applications via the TouchSmart Apps Center.(2) The TouchSmart610 also features Beats Audio. A high-performance technology developed by HP and Beats by Dr. DreTM, Beats Audio allows listeners to hear music the way the artist intended it – just as it sounds in the studio.For the gaming enthusiast, select models of the TouchSmart610 are available with Ubisoft®'s real-time strategy game, R.U.S.E.TM – a $49.99 value. Users will enjoy using multitouch navigation to deceive and manipulate enemies as they lead their nation to victory.The TouchSmart610 also features the new HP LinkUp application, which allows users to wirelessly link a notebook PC to the TouchSmart using a home network.(3) Accessing and viewing applications, files and content from a notebook on the TouchSmart's large HD screen creates a more comfortable and productive experience.(1) Changes are saved directly to the notebook so there are no file transfer hassles.Innovative touchscreen PC technology for businessesIdeal for customer-facing environments in hospitality, retail and healthcare, the HP TouchSmart 9300 Elite Business PC combines HP's powerful touchscreen technology with essential business benefits. Businesses can configure the TouchSmart 9300 to meet a variety of workplace preferences, including desk or counter positioning, wall mount(4) or kiosk placement.The TouchSmart 9300 delivers superb computing performance with second-generation Intel® CoreTM processors and a choice of Windows® 7 operating systems. It also offers up to 16 gigabytes (GB)(5) of memory and an optional 160 GB(6) solid-state drive to enhance productivity and interaction with touchscreen applications. In addition, employees can log in using the HP TouchSmart Elite 9300 Business PC's high-resolution, adjustable webcam(2) with facial recognition software for enhanced security.The HP Interactive Solutions Partner Program for independent software vendors (ISVs) delivers touch-based customer solutions to businesses. Tikatok, a division of Barnes & Noble, has piloted several interactive kiosks as part of Barnes & Noble's new Educational Toys & Games department. The kiosk, designed as a life-size book, features an interactive demo of Tikatok's proprietary online application. The demo is hosted on HP TouchSmart PCs and allows children to try out the book creation module or read books that other children have created at Tikatok.com.Chico's FAS, which offers women's clothing and accessories through Chico's, White House|Black Market and Soma Intimates stores, has rolled out HP Business TouchSmart PCs in almost 1,100 stores. The PCs provide one-touch application access, enhanced employee training sessions with full-motion video and a technology platform for management packages.Pricing and availability(7) The HP TouchSmart610 Consumer PC is expected to be available on Feb. 9 in the United States at a starting price of $899.99. The HP TouchSmart 9300 Business PC is expected to be available in May in the United States; pricing will be provided closer to availability.Additional information is available at www.hp.com/personal.24/7 service and supportHP PCs are backed by HP Total Care, the company's award-winning service, solutions and support, both in and out of warranty. With HP Total Care, consumers can reach support agents 24/7 by phone or online support options like the HP consumer support forum, which features mobile functionality that allows visitors to browse content and post questions or comments from any mobile device, no download required.HP PCs also come with built-in support through the HP Support Assistant, a simple software application that allows PCs to run smoothly right from the start. The software maintains PC performance and resolves problems with automated updates and tune-ups, onboard diagnostics and guided assistance.About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com.(1) HD content required to view HD images. (2) Internet access required and sold separately. (3) Wireless access point and internet service sold separately. (4) Wall mounting hardware sold separately. (5) Maximum memory capacities assume Windows 64-bit operating systems or Linux. WithWindows 32-bit operating systems, memory above 3 GB may not all be available due tosystem resource requirements. (6) For hard drives, 1 TB = 1 trillion bytes. Actual formatted capacity is less. Up to 14 GB of harddrive is reserved for system recovery software. (7) Estimated U.S. street prices. Actual prices may vary.R.U.S.E, Ubisoft and the Ubisoft logo are trademarks of Ubisoft Entertainment in the U.S. and/or other countries. Intel and Core are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corp. in the United States and other countries. Windows is a U.S. registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; the development and transition of new products and services (and the enhancement of existing products and services) to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2011 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 