
 

It's looking like there's a little shuffling happening at HP in the wake of the TouchPad's release -- and its somewhat less than flattering reception. The company has announced that Stephen DeWitt will be taking the lead in HP's webOS global business unit, while Jon Rubinstein will be taking over as Senior Vice President of Global Innovation for HP's Personal Systems Group -- DeWitt himself coming from PSG Americas. You'll of course know Jon as the main cheerleader for webOS in the past, appearing on our Show back in March to show off the TouchPad and the Pre 3. Will Stephen manage the same enthusiasm in extolling the finger-friendly OS's virtues, or will we instead be seeing more webOS printers? Let's all hope for the former.

Update: DeWitt was previously the head PSG Americas, not the global Personal Systems Group. Stephen DiFranco will be taking over the role of SVP for PSG Americas.

Update 2: The Official HP Palm Blog has added a post entitled "Next steps for HP webOS" providing a bit more context to the shift, indicating that this move is intended to "accelerate the scale and growth of its existing webOS business as well as to expand and enhance other HP product lines." So, printers, then?
      

 

 		Show full PR text  HP to Drive Innovation, Scale and Growth of webOS 		Stephen DeWitt to lead HP's webOS global business unit; Jon Rubinstein named senior vice president of product innovation for PSG 		PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Building on the successful launch of HP webOS 3.0, HP (NYSE: HPQ) today announced it is accelerating the global expansion of webOS. 		"Innovation is at the core of webOS, and I look forward to working with our talented team of engineers as we strive to develop the industry's most compelling set of products, solutions and services in markets around the world"		To support this next phase of growth, HP has appointed Stephen DeWitt as senior vice president and general manager of its webOS global business unit. Jon Rubinstein, the visionary behind webOS, will assume a product innovation role within the Personal Systems Group (PSG) at HP. 		This announcement underscores HP's strategy to provide a seamless, secure, context-aware experience across HP's product portfolio, and to deliver innovation at unmatched scale. 		"With the successful debut of our first wave of webOS-based products, we are drawing on our deep executive bench to position the right leaders in the right roles to accelerate the long-term growth of webOS," said Todd Bradley, executive vice president, Personal Systems Group, and member of the Executive Board, HP. "Stephen DeWitt has a proven ability to build and scale organizations into global, multibillion dollar operations, and I am confident that he will take webOS to the next level. At the same time, we continue to leverage the core strengths of Silicon Valley icon Jon Rubinstein to apply his considerable talents across the PSG portfolio." 		DeWitt, who has been leading the PSG Americas region at HP, will be responsible for all aspects of the webOS business, including engineering, research and development, sales, marketing and go-to-market support. In his new role, DeWitt will spearhead the creation of a fully integrated, global developer and independent software vendor program to deliver new consumer and business applications. DeWitt's team also will create a dedicated mobility practice with HP's partner community, with the goal of delivering consumer and enterprise solutions globally. 		DeWitt has dramatically improved PSG's profitability and share position in the America's region since his arrival to HP in 2008. He is succeeded by Stephen DiFranco, head of the Solutions Partners Organization for the Americas region at HP. 		"Innovation is at the core of webOS, and I look forward to working with our talented team of engineers as we strive to develop the industry's most compelling set of products, solutions and services in markets around the world," said DeWitt. "As part of our investment in the future of webOS, we are working in lock step with the developer community, our channel partners and the start-up community to create an application ecosystem that delivers on HP's mobile connectivity strategy." 		Jon Rubinstein has been named senior vice president for Product Innovation in the Personal Systems Group at HP. He will continue to report to Todd Bradley in this role, helping to propel innovation across product lines. HP will leverage Rubinstein's passion for building exceptional consumer products and his long history of driving game changing innovation, such as webOS. 		"With the launch of webOS 3.0, our team has delivered a world-class platform for HP to leverage going forward, and it is now time to take things to the next level," said Rubinstein. "With webOS under Stephen DeWitt's proven leadership, I'm looking forward to my new role and driving further innovation for webOS and other PSG products." 		About HP 		HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure at the convergence of the cloud and connectivity, creating seamless, secure, context-aware experiences for a connected world. More information about HP is available at http://www.hp.com. 		This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; the development and transition of new products and services (and the enhancement of existing products and services) to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2011 and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 		© 2011 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 