
       
Those new ENVYs too rich for your blood? HP still has some design chops to show off in the ProBook 5310m and the (leaked, pictured) Pavilion dm3. HP is calling the classy 5310m the "world's thinnest full-performance notebook," whatever that means, while the dm3 offers a choice of AMD Neo or Intel Core 2 Duo processors. Both rock 13-inch LCDs, hover around four pounds and measure around an inch thick. The 5310m is available with a Celeron for as low as $699, but to get that "full-performance" Core 2 Duo action, you're looking at a $899 tag. Meanwhile the dm3 starts at $549 for AMD and $649 for Intel. With thin-and-light prices like these, who needs netbooks? Both laptops should be out on October 22, running Windows 7. Full PR is after the break. 



  


Show full PR textHP Introduces World's Thinnest Full-performance Notebook and Slim, Stylish Consumer NotebookPALO ALTO, Calif., Sept. 15, 2009 – HP today introduced the world's thinnest full- performance notebook PC(1) as well as a slim, stylish consumer notebook that delivers an optimal balance of mobility, performance and affordability.The thin and light notebook market represents a significant growth opportunity over the next several years, according to IDC. Over the next five years, this category is forecast to grow three times faster than the overall notebook market in the United States, which is a trend that is expected to spread worldwide.(2) The new HP ProBook 5310m and HP Pavilion dm3 expand the market for the category, an area HP pioneered earlier this year with the introduction of the affordable HP Pavilion dv2.Designed for mobile professionals, the HP ProBook 5310m, the world's thinnest full-performance notebook, is a 0.9-inch thin, 3.7 pound(3) notebook sporting a 13.3-inch diagonal LED high-definition(4) (HD) display and a standard voltage processor for maximum productivity. It combines durable, black anodized aluminum with a magnesium frame wrapped in soft-touch paint that impresses not only with its sophisticated design at an affordable price, but with outstanding performance in a thin and sleek notebook.The HP Pavilion dm3 provides consumers the ultimate balance of mobility and performance in an affordable, all metal, thin and light design. With up to 10 hours of battery life via the standard six-cell battery,(5) the notebook provides all-day battery life and rich entertainment capabilities without sacrificing performance. The dm3 boasts an HD(4) BrightView 13.3-inch diagonal LED screen and choice of AMD or Intel processors and discrete graphics to meet the multimedia needs of demanding consumers."Striking designs, impressive product features, outstanding value and a focus on computing performance add up to a mobile experience second to none," said Ted Clark, senior vice president and general manager, Notebook Global Business Unit, Personal Systems Group, HP. "These new notebooks further validate our position as an undisputed leader in notebook design and raise the bar for the entire thin and light category."HP ProBook 5310m – thin, powerful, and affordable With the HP ProBook 5310m, mobile professionals no longer need to sacrifice performance to achieve great battery life. HP offers the Intel® CoreTM 2 Duo SP9300(6) processor that provides all the power a user would expect with a full- performance PC, while still delivering up to seven hours of battery life(5) with the standard lithium-polymer battery. An optional six-cell battery, expected to be available later this year, will further increase battery run time.The HP ProBook 5310m is also flexible enough to scale down to meet the needs of customers who don't require a full-performance standard voltage notebook. When equipped with an Intel Celeron® dual-core, ultra-low-voltage processor, the HP ProBook 5310m is an affordable step up from companion or netbook devices. It is ideal for computing tasks such as email, calendar and office applications, and it provides the ability to view HD content, consume and create content, and access the Internet.HP QuickWeb allows users to access the web in seconds when the notebook is shut down. The application resides outside the notebook's operating system, so there is no need to wait for the computer to boot up, users can simply push the dedicated button. In less than 20 seconds, users have a secure connection to the Internet and can access websites and content normally obtained through a standard browser.(7) Additionally, HP QuickLook3 allows users to look up and respond to email, calendar and contacts without having to boot the notebook.(7)Integrated HP Mobile Broadband powered by Gobi(8) allows users to conveniently access the Internet, company intranet, email, and mission-critical information in more places than ever before. The new HP Connection Manager 3.0 simplifies and automates connecting users with their preferred network.HP also is committed to the environment and to eliminating all uses of brominated flame retardants (BFRs) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in its products by 2011.(9) The HP ProBook 5310m Notebook PC offers a BFR/PVC-free configuration.(10)HP Pavilion dm3 – top performance with maximum flexibility Designed to provide maximum flexibility to mobile users, the HP Pavilion dm3 comes with a choice of processors, including the latest Intel Core 2 Duo or AMD Neo Dual Core processors.(11) It also offers consumers a choice of Intel shared, ATI or NVIDIA discrete graphics.When configured with the AMD Neo and ATI combination, the HP Pavilion dm3 offers PowerXpress, which provides performance graphics when plugged in and switches to shared graphics when unplugged for superb battery life.Preloaded with HP MediaSmart software, the dm3 makes managing and enjoying digital music, Internet TV, videos, photos and other content fast and easy. New dedicated function keys allow for quick access to media controls, while high-speed hard drive options up to 500 gigabytes (GB) provide ample room for media and documents.(12)At less than one-inch thin and weighing only 4.2 pounds, the Pavilion dm3 features a lightweight, brushed aluminum chassis in sophisticated Modern Argento gray that makes it easy for consumers to carry virtually anywhere.In addition, the HP Pavilion dm3 supports optional built-in WWAN for wireless connectivity(8) anywhere a cell phone works and includes a low-light VGA HP Webcam and microphone for staying in touch with friends and family. Lightweight external optical disc drives, including a Blu-ray(13) option, areavailable.HP also announced the new HP Envy sub-brand, including a premium thin and light notebook, the HP Envy 13. Additional information on HP Envy will be available the morning of Sept. 15 at www.hp.com/go/ENVY.Plug-and-compute tools To meet the needs of increasingly mobile customers, HP has introduced the HP CalcPad 100 and CalcPad. These "plug and compute" accessories are designed to add desktop features to notebook PCs, offering performance and convenience for on-the-go business professionals and college students.HP CalcPads serve as an extended keyboard number pad or calculator, featuring quick-launch keys for one-touch access to Microsoft® Word or Excel or HP Calculator software, which enables mobile professionals to directly input their calculations seamlessly from CalcPad to notebook. Two built-in USB 2.0 ports allow users to leverage the CalcPad as a USB hub for added peripherals without the additional hardware or cables. The HP CalcPad 100 also can use the USB connectivity to the notebook as a power source.Pricing and availability(14) The HP ProBook 5310m starts at $699 with an Intel Celeron dual core and $899 with Intel Core 2 Duo and is available immediately in the Asia-Pacific region with the Microsoft Vista® operating system. The notebook is expected to be available for delivery in North America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region on Oct. 22 with the Microsoft Windows® 7 operating system.(15)The HP Pavilion dm3 starts at $549 with an AMD processor and $649 with an Intel processor and is expected to be available for delivery worldwide starting Oct. 22 with the Microsoft Windows 7 operating system. (16)More information on HP ProBook 5310m, HP Pavilion dm3 and HP Envy13, including product specifications, images and other HP mobility solutions is available in an online press kit at www.hp.com/personal.About HP HP, the world's largest technology company, simplifies the technology experience for consumers and businesses with a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com/.Note to editors: More news from HP, including links to RSS feeds, is available at http://www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/.(1) Thinnest standard-voltage notebook when measured at its thickest point. (2) IDC, "Worldwide and U.S. PC Client Sub Form Factor 2009-2013 Forecast," Doc. No. 217641, April 2009. (3) Weight will vary by configuration. (4) HD content required to view HD images. (5) Battery life will vary depending on the product model, configuration, loaded applications, features and power management settings. The maximum capacity of the battery will decreasewith time and usage. Sold separately or as an add-on feature. (6) 64-bit computing on Intel architecture requires a computer system with a processor, chipset, BIOS, operating system, device drivers and applications enabled for Intel 64 architecture. Processors will not operate (including 32-bit operation) without an Intel 64 architecture-enabled BIOS. Performance will vary depending on hardware and software configurations. More information is available at www.intel.com/info/em64t. Dual Core is designed to improve performance of certain software products. Not all customers or software applications will necessarily benefit from use of this technology. Intel's numbering is not a measurement of higher performance. (7) Accessible when the notebook is off in Windows XP, Windows Vista or Windows 7 based systems. Timing may vary depending on the system configuration. Internet access required. QuickWeb and QuickLook 3 on HP ProBook s-series requires configuration with Intel and DDR3 or AMD and DDR. (8) Wireless access points and Internet service required and not included. Availability of public wireless access points limited. (9) As technologically feasible alternatives become readily available that will not compromise product performance or quality and will not adversely impact health or the environment, HP plans to complete the phase out of BFR and PVC in newly introduced personal computing products in 2011. (10) Meeting the evolving definition of "BFR/PVC-free" as set forth in the "iNEMI Position Statement on the 'Definition of Low-Halogen' Electronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free)." Plastic parts contain < 1000 ppm (0.1 percent) of bromine (if the Br source is from BFRs) and < 1000 ppm (0.1 percent) of chlorine if the Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers. Power supply and power cords are not BFR/PVC-free. Service parts after purchase may not be BFR/PVC-free. Configuration is not planned to be available until Sept. 27, 2009.(11) This system requires a separately purchased 64-bit operating system and 64-bit software products to take advantage of the 64-bit processing capabilities of AMD technology. Dual/quad/triple-core processing available with AMD technology is designed to improve performance of this system. Given the wide range of software applications available, performance of a system including a 64-bit operating system and a dual-core processor will vary. (12) For hard drives, 1 GB = 1 billion bytes. Actual formatted capacity is less.(13) As Blu-ray is a new format containing new technologies, certain disc, digital connection, compatibility and/or performance issues may arise, and do not constitute defects in the product. Flawless playback on all systems is not guaranteed. For Blu-ray titles to play they may require a DVI or HDMI digital connection and the display may require HDCP support.(14) Estimated U.S. street price. Actual price may vary. (15) Certain Windows Vista product features require advanced or additional hardware: www.microsoft.com/windowsvista/getready/hardwarereqs.mspx. Windows Vista Upgrade Advisor can help determine which features of Windows Vista will run on a computer. The tool is available for download at www.windowsvista.com/upgradeadvisor. (16) Systems may require upgraded and/or separately purchased hardware and/or a DVD drive to install the Windows 7 software and take full advantage of Windows 7 functionality. Details are available at www.microsoft.com/windows/windows-7/.Intel, Core, Celeron is a trademark of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. AMD and ATI are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft, Windows XP and Windows Vista are U.S. registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited tostatements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its customers, suppliers and partners; the achievement of expected operational and financial results; and other risks that are described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2009 and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 