
 
 HTC is going on something of a certification tangent: it's following its PlayStation Suite approval with its own program, HTC Connect. Home AV equipment with the label promises to lift the standards for streaming media to or from one of HTC's devices. The rubber stamp will be limited at first to DLNA audio and video, but it should eventually include just about anything that doesn't involve a wire, such as Bluetooth, in-car media, NFC and wireless speakers. There isn't an immediate deluge of partners. HTC has scored a rather big ally, however: Pioneer's DLNA-ready receivers and wireless speakers this year, and beyond, will flaunt the HTC Connect badge. Don't brag about the media credentials of your One X just yet. Although the Connect seal of approval won't be needed for media streaming anytime soon, it will only be coming to the One series through an upgrade in the months ahead.



  Show full PR text   HTC ANNOUNCES HTC CONNECT PROGRAM TO FOSTER GREATER A/V CONNECTIVITY
  Pioneer Electronics is the first partner to feature HTC Connect compatibility in its 2012 line of products
  TAIPEI, TAIWAN – June 26, 2012 – HTC Corporation, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, today announced its HTC Connect™ certification program designed to offer consumer electronics manufacturers the opportunity to create an improved sound and visual standard for seamless connectivity between HTC® devices and consumer electronics. For consumers, HTC Connect will mean high-quality, wireless audio and video sent through their HTC smartphones to their compatible in-home and in-car electronics.   Smartphones are changing the way individuals listen to music and watch video, making it easier than ever before to enjoy rich multimedia content almost anywhere. HTC is working to bring the benefits and ease-of-use of mobile connected devices into the home through the HTC Connect initiative. HTC Connect certification introduces new connectivity standards for partners, and gives consumers using an HTC Connect certified device a new level of convenience through seamless integration with their other compatible consumer electronics. The HTC One™ series of smartphones is slated to receive HTC Connect certification through a software update in the coming months.   "The vision for HTC Connect is to allow our customers to easily stream their favorite high-quality video and audio from their smartphone into their home or car. This new initiative will build upon HTC's innovation in smartphones with leading consumer electronics brands," said Kouji Kodera, chief product officer, HTC Corporation. "We're also excited to announce Pioneer Electronics, a leader in the audio and video industry, as our first partner to demonstrate the initial HTC Connect certified audio experience for consumers."   Pioneer Electronics – First HTC Connect Partner  Pioneer Electronics is the first and leading partner to bring HTC Connect certified devices to market. HTC Connect will be featured as part of Pioneer's 2012 lineup of DLNA capable audio/video receivers and wireless speakers delivering a seamless and consistent audio streaming and control experience.   "We're very pleased to be working with HTC on this important evolution of audio technology, which fits very well with Pioneer's strong commitment to embracing the smartphone movement in our home entertainment products," said Russ Johnston, executive vice president, Home Electronics Division, Pioneer Electronics.   "The use of smartphones as primary content sources in the home is a trend that's developing very quickly, and HTC is helping to provide a much-needed solution for a very significant and growing part of the market."   The HTC Connect certification will also be extended to future Pioneer products.   About HTC Connect
  The HTC Connect Program is another example of HTC innovation, delivering the best possible mobile experience for customers, anticipating and designing for the demands of tomorrow. The initial HTC Connect certified products are DLNA based and the program will evolve to include Bluetooth, NFC, wireless speakers, as well as car audio and video. Parties interested in joining the HTC Connect program should contact HTC at htc_connect@htc.com.
 
