

Just weeks after we put the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini through its paces, we're looking at the HTC One mini, another attempt to shrink a flagship down into a smaller (and cheaper) package. As you'd expect, the 4.3-inch mini looks much like the full-sized version, and that goes for both the hardware and software. In addition to its similar-looking aluminum-and-plastic frame you'll find both a 4-megapixel Ultrapixel camera sensor and HTC's Sense 5 UI, meaning automatic video highlights, Zoe and BlinkFeed all make an appearance here as well. There are, however, a few hardware drawbacks compared to the original, with the IR blaster, optical image stabilization on the camera and NFC stripped out for space- and cost-saving reasons. Can HTC launch a mid-range phone that won't get lost between similarly priced offerings and last year's discounted flagships? We'll try to reason that out after the break.




Hardware
The physical similarities to the HTC One are glaringly obvious -- and it's a huge part of the mini's appeal. HTC is certainly not the only phone maker trying to inject some flagship charm into its cheaper handsets. Borrowing much of the design language first seen in the One, the mini is mostly wrapped in aluminum. The front panels are actually slightly rougher than the surface of the original model, although the backing has the same smooth finish. However, it doesn't sport the matte seam of plastic we saw on the original One; instead. it has a glossy white all-plastic frame, reminiscent of last year's unibody One X.

The physical similarities to the HTC One are glaringly obvious -- and it's a huge part of the mini's appeal.The body still follows the same palm-friendly curve, although both the camera unit and flash are center-aligned on the back this time around. There are also two white plastic lines breaking up the all-aluminum cover, ensuring the unit's antennae work and also creating the illusion that you might be handling the pricier flagship model. The volume rocker on the right edge is now comprised of two keys, but they're still thankfully made of metal -- no nasty metal-finish paint here. That plastic edging is visible on the front, so unfortunately you won't get the same chamfered aluminum edge as the One. That's a shame, as that chamfering was one of the design flourishes we loved most on the original.

HTC's BoomSound speakers lie beneath micro-drilled holes both above and below the screen, bringing plenty of oomph, as advertised. Prolonged listening through the smartphone won't grate on the ears, although the sound quality isn't quite as bass-rich as the One. HTC also snuck in a single LED notification light into the top speaker -- one of the more refined ways we've seen light-up reminders integrated into smartphone design. The not-quite-standard Android button layout remains, with a HTC logo separating back and home keys. As it's running Android 4.2.2, however, HTC now offers you the option to switch some of the menu button functionality to the home key, launching Google Now with a swipe and accessing the options menu within apps.


But the mini has something on its big brother: it's arguably a better size. We could grasp the device, slip it into pockets, bag side pouches and use it one-handed without any issue. Reaching with a thumb on larger screens (and reducing your hold on the device in the process) increases the chances that those hundreds of dollars you just sank into a new smartphone will end up a splintered chalk outline on the concrete. We're enjoying this apparent return of more sensibly sized handsets, although it's something you may not appreciate until you switch from a larger to a smaller phone for a sustained period.

Now about that screen: the 4.3-inch display beams out Android at a resolution of 720p. That means, then, that there are fewer pixels than the One, but it's still leagues ahead of its qHD rivals. We're more than happy to drop down to this resolution from 1080p, especially when it's been accompanied by a reduction in screen size. In fact, it appears to be identical to the display found on HTC's Facebook experiment, the First. Same resolution, same size and, well, same conclusions. HTC uses SuperLCD2 tech, which gives pretty accurate color reproduction and it's easy to share pictures and videos with strong image quality at off-angles. Our only complaint is that we wish it were a little less reflective and a little more readable in sunlight.

Underneath the screen, there's a dual-core, 1.4GHz Snapdragon 400 processor (another component that made an appearance in the HTC First), along with 1GB of RAM and 16GB of built-in storage. Given that the One mini is completely sealed, there's no opportunity to expand storage through a microSD card, but it's a pretty respectable chunk of storage for a phone below the flagship level.

There are some features that didn't make it to the One mini, however, and our biggest regret is the loss of the IR blaster. Yep, I'm one of those people who's begun to ignore my AA-powered TV controllers and navigate through channels and TV menus almost exclusively on an IR-capable Android device -- whether it's a Galaxy S 4, HTC One or Xperia Tablet Z. I inadvertently tried to launch the remote app several times while working on this review and while it's not a hardware feature everyone was going to use, I already miss it. Remote functionality would also have made a great talking point when going up against rival devices. NFC didn't make the cut either. If that (and maybe the IR blaster) were the only omissions, we'd be okay with the minor price difference. However, there's also the reduced screen resolution, the lesser processor, reduced storage and RAM, and the lack of optical image stabilization, which is supposed to work in tandem with HTC's Ultrapixel camera to improve shots. That's quite the list of cuts.

Camera
The HTC One mini packs largely the same camera sensor as the debut One model. The technical spec sheet says it's a backside illuminated sensor paired with an f/2.0 lens -- both good things. In case you missed all the discussion earlier this year, HTC's Ultrapixel camera might take a bit of explaining. The maximum image resolution is capped at four megapixels, but it's not all about the pixels. The way HTC created this camera sensor offers a larger area for light to bounce off and the opportunity for more light to hit it. This means you'll get better low-light shots and less noise; less flecks of blue and red in your nighttime photos. 



