
  It's no secret that we were downright smitten when HTC dropped 2010's proverbial bombshell: the EVO 4G. A knockout device that served not only as WiMAX's ambassador, but also catapulted us into expansive "superphone" territory with what was then a gargantuan 4.3-inch screen. Since then, however, subsequent EVOs haven't exactly been what we'd call up to snuff. The EVO 3D, while "good," made gimmicky trade-offs that kept it from being the home-run we'd hoped for. And others, like Samsung, who were once an Android wallflower have seriously stepped up their game -- so much so, even Google's repeatedly taken notice.Where does that leave us with this year's EVO Design 4G? With middling single-core specs and a mid-range $100 on-contract price, things aren't exactly looking up for a device tasked with wielding a torch branded with the EVO's name. Does it pass muster as a device worthy of its ancestry? Or will the GSM and qHD add-ons keep it from diluting its predecessors good name? Well, frankly, there's only one way to find out, and that's to join us as we explore its intricacies past the break.






 Hardware   See more video at our hub!We'll just get it out of the way: you won't be wowed in the hardware department by the EVO Design 4G. That isn't to say it doesn't feel premium, nor well-made, but in a world that houses something as thin the Droid RAZR or an iPhone 4, we're left wanting more. Par for the course for smartphones from HTC, there really isn't much new or unique here, as the firm's design hallmarks have been remixed and rehashed into something neither offensive nor incredibly appealing. Yet, for what it lacks in flair, we'll commend the company in not skimping on materials. Unlike other Androids we know, there isn't a cheap weightless, or overtly plasticky feeling here, as the materials used -- brushed aluminum, glass and soft-touch rubber -- are, quite frankly, top-notch. The phone owes that sturdiness to its unibody construction, which surrounds the 4-inch display and its four capacitive buttons in one piece of onyx-colored brushed aluminum. That metal feels nice in the hand and clever use of oblique angles mask a little of its girthiness, which at a half an inch thick, again, borders on portly. Above that display lays a 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera and an elongated earpiece, which is also where a hidden status LED lurks. Circling back to the unibody frame, that same chunk of aluminum wraps around to the phone's backside, where you'll find the top and bottom have been milled to make way for two swaths of soft-touch rubberized goodness. Beginning with the top piece, you'll find the 5 megapixel camera protruding alongside an LED flash, a slender divot which houses a loudspeaker and alongside the left and top edges, a volume rocker, 3.5mm headphone jack and lock button respectively.Continuing with the second, more southernly, rubberized counterpart is where a microphone port on the bottom edge and a microUSB port on its right side call home. This entire rubber plate is removable, granting you access to the battery, SD card and mini- (not micro!) SIM slot. Did you catch that last bit? Despite it's stateside CDMA and WiMAX leanings, the EVO Design 4G will happily hang loose with GSM-brethren when taken abroad -- drinking freely from the 3GPP firehouse. Besides thickness, our only major gripe with the hardware is that camera swell, and to be more apt, its protrusion. Because the housing extends significantly from the body, the phone never actually rests flat when set on a table, which when used in this manner leads to a frustrating rocking effect. Needless to say, you'll quickly adapt to not use it this way, but its a curious oversight that puts the camera -- the most fragile part of the exterior -- directly in harm's way.To recap then, at 4.8 x 2.4 x 0.47-inches (121 x 61 x 12 mm) it isn't class leading, but for the price not terribly un-impressive either. Yet, for this thickness, we'd expect a bigger battery and maybe dual-core -- both niggles which we'll delve into below -- but despite our wishes, size-wise it is -- just like its ancestry -- certainly within the range of livable. Display The front of the device houses its main attraction (and possibly brightest spot): the 4-inch qHD Super LCD display. For those unaware that's 960 x 540 pixels of vibrant goodness, which were ripe with color even at extreme angles. At 4-inches it's a smidge smaller than the displays on the original EVO and its 3D permutation, which won't be to the liking of those obsessed with sheer size.That isn't bad in our book, as the smaller quotient means more crispness, as the qHD resolution is squished into less space. No jaggies here, which is refreshing considering the sheer amount of AMOLED devices that pass through our grubby paws, suffer from sharpness issues thanks to their pentile construction -- cough, cough.And speaking of AMOLED, our minor critique of the display would be its black levels. It's unfair to judge levels of darkness achieved by an entirely different technology, but we'd be remiss if we didn't mention the only niggle of the EVO Design 4G's display. Yet again, for this price-range, and considering the display of the also $100 WiMAX Conquer 4G, you won't be disappointed. Camera Just because it's down on sheer megapixels, doesn't mean you should count it out. Sure, there's no spiffy Amaze 4G wizardry, but the 5 megapixel sensor is a more than competent all rounder. Focusing is quick, even when taking macro shots which it handled aplomb. Capture time was equally snappy, and we were impressed with fast and relatively sharp shots. Colors reproduction can be a hit or miss and occasionally, if you aren't careful, you'll experience an oddly washed out shot. Still, as you'll see in the sample gallery below, for every so-so shot, there's typically a great one nearby. Just don't expect miracles in low light.


   See more video at our hub!While pictures were mostly enjoyable, 720p video recording was more of a mixed bag. Quick pans from left to right do produce a noticeable jello effect, which can be partially masked with slow and deliberate panning. Rolling shutter issues aside, the resulting video was ripe with color and changes in exposure happened at fairly rapid clip. Audio quality from recordings was definitely better, yet not something you'd write home about. Software  As you're undoubtedly aware, good hardware is only as good as the software that runs on it. With that being said, this is an HTC, and that naturally means it's been skinned to the gills with Sense. The Gingerbread 2.3.4 tottin' handset has been layered with a visual design language that permeates through every part of the OS, replacing lock and home screens, the app drawer and everything in-between. But while there was once a time when Sense, dare we say, made sense, stock Android sure has come a long way since its humble G1 beginnings.That isn't to say there aren't those that'll find the additions tasteful or attractive, but we're dismayed by the additional overhead used to run such eye candy. When compared to a Nexus S running Gingerbread, the impact is notable. It isn't unusable, per se, but scrolling in the browser and in the app drawer do occasionally give the single core 1.2GHz processor a noticeable run for its money. Consider yourself warned, then -- there isn't consistent iPhone 4 or Galaxy S II buttery smoothness here. Yet oddly, and like HTC's recently released Vivid, it makes do with version 3.0 of the skin, not it's latest rendition, 3.5, like on the Rezound or Rhyme. But other than minor tweaks that omission doesn't mean much, as you're still getting a bevy of HTC widgets and apps to clutter up that app drawer. And speaking of clutter, being a non-Nexus, there's naturally carrier bloatware galore. We can't speak for you, but it irks us when we're forced to look at Sprint's Music, TV & Movies, Zone and of course the venerable Nascar apps right there, in our app drawer, every time we open it. Sure, a metric ton of you will root out of bloatware hell anyway, but frankly, you shouldn't have to. At least there's some solace in Sense's "Frequent" and "Downloaded" views that help you pare things down a notch.But there is hope on the horizon. HTC's confirmed that the EVO Design 4G will get its very own upgrade to Ice Cream Sandwich at some point in the future. When that'll be, your guess is as good as ours, but we'll gladly take an official confirmation over naught. Whether or not Nexus Prime snappiness applies here remains to be seen, but here's to being hopeful. Performance and battery life       HTC EVO Design 4G  Pantech Breakout  Samsung Conquer 4G      Quadrant    1,715    1,323    1,146      Linpack (single-thread)    46.5    38.5    41.0      Nenamark1    36.5    33.7    50.34      Neocore    54.1    58.3    70.9      SunSpider 9.1    4,540    4,001    4,436   