
If you've been hoping to snag an HTC One mini since we first laid our eyes (and hands) upon the 4.3-inch device, now's your chance to do it... provided you're an AT&T customer or have no qualms with making the switch. You'll be able to grab the One mini starting next week, and at $100, it's set at a decidedly mid-tier price. To recap, the device offers a 720p display, 4MP UltraPixel camera, Android 4.2, 1,800mAh battery and 1.4GHz dual-core Snapdragon 400 SoC with 1GB RAM. Press release and video can be found below the break.




Show full PR textAT&T* announced today its plans to launch the HTC One mini, a compact version of the award-winning HTC One. The HTC One mini shares the iconic design and must-have features of the HTC One and will be available exclusively from AT&T beginning August 23 for $99.99 with a two-year agreement. To see the HTC One mini in action, check out this video.

"Our customers loved the HTC One, so we are excited to offer this slimmer, more compact version," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president – Devices, AT&T. "We're proud to continue to offer our customers so many choices with a broad smartphone portfolio all on the nation's fastest and most reliable 4G LTE network."

Jason Mackenzie, President of North America, HTC, said "The HTC One mini is pocket-friendly but packed with large experiences – an HD screen, our breakthrough UltraPixel camera, a home screen with customized feeds from news networks to social networks including Instagram, and huge sound from its front-facing stereo speakers."

Shorter, thinner and lighter than the original HTC One, the new HTC One mini boasts a striking aluminum body with a 4.3-inch Super LCD 2 HD 720p display, a powerful Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 400 dual-core 1.4 GHz processor, and HTC's UltraPixel Camera with backside illuminated sensor that captures 300 percent more light than traditional smartphone camera sensors, so you can take better photos in low light and bright light.

The HTC One mini packs all the great features you love about HTC One including:

HTC BlinkFeed™ puts your favorite content at the center of your mobile world, delivering social updates, news updates and photos directly to your home screen. It aggregates the freshest content, with more than 10,000 feeds served up daily from the most relevant and interesting sources. Enjoy all the information at a glance, without the need to jump between multiple applications and websites.HTC Zoe™ brings special moments to life in three-second videos, enabling a range of advanced editing capabilities and creative flexibility. Photos, videos and Zoes can also be featured as part of automatically edited 30-second Video Highlights with pre-selected themes with music or using sound tracks from your personal music library.HTC BoomSound™ provides dual front-facing speakers and a built-in amplifier to bring music, movies and games to life with minimal distortion, as well as the authentic sound experience you expect from built-in Beats Audio ™.


