
 Another addition to HTC's familia One, a new 4.3-inch Android phone will pay a visit to the UK (with LTE) in the next few weeks. The One SV, which is already set to arrive in Asia and Australia, has a decent list of specifications, with Beats Audio, burst photography and dual-core 1.2GHz Snapdragon S4 processor in attendance. It'll be running Android 4.0, with a 5-megapixel camera with f/2.0 lens able to record up to 1080p video -- it's certainly no Droid DNA for the old continent. A pleasant surprise, however, is the addition of a microSD card slot, which can expand internal storage up to 32GB, while NFC is built into this particular S, something that wasn't in the original One S. It's a completely different looking slab compared to the MAO-treated original, while a Super LCD 2 screen (WVGA, 480 x 800) now supplanting what was once AMOLED -- in fact it all sounds awfully close to the One VX for AT&T. The One SV will be landing in blue and white editions in the coming weeks and although no carriers have been specified yet, the mention of LTE suggests that EE is likely to offer the device.

 Update: BestBoyz in Germany has already got to grips with HTC's newest, noting a replaceable 1,800mAh battery. There's a collection of hands-on photos over at the more coverage link. 




  Show full PR text   HTC EXTENDS ACCLAIMED ONE SERIES WITH HTC ONE SV
    Super-fast LTE connectivity boosts the amazing camera and authentic sound of the award-winning One series   LONDON - 11TH DECEMBER, 2012 - HTC, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, today unveiled the latest model in its award-winning One series, the HTC One SV. This new model combines the superfast speed of 4G LTE, an amazing camera and studio-quality sound with HTC's stunning signature design. Running HTC Sense™ 4 on Android™ ICS, it is designed for those who want their smartphone to keep pace with their hectic lifestyle.   "The HTC One SV heralds the next generation of smartphone performance and lightning fast mobile internet," said Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corporation. "We're delighted to help fuel the spread of 4G LTE networks worldwide with models that enable our customers to enjoy web browsing, movie streaming and Internet radio more quickly and more smoothly than ever before."   Dependable, superfast performance  Featuring a 1.2 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 dual core processor, and taking full advantage of the latest mobile network technology, the HTC One SV offers exceptional performance, enabling high-quality video streaming, gaming and seamless multitasking.  Never run out of space for documents, movies, pictures and apps with Dropbox and SkyDrive integration, which, supported by HTC One SV's Micro SD card slot, expands the onboard memory by up to 32GB per card. Thanks to the latest NFC technology and Android Beam, you can also share your content with a simple tap of the phone to another NFC-enabled device.   Amazing camera, authentic sound  The HTC One SV offers the amazing camera synonymous with the acclaimed One series. Advanced functions, including one-press Continuous Shooting and VideoPic combined with advanced low-light performance for beautiful shots in challenging lighting conditions. The HTC One SV's 5 megapixel, f/2.0 Back Side Illuminated main camera with Panorama and 1080p HD Video Recording is complemented perfectly by a 1.6 megapixel front facing camera, which also features backside illumination, and an f/2.2 lens. Whether at sunset or in candlelight, the HTC One SV's front camera promises a self-portrait to treasure.   Exclusively available on HTC smartphones, Beats Audio™ transforms the listening experience of the HTC One SV, offering studio-quality, authentic sound across all music, gameplay and video playback. New HTC Sync Manager also makes syncing and managing your music collection even easier, ensuring your entire library is as mobile as you are.   Signature design  True to HTC's heritage, the HTC One SV, with its 4.3 inch super LCD-2 touch screen, sports  an elegant design in a range of exciting colours: Pyrenees blue and Glacier white. Its  polycarbonate body is solid yet soft to the touch and is set off by matching silver or metallic  rim belts, and colour-co-ordinated mesh for a premium finish.   Availability

   The HTC One SV will be available in the UK via selected operator, retail and distribution partners in the coming weeks.

 
