
 It's been swirling for months now, but at long last HTC has finally come forward with the official word: it'll be cracking open a new operation in the heart of North Carolina's technology hub to usher in 2011. According to the company, it'll be hiring 45 individuals at the Durham, NC-based venue, as they conduct research into "multiple areas of wireless technology, with plans to grow further during 2011 and into the future." The list of current job openings there is definitely robust, and there's little doubt that a good bit of design work will be going down just a few miles from the nearest Cook-Out. The opening of the new location marks HTC's third research and development facility in the States, with the others being positioned in Seattle and San Francisco. Out goes Sony Ericsson, in flies HTC -- fitting, don't you think?
      

 

Show full PR textHTC to Open R&D Office in Durham, North CarolinaNew facility to extend HTC's innovation leadership in wireless technologyDURHAM, N.C., Dec. 21, 2010 /PRNewswire/ -- HTC Corporation, a leading global designer of smartphones, today announced plans to lease space for a new R&D office in downtown Durham, N.C. During the first quarter of 2011 HTC expects to employ approximately 45 people in its facility, conducting research into multiple areas of wireless technology, with plans to grow further during 2011 and into the future."HTC has been successful bringing its unique brand of people-centric innovation to consumers, and with the establishment of this new R&D office, we are taking an important step to extend our leadership position in the wireless industry," said Ron Louks, chief strategy officer for HTC Corporation. "Durham is a perfect place to open our new R&D office because we are able to tap into this deep pool of technical talent that complements HTC's leading-edge R&D efforts going on around the world."With the opening of its new Durham location, HTC will have three dedicated R&D locations in the United States. Currently, HTC has a location in Seattle focused on creating innovative user experience design, including its branded HTC Sense user experience, and creates world-class industrial designs through its One & Co subsidiary located in San Francisco. Along with these R&D facilities, HTC's Americas headquarters are located in Bellevue, Wash. Altogether, HTC currently employs approximately 250 people in the United States and over 10,000 people worldwide.About HTCHTC Corporation (HTC) is one of the fastest growing companies in the mobile phone industry. By putting people at the center of everything it does, HTC creates innovative smartphones that better serve the lives and needs of individuals. The company is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange under ticker 2498. For more information about HTC, please visit www.htc.com.
 