
With a billion users, it'd be an understatement to say Facebook has done a good job conquering the desktop world. Mobile, however, is the social network's next frontier: although it has a significant presence on every major smartphone and tablet platform, the company has a reputation for bringing its key features to the PC environment long before they arrive on mobile -- if at all.


But the April 4th reveal of Facebook Home, a solidly built Android launcher, reflects a change in attitude for Mark Zuckerberg and Co. Instead of simply maintaining a smartphone presence, Facebook is ready to go to battle and is putting mobile on the top of its list of priorities. It's even adding a proper piece of hardware to its arsenal in the form of the HTC First, a 4.3-inch device on AT&T with LTE, reasonable mid-range specs and a gorgeous display. Is it worth $99 with a two-year commitment to purchase a handset dedicated to the social cause? Should you just wait until Home is available as a free download in the Google Play Store? Or is it best to ignore it altogether? Continue reading to find out.



Hardware
It would be an understatement to say the HTC First took a backseat to Facebook Home at the company's recent press conference; it was locked in the trunk and wasn't let out until a few hours after Mark Zuckerberg and a series of HTC / AT&T execs said their piece. That doesn't mean the First's hardware is chopped liver, but even so, the omission of specs is rarely a good sign. Aside from a nod to the LTE radio and a few pictures detailing the four available colors -- black, white, pale blue and red, if you're curious -- Facebook almost seemed to forget that new hardware was being introduced.
Now that we've had a chance to actually use the First for a few days, we can happily put an end to any confusion about the hardware. In today's market, an Android handset with a 4.3-inch display is considered petite, and the First definitely feels that way: at 125.99 x 65.04 x 8.89mm (4.96 x 2.56 x 0.35 inches), it nearly gets swallowed up in the hand, especially compared to all the 5-plus-inch devices we've been testing recently. It's also incredibly lightweight, barely registering on the scale at 4.37 ounces (124g).

Since the First was built to impress the Facebook-savvy, we shouldn't be surprised that this is one of the most playful-looking handsets HTC has ever made. It's not that there's anything extreme about the design; there's just something about the soft curves, multiple hues and soft-touch plastic shell that wraps around the entire device, similar to the Lumia 620. (Don't take that comparison too far, though -- the shell here isn't user-removable.) All told, it doesn't take itself too seriously; it's a phone that's focused on Facebook, and indeed, it looks the part.In fact, one of the biggest surprises is that the First's design doesn't really scream HTC -- it's almost as if the company is going back to its ODM roots, creating whatever handset other businesses (Facebook, in this case) demand. Whether or not this is the beginning of a new strategy for the Taiwanese manufacturer remains to be seen, but we can't help but wonder if "First" connotes more than just the inaugural Facebook Home device.


On the front of the First, you'll find a 4.3-inch, 720p S-LCD2 display, which packs in an above-average pixel density of 341 ppi. Obviously, it doesn't hold a candle to all those 1080p behemoths we've been seeing, but these specs were top-of-the-line in 2012, and they still hold up well today. Viewing angles are better than average, colors are decently saturated (but not overly so) and text is pretty smooth, though it's expectedly not as good as what we've seen on the HTC One's 1080p screen. The only disappointment was the phone's subpar performance in direct sunlight -- even at full brightness, we found it difficult to make out images and text.A 1.6MP front-facing camera resides above the screen, though it hangs out underneath the same panel of Gorilla Glass, along with the usual assortment of sensors and LED notification light. The speakers are squeezed inside a tiny, narrow grille, which sits in between the glass and the top edge of the phone. On the opposite end you'll find three capacitive keys: back, home and menu. (Recent apps pop up when you double-tap home, while a long-press of home pulls up Google Now.)


Turn the phone over and you'll discover a perfectly flat back featuring the 5MP rear camera and LED flash. If you only glance quickly, you may think that there isn't anything else happening on this side of the device, but look more closely and you'll see it: stenciled in incredibly light ink are logos for HTC, Facebook and AT&T, along with the obligatory FCC information underneath. The print is so small, so inoffensive, that it's actually hard to read in dimmer lighting conditions. This is something we want to see other companies mimic on their devices (Sprint has already taken a big step by removing logos from its branded phones). We're also happy to say the Beats Audio branding is nowhere to be seen, a rarity for a post-2011 HTC device.Up top sits a 3.5mm headphone jack and mic, while the power button is located on the right. Since it sticks out from the frame by at least a millimeter or so, that button is very easy to press. Meanwhile, the right side houses the micro-SIM slot and micro-USB charging port. It's an unfortunate location for the latter, but the bottom of the device -- our preferred location for charging ports -- is taken up by a machine-drilled speaker grille. The volume rocker is found on the left side of the First. Finally, if you're looking for a microSD slot or dedicated camera shutter button, you'll be disappointed.The First is an AT&T exclusive in the US, and it actively uses LTE bands 4 and 17, HSPA+ 850 / 1900 / 2100 and quad-band GSM / EDGE (its FCC docs also indicate the presence of LTE bands 2 and 5, as most AT&T smartphones do). The global model, on the other hand, promises LTE capacity on 850 / 1900 as well as HSPA+ 850 / 900 / 1900 / 2100 and quad-band GSM / EDGE. Both devices also provide dual-band 802.11a/b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0, NFC, FM radio, a non-removable 2,000mAh Lithium-polymer battery and 16GB of internal storage (11.9GB of which is user-accessible).

    HTC First     Dimensions 125.99 x 65.04 x 8.89mm (4.96 x 2.56 x 0.35 inches)   Weight 4.37 oz. (124g)   Screen size 4.3 inches   Screen resolution 1,280 x 720 (341 ppi)   Screen type S-LCD2, non-PenTile   Battery 2,000mAh Li-Polymer (non-removable)   Internal storage 16GB   External storage None   Rear camera 5MP, BSI, f/2, 28mm lens   Front-facing cam 1.6MP, BSI, ultrawide angle   Video capture 1080p / 30 fps (rear); 720p (front)   NFC Yes   Radios  Global: LTE 850/1900; HSPA+ 850/900/1900/2100; GSM/EDGE 850/900/1800/1900

 AT&T: LTE 700/AWS (bands 4/17); HSPA+ 850/1900/2100; GSM/EDGE 850/900/1800/1900

    Bluetooth v4.0   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 (8930AB)   CPU 1.4GHz dual-core   GPU Adreno 305   RAM 1GB LPDDR2   Entertainment FM radio   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n,   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.1.2 (stock)  Facebook Home 
As we mentioned earlier, the hardware isn't necessarily made to impress -- it's just there to accommodate the pride of Menlo Park: Facebook Home. Even though Zuckerberg and the rest of the crew did a pretty good job of showing demos of this new feature in action, many people still had unanswered questions after the show.What isn't Facebook Home? For starters, it's not a forked version of Android or its very own mobile operating system, as many had speculated before last week. It's also technically not a deeply integrated skin like Sense and TouchWiz. Stripped to its basics, it's nothing more than a really fancy Android app launcher: in other words, it's simply a replacement to the standard lock screens, home screen panels and app menus that we're used to seeing on a stock Android device. If you've played with launchers like Nova, GO Launcher or Apex, Facebook Home follows a similar setup. It'll be available as a free download in Google Play for a small assortment of flagship devices, including the Samsung Galaxy S III, the GS 4, the Galaxy Note II, the new HTC One and last year's One X+.

Yet, despite the fact that it'll be readily available on phones that have already been (or will soon be) released, Facebook asked HTC to produce hardware with Home pre-installed. If it can be downloaded on Play, what's the point? During the April 4th event, execs made it known that there are slight advantages to having Home pre-installed on devices: the setup process is much cleaner and, more importantly, by partnering with manufacturers, Facebook has access to certain core Android frameworks and functions it wouldn't otherwise be able to modify. In other words, the First offers a more deeply integrated and optimized Home experience. Specifically, while the downloadable version only offers Facebook-related notifications, the First integrates services like calendar, Visual Voicemail, email and most notifications you'd find in the standard pull-down tray -- even the "screenshot captured" notification appears front and center on Home until you swipe it away. It also features a Google Search bar in the app menu that you won't find on other devices running Home.


