
 

It didn't take long for HTC to go official with the Desire 600. Interestingly, it picks up on several of the new Sense 5 features revealed alongside the HTC One, including its fingertip-baiting BlinkFeed for social network and news updates. BoomSound and the ability to craft video highlights from your photos and clips also make the transition, although apparently not the burst-capture Zoe mode. Hardware-wise, there's a 1.2GHz Snapdragon 200 quad-core processor, with a 4.5-inch Super LCD2 display (at 960 x 540 resolution), an 8-megapixel primary camera capable of up to 720p video capture and a front-facing 1.6-megapixel shooter. The Desire 600 picks up the same dual front-facing speaker setup of the One, although rather than a global appearance, it's currently headed to Russia, Ukraine and the Middle-East for now, landing early this June in white and black options. However, we've already spotted a China-bound version for China Unicom's WCDMA network, the Desire 606w, and if we're honest, we'd probably be happier to see the rumored M4 make an official showing. Now, where's that Desire 200? 




Show full PR textHTC Desire 600 dual sim boosts the acclaimed Desire series
Quad-core processor, true dual SIM convenience and HTC BlinkFeed™ bring premium performance and versatility to the mid-range marketHTC, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, has today unveiled the new HTC Desire 600 dual sim, the first mid-range handset to offer HTC's latest Sense 5 experience; HTC BlinkFeed and HTC BoomSound, most recently launched as part of the award-winning HTC One. Taking full advantage of Android Jelly Bean, the new model also offers super-fast quad-core performance, while the advanced Video Highlights feature enables maximum creativity at a more affordable price tag."People rely on their smartphones every day to be their news channel, email inbox, social network and music player," said Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corporation. "The HTC Desire 600 dual sim combines speed and easy multitasking with the truly innovative HTC BlinkFeed home screen. The result is an affordable mid-range phone that sets the standard for its class, keeping the busiest user up-to-date at a glance and offering them the power and range of features to switch between work and play."A smartphone designed to keep pace with lifeSporting a 1.2 GHz quad-core processor, the HTC Desire 600 dual sim is able to support even the busiest of lifestyles. Capable of high-speed multitasking, super-fast web browsing and graphic-intense gaming, it offers exceptional performance whatever the task.Dual SIM card holders give you the freedom of having two phones in one, making it easy to switch between multiple mobile accounts and keep you up to speed with all the elements of your world. Running the "dual active" system, the HTC Desire 600 dual sim allows you to have two SIM cards active all the times, enabling you to receive a call on one line, even if you are already using the other.HTC BlinkFeed: Your favourite content live on your home screenThe HTC Desire 600 dual sim brings HTC's acclaimed BlinkFeed to the Desire range. Transforming the home screen into a customisable stream of live information, HTC BlinkFeed is displayed on a stunning 4.5", super LCD2 display and aggregates social streams and news, providing the freshest content at a glance.Drawing on local and global content from more than 1,400 media sources, BlinkFeed draws on more than 10,000 articles per day from some of the world's leading media companies including AOL, ESPN, MTV, The Financial Times and Reuters.Video Highlights: Bringing your moments to lifeHTC Video Highlights allows you to turn a day out into an entire experience that you can keep forever. Taking images captured on either the 8MP rear-facing or 1.6 MP front-facing camera, the HTC Desire 600 dual sim automatically creates professional-looking 30-second show reels without the need for advanced editing software. Simply select a music theme, alter the sequences and share your life movie with friends, family and social networks with a single tap of the screen.HTC BoomSound: Sound you'll want to shareThe dual front-facing speakers of the HTC Desire 600 dual sim allow you to experience mobile entertainment as it is meant to be enjoyed. Complete with exclusive built-in amplifiers, whether you're listening to music, watching movies or playing games, the speakers, which minimise distortion, offer a sharper, richer, wholly immersive smartphone sound. Beats Audio™ integration also takes the audio quality to the next level guaranteeing an experience as intense and high-powered as the device itself.EMEA AvailabilityThe new HTC Desire 600 dual sim will be available with mobile operators and major retailers in Russia, Ukraine and MEA from early June 2013. For more information visit www.htc.com.


