
HTC's designers may soon be more famous for their expense accounts than their designs, but that shouldn't detract from their latest color-picking masterpiece. We've been playing with the vivid blue HTC One and One Mini and have to admit, it's a tough choice deciding between this and the glamour red version we saw in July. While we were there, we also asked if the company would be introducing a Mini version of the One in red, but that's not yet confirmed. HTC is looking to hawk this as a carrier or retailer exclusive in various territories, with the official line being that it'll land in "select markets" from Q4 -- but we're reasonably sure that Sprint's got this one locked up for September. Keen-eyed readers will notice in the gallery below that the highlight colors are darker on the One than on the Mini, but that's the only difference between this and the original vintage.


Update: While there's nothing official to emerge from the US just yet, we do have official confirmation that both the HTC One and One Mini in "vivid blue" will be sold through the Carphone Warehouse in the UK. The flagship can be had on plans starting at £33, while the smaller model is available from £26 a month.





Show full PR textVivid Blue HTC One & HTC One mini only available at Carphone WarehouseOffers start from £33 for the HTC One and £26 for the HTC One miniLONDON, 3rd September 2013: Carphone Warehouse has announced today that the new Vivid Blue variants of the HTC One and HTC One mini will only be available at Carphone Warehouse from late September and mid-October respectively.Stand out from the crowd with the Vivid Blue edition of the HTC One and the HTC One mini. Standard black and silver versions are also available, from £26 a month or £379.95 SIM free.HTC OneThe precision engineered, 4G capable HTC One runs on Android 4.1 Jelly Bean and features a 4.7" super LCD-3 HD display. Find out more about 4G with the Carphone Warehouse 4G comparison hub, found online at http://www.carphonewarehouse.com/4G-comparison-hub/.The device also includes HTC BoomSound™ dual frontal stereo speakers with built-in amplifiers, studio-quality sound with Beats Audio™ and a camera with ultrapixel technology that promises sharper and more colourful images than ever before.HTC One MiniThe stunning HTC One mini includes the same features as the HTC One, but packs them into a smaller phone, making it perfect for the pocket. Featuring Android 4.2 Jelly Bean and a 1.4GHZ processor, this phone also has a 1,800 mAh battery which offers up to 692 hours of standby battery life, ideal for people on the go.Both of these phones offer the latest technology in a stylish design and are available instore and online. For the widest range of tariffs and handsets available, visit www.carphonewarehouse.co.uk, come into store or call 0870 870 0870.

Show full PR textCategory-changers: HTC introduces new mid-range Desire 601 and entry-level Desire 300

New HTC BoomBassTM supercharges BoomSoundTM for the ultimate HTC One® audio experience

London, 3 September 2013 – HTC, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, today announced the addition of the HTC Desire 601 and HTC Desire 300, to its popular smartphone family enabling consumers to enjoy a premium experience at any price point. Changing the face of the mid-range, the HTC Desire 601 introduces LTE speeds and innovative features from the flagship One family, including HTC ZoeTM with Video Highlights and HTC BoomSound. Setting a new standard for entry- level smartphones, the HTC Desire 300 offers a powerful, large-screen browsing experience and HTC BlinkFeedTM.

In addition to extending its range of affordable Desire smartphones, HTC is also bringing new choice and performance enhancements to its acclaimed HTC One family. HTC BoomBass, a Bluetooth subwoofer, combines with the One family's HTC BoomSound to offer a fully-immersive audio experience like no other. A new 'Vivid Blue' HTC One and One mini also introduce a bold new option for those who want a handset that stands out from the crowd.

"For the last 17 years HTC has challenged the mobile industry to develop innovations that change the way in which people use their mobile phone. Now we're not only changing the way people view the mid-range and entry-level market but setting the bar even higher when it comes to our premium devices and capabilities," commented Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corporation. "We are committed to offering the most innovative portfolio of products on the market. Our Desire family has become synonymous with affordable quality. Offering some of the most advanced capabilities of any smartphone, these phones truly represent premium quality in a more affordable price bracket."

HTC Desire 601: A powerful value smartphone for everyoneThe HTC Desire 601 comes complete with many of the features that have led the HTC One to be crowned the best phone in the world. HTC BlinkFeed, HTC Zoe with Video Highlights and HTC BoomSound make this the most advanced mid-range smartphone available on the market today.The rear-facing 5MP camera captures HTC Zoes, bringing images to life in three-second videos. The simple editing capabilities of HTC Zoe support advanced features such as Sequence Shot, Always Smile and Object Removal, making it easy to achieve incredible results with minimal effort.

Video Highlights takes the camera experience to the next level by creating highlight reels displayed on the HTC Desire's 601's 4.5" qHD screen. Accompanied by a range of pre-set themes for a more personal memory, these stunning 30-second video montages are simple to create and instantly sharable.

Superfast streaming, sharing and browsingThe HTC Desire 601 combines a Qualcomm® SnapdragonTM 400, dual-core, 1.4GHz processor and LTE connectivity to enable superfast HD video and music streaming with no compromise on quality. Changing the way you experience media on the go, dual, front-facing HTC BoomSound speakers join with the large screen to create a completely immersive audiovisual experience. Delivering richer, sharper tones, the raw power of the speakers lets you take the "big screen, big sound" home entertainment experience with you, wherever you go.

HTC Desire 300: A personal and powerful entry-level smartphoneThe HTC Desire 300 enhances the entry-level browsing experience with HTC BlinkFeed making personal and up-to-date content and social media updates available instantly on your home screen. Its stunning 4.3", full lamination display is perfect for reading your customised HTC BlinkFeed updates, watching videos, viewing photos and surfing the web, whilst the Qualcomm® SnapdragonTM dual-core, 1GHz processor means that you'll never be short on performance.Boosting the bass for HTC One

In the HTC One, HTC redefined the smartphone sound experience with HTC BoomSound and has now raised the bar again with the introduction of a new accessory for the HTC One family. HTC BoomBass, a compact, Bluetooth-enabled subwoofer with a dedicated amplifier, provides clearer, more powerful bass when combined with the HTC One family's BoomSound. The subwoofer enables HTC BoomSound's speakers to produce enhanced quality of lower range frequencies so, no matter what music you're playing or video you're watching, you are guaranteed immense and exceptional sound that can travel with you.

AvailabilityThe new HTC Desire 601 will be available with mobile operators and major retailers in select markets across EMEA from September 2013. The HTC Desire 300 will be available in select markets from October 2013.

The new Vivid Blue HTC One models will be available in select markets from Q4 2013 and HTC BoomBass will be available from the HTC Accessory Store from mid October 2013. (http://www.htcaccessorystore.com)


