
 HTC's mid-range One VX just recently made its debut on AT&T, and we now have some official word on the US debut of its slightly smaller counterpart, the LTE-equipped One SV. It will be available solely on Cricket Wireless starting January 16th, where it will set you back $349.99 off-contract. That will buy you a 4.3-inch WVGA display (of the Super LCD 2 variety), a 1.2GHz Snapdragon S4 processor, front and rear-facing cameras (5 megapixel, f/2.0 and 1.6 megapixel, f/2.2, respectively), a microSD card slot and Android 4.0 with HTC's Sense 4 interface. As you can see, it also comes in a bright Flame red color, which is the only option for the time being.



  Show full PR text   HTC One SV makes its United States Debut at Cricket Wireless
   ~ Cricket to Offer the Latest in HTC's Award-winning HTC One Series

   SAN DIEGO and BELLEVUE, Wash., Jan. 4, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Cricket Wireless and HTC today announced the upcoming launch of the HTC One SV, the latest model in the award-winning HTC One® series. This new smartphone, initially available in the United States only at Cricket Wireless, combines the speed of 4G LTE, an amazing 5 megapixel camera, and studio-quality sound with HTC's stunning signature design. Running HTC Sense® 4 on Android™ 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich), it is designed for those who want their smartphone to keep pace with their busy lifestyle. The HTC One SV will be available beginning January 16 at Cricket company-owned stores and dealers nationwide and on www.mycricket.com for $349.99 (MSRP).

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120202/LA46949LOGO)

   "We are excited to be the first U.S. carrier to make the HTC One SV available to customers," said Matt Stoiber, senior vice president, devices for Cricket. "The HTC One SV is the perfect addition to our growing and robust device portfolio that offers great features at value pricing. The HTC One series is extremely popular and we believe Cricket customers will appreciate the combination of outstanding design, great features and power that the One SV provides."

   "The HTC One SV joins our award-winning HTC One series to bring an affordable superphone to U.S. customers," said Mike Woodward, president, North America, HTC. "The HTC One SV combines sleek contours and a vibrant color with superfast performance courtesy of the dual-core processor and 4G LTE technology."

   Designed To Perform

   Featuring a Qualcomm® Snapdragon® S4 processor with a dual core 1.2GHz CPU and taking full advantage of the latest mobile network technology, the HTC One SV offers exceptional performance, enabling high-quality video streaming, gaming and seamless multitasking.

   Users can avoid running out of space for documents, movies, pictures and apps, as the HTC One SV has expandable storage through a microSD® card slot with support for up to 32GB cards and integration with Dropbox®. Thanks to the latest NFC technology and Android Beam™, users can also share content with a simple tap of the phone to another NFC-enabled device.

   The HTC One SV is available on Cricket's 4G LTE Android rate plans that offer, for a limited time, double the monthly full speed data allowance offered in Cricket's 3G rate plans. The $50 4G LTE Android Double Data Rate Plan allows up to 2GB of full-speed data; the $60 plan allows 5GB of full-speed data and the $70 plan offers up to 10GB of full-speed data.

   Amazing Camera, Authentic Sound

   The HTC One SV offers the amazing camera synonymous with the acclaimed HTC One series. Advanced functions, including one-press continuous shooting and HTC VideoPic™ combine with advanced low-light performance for beautiful shots in challenging lighting conditions. The HTC One SV's 5 megapixel, f/2.0 back side illuminated main camera with panorama and 1080p HD video recording is complemented perfectly by a 1.6 megapixel front facing camera, which also features backside illumination, and an f/2.2 lens. Whether at sunset or in candlelight, the HTC One SV's front camera promises a self-portrait to treasure.

   Exclusively available on HTC smartphones, Beats Audio™ transforms the listening experience of the HTC One SV, offering studio-quality, authentic sound across all music, gameplay and video playback. New HTC Sync Manager also makes it easy to manage and sync your music collection from your computer to your smartphone to ensure your entire library is as mobile as you are.

   Signature design true to HTC's heritage, the HTC One SV, with its 4.3 inch super LCD-2 touch screen, is perfect for those who like to have ample screen to play games, watch streaming video, and browse the web. Customers will also appreciate the brilliant 16 million colors, scratch resistant Corning® Gorilla® Glass and the fact that the display is fingerprint resistant. The bold styling of the phone is finished in a vibrant Flame color.

   3G All-Inclusive Rate Plans

   Cricket's 3G all-inclusive smartphone rate plans start at $50 for unlimited talk and text plus up to 1GB of full-speed data per month. The $60 smartphone plan contains up to 2.5GB of full-speed data per month and the $70 smartphone plan offers up to 5GB of full-speed data per month. With the $60 and $70 plans, customers can tether their device to power additional wireless devices.

   4G LTE All-Inclusive Rate Plans

   Cricket's 4G LTE Android Double Data rate plans offer all the features of the value-rich 3G rate plans and, for a limited time, double the monthly full speed data allowance. The $50 4G LTE Android Double Data Rate Plan allows up to 2GB of full-speed data; the $60 plan allows up to 5GB of full-speed data and the $70 plan offers up to 10GB of full-speed data.

   For more information about Cricket's dynamic service and newest device lineup and to check for availability, visit www.mycricket.com. To follow Cricket's latest news and updates online, visit Facebook at www.facebook.com/cricketwireless and Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/cricketnation.

   About Cricket

   Cricket is the pioneer and leader in delivering innovative value-rich prepaid wireless services with no long-term contracts. Cricket offers nationwide wireless voice and mobile data services over high-quality, all-digital 4G LTE and 3G CDMA wireless networks. Cricket's innovative products and services, including the award-winning Muve Music® - the first music service designed for a wireless phone, are available nationwide at Cricket branded retail stores, dealers, national retailers and at www.mycricket.com. For more information about Cricket, please visit www.mycricket.com.

   About HTC

   Founded in 1997, HTC Corp. (HTC) is the creator of many award-winning mobile devices and industry firsts. By putting people at the center of everything it does, HTC pushes the boundaries of design and technology to create innovative and personal experiences for consumers around the globe. HTC's portfolio includes smartphones and tablets powered by HTC Sense®, a multilayered graphical user interface that vastly improves user experience. HTC is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE: 2498). For more information, please visit www.htc.com.

   SOURCE Cricket Wireless

 
