
  HTC's launched a new flagship handset for Mobile World Congress 2012, the HTC One X -- codenamed Endeavour. Dipping into design notes from The Nokia Lumia line, the One X is a unibody device machined from white polycarbonate that uses Gorilla Glass to protect its 4.7-inch 1280x720 non-pentile Super LCD 2 display. Stunning outside appearances aside, HTC's newest features an NVIDIA Tegra 3 quad-core processor for the Global edition and a Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 dual-core for the LTE iteration. Memory specs on the box show 1GB DDR2 and 32GB of built-in storage -- 26GB of which is available to the user -- and an additional 25GB free for two years through DropBox. Connectivity options abound with quad-band GSM and quad-band 42Mbps HSPA+ -- which includes AWS frequencies, huzzah! At the heart of its 8MP f/2.0 camera section is HTC's ImageChip silicon for clearer shots even in low light conditions and the ability to shoot pictures while recording continuous focus 1080p video. Rounding out the new set's photographic prowess is a unique LED flash with support for 5 levels of automatic brightness control and a front facing 1.3 megapixel number that'll sort your 720p HD needs. All things considered we'd say HTC has likely knocked it out of the park with this Engadget specced device, the only thing some might possibly nitpick would be that the 1800mAh battery nestled in the housing is never coming out nor will you find a spot to pop an additional memory card in. We'll be back as quick as we can with some detailed hands-on details, pics, and video. What we do know is that it'll be out globally in April.
      

 

   Show full PR text   A Few Key Facts • Available exclusively from AT&T* in the coming months, the HTC OneX ™ will be the first new smartphone from AT&T to feature the latest version of the Android operating system (4.0) paired with the power of AT&T's 4G LTE network. • HTC One X will be one of the first phones in the U.S. to feature HTC Sense™ 4, the new version of HTC's branded user experience that introduces ImageSense, a suite of camera and imaging features with improvements to every part of the camera. • HTC One X will also be AT&T's first smartphone with Beats By Dr. Dre™ Audio built-in to the hardware and software. Beats Audio on the HTC One X is enabled across the entire multimedia audio experience including apps, offering richer, more authentic sound on music, games, videos and movies. • AT&T stores will soon carry Beats By Dr. Dre accessories for the first time.
 