
 

Guess what's officially on its way to US Cellular in October? The headline probably gave you a pretty good clue -- it's the HTC Hero S. And it's not coming alone: apparently the new device is big enough to warrant its very own entourage. Its brethren, the Wildfire S and Flyer, will both waltz into stores at roughly the same time. The Gingerbread-running Hero S will offer a 1.2GHz Qualcomm MSM8655 CPU, 4-inch qHD (960 x 540) display, a 1,520mAh battery and a 5MP CMOS rear camera accompanied by a 1.3MP front-facing cam. Add it to the lineup next to the Motorola Electrify, and we'd say the carrier's got some good options for the getting. The Hero S will be available sometime next month for $200 after $100 mail-in rebate, while the Wildfire S (which will come in grey and purple) will go for $80 after rebate and the Flyer can be yours for $400 -- once again, after rebate. Head below to find the full press release.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  U.S. Cellular Announces Three HTC Android-Powered Devices Coming Soon 		Carrier's Device Line-up Offers Something for Everyone 		CHICAGO (September 28, 2011) – U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM) announced today that the HTC Wildfire S™ and HTC Hero S™ smartphones, and the HTC Flyer™ tablet, will arrive in stores next month. All three devices are powered by the Android™ operating system, which gives customers endless options to customize the devices to fit their lifestyles. 		"We're excited to give our customers even more choices by offering these cutting-edge devices," said Edward Perez, vice president of sales and marketing operations for U.S. Cellular. "Our associates' commitment to helping each customer find the right device to organize and simplify their life is one of the reasons we have the happiest customers in wireless." 		HTC smartphones and tablets powered by Google's Android operating system lets wireless users personalize the devices. With more than 550,000 Android devices activated each day and more than 250,000 helpful apps available to stay organized, entertained and in touch with family and friends from anywhere, consumers are realizing the unique benefits that Android-powered devices offer. 		The sleek and stylish HTC Hero S runs on Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) with HTC Sense™, which helps keep customers at the center of their social world by bringing together all the different ways they communicate - from calls to IMs to status updates. It also features HTC Watch™, which allows customers to view their favorite television shows and movies on the smartphone's vibrant 4-inch Super LCD touchscreen with qHD resolution. The Hero S also features a 5-megapixel camera with autofocus and a 1.3-megapixel front-facing camera that lets users quickly capture pictures and video. The Hero S will be available for $199.99 after $100 mail-in rebate along with purchase of a data plan. 		Also powered by Android 2.3, the Wildfire S will appeal to customers moving up to their first smartphone. Available in grey and purple, it features a vibrant 3.2-inch touchscreen with HTC Sense and a 5-megapixel camera. Customers new to smartphones can easily download and enjoy useful apps. The Wildfire S will be available for $79.99 after $100.00 mail-in rebate along with purchase of a data plan. 		The HTC Flyer is small enough to hold in one hand and powerful enough for e-mail, web browsing, entertainment and apps. The 7-inch tablet is driven by a 1.5 Ghz Snapdragon processor that lets customers cruise through applications, play games and watch TV and movies. The HTC Flyer also comes with 32GB of memory on-board to store music and videos. An optional HTC Scribe™ pen can highlight text, make notes, draw and even sign documents right on the screen. The HTC Flyer will be available for $399.99 after $100 mail-in rebate with a two-year contract and a $54.99 data plan. 		U.S. Cellular's value-packed national plans are tailored to meet customers' data needs. The $79.99 Primary Plus Plan is the best value in wireless and offers 5GB of data with unlimited text, picture and video messaging. The plan also comes with 450 voice minutes, free incoming calls, free nights and weekends, and free mobile-to-mobile calls. A family of four who switches to U.S. Cellular can save more than $1,000 a year with the company's National Premium Plus family plan. 		U.S. Cellular customers also get unique benefits, like new phones faster without continuously signing contracts, free incoming calls, text and pix, free Battery Swap and a rewards program where they get points for paying monthly wireless bills on time, adding a line or referring new customers. All U.S. Cellular devices are backed by the carrier's high-speed nationwide network, which has the highest call quality and network satisfaction of any national carrier. 		To help smartphone and tablet users get the most out of their devices, U.S. Cellular hosts free in-store Device Workshops. Associates guide attendees through all of the features and functions of the company's Android-powered, Windows Phone and BlackBerry devices, and help them personalize their phones to enhance their lives. The workshops are open to everyone. 		For more information about all of U.S. Cellular's Device Workshops, deals, plans and phones, visit any U.S. Cellular store, go to uscellular.com or check out U.S. Cellular on Facebook. 		The HTC Hero S will be available for $199.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate. The HTC Wildfire S will be available for $79.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate. Purchase of a data plan is required, and a new two-year agreement and activation fee may apply for new customers. The HTC Flyer will be available for $199.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate with a two-year contract and a $54.99 data plan. Additional terms, conditions and/or charges may apply.
 