
       
HTC hasn't filed its official reply to Apple's patent lawsuit in court yet, but the company just gave us an updated and expanded statement on the case, saying that while it "strongly advocates intellectual property protection," it disagrees with Apple's actions and will "fully defend itself." Natch. HTC obviously wasn't eager to divulge whether or not that means it's going to countersue Apple with its own patents, but we're sort of expecting it -- we'll find out more when lawyers do their thing in a few weeks. Oh, and we also asked HTC if and when Google would get involved, but didn't get an answer -- we'll let you know if we hear anything. Full statement after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textHTC Disagrees with Apple's ActionsSeattle – March 17, 2010 – HTC Corporation today outlined its disagreement with Apple's legal actions and reiterated its commitment to creating a portfolio of innovative smartphones that gives consumers a variety of choices. Founded in 1997 with a passion for innovation and a vision for how smartphones would change people's lives, HTC has continually driven this vision by consistently introducing award-winning smartphones with U.S. mobile operators."HTC disagrees with Apple's actions and will fully defend itself. HTC strongly advocates intellectual property protection and will continue to respect other innovators and their technologies as we have always done, but we will continue to embrace competition through our own innovation as a healthy way for consumers to get the best mobile experience possible," said Peter Chou, chief executive officer, HTC Corporation. "From day one, HTC has focused on creating cutting-edge innovations that deliver unique value for people looking for a smartphone. In 1999 we started designing the XDA and T-Mobile Pocket PC Phone Edition, our first touch-screen smartphones, and they both shipped in 2002 with more than 50 additional HTC smartphone models shipping since then." The industry has recognized HTC's contributions through a variety of awards including Fast Company's 2010 Top 50 Most Innovative Companies and MIT Technology Review's 2010 50 Most Innovative Companies. The GSMA also recently awarded the HTC Hero as the "Best Phone of 2009." Some of HTC's technology firsts include:First Windows PDA (1998)First Windows Phone (June 2002)First 3G CDMA EVDO smartphone (October 2005)First gesture-based smartphone (June 2007)First Google Android smartphone (October 2008)First 4G WIMAX smartphone (November 2008)In 2009, HTC launched its branded user experience, HTC Sense. HTC Sense is focused on putting people at the center by making phones work in a more simple and natural way. This experience was fundamentally based on listening and observing how people live and communicate."HTC has always taken a partnership-oriented, collaborative approach to business. This has led to long-standing strategic partnerships with the top software, Internet and wireless technology companies in the industry as well as the top U.S., European and Asian mobile operators," said Jason Mackenzie, vice president of HTC America. "It is through these relationships that we have been able to deliver the world's most diverse series of smartphones to an even more diverse group of people around the world, recognizing that customers have very different needs."For more information on HTC's history of innovation, please visit: www.htc.com/history.
 