
 Remember HTC's early 2012 Android flagship? Well, it's back and plus-sized for the tech-savvy masses. Officially announced today, the One X+ is a minor refresh of the original that debuted at MWC this past spring, albeit with a faster 1.7GHz Tegra 3 CPU, larger 2,100mAh battery, expanded 64GB of storage and Android 4.1 Jelly Bean with Sense 4+ onboard. As part of that upgraded custom skin, the 4.7-inch device can now tap to pair, or "Tap and Go" as the company calls it, with Beats-branded speakers, allowing users to easily connect and disconnect from their audio peripherals. Apart from that, the 8-megapixel rear module with f/2.0 lens and ImageChip-assist has stayed the same, but the camera software's been slightly tweaked with the addition of two new modes: Self Portrait for subtle retouching of front facing shots and Sightseeing which allows for quick launch of the camera app. Also debuting alongside this hardware update is HTC Get Started, a web-based service that lets users manage initial setup from the desktop for one-click installation on the phone itself. The One X+ is slated to launch globally this fall, hitting Europe and Northern Asia this October, with a November rollout in South Asia to follow. As for a US release, well, you'll just have to sit tight and see what news the day brings. Official PR after the break. 




  Show full PR text   HTC INTRODUCES THE HTC ONE™ X+.  MORE SPEED, MORE STORAGE AND MORE BATTERY LIFE  MAKE HTC'S BEST RATED ANDROID PHONE, EVEN BETTER

   HTC also announces SenseTM 4+ with Android Jelly Bean upgrades for  HTC One X and HTC One S coming soon

   TAIPEI - 2ND OCTOBER, 2012 - HTC, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, today unveiled the HTC One™ X+, a refreshed version of its award winning HTC One™ X smartphone, running the HTC SenseTM 4+ experience on Android™ Jelly Bean. The HTC One™ X+ combines the iconic design, amazing camera and authentic audio experience of the HTC One series, with increased performance, longer battery life and expanded internal storage.

   "We are taking the HTC One™ X to a new level with the introduction of the new HTC One™ X+," said Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corporation. "Our customers will have super-fast browsing, an even better camera and more immersive entertainment with Beats Audio."

   Performance, Endurance and Storage  Featuring a 1.7 GHz quad-core NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 AP37 processor and 64GB of internal storage, the HTC One™ X+ LTE version is up to 67% faster than the HTC One™ X1 LTE, making the HTC One™ X+ the best rated Android phone on the market. Developed to be lightning fast, the HTC One™ X+ enables quicker web browsing, fluid gaming and graphic rendering, and speedy downloads, providing effortless usage on the go.

   In addition to its increased performance speeds, the HTC One™ X+ introduces extended performance with the inclusion of a 2100 mAh battery, giving you up to 50% (6 hours) more talk time, and longer to browse the web and enjoy your favorite music and videos2.

   Imaging, Music and Movies  Combining the amazing camera capabilities of its predecessor3* with a series of intelligent features, powered by SenseTM 4+, the HTC One™ X+ has been designed to deliver the most premium mobile experience. The newly launched Self Portrait mode on the front camera helps you capture high quality photos by intuitively detecting the human face at various angles and applying subtle enhancements to skin and eyes. Sightseeing mode makes sure you'll always be ready to capture the moment - one touch of the power button bypasses the lock screen and launches directly into the camera. Two new views in Gallery display images and videos and group them according to where and when they were taken.

   Exclusively available on HTC smartphones, Beats AudioTM provides authentic, studio-quality sound that delivers the most immersive sound experience with an enhanced audio profile, crisper vocals and detailed high notes for your music, games, movies and videos. Making it easier to listen to music out loud, and through SenseTM 4+, the HTC One™ X+ introduces a new Tap and Go function, which allows you to connect the phone and your music to Beats speakers'4 when you tap them. To disconnect, it is just another quick tap.

   Providing exclusive access to thousands of movies through HTC Watch 2.0, the HTC One™ X+ will appeal to both the avid film fan and the casual movie-goer. Combined with the introduction of video hub, another benefit of SenseTM 4+, for the first time you will be able to put all your video entertainment in a single place.

   Easy Set Up  A new feature in the HTC One™ X+ is HTC Get Started, a new web service that guides the user painlessly through the set-up and personalisation process from a desktop web browser. Designed to enhance the experience of setting up a phone for the first time, this feature ensures that users will get the most out of their new phone from the beginning. With the touch of a button, users' phone will reflect the settings and apps that were chosen on the Web. Visit start.htc.com for more details.

   Availability  The HTC One™ X+ will be available in Europe and North Asia from October and in South Asia from November 2012. North America will make a separate announcement regarding availability of the HTC One™ X+. The Android Jelly Bean with HTC™ Sense 4+ update is scheduled to begin rolling out for the HTC One™ S and HTC One™ X from October.

 
