
 It's not much of a secret at this point, but HTC and Verizon have finally made their king-sized smartphone official at today's press event: the Droid DNA, which is essentially Big Red's variant of the J Butterfly released in Japan a few weeks ago, will be offered in stores and online starting the day before Thanksgiving for $200 with a two-year commitment, but early adopters will be able to pre-order their unit today.

 As you may recall, the DNA is already well known in mobile circles thanks to its 5-inch 1080p Super LCD3 display (which comes out to 440ppi), but there's plenty of other goodies that make this particular handset a rather tempting purchase for the holiday season. For instance, it's helped along by a 1.5GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor (APQ8064 paired with MDM9615m, to be specific) and 2GB of RAM, and will come running Jelly Bean and HTC's Sense 4+ UI. It will also come with an 8MP f/2.0 rear camera with 28mm wide angle lens, BSI sensor, ImageChip and 1080p HD video capture. On the opposite side of the phone you can expect to see a 2.1MP f/2.0 front-facing cam that features 1080p HD video record and an 88-degree ultra-wide angle lens. By the way, all of these spiffy specs will rely on an embedded 2,020mAh battery for its power supply, but it'll have Qi-compatible wireless charging to help out when it's getting low.

 HTC continues to highlight its audio prowess, as the DNA takes advantage of Beats Audio and a 2.55v built-in headset amplifier and dedicated rear speaker amp, which is geared to offer minimal distortion at maximum volume; in terms of how much multimedia you can throw on the phone, however, it comes with 16GB internal storage and no microSD slot. Rounding out the spec sheet, the DNA offers Verizon LTE, quad-band GSM and UMTS (we haven't been told if global roaming will be enabled, but we suspect so), Bluetooth 4.0 with aptX support, NFC, MHL, dual mics for noise cancelation and WiFi 802.11 a/b/g/n (dual-band). It measures 9.73mm thick and weighs 4.86 ounces (138g). We'll update our post with Verizon's press release as soon as it's available, and our team is at this morning's event getting ready to have some quality hands-on time with the new beaut. In the meantime, you may want to think about revising your Black Friday shopping list.



  Show full PR text   DROID DNA by HTC Introduced as The Ultimate Smartphone -- Available Exclusively From Verizon Wireless   The first full HD 1080p display with the highest pixel density of any smartphone also features the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon quad-core processor, Verizon Wireless 4G LTE and HTC Sense 4+ with Android Jelly Bean

   BELLEVUE, Wash., Nov. 13, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- HTC Corporation, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, and Verizon Wireless today announced the exclusive DROID DNA by HTC, the ultimate smartphone and the first with a full HD 1080p display. The DROID DNA by HTC will be available exclusively through Verizon Wireless through pre-order starting today and at retail stores nationwide Wednesday, November 21st.

   "It's no secret that people depend on their smartphones more and more every day which rightfully raises expectations for performance, speed, and design. The DROID DNA by HTC embodies a smartphone that pushes the envelope in all of these areas with the first true 1080p HD display, latest quad-core processor, and Verizon's 4G LTE network, all wrapped in a beautifully crafted design," said Jason Mackenzie, president, HTC Corporation. "The DROID DNA by HTC is sure to top wish lists this holiday season."

   The Ultimate Smartphone

   With technology rivaling the latest HD TV's, the DROID DNA by HTC is the first smartphone to feature a true 1080p HD super LCD 3 display with Corning® Gorilla® Glass 2 protection. It boasts an extraordinary 440 pixels per inch (PPI) on a 5-inch screen for unprecedented in-hand HD experiences that delivers the maximum pixel clarity available on a smartphone.

   Designed to accentuate the incredible display, the deep black, soft-touch back is understated, with the exception of a metallic red camera bezel, while the red microgrill pattern of the sidewalls hint at the phone's DROID heritage and the power inside. The beautifully crafted smartphone feels thinner than other devices of a similar size as the edges of the curved back taper to a mere 4mm for a comfortable feel in the hand or pocket.

   The Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ S4 Pro processor, featuring a quad-core 1.5 GHz CPU and high-performance GPU, paired with America's largest 4G LTE network from Verizon Wireless and a full 2G of RAM enable the seamless use of multiple apps simultaneously. With HTC Sense® 4+ and Android™ 4.1.1 (Jelly Bean), you get great software experiences including Google Now. HTC Sense 4+ offers a wealth of easy-to-use and customizable features bringing highly sought after personalization to your phone and placing the most important content front and center. A series of intelligent features powered by HTC Sense 4+ also provides a number of improvements to the camera.

   Amazing Camera

   The DROID DNA by HTC has a world-class camera that delivers fast image capture, great images even in low-light and an easy interface to capture stills and video. With an 8-megapixel f/2.0 28mm wide-angle lens, 5-level automatic flash, backside illuminated sensor (BSI), and superfast autofocus, you'll capture amazing moments without the worry of missing a single one. Instead of choosing between photos and video, HTC VideoPic™ allows you to capture video and still images at the same time. And by simply holding the shutter button, Continuous Shooting takes multiple photos at up to four frames per second to catch all the action.

   It also includes a new best-in-class 2.1-megapixel, f/2.0, 88-degree, ultra-wide angle, front-facing camera that allows more to be captured in self-portraits, and up to four people for group shots. Auto Portrait makes it easier to take photos of yourself and your friends with automatic face detection and a countdown timer so you can focus on your pose and not the shutter button. Capable of capturing 1080p HD video, the front-facing camera also provides a sharper picture during video chat.

   Authentic Sound

   The DROID DNA by HTC has a unique, 2.55-volt, built-in headset amplifier and dedicated amp for the external rear-speaker to help boost the audio signal to deliver crystal clear sound with less distortion, even at maximum volume. The combination of amplified hardware and the rich, authentic, studio-quality sound of Beats Audio™ allows music to be heard the way the artist intended, and enhances the sound quality while playing games or watching video.

   Additional Features

   The DROID DNA by HTC is equipped with a 2,020 mAh battery and power saving software that enables long-lasting endurance. In addition, the embedded wireless charging makes it easy and convenient to top off power throughout the day or fully charge overnight, simply by setting the phone down. Finally, with near field communication (NFC), you can use the DROID DNA by HTC to share music and videos, add someone to your social networks, or download apps by tapping other NFC-enabled devices.

   Availability:

   The DROID DNA by HTC will be available exclusively from Verizon Wireless through a pre-order starting today at www.verizonwireless.com/droiddna, and in-stores nationwide beginning Wednesday, November 21st for $199.99 with a two-year customer agreement.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

