
One. In literal terms, it's a number. To HTC, however, it's a branding strategy -- the foundation upon which the entire company is now based. Just take one look at the One lineup and you'll easily understand this is the manufacturer's pride and joy. There's a very good reason for that: in a crowded smartphone market, HTC is the underdog to titans like Samsung and Apple. The company needs to stand out if it even wants the chance to prove itself to consumers.


Last year's One X marked a solid start, and while it didn't pick up the momentum CEO Peter Chou would've liked, the follow-up model -- simply called the One -- takes HTC's design and imaging chops to the next level, bringing a new UltraPixel camera sensor, among other top-shelf specs. But will it catch the eye of potential smartphone buyers, in light of another key product announcement? We'd say it's got more than a fighting chance.


Update: HTC has since come out with a refreshed version of the One, the M8. Read our review here. 






Hardware 
In order to most fully appreciate the One's hardware, you first need to understand the process that goes on behind the scenes. Rather than opt for the sort of polycarbonate shell used on the One X and One X+, HTC crafted the One out of a single block of anodized aluminum, sprinkled with polycarbonate accents throughout. It's incredibly intricate: each unit goes through at least 200 minutes of CNC machine cuts, and the aluminum is etched into channels filled with polycarbonate -- a technique called zero-gap injection molding. Add chamfered, polished edges that connect the sides of the phone to the glass (Gorilla Glass 2, to be specific), and you have a handset with one of the best industrial designs we've ever seen. The amount of detail here is staggering, and it reflects just how crucial this device is to HTC's future.Much like the Windows Phone 8X and Droid DNA (globally known as the Butterfly), the One has a pyramid-like internal setup: larger components like the display and battery sit up front, with the parts getting progressively smaller as you move toward the back of the phone. This gives the rear cover a sleek curve that makes it utterly comfortable to hold. Though the One is even slimmer at 9.3mm (0.37 inch) than the 10mm (0.4 inch) 8X, it's easier to grasp because the edges are contoured the way they are. At 5.04 ounces (143g), it feels a little weightier, but less than you might have guessed; it's actually relatively light given the materials used.


Ultimately, we're smitten with the One's design for all sorts of reasons: it's sexy, it feels secure in the hand and the combination of unibody aluminum and polycarbonate ensures the phone won't shatter into a million pieces if it were to hit the ground (although it may get dinged or scratched up a bit, depending on the angle).

We're smitten with the One's gorgeous industrial design and premium build.While industrial design, ergonomics and build quality are a good start, there's much more to this skinny slab of aluminum. The front of the device is home to some of the biggest changes, headlined by a 4.7-inch S-LCD3 panel with 1080p resolution and two capacitive soft keys just below it -- a departure from the standard three-button setup. A tiny HTC logo sits where the home button once did, smack-dab in between the two soft keys. In fact, it's almost a little deceiving: it looks as if the logo should double as a button (we'd prefer it), but unfortunately there's nothing more than meets the eye. Aluminum strips line the top and bottom of the phone's face, with a set of BoomSound speaker grilles designed to offer stereo sound when you're watching movies or listening to music. (The grille setup isn't unlike what you'd find flanking the keyboard of some laptops.) An LED notification light resides under the top grille, toward the left. A 2.1MP wide-angle, front-facing camera is located in the top-right corner, while a pair of sensors sits over on the top left.The front is by far the busiest part of the phone, while the edges and back have a more minimal design that helps keep the phone looking refined. The polycarbonate-laced sides angle inward until they meet the Gorilla Glass on the front, with only a chamfer to connect them. The left side is uninterrupted, save for a micro-SIM tray and miniscule ejection port. A micro-USB / MHL port and mic are on the bottom, and the right is taken up by a single volume rocker that uses the same ridge-like exterior as the Droid DNA.


The top end is where things get a little more interesting. The 3.5mm headphone jack is nothing new, but the power button has a dual personality: it doubles as an infrared (IR) blaster capable of transmitting and receiving, allowing you to use the handset as a TV remote. Because that power button is housed on the left, the act of locking and unlocking the One could be a bit more awkward for folks who tend to hold their phones in their left hands.Now we turn to the back, which itself is a study in symmetry and simplicity. Two strips of polycarbonate line the top and bottom, lining up neatly with the top and bottom of the 4.7-inch display on the other side. Squint hard enough and you may see a noise-cancelling mic in the top strip. The camera lens sits in the middle of the back, just barely below the top strip; it's encircled by a thin layer of polycarbonate and is slightly recessed to prevent the glass from getting scratched. You'll see an LED flash to the left of the camera; there's also the obligatory HTC logo set in the absolute center of the device, and Beats Audio branding has a spot just a smidgen above the bottom strip. An NFC transmitter is built into the back around the camera module. Unfortunately, though, one thing you won't find back here is wireless charging. Sorry, folks.


Finally, as you've likely already surmised by now, the 2,300mAh battery inside the One isn't removable or even accessible. This should come as no surprise to anyone who has used an HTC unibody flagship. There's also no place to stick a microSD card, so the 32 or 64GB of internal storage will have to suffice.There's plenty more going on underneath the shell: the One is powered by a 1.7GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 600 (APQ8064T), an Adreno 320 and 2GB DDR2 RAM. While there are two basic versions of the device -- the UL and LTE-less U -- there will be six different SKUs that feature six different sets of LTE and HSPA+ bands. All of the units are quad-band GSM/EDGE (850/900/1800/1900MHz), but it gets more complicated as the speed goes up: our review unit, which was made for European frequencies, sports 900/1900/2100MHz UMTS/HSPA+ (3G) and 800/1800/2600MHz LTE. The "U" offers the same three frequencies and adds 850MHz for good measure, while Asia's variant uses 850/900/1900/2100MHz 3G and 1800/2600MHz LTE. Confused yet? Let's throw the US models into the mix. AT&T will offer 850/1900/2100MHz 3G and 700/850/AWS/1900MHz LTE. T-Mobile's has 850/AWS/1900/2100MHz 3G and 700/AWS LTE. Finally, Sprint's version uses 700/AWS 3G, 800/1900MHz CDMA and 1900MHz LTE.If that last paragraph of specs didn't wear you out, maybe the full data sheet below will. We hope not, because we have a lot more to discuss.

    HTC One     Dimensions 137.4 x 68.2 x 9.3mm (5.41 x 2.69 x 0.37 inch)   Weight 5.04 oz. (143g)   Screen size 4.7 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080 (468 ppi)   Screen type S-LCD3   Battery 2,300mAh Li-Polymer (non-removable)   Internal storage 32/64GB   External storage None   Rear camera 4MP, BSI, f/2.0, 1/3'' sensor size, 2µm pixel size, OIS   Front-facing cam 2.1MP   Video capture 1080p, 30 fps (front and back)   NFC Yes   Radios Depends on market -- see hardware section   Bluetooth v4.0 with aptX   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 600 (APQ8064T)   CPU 1.7GHz quad-core   GPU Adreno 320   RAM 2GB   Entertainment MHL, DLNA, IR sensor   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/ac/b/g/n, WiFi Direct   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.1.2 (upgradeable to 4.2), Sense 5 UI  Display 
We praised the One X's 720p S-LCD2 display when it first showed up on the scene last spring, and there was even more to love a few months later when the Droid DNA came out with a 1080p S-LCD3 panel. Having built up this much momentum, we weren't expecting anything less than the absolute best from the One. And on paper, certainly, it doesn't disappoint: the One features the same number of pixels as the DNA, except they're crammed into a 4.7-inch screen (4.65 inches, to get technical). For the pixel density fanatics out there, this means the One offers an incredible 468 ppi. The setup sounds great on paper, but how does it translate into real life?To be honest, the display is the area in which we feel the most nitpicky, because the 1080p panels we've seen on other flagships so far feature simply jaw-dropping quality. And to pick up on minute differences between these incredible displays, you'd have to really start splitting hairs. In particular, 1080p displays don't offer nearly as noticeable a difference over 720p as we saw with 720p over qHD. Given how far we've come in terms of resolution and pixel density, the only way for screens to stand out above the crowd is to offer the best color, viewing angles, brightness and readability in daylight.
The One's display is the most stunning we've seen thus far, but it's only slightly better than the Droid DNA's.The One's display does very well in all four areas. It's slightly brighter than the DNA's and significantly better than the One X+'s S-LCD2; the darks are sufficient, though still not as rich as what you'd find on an AMOLED; the other colors are incredibly close to fully natural; viewing angles are just as good as the One X+ and DNA, because it's difficult to get any better; and we could see the display without a problem in the direct sunlight. Movies look amazing on the One, and if we want to get exceedingly picky, the text on the One is slightly more crisp than on the DNA -- but this is something that's only noticeable when you view the two side by side. Tiny details aside, the One's display is the most gorgeous we've seen thus far.

Camera 
In the days leading up to the One announcement, HTC promised a whole new imaging and sound experience on its new flagship -- and it certainly wasn't exaggerating. With the exception of Nokia with its PureView line, all of the company's competitors are busy increasing the megapixel count on their latest and greatest cameras. HTC, however, boldly chose to go the opposite direction: it decreased the resolution to 4MP. As you would expect, there's a lot more to the story than a simple drop in pixel count -- in fact, HTC coined the term UltraPixels to describe its new imaging innovation.The idea behind the UltraPixels is to take a physically large sensor and combine it with big pixels that are capable of gathering more light than standard-sized ones. Whereas the typical smartphone camera features 1.1µm pixels, the One proudly boasts a one-third-inch BSI sensor with 2µm pixels capable of absorbing 330 percent more photons. But that alone isn't enough to excel at low-light photography, so HTC also uses a 28mm f/2.0 AF lens and optical image stabilization (OIS) -- and just in case you still can't capture enough light, an LED flash is thrown in for good measure.


