
 
 
 Just a day after being papped in Portugal, the HTC Desire C has turned up in this official video. There's not much new info to take away, bar a quick glimpse of the Sense interface. T-Mobile UK, however, has also been in touch to let us know its pricing for the phone. Pay monthly users can get the handset for free as long as they are willing to cough up £15.50 a month for two years, or snap it up sans commitment on Pay as you go for £169.99 (about $270). Both options being available early next month.

 Update: We've added the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text  New HTC Desire C – brilliant, entertaining and well connected 
   LONDON, UK - 15 May 2012 - Following on from the successful launch of the HTC One series, HTC, a global designer of smartphones, today unveiled its latest phone, the HTC Desire C. Featuring Beats Audio™ technology, this premium designed, yet affordable smartphone, allows you to hear your music just as the artist intended. The HTC Desire C also enables you to easily manage your professional and personal lives and share the moments that shape them.

 
   Available in white and black, and coming with HTC Sense 4.0 integrated with Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich), the HTC Desire C is great as a first smartphone or for those upgrading from an existing one. Packing a powerful battery and offering access to thousands of apps, games, music and movies – available through Google Play – you will always be connected and entertained whether at work, home or on the move.

 
   "Listening to music is one of the most popular things people use their phones for, so it's more important than ever that we deliver the power and emotion artists capture in the studio," said Jason Mackenzie, President, Global Sales and Marketing for HTC Corporation. "The HTC Desire C offers customers excellent design, easy access to content and fast connectivity – making it the perfect all round device."

 
   Authentic sound without compromise

   The HTC Desire C features a powerful, yet rich studio-quality sound experience that is enabled through the combination of optimized Beats Audio and amazing hardware. This integration enables a rich, clear audio experience to customers no matter if they're listening to music or playing a game.

 
   Premium design taken to a new level

   Combining a durable metal frame with precision engineering, the HTC Desire C is ideal for those who want a premium-designed phone. Boasting a micro-drilled earpiece for sharp in-call sound, hyper-viewing angle display and metal camera bezel, this compact smartphone offers an unrivalled level of design and user-experience for its class.

 
   Designed for sharing

   Packing the latest mobile technology into a neat, eye-catching design, HTC Desire C's vibrant 3.5-inch HVGA screen makes it easy to browse the Web, view photos or connect with friends and family. If you like to share personal experiences with your social network, HTC Desire C's 5 megapixel camera and instant sharing capabilities will allow you to post any moment, seconds after it was captured.

 
   Through HTC Desire C's deep integration of Dropbox and 25GB of free online space[i], you also have the freedom to securely back-up, browse and share thousands of photos, videos and documents, whether stored locally or in the cloud.

 
   Ensuring that HTC Desire C keeps pace with new mobile services as they become available there is also an NFC variant of this model, allowing users to make payments or access information and offers.

 
