
 


HTC has bestowed a sparkly new handset upon its South Korean customers today, with the release of the Raider 4G. Sporting a 4.5-inch qHD display, this Gingerbread-coated device is powered by a 1.5GHz dual-core processor and boasts 1GB of RAM, along with 16GB of internal storage. Graced with what appears to be HTC's Sense 3.0, the Raider also features an eight megapixel camera, 1.3 megapixel front-facing shooter and supports 1080p Full HD video recording, as well as the usual smattering of WiFi b/g/n, Bluetooth 3.0 and GPS capabilities. When connected to a South Korean LTE network, this handset can reportedly achieve downstream / upstream speeds of 100Mbps and 50Mbps uploads, respectively, with HSPA downloads clocking in at 21Mbps and uploads at 5.76Mbps. The manufacturer hasn't revealed any plans for an international release, though rumor has it that this Holiday-like device may be heading to AT&T at some point. Trot past the break for the machine-translated press release, along with an extra image.


 

  		Show full PR text  Smartphones HTC LTE radar (Raider) 4G nation's first public 		The global smartphone manufacturer HTC smartphone on September 21 New LTE  public, and that led to the evolution of domestic LTE network in the face of the leading companies have demonstrated.  a high-speed 4G networks based on performance and amazing mobile experience, providing stylish and sleek design is remarkable. The new product is released in Korea, Asia's first more significant. 		HTC North Asia CEO Jack Tong "HTC goal of the consumer's lifestyle to fit the product and a new mobile experience to that provided," he said, "Now, the LTE of the era, and South Korea LTE quickly introduced, and commercial By has led to worldwide markets." 		Best Entertainment - 4.5 inches large screen, wireless surround sound system  the best multimedia entertainment features and communication capabilities are proud. Large 4.5 inches qHD IPS display and a wireless surround sound system with a "moving theater" is, as high-speed LTE is optimized for enjoying multimedia images. HTC smartphone released in Korea most of the screen is a big product and service content via  hagiedo is perfect viewing movies and TV shows. 		Content  - official opening later this month		The latest movie, TV show, you can enjoy easy and convenient content services 		HTC progressive download services (Progressive Download) technology is based on the year, even while the file downloads, you can watch videos. The content is available for purchase, rent or purchase, up to five products are available from HTC. In addition, the brand new DMB dongles (sold separately) also can watch terrestrial DMB can be mounted. 		best multimedia - 4G network and the superior camera performance  the back of the 8-megapixel, 1.3 megapixel camera with the front of a powerful multimedia experience. Both rear and front camera vivid HD picture quality (both 1080p, 720p) recording of the possible, to never miss an important moment can cherish. Music, also supports video trimming, and it sent directly to Facebook or Twitter, or, DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) through the HDTV, monitor, dijiteolmakera, printers, etc. Wireless sent a lot of people can enjoy together. 		your memories anytime, anywhere  the precious memories anywhere, anytime produces catch the whole thing on tape. 8-megapixel auto-focus and dual LED flash is supported, f/2.2 lens and the rear one trillion injection sensor (back-illuminated sensor) equipped with a sharper shooting in the dark is possible. In addition, 28mm wide-angle lens and a panorama feature and hands from a trip to the beautiful scenery you can easily fit on one screen. Decorating features more photos, complete album makes dramatic. 		On the other hand, f/2.2 lens, 28mm wide-angle lens features the fourth quarter after the firmware update is available. 		intuitive and easy-to-call, text feature		Localized to fit the tastes of domestic consumers country-specific features is noticeable. First smart dial (Smart Dialer) and Phone Book (People) function in the domestic currency has been upgraded to suit the way. Hangul also differed for each manufacturer so far three kinds of keyboard (Heaven, Earth, SKY keyboard) all adopted, will be able to access more easily and intuitively. 		Jack Tong, President, "Radar 4G the consumers most at the center, from consumers, inspired innovations and to develop products that HTC's human-centered philosophy, showing for example, 4G with the possibility of expectations is large, and future domestic provide the best experience to consumers for LTE will not stop innovation," he said.
 