
Before we go into more detail on HTC's Desire X, cast your memory back to a time before the outfit announced the "One" line of Android phones. You may remember names such as Wildfire, Sensation, Rhyme and, of course, Desire. Likewise, you may also remember a certain amount of company talk about its plans to simplify its Android offerings, and turn out phones at a slower, more considered pace. So, it was a little confusing when we first heard about the Desire X. HTC already had an affordable phone, the One V, but seemingly deemed it not affordable enough -- and the Desire C already fills the most entry-level position. With a 1GHz dual-core processor, a WVGA (800 x 480) display and a 5-megapixel camera, the specs are from the same era as the OG Desire, but with a slightly more current price: €299 in Europe. So, stripped of any "One" branding, but bearing a name that many will remember fondly, is the Desire X a good phone that's been reinvented, or just a throwback from HTC of old? We spent some time in its company to find out for ourselves.




Hardware
If you examine the spec sheets of the original Desire and the Desire X, you'll see that in the two years or so that separate them, the screen has grown from 3.7 to 4 inches (capacitive buttons are still present on the X); there's 768, rather than 512MB of RAM; and the 5-megapixel camera resolution has remained the same. The clock speed hasn't changed either, but you're getting an extra core this time with the Qualcomm MSM8225 Snapdragon chipset. Not everything is looking back to the past, though.

The perimeter to the camera is made from ridged plastic that almost feels like a cut-out from a vinyl record.The phone's overall design takes some cues from the One line, which gives it a modern look and feel. Starting at the back, the removable battery cover has a matte, almost soft-touch finish, save for a plastic section surrounding the camera lens and LED flash. The perimeter of the camera is made from ridged plastic that almost feels like a cut-out from a vinyl record. Beneath this is an HTC logo embossed at 90 degrees, and a Beats audio badge along the base. To the left of this branding are some tiny drilled holes that cover the speaker. This rear shell also contains holes for the headphone jack, micro-USB port and mic, as well as the power / stand-by button and volume rocker. There isn't, however, an ingress for you to slip a fingernail under if you wish to remove it; instead you'll have to work something into the gap where there's a touch more leverage (mainly around the top). The bonus here is that it makes the phone look like one solid unit. The downside is that getting under the hood is a clumsy undertaking. Once you've found your way in, though, you'll find a 1,650mAh battery, plus full-size SIM and microSD slots.

It's when you find your way back to the front of the device that its family lineage is most apparent. Aside from the tiny drilled speaker holes up top, and the Android 4.X-flavored capacitive buttons along the bottom, the resemblance to the Desire S is strong. There's the familiar two-tone bezel at the bottom, where the brushed-finish fascia presses itself next to the matte detail cover reaching around from the back, meeting on the phone's distinctive family chin. As you work upwards around the edges, that brushed finish carries on up the sides, and flanks the gloss black of the frame around the display with sharply cut edges. These edges are actually sharp enough to become uncomfortable with prolonged, firm gripping.


It's that 4-inch super LCD display that is probably one of the more surprising elements of the phone. With a rather average 800 x 480 resolution, you might not be expecting much. But the non-PenTile screen is laminated, reducing glare and making colors really bright and vivid. That, in combination with the not overly large size means that, while there might be more pixel-dense displays around, what you're getting on the Desire X doesn't appear to be low-quality, or second-rate. Whites appear untainted and clear, but blacks render a little bright, with light coming through and a subtle bluish tone throughout. It's not to the point of distraction we must add, but it's noticeable when put side by side with another handset (a Galaxy Nexus or Acer CloudMobile, for example). You'll be pleased to hear that the vivid image reproduction also doesn't come at the expense of overbearing contrast levels either, with photos and videos appearing to have similar levels to viewing the same file on a desktop.

The Desire X's radio will tune in to GSM / EDGE (850/900/1800/1900) and HSPA+ (900/2100), but there's also Bluetooth 4.0, GPS and single-band 802.11b/g/n plus support for DLNA. The built-in media player has a feature that will let you "select a player" for sharing with compatible devices. We tested this with a Samsung SmartTV on the same WiFi network, and the phone found it instantly. Once selected, the video we chose started playing, without us even touching the controls on the TV once. A little bit brutal perhaps, but it works.

Camera



