
   Just frothy thinking about HTC's recently unveiled superphone, the One X? Well, for those of you that call the US home, outside of importing HTC's latest, you're going to have only one network choice, and that's AT&T. Unlike the global Tegra 3 version announced today, Uncle Sam's variant swaps out that quad-core goodness for an LTE radio paired with a 1.5GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4 by Qualcomm -- specs which curiously match a video titled One XL, which we've embedded after the break from its YouTube page. This also marks the first occasion a Beats by Dr. Dre-powered handset has made an appearance on the carrier. Other then that, you're looking at the same gorgeous 4.7-inch 1280 x 720 HD screen, 8-megapixel f/2.0 shooter and Sense 4 running atop Ice Cream Sandwich. As for when it'll land? The duo's playing coy, only mentioning it'll come in the "coming months." Stay tuned for a hands-on.  Update: If you're wondering how the dual-core switcheroo will impact performance, AnandTech lays out some thoughts on the brain swap.
 

    Show full PR text  AT&T Announces HTC One X, Allows Customers to Stay Entertained Everywhere  Exclusively from AT&T, 4G LTE Entertainment Superphone features Beats Audio, Runs on Android 4.0 Dallas, Texas, Bellevue, Washington, February 26, 2012  Key Facts • Available exclusively from AT&T* in the coming months, the HTC OneX ™ will be the first new smartphone from AT&T to feature the latest version of the Android operating system (4.0) paired with the power of AT&T's 4G LTE network. • HTC One X will be one of the first phones in the U.S. to feature HTC Sense™ 4, the new version of HTC's branded user experience that introduces ImageSense, a suite of camera and imaging features with improvements to every part of the camera. • HTC One X will also be AT&T's first smartphone with Beats By Dr. Dre™ Audio built-in to the hardware and software. Beats Audio on the HTC One X is enabled across the entire multimedia audio experience including apps, offering richer, more authentic sound on music, games, videos and movies. • AT&T stores will soon carry Beats By Dr. Dre accessories for the first time. • For more information, visit http://www.att.com/aboutus.  AT&T customers will immediately recognize HTC One X as the latest in smartphone superiority. The combination of 4G LTE, the nation's largest 4G network and an unsurpassed user experience in audio and imaging, HTC's leading design and plenty of power under the hood, will make this superphone a hit with customers of all types. Customers interested in learning more can visit http://www.att.com/htconex.  HD Entertainment Customers who enjoy watching TV shows or movies on their smartphone will be amazed by the 4.7-inch 720p HD screen on the HTC One X which provides sharp screen images that appear detailed and visible from every angle – even angled up to 80 degrees – or connect the device to any TV using HTC's wireless HDMI Media Link HD adapter** to enjoy content on a larger screen.  The laminated cover glass and touch layer eliminates light reflection for superior sharpness and clarity, and is protected with Corning® Gorilla® Glass. HTC One X also features a beautifully crafted polycarbonate unibody design that showcases its clean lines and seamless construction.  Authentic Sound HTC One X is the first device from AT&T with Beats Audio integration built into the hardware and software, offering rich, full sounds with professional-grade sound engineering to play the music how the artist intended. Beats Audio By Dr. Dre provides a distortion-free sound at higher volume and rich bass at all levels for video, gaming and music. HTC One X is custom tuned for the best audio performance when used with Beats By Dr. Dre accessories**.  With built-in software on the HTC One X, customers can connect it to a computer and HTC's Sync Manager software automatically installs to your computer and once connected, makes it easy to transfer songs, artists and playlists from a music library. The new HTC Music Hub is also customizable to include customers' favorite streaming radio services and music apps, making them easily accessible all in one location.  Additionally, an enhanced audio experience will soon be available to HTC Vivid™ customers in the coming weeks. Sound engineers at Beats Dr. Dre and software engineers at HTC have teamed up to bring an improved audio experience to the HTC Vivid through an upcoming software update that will provide Android 4.0, an updated HTC Sense experience and Beats By Dr. Dre audio profiles.  AT&T will begin carrying Beats By Dr. Dre accessories this spring.  Amazing Camera With ImageSense, HTC One X's 8MP HD camera rivals traditional digital cameras with improvements to every part of the camera including the lens, sensor and software, while integrating the new HTC ImageChip. The combination reduces noise, removes color bias and enhances picture quality in photos and videos. More than just megapixels, its best-in-class f-2.0 lens with a backside illuminated sensor takes amazing pictures in low light and its quick launch feature makes sure you never miss an important moment.  It takes less than one second to launch the camera from the lock screen and the camera's autofocus locks in on your subject in under a second, to take nearly unlimited continuous shots simply by holding the shutter button. To ensure the best shot is captured, HTC ImageSense also introduces autoburst which will automatically take a burst of shots if the subject moves while you press the shutter button.  For those torn between whether a moment would be better captured via video or in photos, HTC One X includes Video Pic so you never have to choose again – the device can capture pictures while recording video in HD and has the ability to capture a still image from previously recorded video.  A high dynamic range (HDR) feature presents more contrast in captured photos and enables the camera to capture multiple photos from one instance, each with a different exposure level, layering the images together to create a single photo that combines the best parts of each for a more accurate range of light across the image.  The 1080p HD video camera automatically removes jitters and lets you lock the focus on a moving object. Slow motion video recording is also possible at a maximum of 108 frames per second.  The HTC One X smartphone's next-generation 1.5 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon™ S4 dual-core processor allows customers to run heavy duty tasks such as creating and editing homemade videos smoothly without any lag, while the 1,800 mAh embedded battery offers hours of uninterrupted entertainment time.  HTC Sense 4 HTC One X will be one of the first devices in the U.S. with the simple and intuitive HTC Sense 4 user experience. It helps make the Beats Audio experience possible while listening to any audio component and features camera enhancements including a quick launch feature for the camera on the HTC One X – dramatically cutting down the time needed to move from the lock screen to snapping a picture.  Quotes "Of course HTC One X is an outstanding device with the hottest specs," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "This device takes the power of those parts and creates a customer experience like no other, bringing superior hardware and sights and sounds to life."  "HTC One X is a true showcase for HTC's heritage of innovation providing our fastest camera, our best images even in the worst conditions and the ability to take video and photos at the same time," said Jason Mackenzie, president, global sales and marketing, HTC Corporation. "I'm proud to bring these remarkable new experiences to AT&T customers with the HTC One X."  Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.  **Accessories sold separately.  About AT&T  AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is a premier communications holding company and one of the most honored companies in the world. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet, voice and cloud-based services. A leader in mobile broadband and emerging 4G capabilities, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide of any U.S. carrier, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T │DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising.  About HTC  Founded in 1997, HTC Corporation (HTC) is the creator of many award-winning mobile devices and industry firsts. By putting people at the center of everything it does, HTC pushes the boundaries of design and technology to create innovative and personal experiences for consumers around the globe. HTC's portfolio includes smartphones and tablets powered by HTC Sense™, a multilayered graphical user interface that vastly improves user experience. HTC is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE: 2498). For more information, please visit www.htc.com.  Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATT.
 