
 
 Just as last week's leaked documents suggested, the HTC Droid Incredible 4G LTE will be available on Verizon starting July 5th. The carrier made the official announcement today, and you'll be able to nab the handset this Thursday for $150 on contract -- after a $50 mail-in rebate. To jog your memory, the Incredible 4G LTE packs a 1.2GHz dual-core Snapdragon CPU and runs Ice Cream Sandwich with HTC's Sense 4 UI on a 4-inch qHD display. There's also Beats Audio on board, along with Android Beam technology for sharing info by tapping two phones together. Head past the break for the full press info.



   Show full PR text   DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC Available Beginning July 5 Exclusively On The Verizon Wireless Network
  Power, Sophistication and Speed Come Together in the DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC
   BASKING RIDGE, N.J., July 2, 2012 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- Announced earlier this year at the International CTIA WIRELESS® 2012 show, the DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC, will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com starting July 5. Customers who rely heavily on their mobile devices will find everything they need in the DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC. Running the latest version of HTC Sense® 4, HTC's branded user experience, integrated with Google's(TM) mobile operating system, Android(TM) 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich, customers can take advantage of an enhanced mobile experience and enjoy the latest Android features, as well as the power of 4G LTE speeds.

   Every aspiring shutterbug will have something to smile about when they experience the amazing 8-megapixel camera with quick activation from the home screen so customers never miss that perfect shot. Additionally, HTC Video Pic(TM) allows customers to simultaneously shoot HD quality video and take pictures at the same time. Uploading photos or videos onto social networking sites or sharing through e-mail takes only seconds with 4G LTE speeds.

   The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network is available in 304 markets across the United States. In real-world, fully loaded network environments, 4G LTE customers should experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink. When customers travel outside of 4G LTE coverage areas, devices automatically connect to Verizon Wireless' 3G network, where available, allowing customers to stay connected from coast to coast.

  Lifestyle features:
   Authentic Sound: Customers will benefit from Beats Audio(TM), an enhanced auto tuning technology that allows users to hear music the way the artist intended. Beats Audio is incorporated across the entire experience for richer, more authentic sound and whether watching a video or playing a game, customers are sure to be impressed with the sound quality.

   Read Later: Active readers who are constantly on-the-go can use the Read Later feature to save online content, such as news articles and website pages, to view later, even when they are offline.

   Android Beam(TM): Sharing YouTube videos, Google Maps locations and more with others is faster and easier than ever with Android Beam. Android Beam is as simple as tapping two compatible phones together for users to instantly share information.

  Additional features:
   4-inch super LCD qHD display

   8-megapixel rear-facing camera with autofocus, LED flash, BSI, f/2.2 and 28 mm lens

   Front-facing camera for video chatting with friends and family

   1.2 GHz dual-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 processor

   Mobile Hotspot-capable to share a 4G LTE connection with up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices

   Support for up to 32 GB microSD(TM) memory card

  Price and availability:
   The DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC will be available beginning July 5 in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com for 149.99 after a $50 mail-in rebate with a new two-year customer agreement. Customers will receive the rebate in the form of a debit card; upon receipt, customers may use the card as cash anywhere debit cards are accepted.

   For additional information on Verizon Wireless products and services at a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com .

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

