
 
 In the last HTC Frequencies media summit, the company didn't shy away from the possibility of exploring different color options for its flagship devices, but never did we expect it to come out with such a simple yet eye-catching combination of black and white on the same body. Courtesy of Frequencies II today, what we're looking at here is an HTC One X (on AT&T) with a bit of love from fashion label Cushnie et Ochs: the design simply consists of a two-part chassis instead of a unibody shell, so we could just about feel the seam along the center of the backside. Other than that, this is a surprisingly attractive device, especially with the preloaded wallpaper that matches the shell colors -- we like the effect of it moving along horizontally as we swipe between home screens. There's no word yet on availability, but keen fashionists should see this pop up at Milk Studios during the New York Fashion Week in a few days.

 Update: Bad news, folks: we've just had confirmation from HTC that this funky phone will not be available for purchase. Only certain celebrities will receive one as a gift.





  Show full PR text   HTC NAMED OFFICIAL TECHNOLOGY PARTNER FOR MADE FASHION WEEK
   HTC and MADE Fashion Week Come Together to Celebrate the Collision of Fashion and Technology

   NEW YORK, NY (August 30, 2012) – HTC, a global leader of mobile innovation and design, has been named the official technology partner for the 2013 Spring/Summer MADE Fashion Week taking place in New York City at Milk Studios September 6-12. HTC and MADE have come together for a ground-breaking partnership that celebrates the collision of fashion, technology and art through one-of-a-kind collaborations with a renowned artist and burgeoning designer.

   "HTC's generous support has helped us give over 40 designers the opportunity to show at New York Fashion Week," said Mazdack Rassi, Co-Founder of MADE, Creative Director of Milk Studios. "They have been an extraordinary partner to MADE Fashion Week and we have the upmost respect for the innovative and creative work they do within their industry."

   As a kick-off to fashion week, HTC will co-host a star-studded, exclusive party at Milk Gallery on September 4th in honor of famed photographer Ben Watts' Mix Tape exhibition. Watts, whose photography has been seen in fashion publications such as Elle, Vogue, Harper's Bazaar, and Vanity Fair, has taken several photos using his HTC One device that are being featured in the exhibit. The photos will be on display along with a series of behind-the-scenes videos documenting Watts' experience creating them. A part of the Mix Tape exhibition will feature a custom built EVOLVE / Ben Watts scooter housing four HTC One devices. Guests will be able to take their picture as they strike a pose on the scooter, and this will be on display at MADE for the duration of fashion week.

   HTC has teamed up with Watts to develop the "Wattsup Photo" app - now everyone can create imagery "just like Ben". Watts' punchy color saturation and neon gaff tape borders make every photo look like a behind-the-scenes shot from a swimsuit magazine shoot. Users will also be able to use the app to collage their photos in Watts' signature scrapbook-style.

   "I teamed up with HTC because of their strong presence in pop culture, which I like to shower myself in and am a big follower of," said Ben Watts. "Now tap that HTC 'WattsUpPhoto" app and get your collage on shhhhh."

   In addition, HTC has announced their collaboration with the dynamic fashion design team and MADE Fashion Week participants Cushnie Et Ochs to create the HTC One by Cushnie Et Ochs. This limited edition, beautifully designed device references the simple color palette and boldsensuality of the Cushnie Et Ochs Spring 2013 collection, which will be shown at MADE Fashion Week this September.

   "Bringing the Cushnie Et Ochs aesthetic to a world outside the realm of fashion was so new and inspiring and really allowed us to develop the ultimate sleek and sexy tech accessory," said Carly Cushnie and Michelle Ochs.

   And guests visiting MADE Fashion Week will be able to stay powered by plugging into several HTC charging stations. These stations will be accessible throughout Milk Studios during MADE Fashion Week including backstage, and VIP lounge areas. During the busy week, HTC will be providing select attendees with a VIP Fashion Week Survival Kit featuring essential items for stylistas on-the-go including a nail file, lip balm, sewing kit, hand lotion, stain treatment stick, mirror and mints.

   Tweet us at #HTCMADE.

 
