
Flush from launching in the US in a Google-heavy iteration, HTC is rewarding its UK fans with a sultry "glamour red" option of the One smartphone. It'll arrive at retailer Phones 4U in mid-July, although there's no specifics yet on storage (16 or 32GB?), or whether there will be any price difference between the new colorful hue and existing silver and black options.


Update: Phones4U has confirmed it'll be selling this boudoir of a phone starting at £33 per month on contract.



Show full PR textTHE HTC ONE® LAUNCHES IN GLAMOUR REDLONDON, June 27, 2013 - HTC, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, today announces that the award-winning HTC One will be available in a distinctive, new colour. Available exclusively to customers of Phones 4u from mid-July, the new HTC One in Glamour Red packs the blistering performance and premium features that have garnered global acclaim since its launch earlier this year, into a body that makes a striking yet sophisticated statement.

Philip Blair, President of EMEA, HTC, commented, "We have always been committed to offering consumers the flexibility to share their personalities through their choice of mobile phone, whether through colour, customisation or features. The new HTC One in Glamour Red showcases the power of our flagship model in a colour that demands attention, whilst maintaining the high standards set for sophisticated design and build quality."

Sitting at the top of HTC's portfolio, the HTC One combines the latest in mobile innovation and design to offer the company's most powerful experience to date. BlinkFeed aggregates multiple feeds from selected news sources, social networks and other in-phone features like the calendar or HTC Sense TV to create a customisable, real-time stream of relevant information direct to the home screen. HTC revolutionised photography with the introduction of the UltraPixel camera, for superior images in low light, and HTC Zoe, allowing you to capture the moment, not just a split-second snapshot. BoomSound brings your music to life with front-facing speakers and Beats Audio™ optimisation, placing you at the heart of the action, whether listening to music, playing a game or watching a movie on the stunning, 4.7", Full HD screen.

Since its launch, the HTC One has attracted a host of editorial and industry awards which recognise its superior performance and benchmark design. Highlights include the GSMA's Global Mobile Award for Best New Mobile Device or Tablet at Mobile World Congress 2013 and Computex Taipei's Gold Medal in Design and Innovation.


