
 
AT&T subscribers, it's time to finally get a taste of Android on HSPA+. Well, almost. On February 13th the HTC Inspire 4G will release, bringing not-quite-4G speeds and Android 2.2 for a quite affordable $99.99. It'll feature AT&T's Mobile Hotspot service, so you can share that bandwidth, while offering a generous 4.3-inch WVGA display up front and an eight megapixel camera on the back, all packaged in a "premium" unibody aluminum design. We know, it's all very exciting, but don't get so enamored that you forget to make reservations for you and your special someone on the following day.
      

 

Show full PR textHTC Inspire 4G Arrives for AT&T Customers on Feb. 13AT&T 4G Smartphone is the First of Many Planned for the Nation's Fastest Mobile Broadband NetworkDALLAS, Feb. 1, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --Key FactsAT&T* will begin selling the HTC Inspire™ 4G on Feb. 13.The first 4G mobile phone offered by AT&T, the HTC Inspire 4G is the first to run the Android 2.2 platform and AT&T Mobile Hotspot application.The 4.3-inch super LCD display on the HTC Inspire 4G will be the largest in the AT&T portfolio, and the first to offer the next-generation HTC Sense experience.HTC Inspire 4G will cost $99.99 after a two-year agreement beginning Feb. 13 in company owned retail stores and online at www.wireless.att.com.4G PortfolioAT&T is the leader in smartphones and expects to widen that lead in 2011. In January, AT&T committed to an industry-leading Android portfolio in the U.S. in 2011 and said it plans to offer two 4G smartphones in the first quarter. The HTC Inspire 4G is the first of more than 20 4G devices AT&T plans to deliver in 2011. AT&T has completed the deployment of HSPA+ to virtually 100 percent of its mobile broadband network, which enables 4G speeds when combined with Ethernet or fiber backhaul.HTC Inspire™ 4GThe HTC Inspire™ 4G will be the first 4G smartphone in AT&T stores and will have the largest screen of any AT&T smartphone, with a 4.3-inch super LCD display, and will offer an 8-megapixel camera with HD video recording. Running on the Android 2.2 platform, the HTC Inspire 4G will be the first smartphone in the U.S. to feature the next-generation HTC Sense™ experience with cloud services. The HTC Inspire 4G will also be the first to introduce AT&T Mobile Hotspot service built into the smartphone, allowing users to connect additional Wi-Fi-enabled devices.Exclusively available to AT&T customers for $99.99 after a two-year agreement, the HTC Inspire 4G will include a 1 GHz processor, Dolby® Mobile and SRS WOW HD sound, and a premium, aluminum unibody design. HTC Inspire 4G comes preloaded with a Blockbuster and eReader application to keep users entertained on the go. For more information, visit www.att.com/inspire4G. With the next-generation of HTC Sense, the HTC Inspire 4G offers even more ways to stay connected, including FriendStream™, which delivers Facebook, Twitter and Flickr updates in a consolidated view. The HTC Inspire 4G also offers customers the ability to pinpoint the location of a lost phone on a map and send a command to make the phone sound an alert – even while on "silent" mode – through the htcsense.com website. If needed, owners can also remotely wipe all of the phone's data with a single command in addition to forwarding calls and text messages to a different number.Quotes"We are kicking off an exciting year for AT&T's smartphone portfolio, and leading off with our first 4G phone," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "With its iconic design, 4G speeds and awesome features, Inspire 4G is going to attract new customers and please existing AT&T subscribers.""With a 4.3 inch screen, latest version of the HTC Sense experience and a sleek unibody aluminum design, the HTC Inspire 4G is the first true superphone to launch at under $100, bringing unparalleled power to more people than ever before," said Jason Mackenzie, president of HTC Americas.1 Mobile broadband coverage is not available in all areas. 4G speeds delivered by HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. Will be available in limited areas. Availability increasing with ongoing backhaul deployment. Learn more at att.com/network.2 Limited time offer. Two-year contract required. Qualified customers only. Early Termination Fee up to $325. HTC Inspire 4G requires a minimum data service starting at $15/mo.3 Mobile Hotspots requires a DataPro Tethering Plan. Devices connected to your Mobile Hotspot use data from your DataPro Tethering Plan. DataPro Tethering Plans are not unlimited and significant charges may be incurred if the included data allowance is exceeded. Performance may vary depending on the number of devices connected and other factors.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About HTCHTC Corporation (HTC) is one of the fastest growing companies in the mobile phone industry and continues to pioneer industry-leading mobile experiences through design, usability and innovation that are sparked by how the mobile phone can improve how people live and communicate. The company is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange under ticker 2498. For more information about HTC, please visit www.htc.com.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T |DIRECTV brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. In 2010, AT&T again ranked among the 50 Most Admired Companies by FORTUNE® magazine. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATTNews. Find us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ATT to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at www.Facebook.com/ATTSmallBiz to discover more about our small business services.© 2011 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. Mobile broadband not available in all areas. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.SOURCE AT&T Inc.Back to topRELATED LINKShttp://www.att.com
 