
 Despite the abundant fanfare and critical acclaim, HTC's One X just couldn't quite mark the spot in 2012. No wonder, then, that the company's lopped off that extraneous letter in favor of a fresher start and renewed brand focus for its latest flagship: the One.

 Gone by the wayside are those pure polycarbonate hulls -- HTC's Sense 5-laden Android Jelly Bean (4.1.2) handset comes crafted with an all-around premium look and feel, housing its 4.7-inch 1080p Super LCD 3 display (boasting 468 dpi and protected by Gorilla Glass 2) in a machined aluminum unibody. And, in a bid for the top spot on the mobile totem pole, the One also bears the distinction of being (one of) the first smartphones to feature Qualcomm's quad-core Snapdragon 600, clocked here at 1.7GHz and paired with 2GB RAM. 



 For all its premium, metallic construction, the One cuts a relatively light figure, weighing in at 143 grams and measuring 5.4 (137.4mm) x 2.7 (68.2mm) x 0.37 (9.3mm) inches -- a thickness that puts it on par with the BlackBerry Z10. Take note, that slim silhouette accommodates for the integrated 2,300mAh Li-polymer battery, radios for WiFi a/ac/b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0, NFC and 32GB or 64GB of storage (sorry, there's no slot for microSD expansion).

 Looking at the load of innovations HTC's crammed into the One, it's clear this is a handset for the social oversharing set. Even its front face alone tells that story. From the dual stereo speakers (featuring dedicated amps) surrounding the screen to the 2.1-megapixel camera with 88-degree wide-angle lens capable of 1080p video, to the simplified soft keys (one for back, one for home), to the IR blaster (integrated in the power button), to the default BlinkFeed homescreen (a Flipboard-like social feed); it's safe to say, the One's aggressively embracing the role of smartphone as multimedia powerhouse. And that's just what it offers head-on.

 HTC's taking a risk with the One. Flip the handset around and you'll find an unassuming rear shooter in the midst of that clean aluminum body. Or, as the company calls it, the UltraPixel camera. Tackling the "myth of the megapixel," HTC's outfitted the One with a 4-megapixel BSI sensor and f/2.0 lens, such that each pixel is meant to gather 300 percent more light than the current crop of smartphone sensors. The camera unit also features optical image stabilization and HTC's ImageChip 2 for HDR, 1080p and 60fps video. But that's not the end of HTC's imaging focus. It's also introducing a new feature / service dubbed Zoe, which allows users to capture and share short videos, much like Vine, via HTC's dedicated site.

 Whether or not HTC will finally strike gold with the One, only time will tell. But it's certainly not for lack of effort. This is a smartphone at the top of its class (for now, anyway); a zeitgeist-y take that should please both power and social users alike. Look for it to rollout globally this March in both HSPA and LTE models.

   Show full PR text   INTRODUCING THE NEW HTC ONE®, A NEW PERSPECTIVE ON SMARTPHONES
    HTC BlinkFeed™, HTC Zoe™ and HTC BoomSound™ Deliver HTC One's Unprecedented New Smartphone Experience

    London and New York City, February 19, 2013 -

   HTC, a global leader in mobile innovation and design, today announced its new flagship smartphone, the new HTC One. Crafted with a distinct zero-gap aluminium unibody, the new HTC One introduces HTC BlinkFeed™, HTC Zoe™ and HTC BoomSound™, key new HTC Sense® innovations that reinvent the mobile experience and set a new standard for smartphones.

   "People today immerse themselves in a constant stream of updates, news and information. Although smartphones are one of the main ways we stay in touch with the people and information we care about, conventional designs have failed to keep pace with how people are actually using them," said Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corporation. "A new, exciting approach to the smartphone is needed and with the new HTC One, we have re-imagined the mobile experience from the ground up to reflect this new reality."

    HTC BlinkFeed: A personal live stream right on the home screen At the centre of the new HTC One experience is HTC BlinkFeed. HTC BlinkFeed is a bold new experience that transforms the home screen into a single live stream of personally relevant information such as social updates, entertainment and lifestyle updates, news and photos with immersive images so that people no longer need to go to separate applications to find out what's happening. HTC BlinkFeed aggregates the freshest content from the most relevant and interesting sources, giving it to people at a glance, all in one place, without the need to jump between multiple applications and web sites.

    To enable this new dynamic approach to the smartphone, HTC will provide both local and global content from more than 1,400 media sources with more than 10,000 articles per day from some of the most innovative media companies, such as the AOL family of media properties, ESPN, MTV, Vice Media, CoolHunting, Reuters and many others. For more information on HTC BlinkFeed's content partners, visit the HTC Blog.

    HTC UltraPixel Camera with HTC Zoe  The breakthrough HTC UltraPixel Camera redefines how people capture, relive and share their most precious moments. HTC Zoe gives people the ability to shoot high-res photos that come to life in three-second snippets. These Zoes, photos and videos are then displayed in a unique way that brings the gallery to life and transforms the traditional photo gallery of still images into a motion gallery of memories. It also automatically creates integrated highlight films from each event comprised of Zoes, photos and videos set to music with professionally designed cuts, transitions and effects. These highlight videos can be remixed or set to different themes, and can be easily shared on social networks, email and other services.

    To enable this innovative camera experience, HTC developed a custom camera that includes a best-in-class f/2.0 aperture lens and a breakthrough sensor with UltraPixels that gather 300 percent more light than traditional smartphone camera sensors. This new approach also delivers astounding low-light performance and a variety of other improvements to photos and videos. In addition, the perfect self-portrait or video is just a tap away with an ultra-wide angle front-facing camera which supports 1080p video capture. Multi-axis optical image stabilisation for both the front and rear cameras also helps ensure video footage smoother whether stationary or on the move. HTC UltraPixel camera adds many other features and effects such as enhanced 360' panorama, time sequencing and object removal.

    HTC BoomSound  The new HTC One offers the best audio experience of any mobile phone available today. HTC BoomSound introduces for the first time on a phone, front-facing stereo speakers with a dedicated amplifier and an amazing full HD display that immerses people in music, videos, games and the YouTube™ clips they love. Beats™ Audio integration is enabled across the entire experience for rich, authentic sound whether you're listening to your favorite music, watching a YouTube video or playing a game.

    HDR recording uses advanced dual microphones and audio processing to capture clean, rich sound that is worthy of high-definition video footage. Phone calls sound great on HTC One thanks to the addition of HTC Sense Voice™, which boosts the call volume and quality in noisy environments so that conversations come through loud and clear.

    HTC Sense TV™  HTC Sense TV transforms the new HTC One into an interactive program guide and remote control for most TVs, set-top boxes and receivers. Tapping the power of the cloud, Sense TV makes it simple and intuitive to see what's on and find that favourite show.

    Metal Unibody Design  Wrapped in a zero-gap aluminium unibody and sporting a brilliant 4.7", Full HD (1080p) screen, the new HTC One features the latest Android Jelly Bean operating system and LTE network technology to offer blazingly-fast browsing in a package that combines premium design with breakthrough build quality.

    Available in stunning silver and beautiful black, the sleek and crafted aluminium unibody sits comfortably in the hand and showcases HTC's unique antenna technology, which helps people achieve a crystal clear signal. The display also resists scratches and reduces glare, whilst offering incredible 468ppi resolution and rich, natural colours.

    Global Availability

   The new HTC One will be available globally through more than 185 mobile operators and major retailers in more than 80 regions and countries beginning in March. For more information and to pre-register for the new HTC One, visit www.htc.com.

    Europe, Middle East and Africa: 1&1 Germany, A1 Telekom Austria, AB Poland, Allo Ukraine, AMC (Cosmote) Albania, Avea Turkey, Beeline Kazakhstan, Belcompany Netherlands, BH Telecom Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bite Latvia, Bite Lithuania, Bouygues Telecom France, Carphone Warehouse UK, Cell C RSA, Citrus Ukraine, Cosmote Greece, Cosmote Romania & Global Bulgaria, Cyta, DT Mobile(TS) Latvia, Du UAE, Dustin Sweden, Eagle Mobile Albania, EE UK, Elisa Estonia, Elisa Finland, El-Giganten Denmark, El-Giganten Sweden, Elkjöb Norway, EMT (TS) Estonia, E-Plus Germany, ERC Ukraine, Euroset Russia, Gigantii Finland, Go Malta, H3G Austria, H3G Denmark, H3G Italy, H3G Sweden, H3G UK, HT Eronet Bosnia & Herzegovina, K-Cell Kazakhstan, KPN Belgium, KPN Netherlands, Life Belarus, LuxGSM Luxembourg, Megafon Russia, Melita Malta, Meteor Ireland, Mobilezone Switzerland, Mobilochka Ukraine, Mobily KSA, MSH Belgium, MSH Germany, M-Tel Montenegro, M-Tel Bosnia & Herzegovina, MTI Ukraine, MTN Cyprus, MTS Belarus, MTS Russia, Netcom Norway,  (Telefónica) O2 Czech, (Telefónica) O2 Germany, (Telefónica) O2 Ireland, (Telefónica) O2 UK, Omnitel Lithuania, One Macedonia, Optimus Portugal, Orange France, Orange Maldova, Orange Poland, Orange Romania, Orange Slovakia, Orange Spain, Orange Switzerland, Partner Communications Israel, PhoneHouse France, PhoneHouse Germany, PhoneHouse Netherlands, PhoneHouse Sweden, Phones4U UK, Play Poland, Plus Communication Albania, Polkomtel Poland, Proximus Belgium, SFR France, SiMobil Slovenia, STC KSA, Sunrise Switzerland, Svyaznoy Russia, Swisscom Switzerland, TDC Denmark, Tele2 Croatia, Tele 2 Estonia, Tele2 Latvia, Tele2 Lithuania, Tele2 Russia, Telia Denmark, Telia Sweden, Telekom Slovenija, Telenet Belgium, Telenor Denmark, Telenor Norway, Telenor Sweden, Telenor Hungary, Telenor Serbia, Telkom Serbia, TIM Italy, TMN Portugal, T-Mobile Austria, T-Mobile Croatia, T-Mobile Czech Republic, T-Mobile Germany, T-Mobile Hungary, T-Mobile Macedonia, T-Mobile Montenegro, T-Mobile Netherlands, T-Mobile Poland, T-Mobile Slovakia, Turkcell Turkey, Tus Mobil Slovenia, Velcom (TAG) Belarus, VIP Operator Macedonia, VIP Mobile Serbia, Vipnet Croatia, Vivacom Bulgaria, Vodacom RSA, Vodafone Albania, Vodafone Czech Republic, Vodafone Egypt, Vodafone Germany, Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Hungary, Vodafone Ireland, Vodafone Italy, Vodafone Malta, Vodafone Netherlands, Vodafone Portugal, Vodafone Romania, Vodafone Spain, Vodafone Turkey, Vodafone UK, Wind Greece, Wind Italy, Yoigo Spain, Yug Contract Ukraine, Zain KSA.

    Asia-Pacific: China Mobile Hong Kong Company Ltd., ChungHwa Telecom, 3HK, CSL, Fareastone, M1, Mobifone, Optus, PCCW mobile, Reliance Communications, Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., SmarTone, StarHub, Taiwan Mobile, Telecom New Zealand, Telstra, Vodafone Australia, Vodafone New Zealand.

    China: China Mobile, China Unicom, China Telecom

    North America: AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Cincinnati Bell and Best Buy in the United States and in Canada with Rogers Communications, Bell Mobility, TELUS and Virgin Mobile Canada.

    Latin America: Claro Argentina (América Movil), Telecom Personal Argentina, Entel Chile, Iusacell México, Telcel México (América Movil), Claro Perú (América Movil), Claro Puerto Rico (América Movil), Movistar Venezuela (Telefonica)

  Sprint Brings Truly Unlimited 4G LTE to the New HTC One; Sprint's Latest International Smartphone for Music Lovers, Photo Bugs and Social Media Masters Alike
   NEW YORK & OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), February 19, 2013 - Sprint (NYSE: S) today announced plans to carry the new HTC One® smartphone later this year. The new HTC One introduces HTC Sense® innovations that reinvent the mobile experience, including a personal live stream right on the home screen, photos that come to life and an audio experience that features dual front-facing stereo speakers.

   The smartphone will benefit from Truly Unlimited? 4G LTE data, text and calling to any mobile with no metering, no throttling, and no overages, all while on the Sprint network. Additional details, including pricing, will be shared closer to availability. Customers can get more information about the new HTC One smartphone from Sprint by visiting www.sprint.com/htcone.

   "In a world where technology is constantly evolving, Sprint is really excited to bring our customers the latest in smartphone innovation from HTC," said David Owens, vice president-Product Development, Sprint. "We feel that combining the advanced features of the new HTC One with Sprint's Truly Unlimited 4G LTE data plans allows our customers to really take advantage of the data capabilities of the smartphone without having to worry about data caps or throttling making it a big win all around."

   Innovative New Experiences

   At the center of the new HTC One experience is HTC BlinkFeed™, a bold new experience that transforms the home screen into a single live stream of personally relevant information, such as social updates, entertainment and lifestyle updates, and news and photos with immersive images so the user no longer needs separate applications to find out what's happening. HTC BlinkFeed aggregates the newest content from the most relevant and interesting sources, giving it to users at a glance, all in one place, without the need to jump between multiple applications and websites.

   Photo bugs who loved the camera features of HTC EVO 3D and EVO 4G LTE will take delight in HTC UltraPixel Camera with HTC Zoe™ – a new feature bringing photos to life showing more personality and emotion than a still photo ever could. HTC Zoe gives users the ability to shoot high-resolution photos that come to life in three-second snippets. Zoe images, photos and videos are then displayed in a unique way in the new gallery, transforming the traditional photo gallery of still images into a motion gallery of memories.

   Additionally, the new HTC One features a superior sound capability. Customers who love the Beats By Dr. Dre™ Audio features on HTC EVO™ 4G LTE will now enjoy an even better experience with HTC BoomSound™. BoomSound introduces front-facing stereo speakers with a dedicated amplifier and an amazing full high-definition display that brings users closer to their music, videos, games and YouTube™. Beats Audio integration is enabled across the entire experience for rich, authentic sound. HDR recording uses advanced dual microphones and audio processing to capture clean, rich sound that is worthy of HD video footage.

   Crafted with a distinct zero-gap aluminum unibody, the new HTC One also boasts brilliant technical features, including international capabilities, 4.7-inch, full-HD 1080p display, 1.7GHz quad-core processor and Near Field Communications (NFC).

   A Truly Unlimited 4G LTE Experience

   Sprint offers Truly Unlimited data for smartphones while on the Sprint Network, with no metering, throttling or overages. Sprint's Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM starts at just $79.99 per month for smartphones – a savings of $20 per month versus Verizon's comparable plan with unlimited talk, text and 2GB Web (excludes taxes and surcharges).

   Sprint introduced its all-new 4G LTE network in July 2012 and now offers service in 58 markets[i]. For the most up-to-date details on the Sprint 4G LTE portfolio and rollout, please visit www.sprint.com/4GLTE. For detailed 4G LTE maps, providing coverage information right down to the address, please visit www.sprint.com/coverage. Customers are encouraged to check back often, as the maps will be updated when coverage in these markets is enhanced.

   About Sprint Nextel

   Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 55 million customers at the end of 2012 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. The American Customer Satisfaction Index rated Sprint No. 1 among all national carriers in customer satisfaction and most improved, across all 47 industries, during the last four years. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 3 in both its 2011 and 2012 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint.

  T-Mobile to Offer New HTC One
   Bellevue, Wash. - Feb. 19, 2013

   T-Mobile is excited to partner with HTC to bring our customers the new HTC One®, a T-Mobile 4G LTE smartphone. The new HTC One introduces HTC BlinkFeed™, HTC Zoe™ and HTC BoomSound™, key HTC Sense® innovations that reinvent the mobile experience.

   The new HTC One is T-Mobile's first Android smartphone featuring the new HTC Sense experience with HTC BlinkFeed at its center. HTC BlinkFeed transforms the home screen into a single live stream of personally relevant information such as social updates, news and photos giving people fresh content at a glance without the need to switch between applications. Wrapped in a zero-gap aluminum unibody, the brilliant 4.7-inch full 1080p HD screen is the perfect display for the new breakthrough camera experience of HTC Ultrapixel Camera with Zoe which gives people the ability to shoot high-res photos that come to life in three-second snippets.

   When combined with T-Mobile's industry-first Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan with no annual contract, the new HTC One provides amazing 4G experiences at a superior value – without limitations – that only T-Mobile can deliver. Information about the HTC One can be found at T-Mobile.com. Additional details, including device availability and pricing, will be shared at a later date.

 Break the Mold: The New HTC One from AT&T Brings Your Mobile World to Life   Dallas, Texas, February 19, 2013

   ShareThis  Today, AT&T* announced its plans to carry HTC's global flagship smartphone, the new HTC One®. The HTC One offers a new perspective on smartphones with HTC Sense innovations that allow you to use your smartphone in ways you never could before – bringing your memories, experiences and interactions to life.

   The HTC One is 4G LTE enabled, allowing customers to take advantage of the latest wireless technology to achieve ultra-fast speeds. AT&T has the nation's largest 4G network covering 288 million people.** At launch, AT&T will offer the HTC One in silver and black, and customers will have the option to choose between 32GB or 64GB memory variants.

   "As our lives become increasingly mobile, our smartphones play the vital role of keeping us connected to the things we value most in life," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president-Devices, AT&T. "The HTC One's revolutionary way of tapping into your day-to-day activities and creating a truly personalized experience, combined with AT&T's lightning fast 4G LTE network, make sure you have access to the information you want, when you need it."

   Real-Time Connections

   While a typical app may pique your interest, HTC BlinkFeed™ engrosses you in customized content and real-time updates streamed live on your home screen. HTC BlinkFeed aggregates your content from a variety of media sources, serving up fresh content all in one place, without the need to jump between multiple applications and web sites.

   A Living Photo Gallery

   Anyone can take a photo, but HTC Zoe™ on the HTC One lets you grab the entire moment and bring it to life in three-second snippets. Special moments like birthdays and sporting events can be captured in Zoes, photos and videos then uniquely displayed in a living gallery that you can set to music and special effects. AT&T Locker helps you hold onto those memories no matter where you are. You can automatically store photos, videos and documents securely in the cloud, so you can access and share from your smartphone or computer. The HTC UltraPixel Camera with a breakthrough sensor gathers 300 percent more light than traditional smartphone camera sensors and delivers outstanding low-light performance.

   Raw Power, Beauty and Fine Detail Sound Quality

   Boasting a powerful 1.7 GHz quad-core processor, and zero-gap aluminum unibody with a 4.7-inch full HD (1080p) screen, the HTC One helps you run games and other applications easily. Dual front-facing speakers and a built-in amplifier bring music, movies and games alive in a way unrivaled by other smartphones. Since the speakers are on the front of the device, you no longer have to worry about muffled sound when setting your phone down. HTC BoomSound™ on the HTC One provides richer, clearer sound with less distortion, as well as the authentic sound experience you expect from built-in Beats by Dr. Dre Audio.

   Entertainment World at Your Fingertips

   Not only does HTC One let you take your favorite music, movies and TV shows with you anywhere, but it also serves as your interactive TV Guide and remote control. HTC SenseTV™ can be set up in a few simple steps and gives you the ability to access electronic program guides and control a set-top box, including AT&T U-verse®, and home theatre right from your phone's screen. Not sure what you want to watch? With SenseTV, you can search for content by categories including movies, TV shows, sports, social media and more.

   The HTC One features AT&T DriveMode®, an app that helps curb texting and driving. The app can be set-up to automatically send a customizable reply to incoming messages once a vehicle starts moving 25 mph. The auto-reply message is similar to an "out-of-office alert" and can reply to texts, emails and wireless callers letting your friends know that you are driving and unable to respond.***

   Setting up your new HTC One is a snap with AT&T Ready2Go, a free service that helps you to easily set up and personalize your device in minutes from the comfort of your personal computer. With Ready2Go, it's easy to set up your email accounts, import your contacts, connect to your social networks and more.

   For more information or to sign up for updates on availability, visit www.att.com/htcone.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   **4G speeds not available everywhere. Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.

   ***Data and text messaging charges may apply for download and app usage. Standard messaging rates apply to auto-reply messages. AT&T DriveMode is free to AT&T customers only. Compatible device required.

 
