

My father's camcorder was a common sight on childhood vacations. Trips to Mount Rainier, the Oregon Coast, Disneyland, skiing, weddings -- you name it, there's video evidence of my siblings and I enjoying time together. I'm lucky to have grown up in an era where this technology was available, but today these memories can be captured more easily and with less sophisticated (read: less expensive) equipment. We have quick and easy access to cameras at a moment's notice, thanks to smartphones and tablets, and now another form factor is starting to gain momentum: personal cameras. With the exception of the GoPro, this genre is now seeing an influx of small, hand-held devices that are small enough to put in your pocket or bag and can still take decent photos and videos.


HTC is one of the companies rushing to get into this space with the RE camera (pronounced "Ree"), an awkwardly named gadget that's shaped like a tube, packs a 16-megapixel camera and 1080p HD video capture and features cross-platform support so Android and iOS users alike can take advantage of it. Can this tiny camera take the place of my father's camcorder? What else is it good for? And is it worth paying $200 even if you already have a smartphone camera? Keep Reading to find out. 





Hardware
Warning: If you buy the RE, you will frequently be asked, "Is that a camera?" Roaming the hall at Engadget Expand, waiting in line at Six Flags, walking down city streets, attending social events and, well, everywhere, I was approached by people eager to see why I was pointing an upside-down asthma inhaler at things. Its tube-like design makes it easy to grip and an instant icebreaker.

No matter how much I like to poke fun at its looks (periscope? A piece of PVC pipe?), HTC had the right idea here: A camera like this has to be small, lightweight and easy to hold. It can't be unwieldy. It needs to be something you want to use often and share with others. HTC's answer is an L-shaped trinket that weighs 66.5 grams (2.35 ounces) and measures 96.7mm in length and 26.5mm in width. It's short enough that it gets obscured in my right hand as I hold it, but long enough that I never feel like it's going to slip out of my grasp.

The RE, which comes in white, orange, blue and teal, has a simple design with just two buttons. The shutter button sits near the corner of the device, which feels like a natural fit when I place my thumb there. Pressing this button takes a picture, while holding it down for two seconds prompts the device to start recording video (there's an LED light to indicate when the shutter goes off or when you're recording). The second button, located on the backside, is a toggle allowing you to switch to slow-mo video capture. Farther down, there's an unseen grip sensor that's supposed to detect when you're holding onto the RE so it doesn't snap shots by accident. Meanwhile, another LED shows battery status, and there's a speaker near the bottom, which emits shutter sounds and other signals. Finally, the all-important microphone sits along the top side.


The busiest part of the RE is the bottom side. This is where you'll find a 1/4-inch tripod socket for additional accessories, a standard micro-USB charging port and an 8GB microSD card (you can replace it with one as large as 128GB). The camera is powered by an 820mAh battery and comes with a waterproof rating of IP57, which ensures that your device will be safe in a meter of water for up to 30 minutes. HTC will offer a protection pack (sold separately) that increases the rating to IP58 and keeps the RE safe in three meters of water for 120 minutes. A company spokesperson also confirmed that the RE can handle exposure to sand and seawater, though you should still be careful, as it's not indestructible.

The RE also has a gyroscope that can detect when the device is upside down, so it'll automatically flip the resulting images so they're facing right side up. Of course, you can also turn off that setting in case you actually want to capture footage this way.

Plenty of accessories abound for the RE. In addition to the aforementioned protection pack, HTC offers bike mounts, suction cups, external battery packs and a pyramid-like charging stand.

Software
(Image credit: Daniel Bader)
HTC has lately been trying to expand its brand beyond hardware, and so it's working on creating cross-platform services, like the Zoe app, that work on both Android (4.3+) and iOS (7+) devices. The RE is no different: It's not restricted to HTC-made devices, so as long as you're using either Android or iOS, you'll be able to purchase the camera and download the companion app.

In the case of the RE, the software isn't absolutely essential, per se. The camera's capable of storing photos and videos locally on a microSD card, so you could technically use it without ever connecting it to a smartphone -- just plug the device or the card into your computer and transfer the files directly.


However, forsaking the smartphone app means you'll be missing out on a few key features, like a real-time viewfinder, remote shutter key and time-lapse video, as well as the ability to update the camera's firmware easily (there's a way to sideload the file onto the SD card, but it's more complicated). The latter option is arguably the most critical, especially as HTC rolls out bug fixes, performance improvements and new features over the device's lifetime. So while it's technically possible to use the RE as a standalone camera, I'd advise against it. Even so, it's good to know you can take the RE with you anywhere and not have to always be tethered to your phone at the same time.

The UI is nearly the same on both the Android and iOS versions. After you connect the device, which involves pairing using Bluetooth Low Energy, you'll be presented with a viewfinder and three remote shutter options: stills, videos and time-lapse. This makes it much easier to frame the kind of shot you want, if you don't want to do the point-and-pray approach.


Near the top, you can access the camera roll, which consists of all the images currently stored on the microSD card. You can back all of them up to your phone (every time you go into the app and connect the RE) or pick and choose specific ones, depending on how much space you have; there's also the option to upload all of your stuff to Dropbox or Google Drive anytime you're connected to a WiFi network.

There are plenty of other niceties in the settings menu. Here you can toggle ultra-wide-angle mode, change camera resolution, soften or turn off the shutter sound volume and, finally, power off your device (that's important, since there's no other way to do it besides letting the battery die). Speaking of the sound, by the way, I recommend leaving it on because the LED indicator isn't always easy to see. There's also the creep factor to consider. 





