




	If you've come to the realization that status updates are far more important than actual phone calls, you're going to be very excited to hear that the HTC ChaCha -- the Facebook phone that's not a "Facebook Phone" -- is now available on Vodafone starting at the low, low cost of zilch. There's not a lot to distinguish this phone from other Sense-powered devices, with the exception of some additional social network functionality integrated into the UI. Oh, and there's that little F button below the keyboard with a light that pulsates anytime you're doing something that could be shared with the entire world. Top it all off with Gingerbread, an HVGA display on a 2.6-inch screen, 512MB RAM, and a 600MHz CPU, and you've got a device that should reasonably handle all your social tendencies. So, boogie on down to the press release after the break or tango over to the source to purchase the ChaCha online.




 		Show full PR text  Share music, photos, location and status updates with a dedicated Facebook button 		The HTC ChaCha is available now on Vodafone, bringing an all new mobile experience of Facebook. Featuring a dedicated Facebook button, the HTC ChaCha that lets you share a whole range of things with your friends and family in an instant. Take a photo - straight to Facebook. Make a video - straight to Facebook. Show whatever, whenever, at the touch of a button. 		HTC ChaCha's Facebook chat widget also means you can group all your friends together, and see when anyone is online, start a live instant chat and juggle between as many private conversations as you want. Available free on £26, 24 month price plans including 300 minutes, unlimited texts, 750MB of mobile data and 1GB of BT Openzone WiFi allowance, the conversation never ends with HTC ChaCha. 		Plus, it has a QWERTY keyboard, 2.6" touchscreen, 5MP rear camera, 0.3MP front camera, Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth. 		For more information on the HTC ChaCha, visit the Vodafone online shop 		*click on the images below for the hi-res version*		*select A4 landscape or A3 before printing this email*  		HTC ChaCha		Free on £26, 24 month price plans		(Including 300 minutes, unlimited texts, 750MB of data and 1GB of BT Openzone WiFi allowance)		Specifications: 		Dimensions (mm)		114.4 x 64.6 x 10.7		Weight (g)		120 		Standby time (hours)		GSM Up to 430 		3G standby time (hours)		Up to 640 hours 		TouchScreen		Capacitive touchscreen 		Processor		800 MHz 		Screensize (inches)		2.6 		Talk time		GSM Up to 450 mins 		3G talk time (minutes)		Up to 400 minutes 		Internal memory		512MB 		Operating system		Android 2.4 (Gingerbread)
 