
  Over the last year, HTC has established a reputation for fragmenting its proprietary Sense UI even within the same version of Android. Why, Gingerbread alone is the foundation for at least three different iterations (2.1, 3.0 and 3.5) of the firmware. The bump to Ice Cream Sandwich is no different, with legacy devices getting an update to Sense 3.6 and the One series (and presumably any future devices) benefiting from version 4.0.

      More Info   HTC One X review  HTC One S review  Sense 3.6 preview    When we previewed Sense 3.6, we were disappointed at its similarity to previous versions and the sloppiness of its integration with key features in ICS. Even though it marked an improvement in functionality and performance, it seemed as if the OS and customized UI were at war with each other.  Sense 4 is a different story. It's lighter, cleaner and much more visually appealing than older versions of the user interface, and it has the full suite of ICS goodies to go along with it. HTC also throws in its own imaging technology, dubbed ImageSense, to offer some cool new enhancements to the camera. Ultimately, HTC has successfully tweaked Sense's design in a way that keeps the spirit of stock Android 4.0 alive, while still offering something familiar to loyal HTC fans. The tour is about to begin, so park yourself in your favorite chair and join us.




 Home screen  The home screen of Sense looks like, well, a slightly modified version of Sense. As silly as that sounds, HTC didn't break a lot of new ground here. Perhaps the company figured this was a great way to help ease customers into the transition from yesteryear to the new era. Unlike stock ICS as seen on the Samsung Galaxy Nexus and Nexus S, Sense 4 doesn't feature the non-removable Google search bar at the top of every panel (though it's offered as a removable widget by default), and it also lacks a virtual row of navigation buttons on the bottom of the display since HTC opted to use three capacitive keys on the One series instead. We can't just assume that this means the manufacturer will never try the virtual buttons on for size down the road, but it seems rather unlikely at this point. Even though the virtual buttons aren't offered on Sense 4, HTC still made sure to throw in an ICS-style launch bar along the bottom of the screen, with app menu access flanked by up to two customizable app shortcuts on either side. You can choose whatever app you want -- heck, you can even toss in a folder if that's what really moves you. The launch bar's also a tad different here than it is on 3.6, since it's chopped off on each side and uses only one color tone (in contrast to a two-tone black and grey motif). This means there's a little extra space in the two bottom corners; it's not enough real estate to take advantage of, but it lends a greater feeling of minimalism, as well as a cleaner appearance.

  The signature clock / weather widget is still there, eating up the entire top half of the screen, but it has a more modern look to it. The massive dark grey box that serves as the backdrop for the entire widget is gone, which makes it seem less intrusive somehow. And, as always, you can simply remove the widget if it's taking up too much space. Easy enough. It's not like you'll be hurting for clock options, considering HTC spared no expense by throwing in a wide variety of possible widgets to choose from. Good news: the 3D carousel in older versions of Sense that spins your main panels around and around like you're playing the Wheel of Fortune? Retired.

 The 3D carousel in older versions of Sense? Retired.Another Sense staple that's sticking around for the long haul is the overview screen, which gives you a card-style view of all seven home panels. It's still accessible by tapping once on the home capacitive key or using pinch-to-zoom, and once you arrive here you'll be able to change the panel order and even add or remove unwanted screens. This comes in handy if you're looking to avoid clutter. Finally, long presses have changed a bit. For instance, performing this gesture on the capacitive keys no longer do anything. Doing it on one of the home panels, however, takes you into a modified screen with a layout that emulates what you'd see if you did the same thing on a Honeycomb tablet: it pulls up a menu that shows thumbnails of your main panels on the top, tabs for widgets, apps and shortcuts on the bottom and a section in the middle that allows you to choose from a variety of options related to whichever tab you've selected. When looking at widgets, for instance, you can use a drop-down menu or do a search to quickly find something specific. This part of Sense seems to take advantage of the ICS design style, but the screen itself is nowhere to be seen on the stock version. Personalization options  Also predominant in past versions of Sense has been the personalize menu, which was featured as a non-customizable shortcut on the launch bar. Essentially, this screen was an extension of the settings app, with several options for display, sound and shortcuts. It's still around (minus the shortcuts option, since you can find that by long-pressing the home panel), but it seems to have lessened in priority now. How can we tell? The only points of access to this screen are in the settings itself and as a shortcut in the app menu that can be added to whatever spot you want it to go. But that's the key: you can do whatever you want with it. Freedom to choose. No longer is this menu stuck on your home screen without any way of removing it.

 Notifications  When it comes to staying true to stock ICS, the notification bar in Sense 4 may not be a direct copy, but at least it gets much closer to the general idea than 3.6 does. Individual lines take advantage of the original style, and you can swipe each one to the left or right to get rid of them. And just like the pure vanilla version, you can find buttons to clear notifications and access settings on the top, but HTC pushes them over to the top right corner and adds words to each symbol, helping you understand exactly what each one is there for. Instead of going the same route as Sense 3.6, which offers a section for recent apps near the top and a quick settings tab at the bottom, HTC kept only one tie to earlier versions of the UI: it keeps ongoing processes and one-time notifications separate.

 The notification bar in Sense 4 does a much better job of exemplifying the spirit of stock Ice Cream Sandwich. The new version of HTC's user interface also throws in extra choices for viewing notifications. Not only can you pull down the bar to see the full list without even unlocking the phone -- standard for Ice Cream Sandwich -- you can also choose a new lock screen style that lets you view a small selection of notifications directly on the lock screen. You can view missed calls, messages, email (from the standard Mail client, but not Gmail) and calendar events this way. What's more, you'll be able to pick and choose specifics: display missed calls from Bob only, view calendars A and C but leave out B, show messages from your wife. We have no idea why Bob's calls would be more important than your spouse's, but you certainly have that option at your disposal.

 Lock screen  The standard Face Unlock feature is available, as is the standard Sense ring and accompanying quick access shortcuts at the bottom. The apps featured here will ultimately reflect whatever you have hanging out in your launch bar, regardless of what it is. And since you can choose the number of apps you have laying on the bottom of your home panel, this means you can have anywhere from zero to four shortcuts to choose from. Just as with vanilla ICS, you can pull down the notification bar directly from the lock screen. And if that's not quick enough access for you, it's not a bad idea to choose the "productivity" lock screen style mentioned earlier. Calendar events and changes in the weather will also pop up from time to time, and it's easy enough to simply dismiss them and get those notifications out of your way.

 App menu


 Unlike Sense 3.x, version 4.0 adopts the appearance of Matias Duarte's horizontal app menu, but you'll notice one significant difference right off the bat: no widgets. Those can still be accessed by long-pressing the home panel screen, as we discussed earlier, and that's the only place you can find them. We assume this decision was made to avoid possible confusion when switching back and forth between apps and widgets, but it's a significant enough departure from the true ICS setup. In the top right corner you'll have a search button, Play Store access point and options menu at your disposal. Within the latter you can find the ability to manage, share or sort your apps. There aren't many options to customize the app menu -- you won't be able to move the icons around to fit your liking, but you at least still have more flexibility with Sense than the vanilla OS. Also, tucked between the icons and tabs is a menu progress indicator that tells you exactly where you are in the potentially vast expanse of app screens. The ability to do stills and videos at the same time is absolutely stunning, and very few manufacturers have chosen to offer a similar service (Samsung being one of them). Update: it appears that stock ICS has this feature, but it looks as though manufacturers are still able to add it in or take it out of their custom skins -- as evidenced by its absence in Sense 3.6. When you're recording video, the camera shutter button is still available just in case the moment is so memorable that you want to take an image without turning off the camcorder. If you forget to do this, all is well: it's possible to grab photos in the same manner after the fact. When you're watching the video in the gallery, the same shutter button hasn't gone anywhere, still accessible on the right side of the screen. NFC/Android Beam: Naturally, this little bit will only apply to HTC devices that offer NFC functionality, but Sense 4 does indeed support Android Beam -- and on the One X, it works flawlessly. We were able to share URLs, directions, apps, contacts and even YouTube videos with our Galaxy Nexus without incident. We were also able to download Google Wallet directly from the Play Store, but carrier restrictions still apply.