
 Now that the HTC One is out in the open, you might be wondering where to get one, right? Fortunately, a number of carriers have stepped up: if you're in the UK, you'll find it with LTE on EE "mid-March" for £70 on a 2-year, £41 1GB data plan and at O2 and Vodafone on March 15th, with pricing for the latter two still to come. If you'd prefer an off-contract buy, Clove is selling the 32GB model in black or silver for £425 (plus VAT); pre-orders are open now, with first shipments expected on March 15th.
 Stateside, Sprint, AT&T and T-Mobile will also offer 4G versions of the fresh handset -- but none have mentioned pricing or availability, yet. Meanwhile, Canadians will see the One on Bell, Rogers and Telus, and HTC said that that its new flagship would launch in "80 countries over 185 mobile retailers and operators," making it "the largest rollout ever" for the company. Naturally, we'll keep you up-to-date with all those dates and prices the instant we lay eyes on them.



  Show full PR text   HTC One with superfast 4G – only on EE
  19 February 2013. London. EE, the UK's most advanced digital communications company, today announced it will exclusively launch the new HTC One smartphone with superfast 4G.

   The HTC One will be available on EE's superfast 4G service via the EE online shop, EE telesales and EE retail stores from mid-March. It will be available across a range of 4GEE price plans, and is just £69.99 on a £41 per month 24 month package, with users receiving 1GB of mobile data, as well as unlimited UK calls and texts.

   Paul Jevons, Director of Products and Devices, EE, said: "We're delighted to be the only operator to offer the HTC One enabled with 4G from launch. This handset delivers an incredible mobile experience when matched with EE's superfast 4G network - allowing customers to  make the most out of their HTC One when on the move."

   In addition to superfast speeds and EE services, customers with an HTC One smartphone on a 4GEE price plan will also benefit from:

   · EE Film – the UK film service that features 2-for-1 on cinema tickets

   · A discount on EE superfast fibre broadband – so they can get blistering download speeds at home and on the move

   · Fast track customer service by dialling '33' from their handset

   The HTC One will also be available on the UK's largest 3G network from Orange and T-Mobile across a range of plans including £69.99 on a £36 per month, 24 month plan.

   Further information on the HTC One, including full details of EE's price plans and pre-order* will be made available in due course on www.ee.co.uk/shop.

 
