
 
 HTC is keeping a low profile at IFA 2012 this week but it does have at least one phone to reveal to the throng of tech journalists and writers making their way around Berlin, the Desire X (formerly Proto). It's a humbler new handset for the Taiwanese manufacturer and one whose outer hardware has already toured China. It's now been mildly adjusted (that is, improved) with one of Qualcomm's lower-end Snapdragon S4 processors, clocked at 1GHz, while it keeps that 4-inch touchscreen, 5-megapixel camera, Beats Audio integration and 4GB of storage we saw earlier. There's also an extra 25 gigs of free cloud storage courtesy of Dropbox, while the camera packs the same capabilities as One series devices including HDR capture, continuous shooting and the ability to capture video and stills at the same time. The device will launch across as-yet unconfirmed countries in Europe and Asia starting next month -- and we'll have a hands-on for you later today.




  Show full PR text    HTC UNVEILS HTC DESIRE X: BLAZING  PERFORMANCE, STATE OF THE ART CAMERA AND AUTHENTIC SOUND
   A seriously entertaining, powerful and social smartphone with a state of the art camera  that includes VideoPic™ for simultaneous image and video capture and Continuous Shooting  for capturing multiple fast-paced action photos

   BERLIN, GERMANY – IFA - 30th August, 2012 - HTC, a global leader in mobile innovation  and design, today unveiled the HTC Desire X, an affordable smartphone that delivers a  state of the art camera, stunning sound and incredible processing power and speed. Tuned  with HTC exclusive Beats Audio™, this device also delivers a dual-core 1GHz Qualcomm ®  Snapdragon S4™ processor and social features that enable you to stay better connected.

   "HTC Desire X is an extension of your social life," said Jason Mackenzie, President, Global  Sales and Marketing for HTC Corporation. "If you're looking to enjoy and share high quality  multimedia, wherever you are, this is the phone for you. It not only looks and sounds great,  but also provides a super-fast, highly personal mobile experience at a great price."

   Iconic design, powerful performance  This striking design is built to withstand everyday life while remaining both slim and  compact. With the inclusion of HTC Sense® and Android™ 4.0, every individual's experience  is completely personal. The impressive 4-inch super LCD WVGA screen on the HTC Desire  X with increased viewing angle also means that everything will appear in vivid colour and  with amazing clarity.

   State of the art camera  Perfect for point-and-shoot spontaneity, the 5 megapixel camera on the HTC Desire X takes  fantastic photographs, even in challenging low-light conditions, thanks to HTC's proprietary  ImageChip, a f/2.0, 28mm wide-angle lens, BSI sensor, HDR mode and automatic adjustable  flash. When capturing content you won't need to choose between video or photos again,  with VideoPic you can to take video and stills at the same time. This smartphone can even  record the most fleeting of moments with superfast activation (within 1 second) and auto  focus with Always Focus. What's more, one-press Continuous Shooting allows you to  capture multiple photos of fast-paced action, be it a medal-winning sprint or the family dog.

   Sharing made easy  Saving and sharing photos, videos and files is easy on HTC Desire X – with one touch you  can instantly share content with your friends and family via email, text or social networks.  Dropbox integration also gives you 25GB of free online storage for two years*.

   Authentic Sound  Delivering deep bass and richer, more powerful sound, integrated Beats Audio on the HTC  Desire X makes you feel like you are actually hearing your music in the studio. With Beats  headphones, you can also enjoy a superior listening experience thanks to HTC Desire X  specifically tuned audio profiles. What's more, the phone also supports High Definition  wireless audio through Bluetooth®.

   Availability  HTC Desire X will be available in selected markets across EMEA and Asia Pacific from  September 2012.

   * Dropbox 25GB of free storage deal is available to those who sign up to it before the end of  2013. Sign up using the HTC Desire X device. Dropbox is provided by a third party.

 
