
 
There's not exactly a lot of surprises left at this point, but Sprint has just officially announced that it will be the exclusive carrier for the brand new HTC EVO 3D. The standout feature here is of course that 4.3-inch, glasses-free 3D display, but the phone is far from just a gimmick -- you'll also get a 1.2GHz dual-core processor, WiMAX connectivity (including mobile hotspot support), dual 5 megapixel cameras with a flash 'round back, a front-facing 1.3 megapixel camera, support for 1080p video playback via the HDMI out (or 720p for 3D content), and Android 2.3 with Sense. Still no word on pricing, but you can look for it to be available sometime this summer.

Update: We just managed to get up close with the phone (behind glass). Check out the gallery below, and stay tuned for a proper hands-on.

Joanna Stern contributed to this report.





Show full PR textSprint Introduces America's first 4G "glasses-free" device with QHD 3D Display, HTC EVO 3D, Coming this SummerSprint also brings the popular and powerful HTC EVO experience to a 4G tablet, HTC EVO View 4G, this summer, with new digital pen technology that makes it possible to make notes on Web pages, ebooks, PDF documents and more, in an easy and natural wayORLANDO (CTIA) – March 22, 2011 – As the first national wireless carrier to launch the groundbreaking data speeds of 4G, Sprint (NYSE: S) today announced the upcoming availability of its 21st and 22nd 4G-capable devices – HTC EVO™ 3D and HTC EVO View 4G™ on America's Favorite 4G Network.1 HTC EVO 3D takes the mobile multimedia experience to a new level, providing the ability to capture and view in 3D and share at 4G speeds, offering consumers the ultimate glasses-free 3D experience. Sprint also announced HTC EVO View 4G, introducing a tablet to the award-winning EVO family.Both devices will be available for Sprint customers this summer. Pricing will be shared closer to launch. Pre-registration for both devices begins today at www.sprint.com/evo3d and www.sprint.com/evoview.Built with the Gingerbread (2.3) version of Android™, HTC EVO 3D features America's first QHD 3D 4.3-inch display and a powerful 1.2 GHz Qualcomm® Snapdragon® dual-core processor. HTC EVO 3D also features dual 5 megapixel cameras, which can be used to capture both high-quality conventional and stunning 3D images and videos, opening up new frontiers for user-generated content, social networking and streaming video. "Sprint is taking wireless innovation to the next level once again as we bring our customers the ability to experience 3D on their phone without glasses," said Steve Elfman, president - Network Operations, Product and Wholesale, Sprint. "HTC EVO 3D makes it easy to take pictures or movies in 3D when you are on vacation, and then feel like you are there again when you view it months later. This device takes full advantage of Sprint's powerful 4G network and offers the innovation one would expect as the next benchmark device in the prestigious EVO product line."As 3D has become more sought-after in both movie theaters and family rooms, the ability to enjoy 3D on a wireless phone – 3D glasses-free – will change the way customers interact with their devices. According to The NPD Group's 3D 360° Monitor (September 2010), consumers show a high degree of interest in working with personal media in 3D (with one-third saying they would like to take photos in 3D). For details, visit http://www.3dmarkettrends.com.The countless ways customers benefit from HTC EVO 3D's dynamic ability to capture and playback video in 3D include:• Real estate agents can create and share 3D virtual tours of homes that let out-of-town buyers "walk through" the house and truly experience the listings before they can see them live;• Dad can feel like he is in the bleachers watching the ball leave the park for a homerun even if he's forced skip a Little League game because he is stuck at the office;• 3D mapping of terrain will help build new and exciting features for navigation, and hikers will be able to get aerial views of the topography of rivers and mountains while in the backcountry; and• Families can "relive" the excitement of their vacation and feel like they are there again."At HTC, we believe in offering a wide portfolio of beautifully designed, powerful and highly customizable devices for our customers, and the HTC EVO portfolio at Sprint does just that," said Jason Mackenzie, president - HTC Americas. "As HTC continues to push the limits of innovation, we are looking forward to delivering the HTC EVO 3D and our first 4G tablet, the HTC EVO View 4G, to Sprint customers this summer."According to ABI Research (Dec. 20, 2010) mobile 3D devices will be driven by three key applications: creation of user-generated 3D content by integrated video and still cameras, playback of 3D content and 3D gaming. It also anticipates that mobile devices may turn out to be the most successful form factor towards bringing 3D technology into mainstream markets.With integrated 3D HD (720p) video capture, 4G speeds, and the latest version of the acclaimed HTC Sense experience, HTC EVO 3D makes it possible to become part of the action and then easily and seamlessly post high-quality video to YouTube™ or Facebook, or share moments in real time over the Internet live, via Qik. Its integrated DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) capability makes it fast and easy to share stored music, pictures and user-generated HD video wirelessly with other DLNA-certified® home electronics, including HDTVs, monitors, digital cameras, printers and more. Using an HDMI cable (sold separately) makes it possible to also share user-created 3D video content via a 3D TV.Additional key features of HTC EVO 3D include:• 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera for video chat• 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot capability, supporting up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices simultaneously• Android Market™ for access to more than 150,000 useful applications, widgets and games available for download to customize the experience• Google mobile services such as Google Search™, Gmail™, Google Maps™ with Navigation, Google Calendar, Voice Actions, and YouTube™• Sprint's unique implementation of Google Voice, allowing customers to keep their Sprint number and seamlessly move to Google Voice• Corporate e-mail (Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync®), personal (POP and IMAP) e-mail and instant messaging• 4GB Internal memory/1GB RAM• microSD slot (supports up to 32GB memory card)• Wi-Fi – 802.11 b/g/n• Stereo Bluetooth®• Integrated GPS• 1730 mAh Lithium-ion batteryBlockbuster On Demand Provides Access to the Latest MoviesHTC EVO 3D will be the first 3D handset pre-loaded with the Blockbuster On Demand® mobile application that has access to one of the largest catalogs of movies, including 3D titles. This movie store in your pocket offers video optimized for viewing on HTC EVO 3D's 4.3-inch screen."Consumers want to watch the latest entertainment anywhere, anytime," said Scott Levine, vice president of Digital, Blockbuster. "Sprint and Blockbuster are taking the movie watching experience to the next level with enabling 3D on a smartphone."Blockbuster On Demand offers the hottest new releases on the same day they become available on Blu-ray and DVD. Customers can buy or rent digitally and download directly to their smartphone, along with select 3D movies.If a video isn't available digitally, Blockbuster also gives customers access to more than 100,000 movies and TV shows, as well as games, through store inventory at any of the Blockbuster stores nationwide. Also, Blockbuster® by Mail is another option for consumers. They can manage and update their mail queues from their phone, while on-the-go.Blockbuster On Demand purchases can also be watched on other Blockbuster On Demand-compatible devices. Rentals range from $1.99 to $3.99 each, and purchases are $5.99 and up. Rentals will be available for viewing on one screen within 30 days of rental, with a 24-hour viewing period once the title is first played.Bringing the EVO Experience to a TabletSprint and HTC's first 3G/4G Android tablet together, HTC EVO View 4G, will bring the best of the HTC EVO experience into a tablet design with a 7-inch 1024 x 600 touchscreen display with pinch-to-zoom, a 1.5 GHz Qualcomm® Snapdragon® processor and the latest version of HTC Sense. As the perfect combination e-reader, media player and portable computing device, HTC EVO View 4G offers a premium entertainment experience with HD-quality video and a rich Web-browsing experience with the ability to browse the Web on Flash-enabled sites.With dual cameras – a main 5 megapixel auto-focus camera with HD-capable video camcorder and a forward-facing 1.3 megapixel camera – HTC EVO View 4G unleashes the ability to create, stream over the lightning-fast 4G network, share via YouTube™ or Facebook® and watch video with the Qik mobile app.Although the sleek, aluminum-encased tablet weighs less than a paperback book, it is a powerful productivity tool for business customers and consumers. With lightning-fast 4G connectivity and a large touchscreen display, HTC EVO View 4G makes it even easier to manage e-mail, and its front-facing camera makes the Qik video chat application an easy and appealing way to conduct business while on-the-go.Additional key features of HTC EVO View 4G include:• 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot capability, supporting up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices simultaneously• Google mobile services such as Google Search, Gmail, Google Maps with Navigation, Voice Actions, and YouTube• Corporate e-mail (Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync), personal (POP and IMAP) e-mail and instant messaging• Android Market™ for access to more than 150,000 useful applications, widgets and games available for download to customize the experience• Blockbuster On Demand® to rent or purchase the hottest new releases on the same day they become available on Blu-ray and DVD• 32GB internal memory, 1GB RAM• microSD slot (supports up to 32GB memory card)• Wi-Fi b/g/n• Bluetooth 3.0• Integrated GPS• 4000 mAh Lithium-ion batteryWith HTC Scribe Technology™, HTC EVO View 4G will offer a new way to interact with a tablet. HTC Scribe Technology introduces a unique digital pen to the tablet experience and unlocks new capabilities. When combined with Evernote™, a leading notes application and service, the user will have the ability to capture and make notes on Web pages, ebooks, PDF documents and more, in an easy and natural way. Additionally, HTC Scribe enables enhanced voice-synchronized note taking using a feature called Timemark, making it possible to capture the audio of a meeting at the same time as written notes. Also improving on the tablet experience, HTC EVO View 4G allows users to draw, take notes and highlight text on documents on the tablet with the HTC Scribe™ digital pen. Sold separately and available this summer, the enhanced functionality of the HTC Scribe brings creativity to life. For example, the user can draw a sketch or add notations and highlight paragraphs, while reading an eBook, review and comment on PDF documents and add casual comment on photos.A Sprint developer guide for HTC EVO 3D and HTC EVO View 4G will be available on the http://developer.sprint.com website at launch. The developer guide will provide details and information on how to take advantage of their unique hardware and software capabilities, including 3D, HDMI output, DLNA and HTC Scribe Technology on the Sprint Network.As the first national wireless carrier to test, launch and market 4G technology, Sprint made history by launching 4G in Baltimore in September 2008. Sprint currently offers 4G service in 71 markets in 28 states. For more information, visit www.sprint.com/4G.About Sprint NextelSprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 49.9 million customers at the end of 2010 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 6 in its 2010 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint.About HTC HTC Corporation (HTC) is one of the fastest growing companies in the mobile phone industry. By putting people at the center of everything it does, HTC creates innovative devices that better serve the lives and needs of individuals. The company is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange under ticker 2498. For more information about HTC, please visit www.htc.com.
 