
 
Would you look at that. Verizon's ongoing press conference has been accompanied by the appearance of two 4.3-inch LTE handsets coming to the network. Both HTC's Thunderbolt and LG's Revolution were pretty well known in advance, but hey, now we have big luscious high-res pictures to gawk at. The Revolution will come with Android 2.2 preloaded while the Thunderbolt has Skype video calling integrated right into HTC Sense. The latter device also boasts a Super LCD display, 8 megapixel camera with HD video recording, DLNA, Dolby Surround Sound, and the honor of being a Verizon exclusive in the US. Now that the devices have been made official, we also know that the Revolution can stream, play and record HD video, perform video chat with a front-facing camera, and share its 4G connection with up to eight devices through its built-in hotspot functionality. Jump past the break for the full announcement.

Update: Hop on past the break for the Thunderbolt specs, courtesy of our friend Peyton (and HTC).
      

 

HTC Thunderbolt Networks: LTE 700, CDMA EvDO revA Operating system: Android 2.2 + HTC Sense Display: 4.3" WVGA TFT capacitive touch screen Camera: 8MP with autofocus, LED Flash (2x LED), 1.3MP front facing camera Memory: 8GB emmc + 768 RAM Memory card, preinstalled 32 GB microSD WLAN: 802.11 b/g/n Bluetooth: 2.1 with EDR (3.0 when available) GPS: GPS/AGPS Battery: 1400 mAh Special features: Dual mics with noise cancellation, Surround sound, Compass sensor, G-Sensor, Proximity sensor, Light sensor, 3.5mm audio jack, MicroUSB, FM radio, LTE SIM slot , TI audio DSP Chipset: Qualcomm® MSM8655, 1GHz, Qualcomm MDM9600Show full PR textVerizon Wireless Unveils Suite of 4G LTE Smartphones, Tablets, a MiFi, Hotspot and NotebooksWorld's First Large-Scale 4G LTE Wireless Network Expands to More Than 140 Additional U.S. Markets in 2011LAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J., Jan. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The operator of the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States unveiled a suite of 10 consumer-oriented devices that will run on its 4G LTE network by the middle of this year. At a news conference at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) today, Verizon Wireless announced a suite of 10 forthcoming 4G LTE devices – including smartphones from HTC, LG, Motorola and Samsung; tablets from Motorola and Samsung; a MiFi from Novatel Wireless and a mobile hotspot from Samsung; and two notebooks from HP – which will transform the wireless experience and offer consumers new ways to connect and share their lives at blazingly fast speeds. Verizon expects these consumer-oriented devices to be available by mid-2011, with some available as early as March 2011.The company also announced it is expanding its 4G LTE network to an additional 140 markets by the end of this year. Dan Mead, president and chief executive officer of Verizon Wireless, said, "Today, we're unveiling the next evolution of 4G LTE for consumers. During this three-year journey, from acquiring spectrum to launch, we not only transformed our network, but also our business by engaging in a strategy of collaboration and openness, while driving partnerships that will make 4G LTE successful across the globe. The result is true magic – the sum of a powerful network, applications, software systems and devices that bring 4G LTE to life."Marni Walden, vice president and chief marketing officer of Verizon Wireless, said, "For consumers, our 4G LTE network isn't about simply doing things faster. It's about doing things we couldn't do before. In the consumer electronics arena, it's not just about devices. It's about those powerful devices with deeply integrated applications and how our 4G LTE network truly transforms the wireless experience with rich multimedia and real-time response intervals."4G LTE devices available from Verizon Wireless by the middle of 2011 include:Smartphones* HTC ThunderBolt (exclusive to Verizon Wireless) – HTC Sense 2.0, Skype mobile™ with video, 1GHz Snapdragon processor, 4.3" WVGA display, Dolby surround sound, 8-megapixel camera and HD video recording, wireless DLNA capability. * LG Revolution – HD support for streaming, playing and recording video, large 4.3-inch touch screen, Android™ 2.2, video telephony support with front-facing camera and mobile hotspot capability to share a 4G connection with up to eight Wi-Fi-enabled devices.* DROID Bionic 4G – Android with Adobe® Flash® and HTML5, front-facing VGA camera and See What I See video feature, rear-facing 8-megapixel camera, 4.3-inch HD quality screen, HDMI connectivity, dual-core 1GHz processor, 512 DDR2 RAM.* Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone – Android 2.2, Google Mobile services, including Google Search™, Google Maps™ and Gmail™, YouTube™, brilliant 4.3-inch Super AMOLED Plus touch screen display, powerful 1GHz application processor, HTML5 Web browser, rear-facing 8-megapixel camera with LED flash and front-facing 1.3-megapixel camera to support video chat capabilities, Samsung Social Hub and Media Hub.Tablets* Motorola XOOM – 10.1-inch HD 4G LTE upgradable tablet, Android™ Honeycomb, 1080p HD video, Adobe® Flash® Player, front-facing 2-megapixel camera for video chats and 5-megapixel camera to capture video in 720P HD. Mobile hotspot capability provides connection for up to five Wi-Fi-enabled devices. * 4G LTE-enabled Samsung Galaxy Tab™ – 7-inch enhanced TFT display with 1024 x 600 WSVGA resolution, Android 2.2, Adobe® Flash® 10.1, 1.2GHz Cortex A8 Hummingbird application processor, rear-facing 5-megapixel camera and front-facing 1.3-megapixel camera and camcorder enable video chat capabilities.MiFi and Mobile Hotspot* Novatel MiFi® 4510L Intelligent Mobile Hotspot – Small enough to fit in the palm of the hand, share Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE and 3G networks with up to five Wi-Fi-enabled devices. * Samsung 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot – Dual-mode device works as a wireless access point to connect up to five Wi-Fi-enabled devices to Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE or 3G networks. Notebooks* Compaq CQ10-688nr – 10.1-inch diagonal anti-glare widescreen LED display, Intel® Atom N455 processor, up to 8.5 hours of battery life, multi-format digital media card reader, webcam and multiple connectivity options. * HP Pavilion dm1-3010nr – 11.6-inches, HP CoolSense Technology, HD 1080p, VISION Technology from AMD, up to 10.75 hours of battery life, 320 GB of storage, full-size, island-style keyboard, multi-format digital media card reader, HDMI port, Dolby Advanced Audio and GPS for mapping and navigation.Verizon Wireless also introduced new applications that are being fully integrated into the new smartphones and run seamlessly over the 4G LTE network. An upgraded version of Skype mobile takes advantage of video capabilities enabled by 4G LTE's incredible speed, allowing users to see and hear friends and family when making or receiving Skype-to-Skype video calls. EA's ROCK BAND leverages the high-speed, low-latency 4G LTE network to provide the next generation of multiplayer gaming. At launch, this will be the first time the game can be played with friends over the mobile network, which means consumers can rock out with their friends like never before with 20 favorite hits – while on the go. Since its launch 32 days ago, Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network has provided laptop users with speeds up to 10 times faster than the company's 3G network. In real-world, fully-loaded network environments, laptop users experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink.Tony Melone, executive vice president and chief technology officer of Verizon, said, "We will aggressively continue launching 4G LTE markets over the next 36 months. We'll cover two-thirds of the U.S. population in the next 18 months, and by the end of 2013 we'll offer our 4G LTE network from coast to coast – everywhere that we offer 3G today. In order to get there, we'll add more than 140 markets in 2011, including Detroit, Raleigh-Durham, Memphis, Milwaukee, Honolulu, Boise, Mobile, Little Rock, Sioux Falls and Salt Lake City."Show full PR textHTC ThunderBolt Delivers Style and Speed on Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE NetworkLTE-Capable HTC ThunderBolt Enables Sharing at 4G Speeds with Features Including Integrated Skype mobile™ and DLNA Wireless Media ConnectivityDownload imageLAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J., Jan. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- At the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Verizon Wireless and HTC today unveiled its newest 4G smartphone, the HTC ThunderBolt, one of the world's first 4G LTE Android smartphones, coming soon exclusively to the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network. (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20110106/NY25577 )Taking advantage of Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network and the intuitiveness of the HTC Sense user experience, HTC ThunderBolt is one of the first smartphones to integrate Skype mobile™ with video calling. Rather than relying on a standalone application, a Skype mobile with video call can be made as easily as a standard voice call – with features like presence icons that indicate the availability status of friends built into the standard contacts list. A front-facing camera enables simple video calling, and the 4.3-inch display brings friends and family into clear focus.HTC ThunderBolt features exceptional speed and power with the newest generation of the blazing-fast 1GHz Snapdragon processor. Verizon Wireless customers will also enjoy the premium HTC Sense user experience, running on the Android 2.2 platform. Creating and consuming mobile multimedia content is made possible with a stunning 4.3-inch WVGA display, Dolby surround sound, 8-megapixel camera and HD video recording. With wireless DLNA capability, the HTC ThunderBolt can easily stream and share content directly with compatible home theater components, including HDTVs and stereo receivers that feature built-in DLNA support."We are proud to not only be bringing one of the first 4G LTE Android smartphones to the Verizon Wireless network, but to offer people the unprecedented speed and ease of use that the HTC ThunderBolt provides to them," said Jason Mackenzie, president of HTC Americas. "What makes 4G so compelling is not just technology, but what the technology allows people to do. With HTC ThunderBolt and the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network, 4G is brought to life as people stay connected with friends, family and content faster than ever before possible.""Our 4G LTE network and the HTC Sense user experience combine to enable our customers to connect with friends, family and information on a whole new level," said Marni Walden, vice president and chief marketing officer for Verizon Wireless. "Customers will see the difference of 4G speeds when accessing content via the Web, Android applications or other Verizon Wireless applications."The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network, launched in December 2010, is the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States, providing speeds up to 10 times faster than Verizon Wireless' 3G network. Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network currently reaches one-third of all Americans, with plans to expand the network to the company's entire 3G coverage area over the next three years.The HTC ThunderBolt will be on display at CES in Verizon Wireless' booth (#35216 in the South Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center). For more information about Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network, visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte and for more information about Verizon Wireless at CES, please visit www.verizonwireless.com/ces or follow the company on Twitter at http://twitter.com/verizonwireless. For more information about the HTC ThunderBolt, please visit www.verizonwireless.com/thunderbolt.Key Features:* 4G LTE – customers can expect download speeds of 5 to 12 Mbps and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps in 4G Mobile Broadband coverage areas* 4.3-inch WVGA display* Mobile Hotspot capability – share 4G connection with up to 8 Wi-Fi devices* Android 2.2 platform* 32GB microSD card included* HTC Sense 2.0 with new features, including Fast Boot* Built-in kickstand for easy media viewing* Dolby and SRS surround sound* Fully integrated Skype mobile experience* 720p HD video recording* DLNA streaming multimedia supportFor additional information on Verizon Wireless products and services, visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com.About Verizon WirelessVerizon Wireless operates the nation's fastest and most advanced 4G network and largest and most reliable 3G network, and serves more than 93 million customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 80,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, Nasdaq: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.About HTCHTC Corporation (HTC) is one of the fastest growing companies in the mobile phone industry. By putting people at the center of everything it does, HTC creates innovative smartphones that better serve the lives and needs of individuals. The company is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange under ticker 2498. For more information about HTC, please visit www.htc.com.SOURCE Verizon WirelessBack to topRELATED LINKShttp://www.verizonwireless.com 
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

