
 

It's like AT&T just wants its consumers to only buy the 3G iPad. Just days after we snuck out leaked shots of the HTC Puccini, said tablet has gone official as the HTC Jetstream. As predicted, it's packing a 10.1-inch WXGA capacitive touchscreen, 1.5GHz Snapdragon dual-core processor, Android 3.1 and HTC's latest tablet-centric edition of Sense (that'd be Sense UX). Of course, it's the first LTE / HSPA+ tablet to be announced for Ma Bell's network, but it's not like it matters. For whatever reason, the powers that be decided to price this thing at $699.99 on a two-year contract, which has somehow managed to top Verizon's equally comical pricing for its LTE-equipped Galaxy Tab 10.1. Sure, that tally enables you to sign up for a $35 / month 3GB plan, and yeah, the HTC Scribe digital pen accessory is being tossed in "at no extra cost" for a limited time, but let's be real -- neither you, nor anyone else you know, is buying one. So much for even pretending to compete on price, eh?

Update: It's going for $849 outright, which is even more silly. Why not just price it at $2,000, guys? Might as well milk the most from the four folks that'll accidentally mash the "buy" button.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  New HTC Jetstream™ Tablet Available Exclusively to AT&T Customers 		Company's First 4G LTE/HSPA+ Tablet Available Sept. 4 Nationwide		First Tablet To Feature Android™ 3.1 (Honeycomb)  		DALLAS, Aug. 31, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --  		Key Facts 		· Customers can purchase HTC Jetstream, AT&T's* first 4G LTE/HSPA+ tablet, online and in company-owned retail stores starting September 4. 		· HTC Jetstream is HTC's first tablet running on the Android™ 3.1 (Honeycomb) operating system which was specifically built for tablets. 		· Tablet features a 10.1" HD display, Snapdragon 1.5 GHz dual core processor and front and rear facing cameras. 		· For the first time, AT&T customers can receive discounted tablet pricing after committing to a two-year agreement for a new $35, 3GB monthly data plan. 		· For a limited time, HTC Scribe ™ - an optional digital pen accessory- will be available at no additional cost. 		Customer Benefits 		Exclusive to AT&T customers, HTC Jetstream is the company's first 4G LTE/HSPA+ tablet. It runs the Android™ 3.1 (Honeycomb) operating system and represents the first iteration of the HTC Sense™ user experience on Honeycomb. HTC Jetstream boasts a large 10.1" WXGA high-resolution display for an immersive entertainment experience, third-generation Snapdragon 1.5 GHz dual core processor for fast multi-tasking and instant screen refresh. A rich web browsing experience supports Adobe® Flash® Player and an enhanced HD video experience with 1080p playback and capture. 		The tablet is also compatible with HTC Scribe™ - an optional digital pen accessory, which is sold separately, - for content creation as well as Evernote integration for storing your documents in the cloud. Additionally, HTC Jetstream is preloaded with services optimized for the tablet such as AT&T Family Map, AT&T Navigator ®, HTC Watch™, HTC Hub, Friendstream™, Android Market, and much more. 		Android 3.1 (Honeycomb) 		HTC Jetstream is AT&T's first tablet to showcase the Android™ 3.1 OS. The brand new operating system was designed from the ground up for devices with larger screens. It improves on Android favorites with new interactive and resizeable widgets plus improved multi-tasking, browsing, notifications, and customization. The new version of the platform also features Google Maps 5.0 with 3D-like interaction, access to over three million Google eBooks, incognito mode for browsing internet with no history tracking and Google Talk with video chat over Wi-Fi. 		Quotes 		"This tablet is a beautiful 10.1-inch, LTE powered masterpiece," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobilityand Consumer Markets. "When you combine powerful options like HTC Jetstream with our upcoming LTE technology and nationwide HSPA+ network, it flies." 		"HTC Jetstream combines the acclaimed HTC Sense experience with Android Honeycomb to provide an innovative and engaging experience on a 10.1 inch tablet," said Martin Fichter, acting president, HTC Americas Region. "Paired with AT&T's upcoming 4G LTE speed and mobility, HTC Jetstream delivers connectivity for social and entertainment needs alongside productivity and creativity tools in a portable package."  		Price and Availability 		On September 4, the tablet will be available exclusively to AT&T customers online and in company-owned retail stores for$699.99 with a new two-year contract. 		AT&T postpaid tablet customers now have a new $35, 3 GB monthly data plan option with a two-year contract. Customers who do not choose a long-term commitment may still select one of two existing monthly billing options: 		· Postpaid: $14.99 for 250 MB or $25 for 2 GB. Customers on the 2 GB plan who exceed their monthly data allotment will be charged $10 per 1 GB of overage. Charges will appear on customers' monthly wireless statements. 		· Prepaid: $14.99 for 250 MB or $25 for 2 GB. Customers on the 2 GB plan who exceed their monthly data allotment may choose to purchase an additional 2 GB for $25. Charges will appear on customers' credit card statements. 		Offering the simplicity of a single bill, the postpaid option will show up on customers' monthly wireless bill after the data is used. The new postpaid billing option will be available online at www.att.com and across AT&T retail locations. 		For more information, please visit www.att.com/jetstream. 		HTC Jetstream Specifications 		· LTE (700/AWS)		· HSPA+/HSPA/UMTS (850/1900/2100 MHz)		· EDGE/GPRS (850/900/1800/1900 MHz)		· Android 3.1 (Honeycomb)		· HTC Sense™ UX for tablets		· Display: 10.1" WXGA HD screen		· Processor: Third-generation Snapdragon 1.5GHz dual-core processor		· Camera: Front Facing 1.3 MP, Rear facing 8 MP and Dual LED Flash		· Battery: 7,300 mAh		· Expandable Memory: MicroSD up to 32 GB		· Dimensions: 7" (l) x 9.87" (w) x 51" (d)		· Weight: 25 ounces
 