
 
Those among us with minds like steel traps might recall that HTC's 2009 was leaked with shocking accuracy way back in January of this year, which lends some credibility to this already-believable series of slides we have seemingly showing off most of the good stuff we can expect out of the company in the coming months. The stuff we're privy to here was allegedly presented at a meeting in Vienna back in October, with both Windows Mobile and Android designs broken up into four target demo categories: Design / Lifestyle, Social, Performance (we like the sound of that), and Productivity -- but don't take our word for it. Follow the break for everything you need to know about this very real-sounding downpour of specs and renders.





Design / Lifestyle Legend: This looks to be the successor to the Magic (and possibly the Hero, too), featuring an 11.4mm metallic frame that we're already dying to hold along with a clickable optical pad, 5 megapixel AF cam, and 3.2-inch AMOLED display. T-Mobile is mentioned by name, though we're not sure which markets will get it; retail in March. Salsa: We bet you've never seen a released Android handset quite like this one -- it's portrait QWERTY, not unlike Google's early Android prototype. 3.2 megapixels and an FM radio paired up with a Qualcomm MSM7225 at 528MHz. This one's coming in June.


Social Tide: Here's another Android form factor we haven't seen before -- full touch with a numeric keypad below the display. 3.2 megapixels and a 528MHz MSM7225 mean it should be pretty reasonable on a contract. April is the target release. Buzz: This is a funky one in the same vein as the Tattoo with changeable backplates available in a variety of interesting designs; it's got full HSPA and a 5 megapixel AF cam with flash to boot. Like many of the others here, it has T-Mobile's name attached to it, which leads us to wonder whether this whole thing wasn't done as a presentation for T-Mobile -- we'd be shocked if the carrier's various markets around the world actually ended up getting all of them.Performance Bravo: Now this is what we're talking about -- HTC finally marries Android with Snapdragon to make the device we suspect that many of us are going to be lusting for in 2010. It's got DivX support, 720p video capture through a 5 megapixel AF cam with flash, a mighty 3.7-inch AMOLED display, and that Qualcomm Snapdragon humming along at 1GHz. If all goes well, we should start to see this (hopefully everywhere) in April.Productivity Photon: If WinMo 6.5 is more your thing, the Photon looks like it could be a winner. 3.2-inch HVGA capacitive display, 5 megapixel cam, and a 600MHz MSM7227 all suggest that this is a likely successor to the Touch Diamond2; it should swing by around April. Trophy: This could very well be the coolest portrait QWERTY phone ever released -- at least, the coolest running Windows Mobile 6.5 -- thanks to a 3-inch VGA capacitive display atop the keyboard. Like the Photon, it's rocking a 600MHz MSM7227, but it's scheduled to hit a month later in May. Tera: If the Touch Pro2 needed a little brother, the Tera could be it; it preserves the form factor but moves down to a 3-inch WQVGA resistive display. It's expected in April.Perhaps the most telling thing about this roadmap -- assuming it's even remotely accurate -- is that HTC is very explicitly rounding up its WinMo devices under the buttoned-up "Productivity" umbrella and letting Android shine through the rest of the market segments. It's gonna be an exciting year to watch these guys -- and even though most of these handsets are quoting Euro 3G in the spec sheets, we certainly hope American carriers have every intention of commissioning versions that'll work on this side of the pond.

       