
 
 Looking to sail the smartphone seas on Huawei's dual-core flagship? Good news if you happen to reside in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Australia: the 4.3-inch 1.5GHz Ascend P1 will be arriving in your locale by next month. Oh, and Latin America, don't worry, Huawei hasn't forgotten about you. The phone will be bringing its eight-megapixel camera to that part of the world in June, followed by Europe at some other point in the summer. More mystery regions will be getting their chance at the P1 at another undisclosed time. In the meantime, more info can be found in the press release after the break.




  Show full PR text   Huawei Announces Global Availability of the Ascend P1 – its Flagship Dual-Core Smartphone   Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, today announced that the Huawei Ascend P1 will be available in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Australia through operators and retailers by May 2012, in Latin America from June 2012 and in Europe from summer, with availability in other markets to follow.     "The global availability of the Ascend P1, which combines smart features and a sexy design, represents a significant milestone for Huawei Device. We are sending strong signals of our intention to transform into a consumer-facing brand and extend our market leadership globally by strengthening our range of flagship products. We are also expanding our sales and distribution channels to move beyond a focus on operators," said Richard Yu, Chairman of Huawei Device.     The Ascend P1 is beauty meets brains – proof that technology and good looks can go hand-in-hand. It features a dual-core 1.5GHz TI OMAP 4460 Cortext-A9 processor and measures 7.69mm thin and 64.8 mm long, providing a very comfortable grip. With a 4.3-inch super AMOLED 960 x 540 touch screen with Corning® Gorilla® Glass, an 8-megapixel BSI rear-facing camera and Dolby Mobile 3.0 + 5.1 surround sound technology, the Ascend P1 provides a home theatre experience in the palm of your hands. 
 