
Huawei and the United States government may have their differences, but here's something we can all agree on: Walmart's going to sell whatever it darn well pleases. Including, mind you, Huawei's first Windows Phone 8 smartphone. The W1 -- which has made inroads in multiple markets already -- is heading to Yankee soil, with shipments expected to begin "this month" at Walmart.com and at select Walmart stores. For those in need of a refresher, it'll pack a 1.2GHz dual-core CPU, a 4-inch IPS touchpanel, 1.7GB of user-available internal storage (expandable to 32GB via microSD card), a 5 megapixel rear camera (with a 0.3MP shooter on the front) and the latest iteration of Microsoft's mobile OS. Strangely, Huawei nor Walmart are saying what the damage will be, but it'll reportedly be priced "competitively" on a prepaid, no-contract plan.



Show full PR textHuawei's First Windows Phone 8 Smartphone Lands in U.S.

Huawei W1 offers overall package with unbeatable value to consumers; Launch follows sponsorship announcement of highly-anticipated Jonas Brothers Tour

PLANO, Texas, May 9, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Following the sponsorship announcement of the highly-anticipated Jonas Brothers Tour, Huawei today announced its first Windows Phone 8 smartphone – Huawei W1 – will be available this month online at Walmart.com and at select Walmart stores in the United States.

"We are proud to deliver a premium smartphone experience to customers at a competitive price point," said Todd Greenberg , General Manager, US Windows Phone Sales at Microsoft. "The new Huawei W1 is a great addition to the Windows Phone 8 portfolio of devices in the U.S. with its impressive battery life and availability in Walmart stores."

The Huawei W1 features a speedy 1.2GHz dual-core processor, optimized battery technology, a gorgeous 4'' IPS LCD touch screen made of Gorilla® glass that looks great even in sunlight, and 5MP camera with 0.3MP front-facing camera, LED flash, 4X digital zoom, auto focus and a quick access button. Powered by Windows Phone 8, the device offers a truly personal smartphone experience to fit unique needs and provide quick access to the people and things customers care about most.

"The Huawei W1 brings consumers a truly compelling alternative to what's currently in the marketplace – a device that is competitively priced with an unlimited *30-day no-contract plan," said Michael Chuang , Executive Vice President at Huawei Device USA. "The addition of the W1 to our smartphone portfolio in the United States gives consumers access to a wider range of Huawei smartphones at a competitive price that makes sense to consumers."

On May 15, Huawei will launch the "Huawei W1 'Make it Yours' Music & Mobile Sweepstakes." Fans of the Huawei W1 and Jonas Brothers will be able to enter to win the smartphone, tickets to attend Jonas Brothers Tour concerts across the country, and a chance to meet the band in person. Last month, the company announced it will be the presenting sponsor for the highly-anticipated Jonas Brothers Tour.

For more information about Huawei's sponsorship or about the Huawei W1, please visit www.HuaweiDeviceUSA.com/HuaweiW1.

About Huawei DeviceHuawei Device believes that everyone can be the center of information and that the world would be a better place if access and information barriers were knocked down. Its strong suite of mobile phones, mobile broadband devices and home devices is testimony to Huawei Device's focus on customers and its commitment to providing user-friendly mobile internet experiences through ongoing innovation. Based on more than two decades of success in the information and communications industry, and with our own channel expertise, operational capabilities and global partner resources, Huawei Device is transforming from a company that sells millions of devices in single transactions to large businesses, to a "Business-to-People" (B2P) brand that also sells individual devices directly to millions of people. For more information, visit Huawei Device online: www.huaweidevice.com.

For regular updates on Huawei Device USA, follow us on:Facebook: www.facebook.com/HuaweiDeviceUSATwitter: www.twitter.com/HuaweiDeviceUSAYouTube: www.youtube.com/user/HuaweiDeviceUSAFlickr: www.flickr.com/huaweidevice


