
 Huawei's G510 isn't what you'd call a screamer. In fact, the handset's more of what the Chinese market refers to as a "1,000 yuan" phone, or as we so benignly call it: a budget device. Formerly available in Asia-only, the G510's now making the trek to the UK on Vodafone for £130 outright or £13 monthly. Despite its lower-end leanings, the Android Jelly Bean device packs a reasonably large 4.5-inch WVGA display, dual-core Cortex-A9 clocked at 1.2GHz, 5-megapixel rear camera, NFC and a 1,750mAh battery. It's also the first of Huawei's UK releases to ship with its custom skin, the Emotion UI. It's a questionable bragging right, we admit. But we'll let it slide for now.



  Show full PR text   Big-screen mobile entertainment for everyone – Huawei's feature-packed Ascend G510 smartphone debuts   · Ascend G510 launches with Vodafone in the UK  · Huawei's first UK smartphone to feature the all-new Emotion UI

   London, UK, April 11, 2013: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, today announces its big-screened entry-level Ascend G510 smartphone will be on sale with Vodafone UK from April 12. The launch of the Ascend G510 will be attended by a significant ATL marketing campaign, which brings to life the handset's 'Outstanding Features' and will run across print, digital and outdoor media.

   Available from Vodafone UK from £13 per month on pay-monthly and £130 on pay as you go, the Ascend G510 combines unmatched functionality, form-factor and firepower in its class to deliver big-screen mobile entertainment for a new generation moving to smartphones and upgrading old technology.

   It follows a series of Huawei smartphones combining great features and value in the low-to-mid tier, including the highly-successful and award-winning Ascend G300, a direct predecessor of the Ascend G510 with Vodafone UK.

   Uncompromising

   The Ascend G510's large 4.5-inch screen, combined with DTS surround sound, enables superior mobile video, gaming and web-browsing for a whole new audience. Its fast 1.2GHz dual-core processor and big 1750mAh battery provide power and longevity to support data-hungry applications and content, such as catch-up TV and gaming.

   Huawei Device UK director of product management James Powell remarked: "Huawei is bringing new hardware and software innovation to this market; and not just to the high-end. For years, 'entry-level' smartphones have meant compromise – phones not powerful enough, with screens not big enough, to be able to truly deliver on the promise of the mobile internet.

   "The Ascend G510 is the latest in a line of Huawei smartphones to challenge that, and our most powerful yet in the low-to-mid tier. It brings the very latest smartphone technology to the heart of the broad consumer mass market, delivering big-screen mobile entertainment without compromise."

   Personalisation

   Notably, the Ascend G510 is the first Huawei device to launch in the UK with Huawei's own intuitive and customisable Emotion UI, running over the Android 4.1 Jellybean operating system. The Emotion UI allows users to put all that their most important applications and content in one place on the home screen, and offers a wide choice of themes to personalise their Ascend G510 further.

   Design of the Emotion UI is based on understanding of how consumers interact with their smartphones and what they expect from these interactions. It addresses a user's basic needs and tastes in ways that are smart and simple.

   The Ascend G510 comes with a 5 megapixel camera with LED flash for capturing special and impromptu moments on the go. It also boasts a front-facing camera so you can unlock the handset at a glance with face-recognition. And you can share your experiences – your content and contacts – directly with friends via NFC, with compatible phones.

 
