
 

What comes after Honor and Glory? Mercury, apparently. That's the American moniker of choice for Huawei's latest smartphone, which has just been launched on Cricket's network. Powered by a 1.4GHz single-core CPU, this Android-juiced handset boasts a four-inch FWVGA (854 x 480) display, packs 2GB of internal memory and sports an eight megapixel shooter, along with a VGA front-facing camera. The provider didn't offer many specifics on the software side, though the Mercury will support Google's full suite of mobile apps, while offering tethering support for up to five other devices. It's available now for $250 at select retailers, on Cricket's $55-per-month plan. Find more specs and information in the full PR, after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Cricket First in U.S. to Unleash the Power, Speed and Elegance of the Huawei Mercury 		~ Long Anticipated Android™ Smartphone Features 4-inch Screen and 1.4GHz Processor 		~~ Feature Packed Huawei Mercury Comes with Cricket Value Price of $249.99 Just in Time for the Holidays 		SAN DIEGO, Dec. 19, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Cricket Communications, Inc., a leading provider of innovative and value-driven wireless services and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leap Wireless International, Inc. (NASDAQ: LEAP) today announced the exclusive United States availability of the Huawei Mercury, Cricket's fastest and most powerful smartphone, yet. This highly anticipated device is available now for $249.99 (MSRP) at Cricket branded retail stores, dealers and at www.mycricket.com.  		"We are extremely pleased to be the first carrier in the United States to bring this high quality smartphone to customers and we're excited that we are able to offer this compelling device at a very affordable price," said Matt Stoiber, senior vice president, devices for Cricket. "In addition to its big screen and powerful processor, the Huawei Mercury is packed with many great features including a VGA front facing camera and 8MP rear camera and camcorder with LED flash. Users can also enrich their wireless experience by tethering the powerful Mercury to their tablet and other devices through Cricket's new tethering service plan over Cricket's high-speed 3G network." 		"Huawei's device strategy has always been to ensure that carriers can continue to grow the population of smartphone connected consumers. We've been able to establish ourselves as a player in this market by providing affordable smartphones, and we're building on that foundation with devices for the high-tier market now," said Jiangao Cui, President of Huawei Device USA. "This particular device, the Huawei Mercury, is an opportunity for us to offer a quality high-end device to the U.S. market that can deliver rich multi-media content including music, video and gaming applications seamlessly." 		Huawei Mercury Features 		1.4Ghz Processor		4" FWVGA Touchscreen		Email application for both consumer and business email		8.0 MP AF HD rear camera/camcorder		VGA Front Camera		2GB Internal Memory		Real Web Browsing at 3G speeds		Wi-Fi Capable		Stereo Bluetooth		Mobile Hotspot (i.e. Tethering); supports up to 5 devices		Support for Google Mobile™ Services – Gmail™, Google Maps™ with 3D maps and free turn-by-turn navigation, Google Earth™, Movie Studio, YouTube, access to more than 300,000 apps, millions of eBooks, thousands of movies to rent from Android Market		The Huawei Mercury joins Cricket's growing smartphone lineup and is available on Cricket's $55 per month smartphone service plan that includes unlimited talk and long distance, caller ID, voicemail, call waiting, 3-way calling, call forwarding, unlimited text, picture and video messaging, 3G mobile data and email.		Additional Cricket Services Supported 		Cricket Storefront Client -- The Cricket Storefront is Cricket's own application storefront which is preloaded from which users can purchase ringtones, graphics, ringback tones, games and applications. A user must have Flex Bucket funds available in order to make purchases from Cricket's Storefront. 		Cricket Mobile Web -- Access the Internet from the phone, anywhere Cricket data coverage is available. 		My Account -- My Account provides Cricket customers with online access to billing and account information. Once customers are registered and logged into My Account they have the ability to add a line of service, upgrade their phone, change their plan, add new plan features, change billing and communication preferences, view text message purchases and check the status of an online order. 		My Backup -- The My Backup application will back up the users contact list, perform regular updates and download contacts. 		For more information about Cricket's dynamic device lineup, please visit www.mycricket.com. To follow Cricket's latest news and updates online, go to Facebook at www.facebook.com/cricketwireless and Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/cricketnation.
 