
  Texas Instruments, Qualcomm, NVIDIA, Samsung and Huawei? The Chinese company is hoping to add its name to the list of major players in the mobile CPU game with the K3V2. The processor is a quad-core part that comes clocked at either 1.2 or 1.5GHz. The four A9 cores are actually 64-bit parts, according to chairman Richard Yu, something of a surprise since ARM only ditched world of 32-bits in October with v8. Also along for the ride are 16 GPU cores, which in a set of carefully picked presentation-friendly benchmarks (NenaMark 2 and Basemark), spanked the Galaxy Nexus and the Transformer Prime. If the marketing buzz is to be believed the K3V2 delivers twice the graphics performance, is 49 percent faster in purely CPU-powered tasks and uses 30 percent less power than its competitors. We shouldn't have to wait much longer to put those claims to the test, however. The chip will be inside the Ascend D quad which should be landing sometime in Q2.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Huawei Introduces the World's Fastest Smartphone: The Ascend D quad with Huawei's proprietary quad-core chip and power management system  BARCELONA, Spain, Feb. 26, 2012 /CNW/ - Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, today introduced the world's fastest quad-core smartphone, the Huawei Ascend D quad. Powered by the Huawei's K3V2 quad-core 1.2GHz/1.5GHz processor and boasting the most compact design among 4.5-inch smartphones, the Ascend D quad expands the realm of possibilities for consumers with an Android 4.0 operating system and Huawei's proprietary power management system which provides up to 30% in energy savings.  "We've listened to people's top demands from smartphones: speed, long-battery life, high quality visual and audio capabilities, and a compact, lightweight handset. The Huawei Ascend D quad exceeds these expectations," said Richard Yu, Chairman of Huawei Device. "In January at the Consumer Electronics Show at Las Vegas, we achieved a world record for the world's slimmest smartphone with the Huawei Ascend P1 S. We are proud to once again introduce a world-first at the 2012 Mobile World Congress with the Ascend D quad, the fastest smartphone."  The Ascend D quad is an entertainment dynamo with its 4.5-inch 720P high definition touchscreen, and the industry's most powerful 32-bit true color graphic processor. Its PPI 330 screen providing crystal clear display even under direct sunlight, is complemented by its Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound and Audience earSmart™ voice technology for an experience which excels across the senses. Its 8-megapixel BSI rear-facing camera, 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera, and 1080p full HD video-capture and playback capabilities enables you to record your special moments in clearer, richer detail.  The Ascend D quad comes with an 1800mAh battery, which lasts for one to two days with normal usage. The smartphone's prowess is enhanced by Huawei Device's proprietary power management technology which provides a longer battery life of up to 30% compared to industry average by adjusting power consumption according to usage needs. It also ensures higher chipset performance and efficiency by maintaining a low chip temperature.  Measuring 64mm narrow and 8.9mm slim, the Ascend D quad is proof that good things do come in small packages. With an ultra-thin frame, the lightweight and compact smartphone's 4.5-inch touchscreen seems to vanish into the edge, creating an "infinity" feel and allowing an exceptionally narrow body.  In addition to innovative hardware design, the Ascend D quad also has outstanding software design. In addition to its Android 4.0 operating system, the Ascend D quad optimizes the user experience, ensuring greater ease of use.  As part of the Ascend D series, Huawei also introduced the Ascend D quad XL and the Ascend D1 smartphones. The Ascend D quad XL comes with a 2500mAh battery which provides two to three days of normal usage. With the same specifications as the Ascend D quad, the Ascend D quad XL measures 10.9 mm slim. The Ascend D1 runs on a 1.5 GHz dual-core CPU and has a 1670mAh battery.  The Ascend D quad series will be available in China, Australia, Europe, Asia-Pacific, North and South America, and the Middle East in Q2 2012. The Ascend D1 will be available in the above markets from April 2012.
 