
 

Huawei has been up to some impressive stuff lately, so we're not totally shocked to see this top-spec phone reveal itself at CES. Perhaps the Ascend P1 S's most surprising attribute is its thickness -- a mere 6.68mm (0.26-inches), which would let it glide past the 7.1mm Droid RAZR with barely a slice in the air. The screen is 4.3-inches along the diagonal, qHD 540 x 960, and -- to HTC's shame -- it claims to be Super AMOLED. There's a dual-core TI OMAP 4460 inside, clocked at 1.5GHz and accompanied by a SGX 540 GPU, which should be plenty sufficient to record 1080p video on the eight megapixel backside-illuminated camera. As if that wasn't enough, the Chinese manufacturer has also taken the raps off an Ascend P1, which does away with the 'S' but packs a chubbier 7.69mm waistline and likely a lower -- though as yet unknown -- price tag. Expect to see both models in the US and elsewhere in Q2, plus some full hands-on treatment on these pages much sooner than that -- as in, hopefully later today.

Update: The Huawei P1 S is now official -- you'll find complete PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Huawei Unveils World's Slimmest Smartphone  		The Huawei Ascend P1 S features dual-core 1.5GHz processor and 4.3-inch super AMOLED touchscreen 		LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, unveiled the world's slimmest smartphone today at the 2012 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). The Huawei Ascend P1 S is 6.68mm thin and features a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED 960 x 540 touchscreen with Corning® Gorilla® Glass. The Ascend P1 S is also the fastest and most compact smartphone in its class with a dual-core 1.5GHz TI OMAP 4460 Cortext-A9 processor and Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich operating system. 		"We're excited to unveil the world's slimmest smartphone here at CES 2012," said Richard Yu, Chairman of Huawei Device. "The Ascend P1 S demonstrates our ongoing commitment to innovating high quality devices that utilize the latest hardware and software technologies." 		Huawei also unveiled the Ascend P1 which, as part of the same smartphone series, boasts the same functionality while measuring 7.69mm. Delivering the ultimate in elegance and speed with a 1670mAh/1800mAh battery, the Huawei Ascend P1/P1 S series provides the fastest multi-tasking, video replay and gaming experience in its class. 		The Huawei Ascend P1/P1 S series feature a super-sleek and narrow 64.8mm body, elegant contours and an effortlessly stylish design. The PPVD back cover coating evenly distributes heat, and provides a strong metallic, three-dimensional design with a delicate texture. The Ascend P1/P1 S is available in metallic black, ceramic white and cherry-blossom pink with more colors to come to match your personal style wherever you are, whatever you're doing. 		The Ascend P1/P1 S brings your digital world to life with its impressive 8-megapixel BSI rear-facing and 1.3-megapixel HD front-facing cameras with dual flash LED and HDR effect optimization. The Ascend P1/P1 S allows you to capture special moments in sharper, brighter and clearer detail both in light and dim environments. Relive your most memorable moments on the Huawei Ascend P1/P1 S with its stunning 1080p HD video-capture capabilities. Its high speed data connectivity through 3G, WiFi and Bluetooth and in-built social media capabilities enable you to instantly share your photos and videos via social media. 		The Huawei Ascend P1/P1 S will be available in Europe, Asia-Pacific, North America, Australia, Middle East, and China from April 2012. 		About Huawei Device 		Huawei Device believes that everyone can be the center of information and that the world would be a better place if access and information barriers were knocked down. Its strong suite of mobile phones, mobile broadband devices and home devices is testimony to Huawei Device's focus on customers and its commitment to providing user-friendly mobile internet experiences through ongoing innovation. Based on more than two decades of success in the information and communications industry, and with our own channel expertise, operational capabilities and global partner resources, Huawei Device is transforming from a company that sells millions of devices in single transactions to large businesses, to a "Business-to-People" (B2P) brand that also sells individual devices directly to millions of people. As at the end of 2011, Huawei Device serves more than 500 operators all over the world. For more information, visit Huawei Device online: www.huaweidevice.com
 