
 We're starting to think Microsoft is onto something with Windows Phone 8, an OS that's capable of delivering a solid user experience on mediocre handset specs. UK network provider O2 seems to feel the same, and in addition to pushing Nokia's Lumia 620 at an attractively low price, has bagged exclusivity for Huawei's Ascend W1. We originally heard the device would be available sometime in Q1, but now we have a specific date: March 7th. Well, that's when you can pick up the "Electric Blue" model, anyway, with an "Electric Pink" option arriving March 18th. It'll cost £120 (around $182 dollars) if you opt for PAYG (SIM-locked, no doubt), or free on contracts starting at £13.50 per month. Sold on those wallet-friendly numbers? Then head past the break and pick out your color.



 
  Show full PR text   Huawei and O2 bring Windows Phone to the masses as Ascend W1 debuts  Huawei Ascend W1 launches in electric blue and electric pink exclusively with O2 UK for £119 on prepay
  London, UK, February 26, 2013: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, is announcing today that its powerful entry-level Windows Phone smartphone, the Ascend W1, will be on sale exclusively with Telefónica O2 UK from March 7.

   The Huawei Ascend W1 will be available in store and online for £119.99 on prepay and for free on contracts from £13.50 per month. It will be available in 'Electric Blue' from March 7 and in 'Electric Pink' also from March 18. The Ascend W1 will be supported by a significant ATL marketing campaign across UK media.

   The Ascend W1 is designed for hectic modern lives; for users to make the most of their precious time by giving order and access simultaneously to their social and business worlds. It combines latest smartphone hardware and functionality with the innovative Windows Phone 8 operating system to enable quick and easy access to people, information and entertainment.

   The Windows Phone 8 start-screen lets you customise and pin Live Tiles with topics of personal interest, providing real-time updates that are uniquely yours. Additionally, a dynamic lock screen allows you to select the photos or updates most important to you and have them ready at a glance, even when the phone is locked.

   The Ascend W1 brings this powerful experience to a broader audience, and underpins it with great hardware. Its bright 4-inch IPS LCD 480 x 800 touchscreen has a low reflective IPS LCD display with full lamination technology, providing brilliant visibility under different lighting conditions. Its 1.2GHz dual-core Qualcomm processor and Adreno 305 GPU combine as a powerful engine for immersive video streaming and game-play.

   In addition, the Ascend W1's 1950mAh battery provides the longest standby time of smartphones in its class. It also features a 5 megapixel autofocus camera with LED flash, and includes 4GB on-board memory, expandable to 32GB with a micro SD card.

   The Ascend W1 is a smart and stylish alternative for consumers looking for great technology at the right price.

 
