
 
 Perhaps obscured by Huawei's other new -- and bigger --smartphone, the Ascend G330 also made its first appearance here in Berlin. For a smaller price tag (200 euros, around $250) you'll be getting a slightly humbler 4-inch smartphone, with a 1GHz dual-core processor and up to 5.76 Mbps through its HSPA connection. The 800 x 480 TFT screen is noticeably jaggier than Huawei's other new devices, but for an entry-level model, we've seen plenty worse. It's also aided by Android Ice Cream Sandwich, offering a more up-to-date mobile OS experience than existing starter smartphones. There's a 5-megapixel camera on the back, while a 1,500mAh battery resides under the cover. The phone will land in Europe this November, in the single Black Matte option you'll find in our gallery below.




  Show full PR text   Low-price power: HUAWEI Ascend G 330
   Berlin, Germany, August 30th, 2012 – HUAWEI, a world leading provider of information and communications technology (ICT), presents its new premium smartphone at an attractive low price. The HUAWEI Ascend G 330 is the latest addition to the HUAWEI Ascend G-family, combining slim, sleek design with a powerful 1.0 GHz dual-core processor that maximizes computing performance.

   But the HUAWEI Ascend G 330 offers more than stylish looks and an exceptionally powerful chipset for a mid-range smartphone. It also features a 10.16-cm (4-inch) WVGA TFT display and the latest Version 4.0 Android™ operating system (Ice Cream Sandwich). The high-resolution pictures and videos shot by the 5-megapixel rear camera can be posted directly on the Web using EDGE/UMTS/HSPA with up to 5.76Mbps, while video telephony over Skype® or other VoIP providers is handled by its counterpart on the front. The 1.500 mAh lithium-ion battery delivers plenty of power for extended chat, phone and surfing sessions and the high-performance 1.0 GHz dual-core processor with 512 MB RAM/4 GB ROM and crystal-clear display resolution guarantees mobile fun and entertainment wherever you are.

   "Our primary goal is to provide everyone with their perfect smartphone – without compromising on features and functions", explains Lars-Christian Weisswange, Vice President Device Western Europe at HUAWEI Technologies. "The Ascend G 330 is our proof that superb mobile entertainment need not cost a fortune."  Further functions including Bluetooth® 2.1, GPS and Wifi complete the comprehensive package of attractive features. The HUAWEI Ascend G 330 is particularly suitable for smartphone users that look for speed and elegant, sleek design (122.5 × 62.6 × 11.2 mm) among their priorities.

   Prices and Availability

   In Germany the HUAWEI Ascend G 330 is available from November 2012 in Matt Black at a recommended retail price of EUR 199,-- (without contract).

 
