

What is a flagship? For some companies, it's about cramming as many features into a device as physics allows. For Huawei, it means something else entirely: Though it creates smartphones for the power-hungry crowd, its most eye-catching devices typically favor mass appeal over brawn. Exhibit A: the Ascend P7, a smartphone that emphasizes design and user-friendliness over a blowsy spec sheet. When we reviewed its predecessor, the P6, last year, we found a gorgeous phone that struggled due to an underpowered engine and lack of LTE. The company promises it's learned from its mistakes, though. So is the P7 the mid-range smartphone you'll actually be proud to show off?





Hardware
Before we begin, we have to address the 800-pound gorilla in the room, and we're not just talking about the type of glass that coats both sides of the device. The P7 looks like the result of gene splicing between the iPhone 4 and one of Sony's Z-series handsets. That's not meant to be a criticism, but the lens placement and machining scream Xperia, while the plastic dividers that separate parts of the aluminum band are there entirely for effect.Similarities aside, it's a beautiful piece of equipment and you'll have total confidence in the solidity of this device when it's in your hand. Huawei's got a knack for putting smartphones together and there's no worry that this kit will creak or bend. It's also tremendously easy on the pocket, since it's only 6.5mm thick and weighs a light 124 grams (4.37 ounces). Rest assured that despite being more than £200 cheaper than the Galaxy S5 here in the UK, it's also a good-looking phone, so you needn't be worried that the posher kids at school/the office/the pub will sneer at your cheaper device. In fact, this would happily sit beside flagships from Samsung and HTC without appearing like the dowdy friend who you only sit with under duress.

I'm conflicted on the subject of comfort. This is because the P7 is a great, big, boxy piece of hardware with squared-off edges. Despite this, at no point did it jab into the flesh of my hand or otherwise make my life uncomfortable. I can't imagine delicate hands disliking the feel of this device, but I'm also aware that my mileage will differ from yours. What is consistent is that the glass backing makes this more of a slip risk than more tactile devices, so if you've got greasy palms and a tendency to be clumsy, buy a case.If minimalism is your bag, then you'll find the understated lines of the P7 right up your street. Up front are the speaker, light sensor and the 8-megapixel forward-facing camera, all of which linger above the display. On the bottom, there's a micro-USB port for charging, with the 3.5mm headphone jack located up top. The left-hand side is bare, so the right has to hold the micro-SIM and microSD trays, as well as the center-mounted power button -- another Xperia-esque trait. All three are metal, and there's some beautiful machining on the center button -- a high-quality detail from a company you wouldn't always associate with small, design-centric flourishes.

Display and sound
The 5-inch, in-cell LCD from Japan Display really doesn't look as big as it is, thanks to bezels that have been shrunk down to just 3mm. With a resolution of 1,920 x 1,080 (that's FHD, acronym fans) and a pixel density of 445 ppi, it sits in the same league as the Nexus 5, which means we have little to complain about. Pictures and video are crisp; the viewing angles are almost universally good; and it'll hold its own in the noonday sun, even when not on full brightness. Color accuracy is acceptable, although in side-by-side tests with another device, everything looked a little over-saturated. Not enough to annoy most users, though. The company has also retained its so-called gloves mode, which ups the sensitivity on the screen making it possible to use when you're out in the cold.

One particular bugbear of mine is when smartphone manufacturers place the speaker close to where you hold the device. It's been more than a year since HTC demonstrated front-facing speakers are the way forward, so why do companies insist upon this retrograde step? Unfortunately for me, Huawei has stuck the speaker right in the path of my palm, though it's at least made the placement work to its advantage. Thanks to the vertical orientation of the speaker, the curve of your hand may actually make a funnel to amplify the sound, no matter which one you hold it with. The volume is strong up close, but won't fill a room if you're hosting an impromptu dance party. That's not a criticism either, since it means that berks who forget their headphones on public transport will only annoy the people in their immediate vicinity. Small mercies, eh?

Software
The P7 runs Android 4.4, but you wouldn't know it just by glancing at the screen. As ever, Huawei included its proprietary Emotion UI skin, with this particular device running version 2.3 of the software. The first thing die-hard Droid fans are going to notice is that there's no app tray. Huawei and I share the same annoyance with Android's two-stage launcher, so all apps now reside on the multiple pages of the home screen -- yep, just like on iOS. In order to prevent the phone from becoming unnecessarily cluttered, the company crams several of the smaller utilities into folders. That's fine, but don't be surprised if you have to do a little shunting around to get things the way you like it.




The landing screen comes preloaded with weather, music, gallery and Google search widgets, all of which are easily dispatched. The "Me" module, which offers up instant access to a favorite contact or two, is largely useless and, thankfully, easy to get rid of. The other upside is that there's a wide variety of customization options, and you can tweak the icons and environment to suit any number of tastes. There's also the option to add a suspend button -- a ring of shortcuts that hovers over the screen, offering instant access to utilities such as note-taking, messaging and music playback.Buried within the settings menu is Simple, a home screen style that transforms the ordinary Android environment into something more akin to Windows Phone. The company's been offering the setting since the start of the year, but this is the first time I've actually been able to sit down and see what it's like up close. It's certainly a clever way to present this phone to those who may not have as good eyesight or not much familiarity with smartphones in general, but the small icons and text -- there's a lot of blank space on each button -- make me wonder if bigger text and icons wouldn't have done a better job. Unfortunately, these shortcuts only work for launching apps themselves, after which you're just using standard apps with the text blown up.