
 Huawei left us wondering whether the Ascend G 330 would venture beyond mainland Europe with its tempting blend of solid specs and a low price. The smartphone is spreading its wings -- if only just, with a launch on TalkTalk in the UK. When it ships to the carrier in December, the 4-inch, 1GHz dual-core smartphone will be tuned for British audiences with preloaded BBC iPlayer and news apps as well as EA's Sims Freeplay for some casual gaming. Most of the appeal may come from a cheap-as-chips price, as the G 330 will be free on contract for as little as £10 ($16) per month. If you can bear going without an all-out flagship like the Ascend D1 Quad XL, it's a tempting lure.



  Show full PR text   Huawei's most fun and best-informed smartphone yet – Ascend G 330 launches with EA Games and BBC apps   The Smart Entertainer: feature-packed Ascend G 300 smartphone debuts with TalkTalk, alongside Ascend Y 201
  London, UK, November 23, 2012: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, today announces its powerful new Ascend G 330 smartphone is to launch in the UK with BBC iPlayer and BBC News apps included, plus a top EA Games title. The Ascend G 330 will be available in the UK from TalkTalk for free from £10 per month on contract next month.
  TalkTalk has also launched the Huawei Ascend Y 201 in black, which is available for free from £5 per month on contract now.
  The Ascend G 330 follows hugely successful Ascend G 300 smartphone in Huawei's G-series smartphone family, designed for consumers looking for the kind of blockbusting power and functionality not delivered by entry-level smartphones. The Ascend G 330 runs Android's Ice Cream Sandwich operating system, and incorporates Huawei's own HAP 5.1 Android interface, which enables easy one-step access to key features from the unlock screen, including call, messaging and camera functions.
  Entertainment powerhouse
  The Ascend G 330's combination of 1GHz dual-core processor, 4-inch screen and 1500mAh battery enables a powerful entertainment experience, ideal for catch-up TV, video and gaming. It also comes with high-quality DTS sound. Huawei has pre-loaded BBC iPlayer and BBC News apps, alongside EA Games' award-winning Sims Freeplay onto the handset to ensure it is the best-informed and most fun purchase from the get-go. Android's Play Store offers access to a rich world of entertainment beyond.
  Huawei Device UK and Ireland Product and Solutions Director James Powell said: "The Ascend G 330 sees Huawei, again, set a new standard for entry-level smartphones. It brings together phenomenal power and functionality, marked out by the fact it comes with two essential BBC apps and a killer EA Games title in Sims Freeplay. For discerning shoppers who want knock-out performance and new windows on the world of mobile entertainment, without breaking the bank, the Ascend G 330 can't be touched."
  The Ascend G 330 also includes a 5 megapixel camera with flash, and fast 3G and WiFi 'n' connectivity.
  TalkTalk partnership
  Huawei has a long-running relationship with TalkTalk in the UK. The Ascend G 330 is the latest Huawei-branded product to be launched by TalkTalk, following on the heels of Huawei's Y 201 smartphone, which launched this week, and its innovative YouView set-top box, which TalkTalk is currently installing at a rate of more than 1,000 per day.
  TalkTalk Commercial Director Tristia Clarke said: "We have a long standing partnership with Huawei in our connectivity and TV products and we are delighted to now extend that relationship with the launch of mobile handsets. We are confident that the new handsets coupled with our great value deals will be very popular with our customers."
  Powell said: "The relationship with TalkTalk has informed much of our UK business across other product lines, and our strategies have developed broadly together. We have launched our set-top box business as TalkTalk has introduced its TV service, and our Ascend Y 201 and G 330 smartphones debut with its new TalkTalk Mobile proposition. Across all, we are aligned to offer cutting-edge technologies to the very broadest of audiences."
  The entry-level Ascend Y 201 runs Android 2.3 Gingerbread, and boasts a 3.5-inch IPS touchscreen and 3.2 megapixel camera. Its 800MHz processor provides horsepower to support a range of mobile applications, game-play and video-rendering, and its 1250mAh Li-ion battery powers up to five hours' talk time. It comes with a 4GB micro SD card in the box, expandable to 32GB.
  The Ascend G 330 will be available for free on contracts of £10, £15 and £25 per month, with varying airtime allowances. The Ascend Y 201 is available for free on contracts of £5, £10 and £20. For more information, please visit http://mobile.talktalk.co.uk/.
 
