
  Consider it a bit of a rebirth. Cricket's premiere smartphone, the Huawei Mercury -- known elsewhere as the Honor -- has just taken on a new life as a member of the carrier's Muve Music lineup. Beginning today, current owners may add the unlimited music subscription service to their phone via an over-the-air download. The requisite Muve Music plan is available for $65/month, which is a $10 premium over the carrier's traditional no-contract Android offering. The service comes with unlimited music downloads, ringtones and ringback tones, along with unlimited calling, messaging and 1GB of mobile data. For a quick refresh on the Mercury itself, the phone retails for $230 without contract, and highlights include a 1.4GHz processor, a 4-inch, 854 x 480 TFT-LCD display, an 8MP rear camera -- and now, an endless supply of tunes. Ready to rock out? You'll find the full PR after the break.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Cricket's Muve Music Now Available on Huawei Mercury  Award-Winning Muve Music Now Available on the Best Prepaid Smartphone in America  SAN DIEGO - April 5, 2011 - Cricket Communications, Inc., a leading provider of innovative and value-driven wireless services and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leap Wireless International, Inc. (NASDAQ: LEAP) today announced that its award-winning Muve Music service is now available to all current Huawei Mercury customers via an over-the-air download. Muve Music will be available soon to new Mercury customers. Current Mercury customers will be notified that the upgrade is available and can download the update over Cricket's 3G Network or over a Wi-Fi connection. Muve Music, the first unlimited music service to be included as part of a wireless rate plan, has more than 500,000 customers1 and with the addition of the Huawei Mercury is now available on the Mercury, Huawei Ascend II, Samsung Vitality, ZTE Score and the ZTE Chorus.  Current Mercury customers are now able to purchase the Muve Music plan and enjoy unlimited song downloads, ringtones, and ringback tones from a catalog of more than five million songs, as well as nationwide calling; unlimited text, picture, video messaging and 3G mobile data; mobile video; data back-up, and 411 assistance all for just $65 per month.  "The Mercury, already one of Cricket's best-selling devices and the best prepaid smartphone in America as rated by PC Mag, is now more exciting with the addition of Muve Music," said Jeff Toig, senior vice-president, Muve Music for Cricket. "Muve Music is [among] the fastest growing music services in the U.S. and we believe Muve Music on the Mercury will further accelerate its growth and continue enhancing Cricket's appeal to music lovers everywhere."  This value-packed Android comes with a 4" FWVGA touch-screen with virtual keyboard, Wi-Fi capability and 3G Real Web Browsing. The Mercury has lots of great smartphone features packed into an affordable package. Cricket's most-popular Android smartphone also includes great features like a 8.0 MP AF HD rear camera/camcorder, VGA Front Camera and a MP3 player/microSD slot. The Mercury features the Android 2.3 Gingerbread OS and a 1.4 GHz processor. This smartphone also gives customers access to more than 300,000 cool apps on the Android Market™ as well as great Google applications such as YouTube, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Search and more.  By applying its philosophy of unlimited services and value innovation, Cricket and Muve Music have given their customers a new music experience that ranks high in customer satisfaction.  For more information about Muve Music, visit www.muvemusic.com, and for Cricket's dynamic device lineup, visit www.mycricket.com. For the latest Cricket news and updates online, follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
 