
 
 Despite being involved in a recent national security controversy in the US, Huawei isn't quite ready to slow down its plans to bring as many handsets as possible over to Stateside shores. Today, the Chinese company is making its Gingerbread-packing Huawei Ascend Y available to US Cellular subscribers, giving folks who want to keep spending to a minimum yet another Android option on the regional carrier. The Ascend Y itself boasts a 3.5-inch, 480 x 320 screen, which is paired alongside a 3.2-megapixel rear camera and, for audiophiles, DTS Envelo -- a technology "for virtual surround sound to enhance audio experience." The Huawei Ascend Y is up for grabs now at a decent price of $30 (with a two-year contract, of course), though the carrier's site currently has it listed for a mere one cent. No word on how long this promo will last, so those of you interested may want to check out the source link below right about now.



  Show full PR text   U.S. Cellular Unveils Huawei Ascend Y
   The Huawei Ascend Y Makes it Easy to Stay Connected at an Attractive Price

   PLANO, Texas, October 24, 2012: U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM) and Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, recently launched the Huawei Ascend Y, a smart phone that makes it easier than ever to stay connected with friends and family. The Ascend Y, which is ideal for customers who need a multi-functional, easy to use device, comes equipped with standard Android™ features including the intuitive Android 2.3 operating system, Google Maps, Navigation, Gmail, YouTube and SWYPE input.

   The Huawei Ascend Y comes with a 3.5-inch screen, at 480 x 320 pixels, which provides a clear and vibrant display. The Ascend Y also has a 3.2 megapixel camera/camcorder to capture all of life's moments and share them with those who matter most. In addition, the Huawei Ascend Y comes equipped with DTS Envelo™ technology for virtual surround sound to enhance audio experience.

   "The Huawei Ascend Y is perfect for the social and always connected consumer," said Michael Chuang, Executive Vice President of Sales with Huawei Device USA. "The feature rich device provides more than 4.8 hours of talk time and 12.7 days of standby time which is perfect for multitasking. The Huawei Ascend Y builds on the success of the Ascend range of smartphones and delivers on Huawei's commitment to make technology accessible for more people globally."

   The Huawei Ascend Y is currently available to U.S. Cellular customers. The phone retails for $29.99 with a 2 year agreement.

 
