
 
 If you'd wondered what Huawei might bring to the table for the launch of the UK's newly-minted 4G network, your time is up, as the Ascend P1 LTE has been revealed as a national exclusive for EE, with availability in other markets to follow. Like its forebear, the handset features Android 4.0 alongside a dual-core 1.5GHz CPU, a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED qHD display and an 8-megapixel camera, although as a nice surprise, it'll also come with a beefier 2,000mAh battery. There's no word yet on pricing for the latest entrant, although it seems a safe assumption that all will be revealed in rather short order. In the meantime, you'll find the remaining details in the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Huawei Device Ramps Up 4G Innovation
  Full-speed ahead with the availability of the HUAWEI Ascend P1 LTE
   Vancouver, Canada, September 26, 2012: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, announced the availability of its ultra-fast 4G smartphone, the HUAWEI Ascend P1 LTE at the Global Mobile Broadband Forum 2012 in Vancouver, Canada. The HUAWEI Ascend P1 LTE will be available in the UK exclusively from EE, with availability in other markets to follow. At the event, Huawei also underscored its commitment to increase access to high-speed mobile experiences for more people around the world through strengthening their LTE product portfolio which includes many first-in-class LTE products such as the Huawei B593, the world's first LTE TDD wireless broadband router and the Huawei E398, the world's first triple-mode LTE modem.

   "LTE is the future of mobile communications, and faster data networks will become a key area of differentiation for consumers when choosing their mobile devices," said Kevin Ho, President of the Handset Product Line of Huawei Device. "Huawei is committed to LTE innovation throughout the entire communications infrastructure from the ground to the cloud. The availability of the HUAWEI Ascend P1 LTE is just one more way in which we are putting great technology into the hands of more people globally."

   Huawei Ascend P1 LTE is currently the device compatible with the highest number of frequency bands and is being tested on operators' networks across Europe, Latin America, North America, Asia-Pacific. Through Ascend P1 LTE, Huawei Device is helping operators to develop and expand their LTE user base. Since initiating LTE R&D efforts in 2004, Huawei has been a global leader in the development of LTE technology and has led the way in commercial LTE rollouts.

   Ultra-Fast Mobile Communication with the Ascend P1 LTE

   With its 2,000mAh Li-Polymer battery and powerful 1.5 GHz dual-core processor, the HUAWEI Ascend P1 LTE enables faster downloads at a data transmission rate of up to 100 Mbit/s that far outperforms HSDPA. Its ultra-low latency guarantees smooth video calls and online games.

   The Ascend P1 LTE, running the Android Ice Cream Sandwich operating system, is an entertainment dynamo with pace to burn. The 1GB RAM ensures smooth browsing and the 4GB ROM offers capacity for limitless apps from the Google Play™ Store. The HUAWEI Ascend P1 LTE also provides an array of multimedia features to delight photographers and movie-makers. Its 8-megapixel camera with dual LED flash captures 30 images per second to preserve every memorable moment. The second-generation 10.9-cm (4.3-inch) Super AMOLED qHD display with scratchproof Corning® Gorilla® Glass2 provides enhanced stability and durability.

 
