
 
 Alongside its new Emotion UI, Huawei debuted a handful of new devices in Berlin this week, including this; the 4.5-inch Ascend G600. Slotting in below the existing Ascend P1, but above the rest of Huawei's phone range, the qHD screen is accompanied by a dual-core 1.2GHz processor and Android 4.0.4. There's 4GB of built-in storage, while the micro-SD slot can add up 32GB of extra space. The phone's shell is coated in a glossy finish similar to the Ascend P1, while the screen is protected by a layer of Gorilla Glass. Beneath that, Huawei has plumped for a 2,000 mAh battery inside the 300 euro (around $375) device, while removing the cover reveals an NFC chip embedded behind it. We got our hands on the phone here at IFA -- skip after the break for our hands-on video and first impressions. 




 
 The Ascend G600 felt a little thick, although we found our fingers were just about able to touch the outer reaches of that 960 x 540 screen. We're torn on the glossy finish -- maybe because we had to constantly wipe it down during our photo session -- but it certainly creates a classier image for the phone. It's worth saying that the G600 isn't pitched at the top-end of the smartphone market, despite a big screen, a dual-core processor able to deal with our hands-on demands and an 8-megapixel camera. There's also two built-in speakers with DTS audio-enhancing technology -- though we'll need a quieter opportunity to test that out. The phone is set to launch, in both Mysterious Black and Pure White, this December in Germany, with a further European roll-out expected soon after.

 Joseph Volpe contributed to this report.
  Show full PR text   Huawei Ascend G600: That little bit extra
   Berlin, Germany, August 30th, 2012 – At the 2012 IFA HUAWEI, a world leading provider of information and communications technology (ICT), will debut its latest upper mid-range smartphone: the HUAWEI Ascend G 600. The powerful dual-core processor, long-life battery and integrated DTS® audio technology guarantee superb entertainment anytime, anywhere  The HUAWEI Ascend G 600 – for anyone that seeks that little bit extra from their phone. Based on Android™ 4.0, the rapid 1.2 GHz dual-core processor with 768 MB RAM and 4 GB ROM delivers smooth, seamless gaming, surfing and videos in attractively slim smartphone dimensions (134 x 67.5 x 10.5 mm). The 11.43-cm (4.5-inch) display has qHD resolution for crisp high-definition viewing of the pictures from the 8 MP camera, while its Corning® Gorilla® glass provides effective scratch protection. The long-life 2,000 mAh battery is coupled with HUAWEI's in-house energy-saving function first introduced in the HUAWEI Honour, and guarantees long hours of use without constant recharging: up to 380 hours of standby and six hours of talk time from a single charge must surely be a record!  "The Ascend G 600 supplies world-class performance", declares Lars-Christian Weisswange, Vice President Device Western Europe at HUAWEI Technologies. "Fans of mobile entertainment will love the HUAWEI Ascend G 600 for its endurance, standby time, versatility and extra-large display!"

    In addition, the front camera is designed for high-resolution video telephony over Skype® and other VoIP providers. Outstanding sound is delivered by the two built-in speakers with DTS® technology for optimized audio playback. The HUAWEI Ascend G 600 also has an integrated NFC chip, which in future will enable users to make cashless payments from their smartphone at NFC terminals.

    Prices and availability

    The HUAWEI Ascend G 600 is available in Germany from December 2012 in Mysterious Black and Pure White finishes at a recommended retail price of EUR 299 ,-- (without contract).

 
