
 Huawei's daring to dream big -- at least, that's what prior leaks regarding its latest Android lineup have seemed to indicate. And here at CES 2013, the company's finally formally introduced the Ascend D2, referred to by company Chairman Richard Yu as the "dream phone." Its top shelf specs -- 5-inch 1080p display, quad-core 1.5GHz K3V2 CPU, Android Jelly Bean, 13-megapixel rear camera and 3,000mAh battery -- certainly merit that distinction, but as pie in the sky smartphone ambitions go, its 6.1-inch stablemate, the Ascend Mate, takes the cake. But for more details on the Ascend 2, join us after the break.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


 The aforementioned display panel on the Ascend 2 is a FHD IPS+ 443 ppi "Super Retina" LCD with 1,080 x 1,920 resolution. As for the camera, the 13-megapixel BSI shooter has an f/2.2 aperture, a 5P lens and a hybrid IR filter. Audio-wise, "super hands free" will allow you to talk to the device (and hear the conversation) up to 2 meters away. It has a whopping 3,000 mAH battery which is optimized by the company's QPC and ADRX power-saving tech that helps reduce power consumption. Further, a quick charging feature apparently lets it recharge 25 percent faster than the Galaxy SIII. WiFi sharing is also apparently two- to three-times faster.

 Protected by Corning Gorilla glass and an IPX 4/3 shell, it's apparently both dust and water resistant -- Yu even dropped the phone on stage to demonstrate its durability. Made with an aluminium frame, the phone weighs in at 170g and measures 9.9mm thin. The Ascend 2 will launch in both pure white and crystal blue and will be available in China this month and in Japan at a later date. Though the device announced at CES has a 5-inch display, there'll also be a 4.7-inch version. No word on pricing and availability in the rest of the world, but we'll update you with more details as we get them.

 UPDATE: We've now got actual hands-on photos and video of the Ascend 2.

 Nicole Lee contributed to this report
  Show full PR text   Huawei Launches Flagship Ascend D2 at CES 2013
   The quad-core 5-inch HUAWEI Ascend D2 is a must-have for people seeking smartphone perfection

   LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, unveiled the HUAWEI Ascend D2 at the 2013 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) today. The latest hero product in Huawei's Ascend series of smartphones, the HUAWEI Ascend D2 runs on Android 4.1 and features a 5-inch FHD IPS+ 443 PPI Super Retina LCD display, Huawei's K3V2 1.5 GHz quad-core CPU and a 13 MP BSI camera. With its 3000mAh battery and Huawei's proprietary Quick Power Control (QPC) and Automated Discontinuous Reception (ADRX) battery efficiency technology, the Ascend D2 has a stand-by time of six days on WCDMA.

   "The HUAWEI Ascend D2 has the style, power and all-round performance capabilities you would expect from a HUAWEI Ascend smartphone, but with a revolutionary FHD screen, unsurpassed camera quality and power saving technology to maximize your enjoyment," said Richard Yu, CEO, Huawei Consumer Business Group. "We are excited to introduce the HUAWEI Ascend D2, the latest addition to our series of Ascend range of smartphones, as we continue to put great technology into the hands of more people around the world."

   The HUAWEI Ascend D2 has a 5-inch Super Retina fast response IPS panel display and a resolution of up to 1920 x 1080, perfect for full HD 1080 video playback. With its 443 PPI, the Ascend D2 provides unprecedented color accuracy and clarity. Protected by the anti-scratch Corning® Gorilla® glass, and the dust and water resistant IPX 5/4, the Ascend D2 is tough enough to withstand everyday use.

   The HUAWEI Ascend D2 features a 13MP BSI rear-facing camera with detail capturing technology and an ISO sensitivity level higher than other smartphones in this category. HUAWEI Ascend D2 also has a tailored manual color temperature adjustment function to provide a professional-level photography experience.

   HUAWEI Ascend D2's 3000mAh battery is optimized by Huawei's QPC and ADRX smart power-saving technology. Leveraging Huawei's more than 20 years of telecommunications know-how, QPC technology lowers battery consumption by automatically turning off the transmitter circuit when data transmission is not in use. Its ADRX technology identifies and automatically adjusts the DRX cycle based on the network status, reducing power consumption during standby mode by over 20 percent. In addition, Huawei's proprietary fast battery charging technology enables the HUAWEI Ascend D2 to be fully charged in 30 percent less time than its takes other smartphones under the same electricity conditions.

   The HUAWEI Ascend D2's 'swift sharing' makes it easier than ever to share. With a Wi-Fi connection, uploading pictures, videos and other files is two- to three-times faster with the Ascend D2 than other smartphones in the market. Its 'super hands-free' function transforms the Ascend D2 into a conversation sharing portal to receive sounds within a radius of 1.5m. The Ascend D2 also supports Dolby® surrounding sound and stereo recording.  The HUAWEI Ascend D2 has a stylish and elegant design with an aluminum body and metal frame. Weighing just 170g and measuring 9.9mm thin, its curved design fits comfortably in the hand. Available in pure white and crystal blue, the HUAWEI Ascend D2 will also be produced in a 4.7-inch screen version. The HUAWEI Ascend D2 will be on sale in China in January 2013, and in Japan in the future.

   PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1y5co)

 
