
 
 Huawei's presence at Mobile Asia Expo this year has a distinct flavor of RAZR Maxx about it. The Ascend P1 is getting a fresh 2600 mAh XL variant that does exactly what it says on the tin: throw almost 56 percent more battery power at the previously skinny Android 4.0 device. Along with this and a TD-SCDMA variant of the P1 for China Mobile fans, the other standout is the (not yet pictured) Mobile WiFi E5151, which brings a rare Ethernet jack to the 3G hotspot world for hoping onto the Internet in a more traditional form. It's radio silence on the E5151's release, but those in Huawei's native China can look forward to buying the lengthily-titled Ascend P1 2600 mAh XL in the summer -- just don't assume it will cross the ocean anytime soon.



  Show full PR text   Huawei Device showcases its portfolio of star products at the Mobile Asia Expo 2012
  Launch of the Ascend P1 TD- SCDMA and 2600mAh XL smartphones highlight Huawei's commitment to expanding its product portfolio
  Shanghai, China, 20 June 2012: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, launched the Ascend P1 TD-SCDMA and the 2600 mAh XL versions at the GSMA Mobile Asia Expo 2012 in Shanghai today. The Ascend P1 TD-SCDMA will be available for sale through e-commerce channels in China at the end of June, while the Ascend P1 XL will be available for sale in China in Q3. At the Expo, Huawei is also showcasing its star products including quad-core smartphone Ascend D quad, the dual-core smartphone Ascend D1, the quad-core HD tablet MediaPad 10 FHD, the compact dual-core smartphone Ascend P1, and Mobile WiFi E5331 and E5151.   "2012 has been an exciting year for Huawei Device as we innovate and transform to achieve a stronger performance in this competitive market," said Shao Yang, Chief Marketing Officer, Huawei Device. "With the creation of both our star and flagship product series, Huawei Device is working towards establishing a new industry standard that provides outstanding product experiences for consumers. At the same time, Huawei Device is transforming to become a more consumer-facing brand, actively communicating our own value proposition and steadily progressing towards our goal of becoming one of the world's leading mobile phone brands."   The Ascend P1 TD-SCDMA and 2600 mAh XL versions, displayed for the first time at the Mobile Asia Expo, are the latest in the Ascend P1 series providing a high-end experience while offering a more personalized choice for consumers. Also on display are other star products from Huawei such as the Ascend D quad, Ascend D1, MediaPad 10 FHD, Ascend P1, Huawei Honor, and the new generation 4.0 thousand yuan smartphone Ascend C8812.   At the Mobile Asia Expo, Huawei Device is also showcasing its data card product series which includes a total of seven products ranging from PA+ standard of 21Mbps downlink speed to LTE Cat4 standard of 150Mbps downlink speed. Highlights of the data card products include the Mobile WiFi E5331, winner of the Red Dot Design Award in Germany, and the new Mobile WiFi E5151 with its Ethernet port supporting Ethernet and 3G dual-WAN connectivity.   Huawei Device's presence at the Mobile Asia Expo is testament to the company's ongoing commitment to the global smartphone industry. In 2011 Huawei generated sales revenue of US$6.8 billion, and smartphone shipments of 20 million units. In 2012, Huawei is expected to achieve revenue of US$9 billion, with smartphone shipments of 60 million units.   The Ascend P1 launched in China in April this year and is now available in more than 1,000 high-end retail stores throughout the country. In the coming half year, the Huawei Ascend P1 will be commercially available in Germany, Russia, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, and Malaysia. The Huawei Ascend D1 will soon be available on e-commerce channels in China, while Ascend D quad is scheduled for commercial availability in China in the second half of 2012.
 
