
 

Is the world's next showstopping Gingerbread smartphone seriously coming from Huawei? The same company that shocked us all with the S7 Slim tablet (and pulled a similar stunt with the MediaPad) has just taken the wraps off of its newest handset in Beijing, and the curtly-titled Vision offers quite the stat sheet. While it still falls short of Samsung's Galaxy S II and HTC's EVO 3D in terms of raw horsepower, it's still more than capable of holding its own. Within the unibody frame, you'll find a 3.7-inch capacitive touchpanel, a five megapixel autofocus camera (with LED flash and 720p video recording), 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon MSM 8255 processor and a 1,400mAh battery.

Moreover, there's 802.11b/g/n WiFi, Bluetooth 2.1, 512MB of RAM, 2GB of ROM, a microSD slot capable of holding 32GB, and a micro-USB 2.0 socket to boot. Per usual, A-GPS, an FM radio tuner, proximity sensor and light sensor are thrown in, and for those with varying moods, you'll likely appreciate the availability of silver, gold and charcoal back covers. The chassis measures 9.9 millimeters at its thinnest point while weighing 121 grams, which Huawei curiously points out is "less than a bottle of perfume or aftershave." We're told that it's loaded with a "3D interface," but given that we're not hearing anything about a "3D display," it's probably little more than spruced-up 2D. We're still waiting to hear back on a price, but "select markets" can look for it to land in September.

Update: Ah, so it turns out that the "3D interface" is nothing more than just a slightly tweaked version of SPB's Shell 3D launcher.





 		Show full PR text  Introducing Vision, Huawei's stylish new smartphone 		Huawei's sexiest smartphone to date also features 3D carousel user-interface 		Beijing, 3 August 2011: Huawei, a leading telecom solutions provider, today launched Huawei Vision, Huawei's stylish new smartphone with a 3D user interface and carousel animation display. Huawei Vision runs on Android Gingerbread 2.3 OS and is supported by 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon MSM 8255-1 GHz processor. With its sleek design and powerful functionality, Huawei Vision is the perfect combination of technology and style. 		Huawei Vision has an aluminum alloy uni-body in rose gold, silver or charcoal, and a curve touch design. Vision measures only 9.9mm at its thinnest point and at around 121g, weighs less than a bottle of perfume or aftershave. It supports 720P video recording and features a 5 megapixel auto focus camera with LED flash. With Bluetooth V2.1 with A2DP, high-speed WiFi 802.11b/g/n internet connectivity, and full range of messaging capabilities including SMS, MMS, Email, Push Mail and IM, makes staying connected with friends and family even easier. 		"We are very excited to present Vision, the smartphone which strikes the perfect balance between technology and style," said Victor Xu, chief marketing officer of Huawei Device. "The unique 3D user interface heralds in a new era in Huawei's leadership, as we continue to create devices that enhance the user experience through stylish design and smart functionality." 		Huawei Vision has a complete 3D mobile phone interface that bundles handset features into 3D panels on the home screen. The interface allows you to select any panel of the home screen with one easy swipe and makes it easy to prioritize the application view to suit your needs. With Vision's 3D interface, you can explore features and programs with a single tap. 		Huawei Vision will be available in selected markets from September. Vision offers access to the full range of Android apps, and comes pre-installed with 'Angry Birds', 'Asphalt 6: Adrenaline', 'Order & Chaos Online', and 'Guerrilla Bob HD'. 		About Huawei Device 		Huawei Device Co., Ltd's products cover a wide range of market sectors including mobile phones, mobile broadband devices, and home devices. Our products also include the Hi Space App Store and the Management Cloud, which are solutions that make devices smarter and easier to use. With our primary focus on the consumers, Huawei Device is committed to creating the most influential smart device brands in the world, providing user-friendly mobile Internet experiences. As of the end of 2010, Huawei Device's products were available through more than 500 operators all over the world. Huawei Device has established strategic partnerships with many of the world's leading operators including Telefónica, China Mobile, Vodafone, T-Mobile, BT, China Telecom, NTT Docomo, France Telecom, and China Unicom. 		For more information, visit Huawei Device online: www.huaweidevice.com
 