
 The Huawei MediaPad 10 FHD has made a somewhat circuitous journey across our eyes, through our hands and past the FCC's screwguns. Finally we know when you can get one, as it goes on sale starting in September. The device is already available in China, and will be rolled out to Europe next month with the rest of the world "to follow," according to Huawei. It'll feature an in-house K3v2 1.4GHz quad-core Cortex-A9 processor, along with Android 4.0, a 10.1-inch, 1,920 x 1,200 IPS display, an 8-megapixel rear camera that captures 1080P video, and 150Mbps LTE compatibility. We've already expressed our ardor about its gorgeous screen, great aluminum body and decent performance -- if you feel the same, check the PR to see when it's coming to your neck of the woods.



  Show full PR text   HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD to Ship Globally from September
  Berlin, Germany, August 31 2012: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, has announced that it will ship its much-anticipated 10-inch HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD quad-core tablet to selected markets from September, with other markets to follow. Running on Android 4.0, the HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD provides and unsurpassed entertainment experience with its visual and audio features, power capabilities, and stylish design.

   MediaPad 10FHD-front-with base-right side-45 degrees

   "Most consumers use tablets for entertainment purposes such as gaming, viewing multimedia content, browsing the internet and reading e-books," said Richard Yu, Chairman of Huawei Device. "We have created the MediaPad 10 FHD to be extraordinary – to excel in all of the entertainment capabilities including speed, power, web-browsing, high definition display and audio, and packaging it all in a compact and sleek body."

   The HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD quad-core tablet has a 10.1-inch 1920 x 1200 high definition IPS display screen and 16:10 golden ratio providing optimal screen viewing for gaming and high definition video. The MediaPad 10 FHD features an 8 megapixel autofocus rear-facing camera that records 1080P HD videos and a 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera.

   With its 5.1 Dolby surround sound technology the MediaPad 10 FHD provides theater-quality audio effects even with regular headphones and its dual speaker design provides superior audio performance across gaming, music, and video playing.

   The HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD is powered by a K3v2 Cortex-A9 1.4GHz quad-core processor and a 16-core GPU. The MediaPad 10 FHD LTE version supports the world's fastest mobile wireless data connection at up to 150Mbps LTE (compatible with 84Mbps HSPA+), in addition to Wi-Fi and 3G versions. The MediaPad 10 FHD's 6600mAh battery provides more than 10 hours of continuous usage.

   With a keyboard add-on, the MediaPad 10 FHD can be transformed into a ultra-book, and its VGA and HDMI output and office software compatibility supports all your business and entertainment needs. The MediaPad 10 FHD also supports Ethernet access via a USB adapter cable to eliminate network accessibility limitations

   The HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD's sleek aluminum-alloy body measures 8.8mm thin and weighs only 580g.

   The HUAWEI MediaPad 10 FHD WiFi version is now available in China, and will begin shipping to Germany, Sweden, Russia, Belarus, Korea, Bahrain, and Kuwait in September, with other markets to follow.

   About Huawei Device

   Huawei Device believes that everyone can be the center of information and that the world would be a better place if access and information barriers were knocked down. Its strong suite of mobile phones, mobile broadband devices and home devices is testimony to Huawei Device's focus on customers and its commitment to providing user-friendly mobile internet experiences through ongoing innovation. Based on more than two decades of success in the information and communications industry, and with our own channel expertise, operational capabilities and global partner resources, Huawei Device is transforming from a company that sells millions of devices in single transactions to large businesses, to a "Business-to-People" (B2P) brand that also sells individual devices directly to millions of people. As at the end of 2011, Huawei Device serves more than 500 operators all over the world. For more information, visit Huawei Device online: www.huaweidevice.com

 
