
When Huawei revealed the Ascend Mate at CES this year, it felt like smartphones had reached an end point -- they surely couldn't get any larger. We've since been proven wrong by Samsung's Galaxy Mega 6.3, but the 6.1-inch Ascend Mate has gone on sale first, and it's every bit as intimidating as it was in January. The question is whether or not Huawei has more than just size on its side. Is this nearly tablet-sized device worth putting in our pockets, and can it fend off the suddenly tiny-looking Galaxy Note II and Optimus G Pro? Read on past the break, and you'll find out.




HardwareLet's quickly deal with the elephant in the room: yes, the Ascend Mate is comfortable to hold. Despite that massive display, it won't strain the average hand during a phone call. Huawei has trimmed the bezels enough that a 6.1-inch LCD is actually viable. At 6.5 x 3.4 x 0.4 inches (163.5 x 85.7 x 9.9mm) and seven ounces (198g), the phone isn't as big or heavy as you'd expect for something that lords an extra 0.6 inch of screen over its rivals. The power button and volume rocker on the right side are within easy reach, too. Think of the Ascend Mate as the efficiently designed Sony Xperia ZL, writ large.

That said, there's no question that this behemoth pushes the limits of ergonomics, and not just in the hand. While it almost goes without saying that you need two hands to reach every corner of the screen, the phone isn't very pocketable, either. It fits into an average-sized jeans pocket comfortably, but with a conspicuous bulge; we wouldn't want to try the same feat with skinnier legwear. Who'd have thought that 5-inch phones like the Galaxy S 4 would suddenly seem compact?


No one will accuse Huawei of being a slave to fashion. The Ascend Mate's body is the definition of utilitarian: outside of the speaker and 8MP rear camera, the back and sides are dominated by matte plastic. While this makes the LG and Samsung alternatives seem like works of art, it delivers the sturdy grip that's virtually necessary for a phone this big. The soft-touch finish on our black model (there's also a white version) is pleasing enough in our palms. At the front, there's just as much austerity. You'll find a 1MP front camera as well as the requisite sensors and speaker, but it's largely a sea of scratch-resistant Gorilla Glass. All navigation takes place on-screen.

It's best to go shopping for a microSD card almost immediately.Expansion and connectivity aren't quite as broad as we'd like. You'll find the micro-SIM slot and headphone jack at the top, a micro-USB port at the bottom and a microSDHC slot at the top-left corner. What you won't find is NFC, the Ascend D1 Quad XL's MHL video support or a lot of built-in storage. Huawei ships the Ascend Mate with just 8GB of flash memory built in, and only 4.68GB of that is accessible. We almost ran out of internal space within a few days of testing, and that was with just two (admittedly large) games, a handful of common social apps, 125 photos and three short 1080p video recordings. Unless your entertainment only involves streaming media and bite-sized games, it's best to go shopping for a microSD card almost immediately. And before you ask: no, there's no pen in the box, nor is there a pen-aware digitizer on the touchscreen. If handwritten notes are crucial to your workflow, you'll have to either make do with a third-party capacitive pen or shop for a Galaxy Note.

The battery isn't removable, although we suspect that owners won't mind as much as they would with other phones. The Ascend Mate carries a gargantuan 4,050mAh lithium pack that makes even the Droid RAZR Maxx HD's 3,300mAh unit seem modest. We'll talk about the raw numbers later on, but it's safe to say that we didn't spend much time hunting for wall outlets. There's no wireless charging to let us skip the cabling entirely, though.

    Huawei Ascend Mate      Dimensions 163.5 x 85.7 x 9.9mm (6.5 x 3.4 x 0.4 in)   Weight 6.99 oz. (198g)   Screen size 6.1 inches   Screen resolution 1,280 x 720 (241 ppi)   Screen type IPS+ LCD   Battery 4,050mAh   Internal storage 8GB (4.68GB available)   External storage microSDHC, up to 32GB   Rear camera 8.0MP, BSI, AF, LED flash   Front-facing cam 1.0MP   Video capture 1080p rear (720p front)   NFC No   Radios  HSPA+ / UMTS: 850 / 900 / 1,700 / 1,900 / 2,100

 GSM / GPRS: 850 / 900 / 1,800 / 1,900 
    Bluetooth v4.0+BLE   SoC 1.5GHz quad-core Huawei HiSilicon K3V2; 40nm, 16-core GPU, 64-bit memory   RAM 2GB   Entertainment DLNA, Dolby Digital Plus audio   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n, WiFi Direct   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.1.2, Emotion UI  Display
This is why we're here, really. It's hard to convey exactly what a 6.1-inch phone screen is like to use: the Ascend Mate sits in a nether region between 2012's biggest smartphones and the smallest tablets. Software dictates that you control it like a phone, but the size encourages more tablet-like behavior patterns. Catching up with news on Flipboard? Marathon YouTube sessions? Both make far more sense here. We would gladly skip any smaller tablets if this phone were always at hand.

This is a high-quality display, though not as good as we'd like it to be.It's a good thing, then, that this is a high-quality display, though not as good as we'd like it to be. The IPS+ LCD has vibrant, yet well-balanced colors, without a conspicuous cast. Huawei lets fussier owners adjust the color temperature through a simple slider. Viewing angles are very wide, as you'd expect with IPS, although the picture dims slightly any time you're looking at the phone from off-center. Outdoor visibility is strong when the brightness is cranked up, and those of us in wintery climates will be happy to see a glove-friendly, high-sensitivity touch mode.

However, there's no escaping that the Ascend Mate touts a 720p, 241-ppi screen at a moment when numerous smaller phones have made the leap to 1080p and over 440 ppi. You'll notice the individual pixels if you go looking for them, and you'll miss the print-like quality of phones like the Galaxy S 4, the One or Huawei's own Ascend D2 in those same moments. The Ascend Mate is mostly saved by the viewing distances that go along with such a big screen. Many won't hold the device all that close to their face, and we stopped focusing on the pixels after a short while. Still, it would be nice if high resolution and large size weren't mutually exclusive in the Ascend lineup.

Software
For the most part, Huawei's Emotion UI layer circa Ice Cream Sandwich was an exercise in minimalism. Elements like the custom lock screen, 3D Home and themes were enough to remind us that we hadn't picked up a Nexus by mistake, but the company mostly stayed faithful to Google's Holo interface concept, for better or worse.

The Ascend Mate tosses much of that aside. While the phone makes a welcome upgrade to Jelly Bean (Android 4.1.2, to be exact) and brings both rich notifications as well as Google Now to the forefront, the matching Emotion UI 1.5 refresh is a drastic makeover closer to what we've seen from other Chinese vendors. Its overhaul begins with a new look: Huawei makes its own visual theme the default, and there's no going back. At least there's more sophisticated theming this time around. You can pick from any of 20 (!) included themes, mixing and matching their fonts, icon sets, lock screens and sounds to your heart's content.



