
 

It's here folks -- the planet's first Android 3.2 tablet. Huawei just introduced a downright luscious new slate over in Singapore, with CommunicAsia being the launchpad for the 7-inch MediaPad. It's the first high-profile 7-inch tablet we've seen in quite some time, and somehow or another, it's managed to leapfrog most of the currently shipping Honeycomb tablets with a build of Android we've only ever joked about. Huawei tells us that Honeycomb 3.2 is essentially the same as 3.1, but specifically tailored to 7-inch tablets as opposed to 10-inch. Packed within the MediaPad's 10.5mm shell, there's a 217 pixels-per-inch IPS capacitive touchpanel, GPS, 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera, 5 megapixel rear-facing camera, 802.11n WiFi, a battery good for around six hours of life and a bona fide racehorse as a processor: a dual-core 1.2GHz chip from Qualcomm. If all goes well, it'll ship in the United States in Q3 2011.

It's a fair bit chunkier than the newfangled Galaxy Tab 10.1 (8.6mm), but still slimmer than the original Tab, which clocked in at 11.98mm. It weighs in at 390g (0.86 pounds), supports full 1080p playback, includes HSPA+ (14.4Mbps) 3G support, offers 8GB of internal storage (as well as a microSD slot) and comes pre-loaded with Facebook, Twitter, Let's Golf and Documents To Go. There's also a Bluetooth module, an HDMI output for catching those high-def flicks on the go, and the Flash 10.3 player ensures that those websites won't be a problem. Unfortunately, the company's left a great deal to the imagination -- like pricing, which is being "sorted with retail partners and providers" -- and all we've got for system RAM is a promise that it's "working with partners on specifics." Oddly enough, the company has "no current plans" to produce a WiFi-only model, which definitely puts a damper on those who aren't interested in ponying for carrier data. You can bet we'll be digging for more, but even with the surrounding mystery, calling us "excited" would be a severe understatement.

Update: There's a demo vid just after the break, and the first eyes-on shots have emerged from the conference.





  		Show full PR text   Huawei Unveils MediaPad –			World's first 7-inch Android 3.2 Honeycomb Dual-Core Tablet 			MediaPad set to transform consumers' entertainment experience 			Singapore, 20 June 2011: Huawei, a leading telecom solutions provider, today launched the Huawei MediaPad, the world's first 7-inch Android 3.2 Honeycomb tablet. The MediaPad is a complete entertainment powerhouse driven by Qualcomm's dual-core 1.2GHz processor and supported by Huawei Device's Hispace cloud solution. The MediaPad provides the fabulous user experience in a stylish, high-performing and ultra-portable package. 			The MediaPad is Huawei Device's smartest, slimmest and lightest tablet yet, measuring just 10.5mm (0.4 inches) deep and weighing around 390g (0.86 pounds). It supports 1080P full HD video playback and features a 1.3 megapixel front facing camera and 5 megapixel auto focus rear facing camera with HD video recording capabilities. With HSPA+ 14.4Mbps and high-speed WiFi 11n Internet connectivity, the MediaPad doesn't just entertain – it keeps you connected. 			"With the Huawei MediaPad, we are demonstrating yet again that design, functionality and performance is within anyone's reach," said Victor Xu, Chief Marketing Officer of Huawei Device. "The MediaPad opens up new worlds of entertainment for consumers by removing the barriers to tablet ownership, increasing access to a truly high-quality mobile entertainment experience fully integrated with cloud-based internet content." 			An Out-of-this-World Entertainment Experience			The MediaPad supports HSPA+ data services, Flash 10.3 videos and comes preinstalled with applications such as Facebook, Twitter, Let's Golf and Documents to Go. With the 7-inch IPS touch screen, the MediaPad offers a standout visual experience for photos, movies and applications. Entertainment and gaming experience are taken to the next level with the MediaPad's 1.2GHz Dual-Core processor, high definition playback and HDMI port. 			Expansion of Huawei Device's Smart Offerings			The MediaPad builds on the global success of the IDEOS S7 Slim tablet and cements Huawei Device's ability to cater to the explosive demand for tablets. According to the International Data Corporation, sales in the tablet market are expected to increase more than fourfold in the next two years. The MediaPad will be showcased at Huawei's "Smart for Transformation" booth at CommunicAsia 2011 in Singapore. Along with Huawei's latest range of smart devices, the MediaPad is a prime example of Huawei Device's focus on the power of practical innovation. 			About Huawei			Huawei Device is a global leader in providing smart devices that connect you with the world, simply. Huawei Device partners with 500 operators, including the world's top 50 operators, across 140 countries. Huawei's products and solutions have been deployed in over 100 countries and support the communications needs of one third of the world's population. The company is committed to providing innovative and customized products, services and solutions to create long-term value and growth potential for its customers. 			For more information, visit Huawei Device online: www.huaweidevice.com 			For regular updates on Huawei Device, follow us on:			Facebook: www.facebook.com/huaweidevice			Twitter: www.twitter.com/huaweipress			YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/user/HuaweiPress 			Technical Specs			• Android Honeycomb 3.2 OS			• 7-inch IPS LCD capacitive touchscreen			• 10.5mm (0.4 inches) slim, ~390g weight (0.86 pounds)			• 1.3 MP front-facing camera, 5 MP auto focus rear facing camera with HD video recording capabilities			• HSPA+ 14.4 Mbps, WiFi 11n			• Dual-core 1.2GHz Qualcomm processor			• Over 6 hours battery life			• 1080P full HD playback and HDMI port			• Flash 10.3 			Pre-installed Apps			• Facebook			• Twitter			• Let's Golf			• Document to go 
 