

More Info

Huawei Ascend D Quad XL announced at MWC
Huawei Ascend D Quad hands-on
Huawei Ascend D Quad gets FCC approval


In February of this year, Huawei took to the stage at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona to highlight its most ambitious smartphone strategy to date. Its plan: to establish a new classification system by dividing the bulk of its handsets into four core groups starting with the high-end D-series at the top and working its way down to the bargain bin Y-series. Hogging Accepting the bulk of the spotlight, however, was the Ascend D Quad XL, a "superphone" containing a homegrown quad-core CPU. For a manufacturer that hadn't even put a dual-core phone on the market (the Ascend P1 wasn't on sale yet), a launch in the second quarter of this year felt incredibly aggressive. This was Huawei's first real chance to make a legitimate name for itself outside of Asia; pushing out an impressive device in a timely fashion was imperative.

Fast-forward eight months, and we've witnessed the 2012 equivalent of the Motorola Droid Bionic: the unfortunate device has been the subject of uncertainty and countless delays. Fear not, it's finally been released. However, it faces an incredibly competitive market coming into the holiday season, with quad-core heavyweights like the Samsung Galaxy Note II, LG Optimus G and HTC One X+ ready to duke it out. We had this question when it was originally announced, and it's become even more relevant now: can the Huawei D Quad XL (and its freshly made SoC) hold up respectably amongst its new peers? Delay no further and join us after the break to get the full scoop.






Hardware
What's the best way to kill the buzz circling around a forthcoming flagship product? Delay it for four or five months and then release it with lower specs than you originally promised. That's the story of the Ascend D1 Quad XL, which is expected to be available in Germany, Hong Kong, Canada, Russia, the Middle East, Norway and Denmark before the end of the quarter. At the time of its announcement, the XL version -- given the unfortunate name of the D Quad XL until Huawei thankfully corrected it -- was considered to be the D1 Quad with a larger battery and thicker frame, in the same way the Motorola Droid RAZR Maxx was to its thinner counterpart. Richard Yu, chairman of devices at Huawei, essentially pitched it as the "world's fastest quad-core smartphone," thanks to its homegrown HiSilicon quad-core processor. With relatively few quad-core devices on the market at the time, that claim may have been at least more believable.

What's the best way to kill product buzz? Delay it and lower the specs.This doesn't mean the XL is doomed before from the outset, but it does make the path to success much more difficult. Not only does Huawei face a greater amount of competition with similar components, the final product has also seen a few adjustments -- and most of them aren't for the better. In the span of time since Mobile World Congress, the processor responsible for the "world's fastest" claim has been slightly downclocked and the chassis is even thicker. Fortunately the battery saw a slight increase to 2,600mAh (from 2,500), but that's the only positive change. Regardless of the device's rocky history, it still serves to benefit the future of a company that, until this year, had never manufactured a dual-core phone, let alone anything more powerful. To put it another way, the single-core Honor -- which at best could be considered mid-range at the time -- was Huawei's flagship device until February of this year. Indeed, budget-friendly handsets were what the company did best, so it's certainly branching out into new territory here.


The very first thing that came to our attention after taking it out of its box was the size; as we mentioned earlier, this won't win any contests for "world's thinnest phone," nor will it get anywhere close to the podium. Huawei's official spec sheet lists the Quad XL's thickness as 11.5mm (0.45 inches), and we even measured it ourselves in the hopes that the company's declaration was somehow false. It was indeed true. This baffles us for several reasons. First, we know that Huawei is capable of building slim phones, as evidenced by the Ascend P1 and P1S, and the XL looks as though the designers didn't even try to reduce its size. Second, it was originally supposed to be 10.9mm thick, and likely ballooned as a result of the larger battery. Lastly, the aforementioned battery is non-removable, which means the phone would have likely been even thicker if Huawei had made it accessible. Huawei does its darndest to make the device look stylish despite its size, and it fortunately feels a little more comfortable in our hands than we'd expect from an 11.5mm-thick phone; it still doesn't justify the bulk, but it makes it at least somewhat bearable. At 5.11 ounces (145g), it falls roughly in the median for smartphone weight. It has a flat back, aside from a very slight bump on the back for the camera, and the edges curve steeply downward to meet the sides, much the same way a loaf of baked bread peeks out above its tray. On the front, you'll notice the 4.5-inch panel flanked by a front-facing camera and LED notification light (RGB) on the top and three capacitive buttons (Back, Home and Menu) on the bottom. The whole thing is covered with Gorilla Glass 2, which doesn't make it shatterproof but at least helps it hold out a little better against car keys and other scratch magnets. The bezel isn't massive, but don't expect an edge-to-edge display on the Quad XL either.


The right side of the D1 Quad XL features a volume rocker, the top houses the power / standby button and a standard headphone jack, and you'll find the micro-USB / MHL port on the left side while the bottom remains bare. The textured back, which adds some friction for a better grip, offers the 8MP camera and LED flash near the very top, with a mic just below them and a speaker grille tucked down near the bottom-left. Prying off the cover reveals the massive battery locked up in its cage -- not to be accessed without proper tools -- as well as slots for a full-sized SIM card (no micro-SIM here, folks) and a microSD for external storage. You'll want the extra space, too, since the device only includes 8GB by itself, of which a mere 5.29GB is user-accessible. That isn't much if you're planning to cram movies, music, games and high-res photos and videos onto your new smartphone. Huawei has confirmed to us that polycarbonate and metal are the primary build materials used on the phone, which makes us feel a little more at ease, but the former is much more prevalent on the outside. Finally, the D1 Quad XL lacks support for NFC and wireless charging, which certainly puts it at a competitive disadvantage against the other flagship phones currently on the market, but it offers DLNA and MHL. We have the spec sheet in its entirety below, so feel free to take a look before we move onto the handset's display.

    Huawei Ascend D1 Quad XL     Dimensions 5.08 x 2.52 x 0.43 inches (129.9 x 64.9 x 11.5mm)   Weight 5.11 oz. (145g)   Screen size 4.5 inches   Screen resolution 1,280 x 720 pixels (330ppi)   Screen type IPS+ (made by Toshiba)   Battery 2,600mAh   Internal storage 8GB (5.29GB available to users)   External storage microSD (up to 32GB)   Rear camera 8MP, BSI, AF   Front-facing cam 1.3MP   Video capture 1080p rear (720p front)   NFC No   Radios HSPA+ / UMTS: 850, 900, 1700, 1900, 2100 (max 21 Mbps down / 5.76 Mbps up)   Bluetooth Version 3.0 HS   SoC 1.4GHz quad-core Huawei HiSilicon K3V2; 40nm, 16-core GPU, 64-bit memory   RAM 1GB   MHL / DLNA Yes / Yes   WiFi 802.11b/g/n, 2.4GHz only   Operating system Android 4.0.4  Display
The D1 Quad XL uses a 4.5-inch 1,280 x 720 HD Toshiba IPS+ display with a pixel density of 330ppi. Thanks to its use of in-plane switching, it offers great viewing angles and a bright screen. Its high resolution and non-PenTile BGR matrix prevented us from seeing even the tiniest of pixels, giving us the opportunity to better enjoy what we were viewing; on the other hand, however, colors on the display were slightly undersaturated, especially when compared with the One X and Galaxy S III side by side. The darks weren't as dark as what you'll find on an AMOLED panel, the whites weren't as bright as a Super LCD 2 and the colors didn't appear as vibrant as either. Fortunately, direct sunlight wasn't a bother (provided we had the brightness turned almost all the way up). Movies still proved to be an enjoyable experience nonetheless, and we doubt anyone aside from the devout display aficionado will take issue with it.

Software
When it comes to Android firmware, Huawei seems to go by one of two general rules: it either sticks to its custom Emotion UI skin or it goes as close to vanilla as you can expect from a respectable manufacturer. Purists are going to love the fact that the company chose the latter path for its flagship model, but it's not a perfect duplicate of the stock Ice Cream Sandwich we came to know and appreciate on devices like the Samsung Galaxy Nexus. The app launcher, most of the core apps and the home pages are virtually identical, but Huawei made a few tweaks to the lock screen and threw in its traditional 3D Home launcher and icon themes. Let's discuss a few of Huawei's changes. The usual lock screen (provided you don't choose a security lock option) offers a circle of quick access shortcuts that point you to the camera, phone logs and messages in addition to the standard swipe-to-unlock gesture found on most Android devices. This interface will look slightly different if you switch from 2D unlock to 3D unlock, but the buttons remain the same -- and unfortunately we haven't found a way to change them to match our preferences.




