
 
 Being related to that considerably powerful Ascend D Quad could spark some sort of a double-edged sword effect on Huawei's lesser-specced D1, but if all those cores the former has to offer mean nothing to those in China, the latter wouldn't be such a bad choice. In case you've forgotten -- unlike its beefier, quad-core-loaded brother -- this 4.5-inch (1280 x 720) Ascend D1's only sporting a dual-core, 1.5GHz TI OMAP CPU, which is paired next to 1GB of RAM and a tasty bite of Google's 4.0 treat. According to Huawei, the device is set to hit online shelves throughout the Great Wall starting today, with Russia being its next stop come August and "other markets to follow" sometime after. Be sure to pay the source below a visit if you're planning on grabbing one of these for yourself.



  Show full PR text   Huawei Ascend D1 goes on sale in China
  Arrives in Russia in August
   Beijing, China, July 9, 2012: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, today announced that the Huawei Ascend D1, its latest flagship dual-core Android 4.0 ICS smartphone, will be available to consumers in Russia through LANCK Telecom from August, with availability in other markets to follow. The Ascend D1 goes on sale today in China through various e-commerce platforms including Huawei's online shopping mall – Vmall.com.

   The Ascend D1 is a speedy all-rounder, combining good looks and performance with an exceptional audio visual experience. Powered by a Texas TI OMAP 1.5 GHz dual-core CPU and 1GB RAM, the Ascend D1 offers a mobile cinematic experience with its high-definition 4.5-inch, 1280 x 720 high-definition IPS+ Corning® Gorilla® Glass display providing crystal clear images even under direct sunlight. Its Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound and Audience earSmart™ voice technology ensures you never miss a word.

   With a design inspired by streamlined sports cars and measuring just 64.9mm in width, 8.99mm thin and weighing approximately 132g, the Ascend D1 is extremely comfortable to hold. Its 8-megapixel BSI rear-facing camera, 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera, and 1080p full HD video-capture and playback capabilities enables you to record your special moments in clearer, richer detail. With its 1800mAh battery and a proprietary power management technology, the Ascend D1 keeps you on-the-go for up to 30% longer compared to industry average by adjusting power consumption according to usage needs.

   The Ascend D1 is also featured an 8GB ROM and a slew of business applications. And with a navigation system that uses both the Russian satellite positioning system GLONASS and the standard US-run GPS, you will always know where you are.

 
