

More Info

Huawei Ascend P1 hands-on
Huawei Ascend P1 announced
Ascend P1 arriving in May


Drastic product strategy adjustments appear to be a hot trend for smartphone manufacturers in 2012, and Huawei is one such example of a company doing its best to hang out with the cool kids. It's hard to blame it, of course: the OEM's previous success has been in its ability to crank out budget-friendly smartphones, feature phones and USB sticks like nobody's business and pushing them out to emerging markets. The story's even more dire within the US, as most carriers have kept Huawei out of the spotlight by choosing very few of its devices, white-labeling each one and selling them as prepaid. In an effort to gain awareness and improve its market share, Huawei's turned to establishing brand recognition and improving device selection as its focal points for 2012.

Barely a week into the new year, Huawei took to the stage at the Consumer Electronics Show to showcase the Ascend P1 and P1 S. These two smartphones, nearly identical twins with the exception of the P1 S' thinner profile and (oddly enough) larger battery, represented the first phase in the company's new product strategy. The pair were to be powerful new devices with a classy, stylish look and feel. This was a welcome move since Huawei's best product prior to CES was the Honor, a 1.4GHz single-core device with a 4-inch FWVGA display.

Until Huawei launches its top-tier Diamond series of smartphones (including the ultra-powerful D Quad), the Ascend P1 -- which is expected to arrive in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Australia by the end of the month at an unknown price -- will be the company's best offering. Naturally, we were eager to take this Platinum series (second tier) device for a spin. Is the P1 truly a sign of Huawei turning a new leaf? Does it hold its own against similarly specced competition? Follow us past the break to find out.




HardwareOn the outside, the Ascend P1 shares a somewhat interesting kinship with the Motorola Droid RAZR: it boasts an extremely svelte profile, has a hump on one end and offers the same display size and technology. That's not to say these two devices are twinners, of course -- the camera placement, materials used and Moto's bent corners are just a few ways they differ -- but the two smartphones do share a hefty helping of commonalities.

Like the RAZR, the P1 and P1 S have attempted to create a buzz around their slender build. With a width of 7.7mm at its thinnest point, our test unit is the beefier of the pair on the spec sheet (the RAZR hits 7.1mm at its most svelte spot). A phone's claims of slimness are only as good as its thickest point, however -- and using an old-fashioned ruler, we discovered that the camera's hump is an extremity that gives the P1 the same maximum thickness as the RAZR (roughly 10.5mm).


The P1 takes advantage of an incredibly lightweight construction, barely gracing the scales at a mere 3.88 ounces (110 g). Sure, we've seen plenty of other devices that weigh less than this, but generally the selection is much lower-end than what you'll find here. While we're not too fond of brick-heavy handsets, there's something about feather-light phones that exudes an aura of cheapness. The Ascend P1 is made of the typical inexpensive, glossy plastic we've come to expect on budget-friendly handsets, which leaves us a little concerned in this case -- a "Platinum series" phone shouldn't offer the same materials as many of Huawei's lower-end devices. Speaking of glossy, the phone does a better job picking up fingerprints than a Hoover vacuum picks up crumbs -- even with an all-white test model, they weren't difficult to spot. As with a litany of other ultra-thin devices, Huawei's latest darling doesn't offer a removable battery in order to conserve space and shed precious millimeters. But to the casual observer gazing upon the Ascend P1 for the first time, it looks like the back of the phone doubles as a battery cover, since it just appears to have been snapped onto the frame like a set of Legos. Efforts to take off the back in order to find the battery cover will be fruitless. In fact, opening up the tab protecting the microSD port reveals one of the screws holding the back in place. As tacky as it sounds, at least it's hidden well enough to not be much of a concern for most parties -- unless, of course, the plastic hinge wears out its welcome after enough time. While the phone is durable enough for consistent everyday use, we would have appreciated a unibody design choice here. Despite its build, the smooth, curved edges that lead from the side of the phone to its back make for a comfortable hand-holding experience. We can't make the same claim for most devices this thin, as the large majority of handsets less than 8mm tend to be a somewhat awkward fit in our average-sized palms. Our only gripe with the in-hand experience may or may not be a deal-breaker, depending on how you prefer to hold your phones: the top and bottom edges of the P1 are slightly pointed and may end up protruding into your hand like a sharp rock.


The aforementioned microSD port resides on the right edge of the Ascend P1, just barely below the power / wake button. On top you'll find a 3.5mm headphone jack, micro-USB port and full-sized SIM slot. The left side of the phone only houses the volume rocker. The front is outfitted with the 4.3-inch qHD display, flanked by a row of three capacitive buttons (menu, home and back) below and a front-facing 1.3MP video chat camera and speaker above. Now we turn our attention, once again, to the back of the Ascend. This is where you'll discover a small bump housing an 8-megapixel, rear-facing camera and dual-LED flash, set up in a vertical arrangement on the top center of the phone (not dissimilar to the Samsung Epic 4G Touch and T-Mobile Galaxy S II). At roughly 10.6mm, the camera is actually the thickest part of the P1, which translates into a larger sensor size and, in theory, better images. A tiny noise-cancelling mic rests to its right, and the speaker grille can be found on the 9.4mm-thick hump at the bottom.

We were disappointed to find a meager amount of onboard storage: 4GB, to be exact, and the amount of user-accessible memory is even smaller. You won't be able to take advantage of the device's 8MP camera or its 1080p video recording prowess for very long, so you'll definitely need to grab a microSD card and throw it in to satisfy whatever memory requirements you may have. We were also saddened by the P1's lack of NFC, which means Android Beam and Google Wallet can't be used. But, to the happiness of AWS users everywhere, the Ascend P1 houses a pentaband 3G radio (850 / 900 / 1700 / 1900 / 2100) in addition to quadband GSM / EDGE -- great news for T-Mobile US subscribers as well as anyone interested in complete global roaming. As for the rest of the internals, we've compiled a handy spec sheet to peruse below.

    Huawei Ascend P1   Dimensions 5.02 x 2.55 x 0.30 inches (127.4 x 64.8 x 7.7mm)   Weight 3.88 oz. (110g)   Screen size 4.3 inches   Screen resolution qHD 960 x 540 (256ppi)   Screen type Super AMOLED (PenTile)   Battery 1,670mAh   Internal storage 4GB   External storage None included, MicroSD compatible   Rear camera 8MP, dual LED flash   Front-facing camera 1.3MP, 720p video   Video capture 1080p HD, 30fps   NFC No   Radios Quadband GSM / EDGE; Pentaband HSPA+ 850 / 900 / AWS / 1900 / 2100   Network speeds HSPA+ 21Mbps   Bluetooth 4.0   CPU 1.5GHz dual-core TI OMAP 4460   GPU PowerVR SGX540   RAM 1GB   MHL Yes   WiFi b/g/n  Display
What you're looking at with the Ascend P1 is your run-of-the-mill 4.3-inch qHD display with a resolution of 960 x 540 (shining forth at a pixel density of 256ppi). It's super AMOLED, which will run cold shivers down the spines of PenTile haters everywhere. And to pre-emptively answer any question you might have about the RGBG matrix: yes, at that level of density, the pixels are visible. It likely isn't enough to bother anyone besides the aficionado; going from an HD display on today's flagship phones, it's easy enough to see the difference the lower pixel count makes. It's yet another commonality the phone shares with the RAZR, and you'll see absolutely no difference in resolution between the two. As an aside, the viewing angles on the Ascend P1 aren't quite as good as the HTC One X, but we were still able to get close to edge-on before the screen disappeared from our view.

Software

 Touch to focus is ever-present in the P1 camera, which comes in handy whenever you want to focus on an object that doesn't happen to be in the middle of the viewfinder. It works well, subtly blurring out close-up items when you're attempting to focus on something in the background -- and vice versa. The P1 also allows you to use the built-in dual LED flash to help you focus on an object at night, prior to actually taking the shot. The flash is reasonably bright, although low-light performance (sans LED) could have been better. To get somewhat decent shots in these circumstances, your best bet is to find the "night" scene in the miscellaneous settings. Candlelight, low-light and HDR modes just won't get it done here. One other minor detail we uncovered in our testing revolves around the responsiveness of the shutter button: on several occasions we pressed the button only to find that nothing happened (we suppose this is one silver lining to its inability to shut off sound), but after a more precise touch of the button, it would begin working without a hitch. Speaking of which, shutter lag is quite reasonable on the P1 -- we had to wait a full 1.5 seconds for the image to get captured.