
 

Rejoice Nintendo fans, Hulu Plus is coming to your console of choice... provided you're up on the latest in Nintendo hardware. Both the Wii and 3DS will be getting access to the streaming service's vast archives of TV shows and movies some time before the year is out. Though, you shouldn't expect to see the Galactica popping out of your portable -- this is a strictly 2D affair. A software update coming at the end of November will also deliver the ability to record 3D video with the Nintendo handheld (up to ten minutes) or even stitch together stereoscopic images for stop motion animation that jumps out of the tiny screen at you. With both Hulu and Netflix in tow, as well as the ability to create your own content, the 3DS is actually turning into quite a powerful little portable. For more details, including some game release dates, check out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Hulu Plus Coming to Nintendo Systems as Nintendo 3DS Preps for 3D Video Recording 		Nintendo Announces New 3D Music Videos, 3D Animation and Downloadable Games 		REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nintendo 3DS™ and Wii™ owners will soon have the ability to access even more of their favorite TV shows and movies: the Hulu Plus service will be added to both systems by the end of the year. Nintendo is also announcing new features being added to the Nintendo 3DS system, including the ability to record 3D videos, new musical artists coming to Nintendo Video™ and a new animated 3D video from DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. Additionally, Nintendo 3DS owners will soon see four inventive downloadable Nintendo-published games and applications delivered to the Nintendo eShop, the portable one-stop shop for fun, cool and interesting entertainment options. 		"Nintendo 3DS continues to evolve with great new features and functions designed to reinforce its position as a premiere entertainment device," said Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime. "All of these features, in addition to great upcoming games like Pokémon Rumble Blast on Oct. 24, Super Mario 3D Land on Nov. 13 and Mario Kart 7 on Dec. 4, make Nintendo 3DS a smart gift option this holiday season." 		Hulu Plus: With Hulu Plus, Wii and Nintendo 3DS users will be able to instantly stream thousands of TV episodes – including the entire current season of popular shows like Modern Family, Glee, Dancing with the Stars, The Biggest Loser, House and Grey's Anatomy – from premium content partners like ABC, Comedy Central, FOX, NBC, MTV and many more. Hulu Plus also offers access to classic TV favorites like Lost, Battlestar Galactica, The Hills and hundreds of popular and award-winning movies. Hulu Plus is available through a separate subscription fee of $7.99 per month with limited advertising. 		Nintendo 3DS System Update: At the end of November, a new system update will deliver a range of cool new features and enhancements, including 3D video capture, which will let users record up to 10 minutes of 3D video and enable people to create their own 3D stop-motion animation videos. The update will also add new puzzles to the StreetPass™ Mii Plaza™ and a new dungeon to Find Mii. Other features will be announced in the future. 		Games Coming to the Nintendo eShop: 		Freakyforms™: Your Creations, Alive! lets players create creatures and bring them to life. This game is all about creation, customization and exploration. Available in November for $6.99.		Developed with 3D game play in mind, Pushmo™ asks players to solve more than 250 puzzles by pulling and pushing blocks. Players can also create their own custom puzzles. Launches in December.		Swapnote™ gives Nintendo 3DS owners the chance to send 3D messages to their friends via the SpotPass™ and StreetPass features. Users can hand-write messages in 3D and also include picture and sound. Available for free download in December.		Dillon's Rolling Western™ is a 3D tower defense game that blends action and strategy. It features an armadillo who defends an Old West town rendered in 3D by literally rolling over his enemies. Launches in Q1 2012. 		3D Animation: Starting today, Nintendo 3DS owners can visit the Nintendo eShop and, for $1.99, download a new 3D "Thriller" video that features singing and dancing by their favorite Shrek characters from DreamWorks Animation. 		3D Music Videos: Fans of the Nintendo Video service on Nintendo 3DS will soon see the arrival of new 3D music videos, including "Don't Stop (Color on the Walls)" from Foster the People's Torches album. 		To watch a new episode of Iwata Asks in which Nintendo President Satoru Iwata discusses Mario Kart 7, visit http://iwataasks.nintendo.com/3ds/mario-kart-7. To watch a Nintendo Direct video of Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime discussing today's announcements, visit http://www.nintendo.com/nintendo_direct. 		Remember that Wii and Nintendo 3DS feature parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/wii or http://www.nintendo.com/3ds. For more information about Nintendo, visit http://www.nintendo.com. 		About Nintendo: The worldwide pioneer in the creation of interactive entertainment, Nintendo Co., Ltd., of Kyoto, Japan, manufactures and markets hardware and software for its Wii™ home console, Nintendo 3DS™ and Nintendo DS™ family of portable systems. Since 1983, when it launched the Nintendo Entertainment System™, Nintendo has sold more than 3.7 billion video games and more than 600 million hardware units globally, including the current-generation Wii, Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo DS, Nintendo DSi™ and Nintendo DSi XL™, as well as the Game Boy™, Game Boy Advance, Super NES™, Nintendo 64™ and Nintendo GameCube™ systems. It has also created industry icons that have become well-known, household names such as Mario™, Donkey Kong™, Metroid™, Zelda™ and Pokémon™. A wholly owned subsidiary, Nintendo of America Inc., based in Redmond, Wash., serves as headquarters for Nintendo's operations in the Western Hemisphere. For more information about Nintendo, please visit the company's website at http://www.nintendo.com.
 