
 
It's true, per Major Nelson Hulu Plus will launch on Xbox 360 tomorrow amid a slew of promotions, the first of which will provide free access to the service for all US-based Xbox Live members (free or paid) through May 6th courtesy of Jack Link's Beef Jerky. We should be able to get some hands on time with the app in a few. Until then you can imagine what it will be like to watch 24 The Confession in HD or every episode of Spaced through your console in between rounds of messin' with Sasquatch (explanation after the break).

After spending some time with the app, it seems to work about as expected, mirroring the experience of Microsoft's Zune video on-demand without the need to pay-per-video. The Kinect implementation is similarly (and unfortunately) limited just like it was for Netflix, giving users the ability to browse only a list of preselected "popular" videos by gesture or voice. As seen in the video after the break, in-video commands work the same as well, so if talking to the TV is more convenient than grabbing the remote, you're in luck. We did find a slight issue with the picture quality, on many of the TV shows motion appeared jerkier and less smooth than other video apps on the 360, while it didn't have any of the pausing or dropping users have cited recently on the PS3, it was noticeable. The best news however, is that you don't even need a credit card to get in on the weeklong trial, so give the app a download and try it out yourself.

Update: Now with screens plus details on the giveaways and a demo of Hulu Plus w/ Kinect after the break!






 Show full PR textHulu Plus on Xbox LIVE Delivers Controller-free TV Shows and Movies; Jack Link's Sponsors Free Access for all Xbox 360 OwnersWith an ever-growing entertainment experience at the center of the home, Xbox 360 will soon offer thousands more HD TV shows and movies via Hulu Plus. The Hulu Plus subscription service will launch on Xbox 360 this Friday, April 29, instantly delivering current season hit TV shows from ABC, Comedy Central, FOX, NBC, MTV, and more, plus classic movies anytime to U.S. Xbox LIVE Gold members who are also Hulu Plus subscribers."We're proud deliver the best in entertainment content like no other device in the living room," said Pete Thompson, General Manager, Xbox LIVE. "Hulu Plus is an important addition to support our continued effort to expand entertainment on Xbox LIVE. And by adding the magic of Kinect, we're truly transforming the way people enjoy their favorite entertainment."A Hulu Plus subscription currently offers hit TV shows and classic movies anytime in HD, including current season episodes of top shows like "Modern Family," "30 Rock," "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" and many others. Catch up on complete back seasons of series including "Lost," or explore hundreds of acclaimed movies from The Criterion Collection. All for just $7.99 a month with limited advertising.With Kinect for Xbox 360, you can easily control your Hulu Plus entertainment from your couch using your voice as the remote control. Play, pause, fast forward and rewind any video content you are watching using gesture or voice commands, as well as select movies and TV shows recommended for you by Hulu through the Kinect Hub.Jack Link's and Xbox "Unlock" Hulu Plus to All Xbox LIVE MembersLaunch is just the beginning, too. To celebrate the debut of Hulu Plus on Xbox LIVE, Jack Link's Beef Jerky is unlocking Hulu Plus on Xbox LIVE from April 29 – May 6. Through this sponsorship, all Xbox LIVE members (Free or Gold) will be able to enjoy Hulu Plus on Xbox LIVE, no Hulu Plus subscription or Xbox LIVE Gold membership required for an entire week. Jack Link's and Xbox LIVE are also partnering to host an accompanying sweepstakes where users who download the Hulu Plus application can win everything from a vacation for two to a Beaches® Resort to an Xbox 360 GB Console with Kinect. For full details, click www.xbox.com/HuluPlusLaunchWith Xbox LIVE, take your Xbox 360 online and enjoy an expanding catalogue of entertainment from a range of partners, networks and studios around the world, and interact with a growing community of 30 million active members. With the community spending more than one billion hours a month online enjoying entertainment, Xbox 360 is the only place to experience controller-free entertainment with tens of thousands of movies and TV shows in HD streaming, thousands of live and on-demand sports, and millions of songs – all on the biggest screen in your home shared with the people you care about most wherever they are.###
 