
 
It looks like the Hulu overlords have finally seen the light, because Hulu Plus is coming to the living room in a big way -- in addition to the cheap'n'easy Roku players, the service will hit TiVo Premiere DVRs sometime "in the coming months." It's a little stranger to pay $9.95 a month for streaming TV on your DVR, which is presumably plugged into a cable subscription and a TiVo service subscription, but hey -- whatever floats your boat, Captain Moneybags. Full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTiVo Will Offer Hulu Plus on TiVo Premiere DVRsALVISO, CA -- (Marketwire) -- 09/28/2010 -- TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and a leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs) for consumers, content distributors and consumer electronics manufacturers, today announced that it has teamed with Hulu™ to provide TiVo® Premiere DVR subscribers with access to the full-array of Hulu Plus™ content streamed instantly to their TVs. The Hulu Plus channel will be available via subscription to all TiVo Premiere customers in the coming months.*The agreement solidifies TiVo's leading position as the only one-box solution on the market that delivers the most complete entertainment content to the TV with the unmatched ability to use one user interface and one remote to access a sea of broadband, linear and video on demand content.Hulu Plus offers one of the deepest offerings of current TV shows on a streaming platform to subscribers in the U.S., including every episode of more than 45 current hit programs from ABC, FOX and NBC like Modern Family, Grey's Anatomy, Glee, Family Guy, The Office and 30 Rock. In addition, TV lovers with TiVo Premiere DVRs will be able to enjoy full series runs and numerous back seasons of dozens of classic shows like The X-Files, Law and Order: SVU, Arrested Development, Saturday Night Live, Miami Vice, Ugly Betty, Quantum Leap, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Angel, Roswell and Ally McBeal."Adding Hulu Plus to TiVo's content offering was really the key missing piece to the programming portfolio that TiVo needed in order to deliver a truly comprehensive advanced television offering on the market today -- bar none," said Tara Maitra, VP & General Manager, Content Services and Ad Sales, TiVo Inc. "TiVo is the complete TV entertainment solution. No other service is as robust or offers consumers the ability to access live TV, Web video, and video on demand content from one box like TiVo does."Pete Distad, VP of Content Distribution for Hulu, said, "We are laser focused on helping people find and enjoy the world's premium video content when, where and how they want it. Our goal for Hulu Plus is to provide as much consumer choice as possible, and Hulu Plus on TiVo's Premiere DVR offering is a compelling way for us to drive our mission forward."* Separate subscriptions to Hulu Plus and the TiVo Service will be required to access Hulu Plus on TiVo Premiere DVRs. 
 