
 
There you have it, good people of the internet, the rumored Hulu Plus price drop has indeed been enacted, though it's a little smaller than some might have hoped. The formerly $9.99 subscription service has now dipped to $7.99 per month -- enough to get you to jump on board? Maybe the one week free trial will help get you there, but don't fret if you're already subscribed -- Hulu's got you covered with a refund for the difference from the preview price to the current one, which will be applied in your next billing cycle. Isn't that nice? Also good to know is that the list of devices you can enjoy your Plus experience on has been expanded by one, adding Roku's hardware as previously planned. You'll find the full press release after the break.

[Thanks, Adam S. and Alwyn]
      

 

Show full PR textHULU PLUS™ SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE LAUNCHES FOR $7.99 PER MONTHOffers Deepest Library of Current Hit Network TV Shows Like Glee, Modern Family, and The Office; Extends Access to Even More Devices and Platforms(LOS ANGELES) November 17, 2010 /PRNewswire/ - Hulu™ today officially launched Hulu Plus™, the first and only internet video subscription service to stream full current seasons and a deep library of back seasons of hit TV shows from ABC, FOX, NBC, and more, in HD, to computers, internet-connected TVs and Blu-ray players, set-top boxes, mobile phones, and tablets, all for $7.99 per month."We're proud to offer consumers the best of current TV on their terms," said Jason Kilar, chief executive officer of Hulu. "With Hulu Plus, it's now possible to watch any episode from the current season of watercooler shows like Glee, Modern Family, 30 Rock and dozens more; whenever and wherever they want."Any users who subscribed during the preview period will also receive a credit for the difference from the $9.99 preview price to be applied automatically to their next billing cycle. Starting today, all new subscribers to Hulu Plus receive a 1-week free trial.Access Anywhere on Multiple DevicesToday, Hulu Plus will be available through a wide variety of devices that have an installed base of over 50 million in the U.S. No matter when and where a TV lover wants to catch the latest episode of House, Saturday Night Live, or Family Guy – whether it's in the office, in the living room, or on the go – Hulu Plus is there:Connected TV and Blu-Ray players: Samsung, Sony BRAVIA® HDTVs and connected Blu-ray Disc™ Players, and coming soon: LG Electronics, Panasonic, VIZIOConnected Set-top Boxes: Roku, Sony Network Media Player, and coming soon: TiVo Premiere DVRs, Western Digital's WD TV Live Hub Media Center and WD TV Live Plus Network Media PlayerGaming Consoles: PlayStation® 3, and coming soon: Xbox 360Mobile Devices: Apple iPad, iPhone, iPod touchOther network appliances: Sony DashHD-available programs will stream to users in 720p high definition on HD-capable devices. Hulu will continue to announce additional supported devices and platforms in the coming months.More of Today's Top TV ShowsHulu Plus offers full current and back seasons of both current and classic hit TV shows to subscribers in the U.S. TV fans can instantly stream any episode of current broadcast network shows such as Glee, Family Guy, Grey's Anatomy, Modern Family, 30 Rock, House, and The Office all season long. In addition, TV lovers will be able to enjoy full series runs and numerous back seasons of classic shows like The X-Files, Arrested Development, Desperate Housewives, Battlestar Galactica, Monk, Psych, Saturday Night Live, Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Ugly Betty, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and dozens more.The Hulu Plus library has grown by thousands of videos during its preview and will add more titles in the months to come.Advertising Partners for Hulu PlusHulu has built one of the most effective brand advertising services in the world, with a platform that delivers 55% more effective ad campaigns than traditional channels. Hulu Plus extends this proprietary and innovative targeted ad platform across PCs, TVs, mobile phones, and tablets, creating multiple touch points to reach connected consumers wherever they live, work, and play.For the launch of Hulu Plus, the company has partnered with leading brand marketers including Bud Light, McDonald's, Nissan, and Microsoft to expand their reach to Hulu's engaged and connected audience. Hulu is also working with comScore and Nielsen to help create accurate and leading edge measurement tools for the Hulu Plus service.
 