

We've just received word that the premium Hulu service we've heard chatter about for a while now has just become official. Dubbed Hulu Plus, the $10 / month service will feature entire seasons of shows that are available in limited quantities on the free service, as well as other programming not available via Hulu on the web. There will be iPod and iPad apps available (streaming with WiFi or 3G), along with support for Samsung connected TVs and Blu-ray (via Samsung Apps). Also in the works is support for TVs and Blu-ray players from both Vizio and Sony (fall 2010), PS3 (July) , and Xbox 360 (as part of a "custom experience" in Xbox Live Gold, early 2011). Hit up the source link to get in on the "invitation only" preview of the service, and to keep abreast of availability for your favorite hardware. Video after the break.

[Thanks to everyone who sent this in]





  Show full PR textSamsung Expands Library of Premium HD Video Content with Addition of Subscription Service Hulu Plus to Samsung AppsSamsung will be the Exclusive HDTV Partner for the Hulu Plus™ PreviewRIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, announced today that it is the exclusive HDTV partner for the invitation-only preview of Hulu Plus™ on connected devices, expanding the amount of premium HD content that is available to Samsung consumers. Hulu Plus, the first ad-supported subscription service to offer full current season runs of hit TV programs from ABC, FOX and NBC across multiple Web-connected devices, in HD, for only $9.99 a month, will give TV lovers access to their favorite shows from current hit programs such as Glee, Grey's Anatomy, 30 Rock and The Office to classics such as The X-Files, Arrested Development and Ally McBeal. It will be available today for download through Samsung Apps on select 2010 Blu-ray players, Blu-ray home theater systems, and the majority of 2010 Samsung TVs 40" and above. Consumers who download Hulu Plus on Samsung Apps, the world's first HDTV-based application store, can watch sample content and request an invite for the preview of the Hulu Plus service. After the end of the preview period, all Samsung Apps users will be able to download and subscribe to the full Hulu Plus service. The addition of Hulu Plus demonstrates continued momentum for Samsung Apps as leading content owners develop applications for the platform, making it easier for consumers to discover and enjoy the content they want, when they want it."With the addition of Hulu Plus to Samsung Apps, our customers now have access to an ever-expanding catalog of premium HD content at the push of a button," said Eric Anderson, vice president of content and product solutions, Samsung Electronics America. "We are excited to be the exclusive HDTV partner in making Hulu Plus available on the largest screen in the home during this preview period."Samsung, the market leader in connected TV, is committed to expanding the types of experiences available to consumers. In 2008, the company was the first to deliver text-based RSS feeds, bringing news, weather and stock information directly to the TV with its InfoLink feature. In 2009, Samsung added Yahoo! widgets to the connected TV experience, as well as streaming video services with providers like Blockbuster and Amazon video-on-demand. With the launch of Samsung Apps this year, Samsung is broadening the connected TV experience, bringing services such as text-based information, casual games, communications, social and location services, and full HD video to consumers. The addition of Hulu Plus to Samsung Apps demonstrates continued momentum around the platform as leading content providers recognize the platform's flexibility in delivering the growing types of content that meet consumers' demand. Hulu Plus joins more than 30 other industry-leading partners on Samsung Apps including Blockbuster, Facebook, Netflix, Pandora, Twitter, USA TODAY, and Vudu, in bringing personalized, easy to use connected TV experiences to consumers.For more information about Samsung Apps, please visit, http://www.samsung.com/newsroom. To learn more about Hulu Plus, please visit www.hulu.com/plus.About Samsung Electronics America, Inc.Headquartered in Ridgefield Park, NJ, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., markets a broad range of award-winning, digital consumer electronics and home appliance products, including HDTVs, home theater systems, MP3 players, digital imaging products, refrigerators and washing machines. A recognized innovation leader in consumer electronics design and technology, Samsung is the HDTV market leader in the U.S. Please visit www.samsung.com for more information.*Each HDTV and Blu-ray player with Samsung Apps may offer a different selection of apps.
 