
We love what the Hyperkin Retron 5 brings to the table, namely compatibility with ten classic gaming system cartridges: NES, Famicom, Super NES and Famicom, Sega Master System, Genesis and Mega Drive, and Game Boy original, Color and Advance. The problem is, Hyperkin's played coy about it's price and availability... until now. It'll be available on December 10th, and it'll be on sale in both Europe (for €89.99) and in the US ($99.99). And, it turns out that the Retron 5 that'll go on sale will have a few more tricks up its sleeve than the prototype we played with back at E3. The exterior's been modified to better cool the internal components, and it'll pack a work with the Sega Power Base Converter that lets you play Sega's Master System games in the Genesis slot on top. So, now you can officially start carving out space in your entertainment center for the Retron 5 -- which shouldn't be difficult once you've cleared out all the elder consoles it replaces. Less is more, people.


Update: We mistakenly wrote previously that the Retron 5 comes with a Power Base converter, in fact, you'll need to bring your own converter to the party.



Show full PR textHyperkin to Release RetroN 5 on December 10, 2013Leading video game peripherals company to release the RetroN 5 during holiday season.EL MONTE, CA (SEPTEMBER 2013) – Hyperkin has set December 10, 2013 as the official release date for the RetroN 5. The RetroN 5 plays NES, SNES, Genesis and GBA cartridges all in one convenient console. The US release will coincide with the European release, with the MSRP set at $99.99 in the US and €89.99 in the European territories.Hyperkin explains the delay in release was due to several key modifications made to the console shown at E3. The shell design was changed to allow for better ventilation, as well as accommodations to use the Sega Power Base Converter allowing users to play Master System cartridges on the console.All versions of the RetroN 5 will come with an power adapter with four variable head sockets to fit multiple regions with the voltage ranging from 110 to 240 volts.Hyperkin also confirms that the release date of October 31, 2013 listed on Amazon was a placeholder, and that Amazon has been contacted to correct the release date."RetroN 5 will be the most amazing classic game console." said Steven Mar, Hyperkin's Executive Director. "We thank everyone who has been patient and supportive of Hyperkin during development."

For more information or media requests, please contact: media@hyperkin.com. Follow Hyperkin on Twitter and like them on Facebook for the latest news and information regarding Hyperkin.


