
 


	Nintendo 3DS users will soon have another way to extend their system's notoriously limited battery life, thanks to Hyperkin's new 3DS Powerplus. Slated for release this summer, the 2.2-ounce accessory slips on to the back of the console without obstructing the 3DS' cartridge port, SD card and game controls, while adding an extra 1800mAh to the device's standard 1300mAh battery. The Powerplus also features an enhanced grip, as well as an LED indicator that can give you an idea of how much gas you've got left in the tank. Hyperkin says its $19.99 appurtenance will more than double your 3DS' battery life, but, as we learned from Nyko, seeing is believing. Head past the break for an extra image of the Powerplus, along with a full PR.
 

   		Show full PR text  HYPERKIN ANNOUNCES 3DS POWERPLUS: EXTRA BATTERY LIFE 		Doubles Play Time with Additional 1800 mAH Battery Power in Sleek Form Fitting Design 		NEWPORT BEACH, CA (MAY, 2011) – Hyperkin, a recognized and trusted brand of video game peripherals, has announced the upcoming launch the 3DS Powerplus designed to provide extra battery life for the Nintendo 3DS handheld video game system. Providing an 1800 mHA battery, the 3DS Powerplus more than doubles the playing time of the 3DS. 		The 3DS Powerplus is a lightweight, sleek 1/4" design that slides onto the back of the 3DS while allowing full access to all of the systems original functions such as the cartridge port, stylus, SD card and all the control buttons. It also provides an excellent grip and includes a battery LED indicator. 		"The 3DS Powerplus is a great way to juice your 3DS for marathon gaming," stated Steven Mar, Hyperkin's Business Director. "It doubles the battery life and it's incredibly comfortable to use." Continued Mar: "The 3DS default battery is 1300 mAH. In 3D mode with normal sound, the system only provides three and a half hours of playtime. The 3DS Powerplus more than doubles the battery life while still remaining unobtrusive." 		PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS 		· 1800 mHA 		· Sleek, 1/4″ Design 		· Lightweight (2.2 Ounces) 		· Battery LED Indicator 		· Full Access to All 3DS Functions 		· Improved Grip 		· Launch Date: Summer 2011 		· Retail Price: $19.99
 