
 

Just like the iBike Dash from the days of yore, Velocomp is back with the Powerhouse -- a cycling computer that integrates with any standard bicycle along with the iPhone and iPod Touch. Designed in collaboration with cycling coach Hunter Allen, the Powerhouse features distinct fitness plans tailored to the goals of training cyclists and lazy bums alike. Regimens last four to six weeks and include iSlim, Express Fitness, Brazilian Butt, Kid Fit, Weekend Warrior, Zero to 50 miles in Three Weeks and Healthy Heart. Perhaps more intriguing, however, is the ability to purchase additional training routines within the iBike app. The product will be fully unveiled at CES and will retail for $269, which includes a water / shock-resistant case, a universal mounting system, all the necessary electronics and the iOS app -- which lets cyclists listen to their music as they train. Those interested in the finer details may check the PR just after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  VELOCOMP INTRODUCES IBIKE POWERHOUSE FOR IPHONE/IPOD TOUCH AT CES 		World's First Intelligent Cycling Computer that Automatically Adjusts to Your Exercise Goals 		Featuring Fitness Plans "iSlim," "Kid Fit," "Brazilian Butt," & More 		Designed by Hunter Allen, the Foremost Power-Cycling Coach in the World 		January 3, 2012 – Boca Raton, FL – Velocomp www.ibikesports.com, a leading sports technology company and creator of the iBike Dash CC Cycling Computer, introduced today iBike® POWERHOUSETM, the world's first intelligent cycling computer that automatically adjusts 		to your exercise goals. Based on periodic assessments of your fitness improvements, the revolutionary iBike POWERHOUSE works with your iPhone and iPod touch to measure, guide and motivate you to achieve important health, appearance, and fitness goals. The POWERHOUSE method maximizes the benefit of each ride and shortens the time needed to achieve results. 		To be introduced on January 10th at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2012) in Las Vegas, NV, Booth #3430, iBike POWERHOUSE combines iBike's patented power measurement and analysis technologies with automatically-adjusting, goal-oriented cycling plans -- all delivered through the incredible display and computing power of the iPhone/iPod touch. 		Choose Your Goal-Based Plan – iBike POWERHOUSE Guides You Step-by-Step 		Working out with iBike POWERHOUSE is easy. Select a goal-based plan, from "iSlim," "Express Fitness," "Brazilian Butt," "Kid Fit," "Weekend Warrior," "Zero to 50 miles in 3 weeks," and "Healthy Heart" -- just some of the plans available through in-app purchases. Then, over a period of 4-6 weeks, iBike POWERHOUSE guides you through a series of 45-90 minute bike rides. During each ride, you are directed to pedal at specific levels of effort (power), customized to the plan's goals and your measured fitness level. So, a "couch potato" will start out at a challenging but lower level of effort, whereas a fitter cyclist will start the same plan at a significantly higher level of effort. 		Fitness Plans Designed by Power-Cycling Coach Hunter Allen 		iBike POWERHOUSE's fitness plans are designed by Hunter Allen, the world's foremost power-cycling coach. Allen's plans have been proven over nearly 20 years of coaching cyclists at all levels -- from beginner to world class. And, in addition to the structured ride information for each plan, videos are included with tips from Allen for getting the most out of your cycling. 		iBike POWERHOUSE is a complete system, including: 		· A water/shock resistant case for the iPhone/iPod touch. 		· Patented electronics that perform all cycling measurements, including power. 		· An app that interacts with iBike's electronics. 		· A wireless speed/cadence sensor. 		· Universal mounting system. 		· The ability to listen to music or take phone calls while cycling 		"The iBike POWERHOUSE is the only product that creates cycling plans customized to your fitness level and goals, and that automatically adjusts as you improve", said John Hamann, CEO, Velocomp. "iBike POWERHOUSE is a must for anyone who owns a bike and who wants to achieve measurable improvement towards health and fitness goals." 		Priced at $269 MSRP, iBike POWERHOUSE includes the case, electronics, POWERHOUSE app, speed/cadence sensor, iSlim Plan, and mounting system. Additional fitness plans are available in-app, priced at $9.99 each. iBike POWERHOUSE is fully compatible with all bicycle ANT+ HR sensors. For more information, see www.ibikesports.com.
 