
 
There's not exactly any shortage of ways to mount your iPhone or iPod touch to your bike, but there's decidedly fewer options that actually turn your iOS device into a full-fledged cycling computer that's able to replace those from the likes of Garmin. This new iBike Dash device promises to do just that, though. It not only houses your device is a protective, waterproof shell, but it includes an ANT+ speed sensor and is compatible with other ANT+ devices so you can measure heart rate and cadence. It also has room for an extra rechargeable battery to extend your run time, and it naturally makes use of a free app that takes advantage of your iPhone's GPS capabilities (no built-in GPS here to help out iPod touch users). Of course, all that means this one also costs considerably more than a simple bike mount -- look for the basic model to set you back $199, while the deluxe package (including cadence and HR monitors along with an extra battery and charger) runs $329.
 

Show full PR textIBIKE DASH CC WIRELESS CYCLING COMPUTER LAUNCHED FOR IPHONE & IPOD TOUCHWorks as Your Own Personal Fitness Trainer -- Low-Cost Intelligent Biking SystemCalculates Heart Rate, Intensity, Speed, Calories, & Time to Safely Get You into ShapeBoca Raton, FL, February 22, 2011 -- Velocomp LLP, www.iBikeDash.com, a leading sports technology company and creator of the iBike® line of power meters, announced today the iBike Dash CC (Cycling Computer), a light-weight wireless bicycle computer system that turns any iPhone or iPod touch into your own personal fitness trainer. Priced starting at $199, the iBike Dash CC creates an entirely new category of interactive cycling devices, enhancing the cycling experience in a much more intimate, intuitive and fun way than ever before to help you finally keep that New Year's resolution to get in shape!Includes Free iPhone/iPod touch Bike App with Easy-to-Read High-Res Color Graphics & AnimationEasy to install, the compact (3.2 oz) iBike Dash CC takes your biking from leisure to fitness, helping you quickly reach your goals by measuring your speed, power, heart rate, wind speed, time, trip, elevation, and calories to become healthier and fitter. The iBike Dash CC includes a free iBike app available from the iTunes App Store at: http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ibike/id369550718?mt=8, which features customizable tools, from simple speedometers to work-out programs. The app is displayed on the iPhone or iPod touch screen with easy to read high-resolution color graphics and animation.Dispels "No Pain, No Gain" Myth – "HR Pacing Meter" Tells Boundaries – Critical for Safe TrainingIntelligent biking is all about sustaining your energy, so that you have more than enough left for the last few miles. Forget the "no pain, no gain" myth, the iBike Dash CC tells you how hard is too hard. Riding within your boundaries is critical for safe training, and with the iBike Dash CC's "HR Pacing Meter," you can see at a glance whether your heart rate in the right zone. The HR Pacing Meter determines your fitness level with 5 Heart Rate Color Zones from 50% to 100%. These zones indicate the degree of difficulty you will experience when cycling in each zone at your fitness level: from Blue (very light) to Red (very hard). Each of the zones address different goals, from losing weight in the bottom zones to improving fitness in the middle zones, to maximizing performance in the top zones. After regular exercise, you'll find you're able to exercise more comfortably in the upper zones and for longer times in the lower zones.Use Optimal Cycling Effort to Burn FatiBike Dash CC also tells you when your cycling effort is optimal for burning fat; how many calories you're using during the ride, on all rides this week or all rides this month; what speed and distance you're traveling; and even where you are on your bike route. Also, iBike Dash CC can help you set some personal goals, measure your progress and allow you to adjust your performance as you enjoy your ride.Virtual Co-pilot, Navigator, & Trainer -- All in One"We'd all like to be fitter, healthier and lose some weight, but the truth is just riding your bike forhalf an hour or so a day won't necessarily do it," said John Hamann, CEO, Velocomp. "With the revolutionary iBike Dash CC on your iPhone or iPod touch, you can take the next step, knowing how to manage your biking effort to the best effect to help you become fitter with an amazing cycling dashboard at your fingertips -- a virtual co-pilot, navigator, and trainer -- all in one."iBike Dash CC Features:50 power-based and Heart Rate (HR) zone workouts.Includes ANT+ speed sensor with optional sensors for cadence and HR.User customizable touch screens display cycling information in color with unique graphics and animation.Features easy-to-read large fonts with back-light display for night-time viewing.·   iPhone's GPS, map, and weather capabilities operate seamlessly with the iDash, greatly enhancing the rider's experience.·   Power-based indoor trainer feature.·   Bike odometer.Calendar feature keeps track of weekly cycling stats, including calories, miles and speed.·   HR Zone dial presents cycling exertion in an extremely intuitive manner.·   Easy-to-follow, on-screen instructions and instructional videos."Phone BoothTM" dashboard/case houses circuitry, keeps out water and absorbs shock.Easy to install, use, and move from bike to bike.No need for calibration.Allows seamless hands-free calls using your iPhone and Bluetooth headset with no interruption to ride data collection.Allows full use of touch screen, even while wearing cycling gloves.A rechargeable/replaceable spare battery can be housed inside the "Phone Booth" to extend theoperating time of your iPhone/iPod touch.·   Compatible with all ANT+ speed, cadence and HR sensors.Pricing & AvailabilityThe iBike Dash CC is available immediately for iPhone and iPod touch, priced at $199 MSRP for the basic version and $329 MSRP for the advanced version with additional features (including cadence, HR, calorie measurement, battery and charger) through the Apple Store at: http://store.apple.com/us/product/H3828LL/A or Velocomp at: http://www.ibikesports.com/ibikestore.html. iBike Dash CC includes the holder, mount, wireless speed sensor, iBike app for iPhone or iPod touch, and iBike software for Mac and Windows desktop computers. For more information, see www.ibikedash.com.About Velocomp - First to Deliver Advanced Power Measurement at a Consumer-Friendly PriceVelocomp, LLP is a leading sports technology company based in Boca Raton, Florida. The first in the bicycle industry to deliver advanced power measurement at a mainstream price, Velocomp is dedicated toproduct breakthroughs in the areas of performance, measurement, design, and value. Launched in June2006, thousands of iBike® power meters are being enjoyed worldwide. For more information, see www.iBikeSports.com.
 