
 

Looking to get a more realistic feel from your Djay iOS app? Yeah, we suspected as much, and now Numark's giving you the ability to boost your street cred while spinnin' tracks in the club... or, you know, your mum's living room. The company's new iDJ Live accessory does its darndest to transform your iOS device (iPhone and iPod compatible, despite being obviously tailored for iPad) into a more legit deejay set-up. With George Strait / MC Hammer mash-ups just waiting to happen, the device guides you into the musical unknown with two "turntables," a mixer (with crossfader), an iPad stand and connection capabilities for use with an external sound system. Already sold? She's yours for a cool Benjamin, and if you'd rather use your existing stash of CoreMIDI-enabled DJ apps, be our guest.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  iPhone DJ Controller, iDJ Live, Shipping Now With Support for algoriddim's djay app 		Cumberland, R.I. (June 27, 2011) – Numark, the world's leading manufacturer of DJ technology, announces iDJ Live, a portable DJ controller for iPad, iPhone or iPod touch is now available. Numark showcased iDJ Live at the 2011 NAMM Show in Anaheim, California this past January. 		iDJ Live is an iOS-DJ controller designed to enable anyone to be an iPad, iPhone or iPod DJ. Numark has partnered with algoriddim, the makers of the highly popular djay software, to bring support for iDJ Live to the djay app for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch. The iDJ Live system enables users to mix and scratch using their music from their iTunes library in algoriddim's djay app or other CoreMIDI-enabled DJ apps. 		iDJ Live features two large performance platters and a central mixer section with a crossfader, buttons and knobs to recreate the two-decks-and-a-mixer setup that professional DJs prefer. iDJ Live comes complete with an iPad DJ stand, custom audio cable for connecting to a sound system and headphones, and 30-pin dock connector for iPad, iPhone, or iPod touch. 		"With a familiar setup and great controls, iDJ Live brings true DJ capabilities to iPad", said Chris Roman, Numark Product Manager. "It's so affordable and fun to use, iDJ Live is going to open up the world of DJing to entirely new audiences." 		For more information about Numark's iDJ Live, a new iPad, iPhone and iPod touch DJ controller, please visit http://www.numark.com/idjlive. 		djay app from algoriddim is sold separately via the App store. 		iTunes, iPhone, iPod touch and iPad are trademarks of Apple, Inc. registered in the U.S. and other countries.
 