
 

We aren't talking Pixel Qi-style savings or anything, but then again, IDT's not asking you to ditch the conventional LCD your retinas refuse to step away from. The company's Panel Self Refresh technology just got a major shot in the arm here at IDF, with the introduction of the world's first Embedded DisplayPort (eDP) 1.3-compliant Timing Controller with integrated PSR technology. A lot of technobabble, sure, but here's the lowdown: with this stuff in the mix, most users will see upwards of 45 minutes of battery gain, as the panels don't require constant refreshing.

Granted, power savings are only seen with static images on-screen, and you'll need a PSR-enabled graphics processor to take advantage. The good news, however, is that Intel seems to be into the idea of using this stuff to boost the overall battery life of Chipzilla-based machines, so it shouldn't be too long before it starts popping up in laptops and Ultrabooks. As to how the magic actually works? IDT's PSR technology "identifies a static image and stores it local to the TCON in an integrated frame buffer; then, it seamlessly displays the image from the local frame buffer allowing the eDP main link and a majority of the GPU functions to be powered-down, resulting in significant power savings." Have a look at the unveiling video just after the break. 






  		Show full PR text  IDT's Panel Self Refresh (PSR) Implementation Switches Seamlessly Between Modes And Extends Battery Life In Mobile Devices Such As Notebooks, Ultrabooks And Tablets. 		Integrated Device Technology, Inc. ( IDT ®) (NASDAQ:IDTI), the Analog and Digital Company™ delivering essential mixed-signal semiconductor solutions, today announced that it has developed and demonstrated the world's first Embedded DisplayPort (eDP) 1.3-compliant Timing Controller (TCON) with integrated Panel Self Refresh (PSR) technology for significant system-level power savings and extended battery life in portable applications. 		IDT's new eDP timing controllers with PSR technology can save significant power when a static image is displayed on the screen of a system with a PSR-enabled graphics processor. Unlike traditional timing controllers that receive and process the display data continuously, IDT's PSR technology identifies a static image and stores it local to the TCON in an integrated frame buffer. It then seamlessly displays the image from the local frame buffer allowing the eDP main link and a majority of the GPU functions to be powered-down, resulting in significant power savings. 		"IDT continues to demonstrate its leadership in delivering next generation mixed-signal technology," said Ji Park, vice president and general manager of the Video and Display Operation at IDT. "Today's mobile devices require more processing power and functionality than ever before, but consumers expect longer battery life at the same time. Our newest PSR-ready eDP timing controller helps our customers meet these requirements, making IDT's solution the ultimate high-performance, low-power interface for use in next generation notebooks, Ultrabooks, and tablets." 		IDT's latest solution incorporates novel design techniques and strategic process selection for the most efficient operation and seamless transition between modes. It is fully compliant with the VESA eDP v1.3 standard. eDP solutions offer the lowest system cost and longest battery life versus the LVDS solutions currently being used in portable embedded display applications. The large reduction in power consumption is key to accelerating the adoption of eDP in portable displays and the new IDT solution extends this power advantage. 		_______________________  IDT Demonstrates World's First Embedded DisplayPort™ 1.3 Timing Controller With Panel Self Refresh Technology Enabling Longer Battery Life 		IDT's Panel Self Refresh (PSR) Implementation Switches Seamlessly Between Modes and Extends Battery Life in Mobile Devices such as Notebooks, Ultrabooks and Tablets 		SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Integrated Device Technology, Inc. (IDT®) (NASDAQ:IDTI), the Analog and Digital Company™ delivering essential mixed-signal semiconductor solutions, today announced that it has developed and demonstrated the world's first Embedded DisplayPort (eDP) 1.3-compliant Timing Controller (TCON) with integrated Panel Self Refresh (PSR) technology for significant system-level power savings and extended battery life in portable applications. 		"IDT continues to demonstrate its leadership in delivering next generation mixed-signal technology" 		IDT's new eDP timing controllers with PSR technology can save significant power when a static image is displayed on the screen of a system with a PSR-enabled graphics processor. Unlike traditional timing controllers that receive and process the display data continuously, IDT's PSR technology identifies a static image and stores it local to the TCON in an integrated frame buffer. It then seamlessly displays the image from the local frame buffer allowing the eDP main link and a majority of the GPU functions to be powered-down, resulting in significant power savings. 		"IDT continues to demonstrate its leadership in delivering next generation mixed-signal technology," said Ji Park, vice president and general manager of the Video and Display Operation at IDT. "Today's mobile devices require more processing power and functionality than ever before, but consumers expect longer battery life at the same time. Our newest PSR-ready eDP timing controller helps our customers meet these requirements, making IDT's solution the ultimate high-performance, low-power interface for use in next generation notebooks, Ultrabooks, and tablets." 		IDT's latest solution incorporates novel design techniques and strategic process selection for the most efficient operation and seamless transition between modes. It is fully compliant with the VESA eDP v1.3 standard. eDP solutions offer the lowest system cost and longest battery life versus the LVDS solutions currently being used in portable embedded display applications. The large reduction in power consumption is key to accelerating the adoption of eDP in portable displays and the new IDT solution extends this power advantage. 		Pricing and Availability 		This new eDP technology is being demonstrated to qualified customers only. For more information, please contact your local IDT sales representative. To learn more about IDT's broad portfolio of display products, visit www.idt.com/go/display.
 