
 


	Remember back to September 26th when iHome's iW1 AirPlay speaker was supposed to be available? Curiously, the company's website continually listed the $300 system as "coming soon" (at least the times we checked), leaving iOS and iTunes users yearning for this cable-free audio ware in the proverbial dust. Now, a full month later, iHome has again announced the release of this flagship wireless speaker, even though it's still out of stock itself. According to the company, a quick trip to an Apple Store, Best Buy or Crutchfield should let you snag one, although, the latter's site won't have any until November 3rd. Here's to hunting -- and waiting for the smaller iW2 and iW3 units to get proper release dates. Full details in the press release after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  iHome Delivers Wireless Audio Experience With Release of New iW1 Airplay Rechargeable Speaker System 		Only Portable Rechargeable AirPlay® Speaker System on Market Now Available at Apple Store, Best Buy and Crutchfield 		RAHWAY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--A new era of wireless entertainment has arrived as iHome, a leading supplier of innovative iPad, iPhone and iPod speaker solutions, today released the iW1 Wireless Rechargeable Speaker System with AirPlay®. The iW1 is a portable speaker system that is easily set-up via the free iHome Connect app to stream crystal clear audio within Wi-Fi network range from your iTunes library or iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch. 		"The portability, premium sound and proprietary app that ensures easy set-up, are all delivered at an affordable price; giving owners a perfect audio solution for their home." 		"We're very excited with the final result of the iW1 and all it offers from both a design and feature standpoint," said Ezra S. Ashkenazi, President of iHome. "The portability, premium sound and proprietary app that ensures easy set-up, are all delivered at an affordable price; giving owners a perfect audio solution for their home." 		Powered by a rechargeable lithium-ion battery and controllable by the sleek, capacitive touch panel, iOS device or included remote control, the iW1 enables a truly wireless listening experience that employs Bongiovi Acoustics Digital Power Station (DPS) technology and four (4) active speakers for premium audio performance in a compact design. Using AirPlay, owners can wirelessly stream music over Wi-Fi to the unit from iTunes on their Mac, PC, iPhone, iPad or iPod touch and enjoy music in any room of the house. AirPlay requires iTunes 10.1 or later and iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 4.2 or later. 		The iW1 is currently available for purchase at Apple Store, Best Buy and Crutchfield for $299. For detailed product information, please visit http://www.ihomeaudio.com/iW1BC/.
 