
 IK Multimedia spent a lot of time at CES 2013 courting Android musicians, but we neglected to mention equal attention spent on iOS at the show through the iRig HD. The company's new adapter pipes audio from a guitar or other instrument with a quarter-inch plug into Lightning-equipped Apple devices, keeping them in IK's musical world (and inviting terrible Metallica puns). It's not exclusively built to jam with an iPad mini or iPhone 5, either, as a modular approach brings the analog-to-digital conversion both to earlier iOS gear and to Macs' USB ports through relevant adapters. About the only disappointment is the absence of firm launch details, although those should be coming "soon."



  Show full PR text   CES: iRig HD Announced
  The sequel to the most popular guitar interface of all time
  8 January 2013
  The new iRig HD, the sequel to iRig – the most popular guitar interface of all time – is now being shown at the 2013 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, at the IK Multimedia booth (located at North Hall, Booth 5625). Just one day after the show floor opened, iLounge awarded it Best of Show 2013!
  With over half a million units sold worldwide, iRig has revolutionized the way guitar players jam and record, allowing them to play anywhere using their iPhone or iPad and the virtual effects and amplifiers of the range of AmpliTube apps. AmpliTube is the all-time bestseller when it comes to guitar sound processing, and includes dozens of legendary pieces of gear from world-class brands such Fender®, Ampeg®, Soldano®, and T-Rex®, as well as the sounds of iconic artists like Slash and Jimi Hendrix.
  iRig HD improves on the characteristics that have made iRig the standard for connecting your guitar or bass to the iPhone, iPod touch or iPad and rocking out. Together with its ease of use, plug-and-play convenience, ultra-portability and universal compatibility, iRig HD offers a superior digital sound quality that's comparable to that of high-end interfaces used in computer-based studios.
 
