
 Ever since IK Multimedia released its mobile music peripherals, Android users have been left to look on their iOS-toting brethren with jealousy. No longer. Today at CES 2013, the company has announced that its iRig MIC, iRig MIC Cast, iRig PRE, iRig MIX and iKlip STUDIO devices will now work with phones and tablets powered by little green bots. The catch? If you don't have a Samsung Galaxy device, you're out of luck. It's unfortunate that not all Android users can partake in IK Multimedia's offerings, but judging by Sammy's sales numbers these days, there's plenty of you out there who can.



  Show full PR text   IK Multimedia Mobile Music Accessories Now Compatible with Android
  iRig MIC, iRig MIC Cast, iRig PRE, iRig MIX and iKlip STUDIO – are now compatible with the most popular Android devices   January 8, 2013 – IK Multimedia – the leading developer of mobile music apps and accessories – combined with the announcement of its first recording Android app, iRig® Recorder, is proud to announce that five of its popular iOS mobile accessories are compatible with the most popular Android devices. All its range of microphones and recording accessories including iRig MIC, iRig MIC Cast, iRig PRE, plus the portable DJ mixer iRig MIX and the tabletop stand iKlip STUDIO, can now be used with the most popular Android smartphones and tablets, such as the Samsung® Galaxy and Note range.   iRig MIC is a quality, handheld microphone that's designed for close-range and distance-miking applications. It's great for vocal recording and other musical applications, as well as podcasts, lectures, and more, and it enables better quality recordings than can be obtained with a mobile device's built-in mic.   iRig MIC Cast is a small, high-quality microphone designed for podcasts and other voice recordings. It attaches to a smartphone or tablet via its audio jack, features a mini-headphone jack for monitoring, and offers a low-profile solution for capturing better sounding audio from a smartphone or tablet.   iRig PRE is a pocket-sized mic preamp that makes it possible to use professional XLR mics with a mobile device. It provides phantom power for condenser mics, and has an adjustable gain control for setting the most favorable input level.   All the above products work great in tandem with the just announced iRig Recorder for Android, the easy-to-use recording and editing IK Multimedia app.   iRig MIX is the ultra-portable DJ-style audio mixer that's small enough to hold in one hand, and is perfect as a hardware front end for mobile DJ apps. Its two channels each have a volume slider, EQ controls and LED meters, plus a crossfader adjusts the level between the channels. It offersplenty of I/O including RCA outputs, which are great for connecting to DJ gear and home stereo setups.   iKlip STUDIO is a solidly built tabletop stand for tablets designed for use on flat surfaces with music or other type of apps. It securely holds a tablet in place with non-slip rubber grip feet, and features durable thermoplastic components, an adjustable viewing angle, and the ability to fold up for easy storage and transport.   Pricing and Availability  iRig MIC, iRig MICCast, iRig PRE, and iRig MIX are already available from authorized IK Multimedia music and electronics retailers worldwide, and from the IK Multimedia Online Store, with prices ranging between $39.99 and $99.99 (€29.99 to €74.99, excluding taxes). iKlip STUDIO for 10" tablets is also already available while the 7" tablets version will ship during the first quarter of 2013, and will be priced at $29.99 / €24.99 (ex. taxes).   For more information, please visit will www.ikmultimedia.com

 
