
  Its no secret that many musicians use their iPhones and iPads to help them craft their tunes, and go-anywhere podcasting holds great appeal for many others. To serve such folks, IK Multimedia has unveiled three new peripherals joining the likes of its AmpliTube adapter and iMic accessories: the iRig MIC Cast, iRig MIX, and iRig Stomp. The MIC Cast is a unidirectional mic aimed at mobile podcasters that hooks up to your iOS device through its headphone jack (and has a 3.5mm port for headphone monitoring). It has a compact form factor that matches the iPhones slimness, and comes with recording and voice processing apps to get things sounding just right. Look for it Q1 of this year for €29.99 ($38).  Next up is the iRig Stomp, an electric guitar pedal crafted from aluminum that works with any iOS guitar, amp or instrument app. It connects to your iDevice's 3.5mm headphone jack and comes with a free AmpliTude app for adding effects and will cost €44.99 ($58) when it lands in Q2. Lastly, there's the dual-channel iRig MIX mobile music mixer, which can be connected to iDevices, CD players or other music sources using it's stereo inputs. It's got gain, bass, treble and volume controls along with a channel crossfader to tailor your tunes using the included apps: DJ Rig, AmpliTube, VocaLive, and GrooveMaker. Diplo wannabes can pick up the MIX in February for €74.99 ($96).




  Show full PR text  IK Multimedia presents iRig MIC Cast The ultra-compact voice recording microphone for iPhone/iPod touch/iPad  January 2012 - IK Multimedia is proud to present iRig™ Mic Cast, the ultra-compact portable voice recording microphone designed specifically for recording podcasts, interviews, lectures, voice memos, speeches and more.   iRig MIC Cast provides a pocket-sized voice recording solution with crystal-clear audio quality. It features a tight unidirectional pickup pattern that minimizes background noise making it ideal for single-source audio recording.  This makes iRig MIC Cast also great for business applications like recording meeting and enhancing the audio and voice quality of conference calls.  iRig Mic Cast is proof that great things come in small packages. In addition to an incredibly flat frequency response with zero tonal coloration, the iRig Mic Cast...  Features a stereo mini-jack headphone output which enables real-time monitoring of what is being recorded using headphones or speakers.  Offers a mini-switch that provides two different sensitivity settings to record close-up or distant sources.  Includes an adjustable desktop stand for convenient iPhone/iPod touch positioning during recording.  Has a bumper-friendly mini-jack connector that fits the majority of iPhone/iPod touch cases.  Has an ultra-compact profile that can be carried anywhere with ease.  Like other IK Multimedia microphones, it includes 2 free apps: iRig Recorder, an easy-to-use voice recording/editing app, and VocaLive, a multi-effects processing app for singers.  Works with all regular phone calls and any Voice-Over-IP app.  Is compatible with iPhone/iPod touch/iPad.   Pricing and availability  iRig MIC Cast costs only €29.99 (excl. tax) and will be available in Q1 2012 from electronic and music retailers around the world.  For more information:  www.irigmiccast.com   ________________________  IK Multimedia announces iRig MIX The first mobile mixer for iPhone, iPod touch, iPad for DJ-ing anytime, everywhere  January 2012 - IK Multimedia is proud to announce iRig™ MIX, the first mobile mixer for iPhone, iPod touch or iPad devices. iRig MIX offers the same controls you would expect from a professional DJ mixer (crossfader, cues, EQ and volume controls, etc.) in an ultra-compact mobile mixer that can be used with a huge variety of iOS DJ mixing and other apps.   A DJ Mixer  iRig Mix allows DJs to use a traditional setup with two devices (one plugged into each of the independent channels) OR a single iOS device. For the single iOS device setup, the output of the single device is split into dual-mono and sent to the individual channels. Additionally - for the first time on any DJ mixer - it can be used for mixing any type of audio source (mp3 players, CD players, etc.) with an iOS device using automatic tempo matching and beat-syncing. This is accomplished with X-Sync, a feature that works in combination with the DJ Rig free app from IK Multimedia that is included with iRig Mix.  Not just for DJs  iRig MIX also provides the perfect mixing solution for solo musicians or small ensembles that use one or more iOS devices to play live. It features an extra guitar/microphone input that facilitates processing with popular apps like AmpliTube and VocaLive or any other app that offers real-time audio processing. Its standard RCA connectors provide easy, direct connection to PA systems or powered speakers.   Maximum Portability The ultra-compact size and low profile of the iRig Mix allows it to easily be carried in a regular iPad bag. Plus its low-voltage power requirements (only 5VDC) allow it to be powered not only by any regular mobile device charger but also by suitable iOS battery pack and laptop USB port for maximum mobility to mix anywhere.  iRig MIX includes 4 free apps (downloads from the iTunes app store): DJ Rig, the new professional DJ mixing app from IK, AmpliTube, the most popular iOS guitar amp and effects app, VocaLive the processing app for singers and vocalists, and GrooveMaker, the loop-based beat and groove making app.  iRig MIX features  2 stereo inputs with gain, bass, treble and volume controls, independent cue on each channel with LED indication and channel crossfader  Instrument/microphone/extra input with volume control can be processed by iOS apps (such as AmpliTube, VocaLive)  Stereo output with RCA connectors, master level and LED meters  High quality, pristine sound  Quality headphone output for master or cue monitoring with independent volume control  Input switch splits Input 1 into dual-mono for use with DJ mixing apps on a single iOS device  "X-Sync" mode allows auto-sync with any audio source using the included DJ Rig free app  Can also be powered with battery packs and mobile chargers  Includes 4 free apps: DJ Rig, AmpliTube, VocaLive, GrooveMaker  Pricing and availability  iRig MIX costs €74.99 (excl. tax) and will be available in February 2012 from electronic and music retailers around the world. Pre-orders are now available from IK Multimedia online store and other selected resellers.  For more information:  www.irigmix.com   ______________________  IK Multimedia presents iRig STOMP The first live performance stompbox guitar interface for iPhone/iPod touch/iPad  January 2012 - IK Multimedia is proud to introduce iRig™ STOMP, the first stompbox guitar interface for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad. For the first time, guitar and bass players can now integrate their favorite iOS signal processing apps into their existing live pedalboard setup for enhanced tone shaping and effects processing.   iRig Stomp is based on the wildly popular AmpliTube iRig interface and is compatible with any iOS guitar/amp/instrument app. With its compact, standard stompbox shape, iRig STOMP is packed with many smart features found here for the first time in an iOS audio accessory.  Compact, durable yet lightweight, aluminum-cast enclosure integrates easily into any traditional pedalboard.  Can be used inline with other effects pedals, or directly connected to amplifiers or PA systems using regular 1/4" guitar cables with no need for adapters.  Allows precise adjustment of the signal for perfect guitar and bass levels with its large input gain knob.  Active battery-powered output circuit improves headroom, especially when used with high-gain amplifiers in the AmpliTube app reducing feedback and crosstalk when recording.  The bypass switch allows engaging or bypassing the AmpliTube app chain of effects - like a traditional stompbox - for seamless integration into any existing rig.  Ultra-compact form-factor can be easily carried on the road.  Features a 3.5mm - 1/8" jack for silent practicing with headphones.  Includes AmpliTube FREE app and can be used with any other guitar processing app that uses the iOS mini-jack  Pricing and availability  iRig STOMP costs only €44.99 (excl. tax) and will be available in early Q2 2012 from electronic and music retailers around the world.  For more information:  www.irigstomp.com
 