
 Lightning speaker docks have started popping up on the regular and now iLuv is looking to join the party. The outfit has outed the Aud 5, a speaker dock that connects to the latest iPhone and iPod while sporting both Bluetooth and 3.5mm aux connections for the rest of your gadget arsenal. Touch controls get cozy up top for track adjustments and "high power amplification" for the sound output. While pricing details haven't been released, we do know that you'll have to wait until May to snag one.



  Show full PR text    iLuv Introduces a Range of Accessories to Enhance Apple's Lightning Devices at 2013 CES

   Las Vegas, NV – January 7, 2013– HYPERLINK "http://www.iluv.com/"iLuv Creative Technology, the premier provider of the most comprehensive line of accessories for the mobile lifestyle, is announcing a new line of docks, cables and adapters for Apple's new Lightning pin devices. As consumers upgrade to devices with the Lightning pin connector, they also need new compatible accessories to enhance their mobile lifestyle. iLuv is proud to be one of the first accessory manufacturers with a full line of accessories dedicated to the Lightning pin connector.

   "With our line of Lightning accessories, we are able to provide Apple users with a way to take full advantage of their new Apple products, such as the iPhone 5, iPad mini, and new generation iPods," said Felix Kim, Sr. Manager of Global Product Marketing at iLuv. "These accessories allow users to easily listen to their favorite music, charge their devices, and utilize the Lightning pin device the way they would the 30-pin device."  iLuv's Lightning accessories include:

   Aud 5 Lightning Speaker Dock- iMM547  Aud 5 plays and charges any Lightning iPhone or iPod at the same time. The dock features reinforced bass through a passive radiator and high power amplification for powerful full digital sound. The Aud 5 is Bluetooth-enabled for wireless music streaming, and also features a 3.5mm auxiliary input for a direct connection to almost any audio device. Top-mounted touch controls, Power, Play/Pause, Track change and Volume provide easy access and convenience. Aud 5 features a streamlined silhouette, making it the perfect addition to any bedroom or living room.

   EnergySeal™ Micro-Size Car Charger- iAD1530  Quickly charge your iPhone, iPad, or iPod with this 6 ft. long car charger for the new Lightning connector. The micro-size car adapter fits a variety of car DC jack orientations and locations. The coiled cord is tangle-resistant and easier to manage, while the length permits users to handle their device anywhere in the car while still charging.

   Premium Coiled Charge/Sync Cable- iCB261  This premium charge/sync cable allows users to charge and sync their iPhone, iPad, or iPod at the same time. Compatible with most USB chargers, the coiled cord is tangle-resistant and easier to manage, while the 6 ft. cable length provides better mobility while in use. Its premium and double-shielded connector and cord also offers durability and minimizes signal loss.

   The full line of iLuv Lightning accessories will be on display at the iLuv Booth #13632 at CES January 8-11 in Las Vegas. The booth will also feature brand new products from iLuv including Bluetooth speaker docks, iPhone 5 cases, and high-performance headphones and earphones.

   Pricing and Availability  Prices for the iLuv Lightning accessories start from $29.99. Lightning power solutions are currently available and Aud 5 will be available at select retailers in May.

 
