
 


	Love doodling but hate wasting paper? Improv Electronics' latest suite of optimized Boogie Boards may delight you -- just don't also try to go water skimming with one. To jog your memory, these dry-erase board killers let you scribble down your thoughts with a stylus or your fingers, by way of pressure-sensitive reflex LCDs. To start, there are two 8.5-inch flavors including a $45 binder-affixing slate for students, and a Brookstone exclusive fitted with an acrylic case available in black or red hues for $40. Next up, the $60, 10.5-incher has about fifty percent more surface area -- for doodles of epic proportion, and "charm loops" to step up the note-jotting style game. Lastly for owners of the original Boogie, there's a $20 cork board-sporting Message Center dock that's great for wall-mounting (and making your whiteboard feel inadequate). To sweeten the deal, each item comes with a stylus. If your writing bug is finding itself piqued, you'll find all the pre-order info in the PR after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Improv Electronics Launches New Boogie Board™ LCD Writing Tablet Models and Accessories 		Kent, Ohio, USA – Tuesday, May 31, 2011: Improv Electronics has announced the launch of four new Boogie Board™ products as part of the company's Push Green™ efforts. The new products create a comprehensive family of environmentally-friendly eWriters and accessories. The following products are included in the launch: 		Boogie Board 10.5 LCD Writing Tablet		Boogie Board 8.5 LCD Writing Tablet for Binders		Boogie Board Message Center		Boogie Board 8.5 LCD Writing Tablet (custom Brookstone design) 		The Boogie Board 10.5 LCD Writing Tablet is now available for purchase from various online and in-store retailers in Japan for 6980 yen MSRP. It can be pre-ordered for shipment to addresses in all other countries through www.improvelectronics.com for $59.95 USD. 		The Boogie Board 10.5 tablet includes a 10.5" (diagonal) writing surface that is nearly 50% larger than the 8.5" surface of the original Boogie Board tablet. It also features replaceable batteries, an integrated stylus holder, charm loops and an erase lock button. 		The new Boogie Board 8.5 LCD Writing Tablet for Binders clips easily into 2, 3 and 4 ring binders, making it ideal for student use. The Boogie Board Message Center is an accessory that attaches to almost any flat surface and allows the original Boogie Board tablet to be slid in for stationary use and out to take it on the go. Both of these products can be pre-ordered through www.improvelectronics.com for $44.95 USD and $19.95 USD, respectively. The Boogie Board Message Center includes a reversible cork/metallic insert; the metallic side can be custom engraved for $9.95 USD. 		In early June, a custom-designed Boogie Board 8.5 tablet will be sold exclusively at Brookstone stores and through Brookstone.com for $39.95 USD. The design features a clear acrylic case, red or charcoal top cover plate, and integrated stylus holder. 		"Our original 8.5" Boogie Board tablet was met with tremendous worldwide demand after its launch in 2010," said Kent Displays/Improv Electronics CEO Dr. Albert Green. "It and the four new products we announced today are major steps toward creating a robust eWriter product segment that will replace traditional paper for average, everyday writing and drawing tasks. As a leader in this segment, we will continue to introduce additional Boogie Board products including the much anticipated save version in fall 2011." 		In conjunction with today's product launch, Improv Electronics has introduced www.improvelectronics.com to accommodate the expanded Boogie Board product family and future products lines. In mid June, Improv Electronics will launch the first of its new product lines, color-changing iPod Touch cases. The cases will utilize Kent Displays Reflex™ LCD Electronic Skins. 		About Improv Electronics 		Improv Electronics was formed in 2010 as the consumer products subsidiary of Kent Displays. Founded in 1993, Kent Displays, Inc. is a world leader in the research, development and manufacture of Reflex No Power LCDs for unique, sustainable applications including electronic skins, writing tablets, smartcards and eReaders. 		Go to the following Web sites and online communities for additional information:		· Learn more about Boogie Board LCD Writing Tablets and register for e–mail alerts at www.improvelectronics.com		· Become a Boogie Board follower/friend on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube		· Submit a Boogie Board reseller application at www.improvelectronics.com/us/en/retailer-distributor.html		· Learn more about Kent Displays at www.kentdisplays.com or e-mail info@kentdisplays.com 		Boogie Board, Reflex and Improv Electronics are trademarks of Kent Displays, Inc.
 