
 
Visa has been trying to finagle its way onto mobiles for quite a while, and its latest attempt, done in partnership with DeviceFidelity, has now been named as the In2Pay system for iPhones of 3G and 3GS varieties. Built around an app ensconced on a MicroSD card inside that oh-so-special iPhone case, this offers contactless payments anywhere that Visa's payWave is available, as well as secure access to buildings and computer networks. Yep, that sounds like it's definitely going to end in tears, but the brave cash collectors are pressing ahead. Trials are still set for the second quarter of this year, which makes them imminent, and soon thereafter we'll all be making our ill-advised purchases with even greater ease. Video and full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textDeviceFidelity Announces Mobile Contactless Payment Solution for iPhoneProtective case designed to host microSD based contactless apps turning iPhone into a Visa mobile payment deviceRichardson, May 17, 2010DeviceFidelity, Inc. today announced the availability of its In2PayTM solution for iPhone, designed to enable iPhone users to make contactless transactions, such as Visa mobile payments, by simply waving the iPhone in front of a contactless payment terminal. The solution combines DeviceFidelity's In2Pay microSD technology with a specially designed, patent-pending protective case that adds mobile contactless capability and works with iPhone 3GS and iPhone 3G.By placing a removable In2Pay microSD into the protective case, iPhone users can take advantage of In2Pay's secure contactless capabilities where contactless transactions are offered. They range from buying goods in retail stores and at unattended kiosks, to transit ticketing, and even securely accessing buildings and computers networks. Trials are scheduled to start during the second quarter of 2010."The more than 200,000 apps on the App Store are an integral part of iPhone users' lives." said Amitaabh Malhotra, COO, DeviceFidelity. "With our In2Pay solution, we want to give both iPhone users and app developers the power to do even more, by putting the convenience of interactive secure mobile transactions, right at their fingertips, anywhere they are."DeviceFidelity and Visa collaborated to combine Visa's contactless payment technology, Visa payWave, and In2Pay technology to transform a mobile phone with a microSD memory slot into a mobile contactless payment device. Today's announcement extends this functionality to iPhone and has the potential to accelerate the adoption of mobile contactless payments globally, especially in geographies where merchants have already upgraded payment terminals to accept contactless transactions."Visa is working to bring the security and convenience of digital currency to mobile users around the world," said Dave Wentker, Head of Mobile Contactless Payments at Visa Inc. "Our collaboration with DeviceFidelity can extend the reach of Visa mobile payments to millions of iPhone users."The In2Pay solution gives iPhone users the ability to add greater convenience, flexibility and functionality. The In2Pay solution is designed to stay attached to iPhone and provides a micro USB slot for users to sync and charge their devices. DeviceFidelity's In2Pay microSD provides secure, convenient one-click access to contactless transactions. Compatible with smart card industry standards, the microSD can be issued and personalized like traditional smart cards or in the future through a secure download of the account information via a mobile network.DeviceFidelity has multiple patents pending in the USA and several international countries for microSD and handset case based plug-and-play technology. DeviceFidelity has recently launched a partnership program allowing application and Trusted Service Manager system developers to upgrade their NFC solutions by adding support for the In2Pay microSD. The In2Pay microSD can be inserted securely and easily into the In2Pay Case for iPhone.About DeviceFidelity, Inc.DeviceFidelity, Inc. develops plug-and-play technologies that empower a variety of institutions to deploy their services and applications on millions of mobile phones worldwide. Its patent-pending In2Pay microSD solution, transforms any mobile phone with a memory card slot into an interactive contactless transaction device. Committed to bringing contactless innovation to the mobile phone, the company has numerous patents pending in both U.S. and international patent offices. DeviceFidelity is a private corporation with headquarters in Richardson, Texas and offices in Foster City, California. For more information, go to www.devicefidelity.com.
 