
 
Did you find the iLoveHandles iPod nano wrist strap a little bit too restrained? Never fear, Incipio has served up this new Linq case, which swells up the 6th-gen nano with an ostentatiously rugged shell, a velcro strap, and a couple of daring new color options. Whether you're a fan of baby pink or macho blue, there will be a Linq... just for you. Damn, you can build a whole advertising campaign around that. Anyhow, this new take on the iWatch concept will be available early next month for $25 with additional straps setting you back another $10. Or you can just buy a real watch -- the choice, as always, is yours.
      

 

Show full PR textIncipio is taking a whole new design path with this wrist-warn carrying solution for the iPod nano. Meet the most rugged carrying solution for iPod nano produced to date, the Linq™. This is for users who already have or aspire for a lifestyle of action. Linq™ provides the user with an all-day, everyday accessory that may be worn effortlessly but always boldly.The Linq™ design was born from the logical "link" between the idea of the iPod nano existing simultaneously as a timepiece and a media player. Linq® is your ultimate watch, built to endure a rugged lifestyle. Your once fragile iPod nano is not so fragile anymore as it sits in Incipio's award winning Next Generation Polymer material securing to the wrist with a nylon and Velcro interchangeable strap. This durable and rugged iPod nano carrying option is a perfect solution for users who want to keep all functions of the nano close at hand (literally) at all times. Now you can wear your 6th generation iPod nano all day, everyday without a hint of it ever being worn (or torn)."Our entire design team at Incipio is obsessed with watches both old and new. This product was fun and exciting to work on. We can't wait to carry our iPod nano media players on our wrists" stated President, Andy Fathollahi.Linq™ available beginning of October for $24.99 including strap. Each additional strap is $9.99.
 