
 
If you've always wanted a D&D-style bag of holding, we're thinking Infinitec's IUM is as close as you're going to get, looking like a plain 'ol USB thumb drive but actually storing an infinite amount of, well, stuff. However, you're going to have to wait a little longer to reach into this magic satchel, with the unit's ship date being delayed until the end of August. The price is still the same, at $129, and the company was kind enough to create a video just for you that shows how it all works. It's embedded below, but if you're looking for the Cliff's Notes it shows pairing the thumb drive to a computer, installing some hosting software, and then streaming the Avatar trailer from a laptop to an Xbox 360 in HD with seemingly no lag nor dropped frames. Looks great, but will it work that well in the real world on a typical internet connection? We can't wait to find out.





Show full PR textInfinitec Announces Final Shipping Date for World's First Infinite USB Memory Drive Highly anticipated Infinite USB Memory Drive (IUM) will Ship August 31st and comes with New Sleek Design. Pre-orders start August 1st.Dubai, 28 June 2010: Dubai-based Infinitec announced today that it will begin shipping the world's first Infinite USB Memory Drive (IUM) to its customers on August 31st 2010. This small delay in shipping the highly anticipated wireless device that mimics traditional USB flash drives is due to industry lead time issues in sourcing components and microchips. Ahmad Zahran, Chief Executive Officer at Infinitec, pointed out, "We've had to slightly delay our product shipping date because of all the issues in the industry for component sourcing. We understand that our customers are eager to get their hand on the product and we've received many requests to ship earlier. Unfortunately this unexpected situation has simply been one that we couldn't avoid. However, to make up for it we'll open our site for pre-orders sooner and give our customers free shipping during that period." The device will be initially sold through the company's website, which will open for pre-orders on August 1st 2010. This will allow eager consumers to place their orders prior to the August 31st date and receive free shipping to any destination around the world. Infinitec is also working with several distributors and resellers to allow the IUM to become available in retail stores globally within the next year.In addition, the company also announced that the IUM has been re-designed to become sleeker and more attractive. "We wanted the IUM to be instantly recognisable, something extra-ordinary and extremely attractive," said David McKern, Chief Marketing Officer at Infinitec. "We've also made sure it's small enough to fit in your pocket without inconveniencing you and that you can connect it into tight USB locations such as the Xbox 360's USB port design which is very small."Pre-orders for the IUM will open on August 1st 2010 and can be make through the Infinitec website (www.infinitec.com). The product will sell at $129 and customers who pre-order before the August 1st shipping date will receive free shipping to any destination around the world. About Infinitec (http://www.infinitec.com)Infinitec is a modern developer and marketeer of innovative products and technologies. With an avant-garde vision of the future and a strong focus on simplifying our customers' lives, the company aims to simplify the way users interact in the Digital World.
 