
 
We're guessing that the past six months have dragged on (or zipped by, depending on viewpoint) for the folks at Infinitec as they waited for this day, but the device we first spotted at the Engadget trailer during CES 2010 is finally up for pre-order. Hailed as the world's first "infinite USB flash drive," this ad hoc streaming device enables any two locally networked devices to send content to one another, and as of today, those who have longed for just this thing can get in line. The startup's also taking this opportunity to gloat about the "dual-WiFi" capabilities included (a video explanation awaits you past the break), which essentially enables an IUM-equipped laptop to connect to another device while retaining its live connection to the web. Hit the source link to part ways with your $129, and if you buy in early, you'll be gifted with gratis worldwide shipping come August 31st. And you can't beat that deal with a stick, USB or otherwise.
      

 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textInfinitec Opens Pre-Orders for IUM & Announces World's First Dual-WiFi Consumer Product Pre-Orders of the Highly Anticipated Infinite USB Memory Drive (IUM) are now open through the Infinitec Website. The Company has also Announced that the IUM is the First in the World to have Dual-WiFi Capabilities.Dubai, 1 August 2010: Infinitec has opened its website to pre-orders for the world's first Infinite USB Memory Drive (IUM). The product that was first seen at CES in January 2010 has since been highly anticipated by electronics and media enthusiasts. Although the company has been hit by some industry delays, customers can now finally place their pre-orders by going to the company's website (www.infinitec.com). Infinitec is giving customers who pre-order free delivery worldwide and promises to start shipping units on August 31st 2010. Ahmad Zahran, Chief Executive Officer at Infinitec, enthusiastically explained, "We've been waiting for this day for a long time and preparing very hard for it. We're extremely excited to finally be offering such a revolutionary product to the market and we hope that customers will get a sense on how much hard work has been put into it, especially into making something this complex and innovative as simple and easy to use as an MP3 player." The IUM is also the first consumer electronic product in the world to offer Dual-WiFi as a core feature. Dual-WiFi is the ability for a device to connect to two separate WiFi networks simultaneously. This will allow the user of the IUM to connect their computer's WiFi to the IUM without losing their internet connection. In essence the IUM will connect to both the user's computer and the home/office access point simultaneously and re-route internet traffic back to the user."Dual-WiFi is something that has been attempted by a few companies but never has it been done like this before," said David McKern, Chief Marketing Officer at Infinitec. "We've been able to alter the DNA of WiFi networks, so to speak, to create a unique solution that gives our customers a complete and seamless experience. Without Dual-WiFi the user would have had to choose between connecting to the internet or using the IUM and this was not something we wanted for our customers."About Infinitec (http://www.infinitec.com)Infinitec is a modern developer and marketeer of innovative products and technologies. With an avant-garde vision of the future and a strong focus on simplifying our customers' lives, the company aims to simplify the way users interact in the Digital World.
 