
 The Week in Green is a new item from our friends at Inhabitat, recapping the week's most interesting green developments and clean tech news for us.


 
This week Inhabitat showcased several smart new technologies that harness clean green energy from unexpected (and undeniably awesome) sources. Volcanoes may be the bane of air travel as of late, but Indonesia has hatched a plan to harness their geothermal might to produce 4,000 megawatts of power. Meanwhile The Netherlands is turning the tide on hydroelectric power by upgrading their dikes with energy generating underwater turbines. 

In other news, harnessing energy from stars may seem like an out-of-this-world proposition, but that's precisely what scientists are attempting to achieve as they fire up the world's largest laser in an attempt to grasp the holy grail of energy: nuclear fusion. And speaking of out-of-this-world developments, this week Japan announced plans to launch its solar "Ikaros" spacecraft, which will sail through the stars using rays of light. 

While keeping stride with these developments we also looked at several innovative technologies that stand to shape the future of consumer tech. Looking to put some punch in your step? Then try these energy generating piezoelectric shoes on for size. We also brought an eye-opening new night vision technology to light that is so thin, lightweight, and cheap that it can integrated directly into eyeglasses, car windows, and cell phone cameras. Even our canine friends are getting high-tech upgrades -- check out this geo-tagging rescue dog jacket that can be used by people in peril to transmit emergency messages. 

Finally, this weekend marks the start of the 2010 Shanghai World Expo, which we're celebrating by showcasing the top six futuristic pavilions that harness high-tech green building strategies. But if you only check out one, make it the amazing interactive Dream Cube, which is made from recycled CD cases and features a stunning LED-laden facade that changes color with a wave of the hand.
      

 