
 In Insert Coin, we look at an exciting new tech project that requires funding before it can hit production. If you'd like to pitch a project, please send us a tip with "Insert Coin" as the subject line.Perhaps the simplest function on any camera, the shutter release is typically triggered using a dedicated button, or -- most often in the case of a professional rig -- using a wired or wireless remote. The Triggertrap falls into that latter category, completing the circuit necessary to capture an image after receiving commands from a virtually limitless array of sources. After pairing with your DSLR or ILC using a universal connector, you'll be able to trigger the device to snap a photo using a laser beam (thanks to the built-in photo transistor), sound (a hand clap, for example), or a timer -- typically most applicable to time-lapse photography. An auxiliary port will enable you to get even more creative -- you could release the shutter using a remote control, pressure trigger, or even a cell phone call, for example.The Triggertrap is well on its way to a Kickstarter campaign goal of $25,000, but there's still time to pre-order a DIY kit for $70, or a turn-key version for five bucks more. As always, Kickstarter will issue a refund if the project isn't funded before the July 31st deadline. Both devices are Arduino based and open source, so you're free to make modifications as you wish -- assuming you don't mind getting your hands dirty with a bit of programming. Jump past the break for a quick demo video, and keep an eye out for the creator's Pringles can DIY macro lens, just past the 13 second mark.
      

 

   Previous project update: SoBi, the Social Bicycles bike sharing system (and our last Insert Coin project), still needs a very generous push to meet its $75,000 goal, with just over 5 percent of the necessary funding granted so far. A more favorable credit incentive would certainly help -- a 1:1 reward-to-risk ratio doesn't exactly seem to be bringing in the necessary amount of pledges.
 