
They innovated, you voted, we tallied, and now it's time to announce the Insert Coin: New Challengers semifinalists who will be joining us at Expand next month. The 10 contenders will be tabling at Javits and will join us on stage to demo their entries, foron by our panel of judges, including Ryan Block, Ben Heck, Hilary Mason and Peter Rojas -- and you at home, of course. Check out the full list after the break and thanks everyone for voting!



BITalino

A toolkit comprised of hardware and software blocks that let students, app developers and hardware tinkerers build projects based around electromyography, electrocardiography, electrodermal activity and accelerometry physiological sensors.

Blinkscan

Scan several individual images in an instant. BlinkScan can snap up to 64 items in a single go, cropping each and saving them as separate files without ever opening photo-editing software.

DIWire Bender

We've seen desktop 3D printing explode over the past few years and milling doesn't seem all that far behind. Wire-bending, on the other hand, is another story -- albeit one with some pretty cool visuals. Connect the DIWire to your computer and you'll be bending wire-based creations in minutes.

GrowCubes

How to grow healthy produce when you live in the big city? These stackable appliances adjust lighting and utilize aeroponic nutrient sprays to help you grow fruits and vegetables in the relative comfort of your urban dwelling.

HeadsUp

We've all wanted a heads-up display for our car ever since we first saw Top Gun, right? HeadsUP pulls together a windshield display, voice recognition, gestures and a number of other technologies to help reduce driver distraction.

iOximeter

A smartphone-powered oximeter that relies on a headphone jack for charging. This iOS and Android compatible device helps you keep track of your pulse rate and blood oxygen levels.

Mr. Postman

Who says mail is dead? Well, most people, these days, but what if there were a device that could bring the lost art of sending letters to the 21st century? Mr. Postman is a smart mailbox that you can monitor with your handset.

NutriSurface

A Bluetooth food scale designed to monitor the nutritional intake of food for athletes, dieters and those with conditions like diabetes.

MyBell

A modern rethink of the ubiquitous metal bike bell, MyBell lets you customize electronic sounds and lights, to make sure the rest of the world gets out of your way.

Smart Power Strip

A powerstrip-based take on home automation. Plug your appliances in and you can remotely control them via smartphone. The included app alerts you to power consumption and a built-in module allows other smart devices to interact with your automated home.


