
Calling all makers, dreamers, inventors and entrepreneurs, Insert Coin: New Challengers is back for round two! We were absolutely blown away by the responses to our Expand San Francisco competition. We had a hell of a time whittling all of the submissions down to a group of semi-finalists and had a blast interacting with all of the finalists on the show floor. Ultimately, Ziphius' head-turning aquatic drone took home the gold, a well-deserved and hard fought win. This time out, we'll giving 10 semifinalists tickets to the show, along with a $1,000 travel stipend. One Judges' Choice winner will walk away with $10,000 and one Readers' Choice winner will get $15,000. Both will also score a product review on this site.


Think you've got what it takes to walk away with the big prize at Expand NY in November? Well, now's your chance. We're opening up submissions today through September 27th. Semifinalists will be announced on this site and the big winners will be unveiled at the show. Submissions rules can be found after the break and over on our event page. We can't wait to see what you've got cooking this time out!




Prize Details
  10 semifinalists will receive tickets to Expand NY and a $1,000 travel stipend to cover costs while appearing at the event.
   5 finalists will be chosen by the judges-only vote on day 1 of Expand NY, who will be eligible for the 2 prizes below.
   1 Judges' Choice winner will receive $10,000 and a product review on Engadget.
   1 Readers' Choice winner will receive $15,000 and a product review on Engadget.
 The Process
Phase 1: Submissions
Submissions accepted: 06/17/2013 to 11:59 PM EDT on 09/27/13
Submit all of the details about your project and your contact information using this form -- keep in mind: you must not have an existing crowdfunding effort underway for this project already! Your product must also not be launched or in production currently; we would prefer that your project not have received widespread media coverage to date, but if you have already attracted attention, we will take these individual projects on a case-by-case basis.
Engadget editors will review all submissions and select 20 contenders. We will be judging according to the following criteria: Project connection on an intellectual level, Project connection on a behavioral level, Project connection on an emotional level, Market potential, Ability of creator / team to deliver it to market, Level of solution (coarse to refined), Social impact, Environmental benefits and Ingenuity. After submissions close, we will begin contacting the 20 prospective contenders the following week to confirm eligibility requirements, so please be sure to provide current and accurate contact information.
Phase 2: Online voting 10/4/2013 - 10/10/2013 
After the 20 contenders are selected, Engadget will open online voting from 10/4/2013 to 10/10/2013 to let the audience choose 10 semifinalists that will appear at Expand NY and receive a $1,000 travel stipend. We will announce the slate of 10 semifinalists on 10/14/2013. 
Phase 3: Semifinalists at Expand NY 11/9/2013 - 11/10/2013
On Day 1 of Expand NY: All 10 semifinalists will take the stage to give a demo and presentation of their gadgets in groups of three or four. Judges will select the top 5 finalists by their vote, and we will open up online audience voting for the Readers' Choice award after the finalists have been announced.
On Day 2 of Expand NY: The 5 finalists will take the stage again to give a quick demo one last time before the judges cast their votes for the Judges' Choice award. 
*Please note all 10 semifinalists are also given space on the showroom floor. 
Phase 4: Winners crowned on 11/10/13
We will crown two winners on Day 2 according to the following criteria:
  Judges' Choice: Selected by the judges based on presentations and a list of criteria. Winner will receive $10,000 to help fund the project, as well as a review on Engadget.
   Readers' Choice: The project with the greatest number of votes from the total pool of online voting will receive $15,000 to help fund the product, as well as a review on Engadget.
 Rules:
  Existing products / updates to existing products will not be accepted.
   Product should not be announced, though those with limited coverage will be assessed on an individual basis at Engadget editorial's sole discretion.
   Product must not have an existing Kickstarter, Indiegogo or other crowdfunding effort already underway.
   Companies must be ready to launch crowdfunding campaigns around the event.
   Products must fall within Engadget's coverage scope, as determined by Engadget editorial.
   Products must have a hardware component and not be purely software or web services in origin.
   Inventors who are selected as Semifinalists will need a working prototype or other presentation for a team of Engadget editors ahead of the event.
   Simulations or product renderings will not suffice to enter Insert Coin; what you have to show to us must be functional.
   No products from major manufacturers will be accepted.
 Full official rules: For the full legalese, please be sure to read the Official Rules. Most notably in addition to the above, you must be 13 years of age or older and reside in the US or Canada (excluding Quebec).
If you have questions about the contest, its rules or whether your project meets the submission criteria, please contact expand[at]engadget.com.
Good luck, and may the best project(s) win!

 