


The sound of gunfire echoes across the room, followed by an approving roar from the crowd. A five-man team called "Ninjas in Pyjamas" has taken the lead and fans can hardly contain their excitement. Another counter-terrorist suddenly drops to the floor and the noise from the crowd rises again, as two suit-clad presenters babble feverishly into headsets about the tactics at play. There's no time for celebration though. The players remain fixated on their PC monitors, fingers dancing across keyboards and mice as they guide their virtual characters around an abandoned warehouse complex.


#fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-654508{display:none;} .cke_show_borders #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-654508, #postcontentcontainer #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-654508{width:570px;display:block;}try{document.getElementById("fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-654508").style.display="none";}catch(e){}
Welcome to "eSports," the highest level of competition for video games. Players around the world practise tirelessly in the hope of making the upper echelons of their favourite title, where professional teams, lucrative sponsorships and huge cash prizes await. Inside the new "Gfinity Arena," on an overcast Friday afternoon, four teams face off in a new tournament for Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, a tactical shooter developed by Valve. On a normal day, these teams would be competing online, from the comfort of their bedrooms or dedicated squad houses. But the popularity of eSports has given birth to physical tournaments where players compete side-by-side, with adoring fans celebrating every kill.

Gfinity is an eSports organiser based in the UK, catering for some of the biggest games including League of Legends and StarCraft II, as well as British favourites such as Call of Duty, FIFA and Halo. It's only been operating for a couple of years, but already management has decided to take the plunge with the UK's first dedicated eSports venue. A permanent fixture is incredibly rare for eSports; the biggest and most reputable competitions, such as Evo and The International, are annual affairs that represent the pinnacle of their respective games. An "arena" that stays open all year round is a far riskier proposition. The number of people watching eSports online continues to grow, but no-one knows if that huge volume will translate to consistent audiences in the real world.
"The demand is there," Neville Upton, CEO of Gfinity says. "If we want to raise our game and get a higher level of quality and production, having a fixed site makes a big difference. If you're always moving around and setting up kit, it's hard work and it's more difficult to focus on quality. Now we can just focus on the players, the spectators and the experience because everything is rigged up and ready to go. So every time we do an event, it's going to get better and better, because we'll be focusing on the quality of the output."

The "Gfinity Arena" isn't a stadium like Wembley or the Bernabeu. The company partnered with Vue, one of the biggest cinema chains in the UK, to convert part of its theatre inside the Fulham Broadway shopping centre. It's still a cinema, first and foremost, but Gfinity has turned three of the screens and some of the adjoining rooms into a professional gamer's paradise. Two of the screens have been set aside for the competitions themselves; each one is fitted with two glass booths, where up to five players can sit inside with monstrous desktop PCs. A huge screen overhead gives an overview of the action, while smaller monitors underneath track the individual players. Bright spotlights sweep across the crowd and commentators chatter in front of a small backdrop at the side of the room.




