
 

For better or worse, Instagram's taken the iOS-capturing world by storm. And if you're wondering what our qualification for "by storm" is, well... let's just say The Biebs blasted out his first image on the service last month. As the story goes, four young lads with a fistful of dollars and boundless imaginations started up the famed app on October 6th, 2010. Today, there's still only four employees, but the user base has expanded just a wee bit. The outfit just saw its 150 millionth photo uploaded (shown after the break!), with the current rate clocking in at around 15 images per second. Naturally, we took the opportunity to ask one of those four what this meant for a future Android release, and while he confirmed that he had nothing to announce right away, he did mention that the (still free) iOS build is just "the beginning of what's to come." So, how's about dropping a link to your favorite Instagram down in comments below? Best one wins!
      

 

   Instagram's 150 millionth image, credit janefot 		Show full PR text  150MM photos milestone 		On October 6, 2010 we launched Instagram in the App Store as a way for people to easily share their lives through photos taken on their iPhones. Since then, we've seen more than 7 million people from all around the world share photos on our platform. Today, we're excited to announce that more than 150 million photos have been shared on Instagram and Instagrammers now share photos with one another at a rate of 15 photos per second. If you don't yet have Instagram, you can find it for free, exclusively in the Apple App Store. 		We're constantly amazed by the range of photos shared on Instagram. Instagrammers snap photos of everyday moments with friends and family, but they also document more significant personal moments, like weddings and honeymoons. There are Instagram photos from major events like the World Series and the Grammys, and some Instagram photos have even made the national news. Artists and celebrities have begun to give fans a unique look into their lives through photos, while brands like Burberry have started to realize the power of communicating with their followers through images. 		Take a look at some of our favorite photos from the last 150 million below, and thank you for sharing your stories through Instagram. Here's to another 150 million!
 