
 
 We'll spare you the puns and meme references here. (Besides, how many Xzibit jokes can you take?) INSTEON has decided that simply saving you money on your electric bill isn't enough anymore. If you're going to cough up nearly $30 for an LED lightbulb, there better be some value added features. So, the company stuck a proprietary dual-band wireless receiver inside each of its eco-friendly lights allowing them to connect to a home automation system. There is a dedicated remote you could buy, but why bother when there's an app available for both Android and iOS that lets you turn on, off and dim the lights from the comfort of your touch screen. You can even create custom "scenes" for preset lighting levels. Unlike most remote lighting solutions, though, all the necessary hardware is built into the bulbs themselves. In fact, each one acts as a signal repeater, passing along instructions both wirelessly and though the powerlines to make sure ever corner of your home is covered. For more check out the PR and video after the break.



   Show full PR text   INSTEON® Ships World's First Remote Control Networked LED Bulb  $29.99 Bulb Offers Dimmable Remote Control with iOS and Android Apps

   IRVINE, Calif., June 19, 2012 - INSTEON®, manufacturers of the best-selling, most reliable home automation technology, today introduced the INSTEON LED Bulb 8 Watt (60W), the world's first-to-market networked remote control dimmable LED light bulb. Featuring INSTEON's award-winning technology in a sleek design, the INSTEON LED Bulb is a technological innovation sure to brighten both the connected home and personal technology industries alike.

   "For years, home automation has controlled light fixtures with plug-in lamp modules, wire-in switches and keypads. But, until now, no one has controlled the bulb itself. It's exciting to be the first to introduce a new product to the world," said Joe Dada, chief executive officer, INSTEON.

   The INSTEON LED Bulb features simple setup, intuitive control and easy linking to any INSTEON controller, such as a handheld remote. When paired with the free INSTEON app, the SmartLinc Hub turns an iOS/Android smartphone or tablet into a fully functioning remote control of the bulb or an entire INSTEON network. The bulb is fully dimmable and can be added to any number of scenes to create custom lighting at the touch of a button.

   The INSTEON LED Bulb contains INSTEON's patented dual-band communication technology, the most reliable, efficient communication system available. Just like other INSTEON devices, the bulb acts as a network signal repeater and sends signals over both radio frequencies (RF) and a home's existing wires (powerline).

   The INSTEON LED Bulb retails for $29.99. For more information or to watch a demonstration video, visit www.insteon.com/bulb.

   "The market is very excited to be getting an LED bulb with remote control built in, at a price that is actually below the cost of most standard LED bulbs. It's like getting remote control for free," said Joe Gerber, president, INSTEON.

   The INSTEON LED Bulb is the latest addition to the INSTEON product family, built upon the best-selling SmartLinc Hub. The INSTEON product family ranges from wall switches, plug-in modules and keypads to thermostats and motion sensors.

   With its simple installation and setup process and trustworthy communication, INSTEON has become the industry's premier remote control networking technology. Plug-in modules and in-wall switches make it possible to add wireless control to any appliance in a home or business without having to hire a contractor. By making every networked device talk to each other via radio frequencies and existing electrical wiring, INSTEON eliminates the need for custom wiring.

   For more information about INSTEON or the bulb, please visit www.insteon.com.

   About INSTEON®  Developed in Irvine, Calif., the award-winning INSTEON remote control product line has a growing list of devices , from lamp dimmers to thermostats and irrigation controllers. INSTEON delivers the fastest, most reliable wireless device communication in the industry with its innovative dual-band and simulcast mesh technology. INSTEON products are available through select retail partners, including Smarthome.com, Best Buy, Amazon, Newegg and Home Depot.

 
