

 Intel is back to its old games in Q2 of 2012, raking in $13.5 billion during the second three month financial period of the year, up from $12.9 billion in the first quarter and a solid five percent year over year. Of that impressive pile of cash, Chipzilla was able to pocket $2.8 billion in net income, up $100,000 from Q1 and three percent from the same time period last year. That equates to a healthy $0.57 per share in earnings, which should make investors happy. PC Client Group enjoyed slow but steady growth, seeing its revenues grow by three percent, but the big story is the Data Center division which saw revenues climb 14 percent to $2.8 billion, sequentially.

 It's not all wine and roses however, the processor giant also lowered its expectations for Q3 after falling slightly short of its goal this quarter. Growth is expected to continue, but at a much slower rate thanks to the "challenging macroeconomic environment." Of course, an estimated $14.3 billion in Q3 would match its previous earnings record and is hardly anything to sniff at.

 During today's earnings call Paul Otellini took time to brag about how well the current generation of products was performing. Production had ramped up quicker than previous gen hardware, and was selling better than earlier lines of CPUs. And, though he gave no specifics, he said the company's tracking at least 20 Windows 8 tablets powered by Intel's hardware. The company also said that it credited most of its (admittedly limited) growth in the PC market to reclaiming a tiny sliver of the bottom end from AMD. Otellini also reaffirmed that Clovertrail devices will be on the market just in time to be shoehorned inside Windows 8 tablets at the launch of the new OS.



  Show full PR text   Intel Reports Second-Quarter Revenue of $13.5 Billion
   SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 17, 2012 - Intel Corporation today reported quarterly revenue of $13.5 billion, operating income of $3.8 billion, net income of $2.8 billion and EPS of $0.54. The company generated approximately $4.7 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion and used $1.1 billion to repurchase stock.

    "The second quarter was highlighted by solid execution with continued strength in the data center and multiple product introductions in Ultrabooks and smartphones," said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. "As we enter the third quarter, our growth will be slower than we anticipated due to a more challenging macroeconomic environment. With a rich mix of Ultrabook and Intel-based tablet and phone introductions in the second half, combined with the long-term investments we're making in our product and manufacturing areas, we are well positioned for this year and beyond."

   Business Outlook  Intel's Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after July 17.

   Q3 2012 (GAAP, unless otherwise stated)  Revenue: $14.3 billion, plus or minus $500 million.  Gross margin percentage: 63 percent and 64 percent Non-GAAP (excluding amortization of acquisition-related intangibles), both plus or minus a couple of percentage points.  R&D plus MG&A spending: approximately $4.6 billion.  Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles: approximately $80 million.  Impact of equity investments and interest and other: approximately zero.  Depreciation: approximately $1.6 billion.

   Full-Year 2012 (GAAP, unless otherwise stated)  Revenue up between 3 percent and 5 percent year over year, down from the prior expectation for high single-digit growth.  Gross margin percentage: 64 percent and 65 percent Non-GAAP (excluding amortization of acquisition-related intangibles), both plus or minus a couple points.  Spending (R&D plus MG&A): $18.2 billion, plus or minus $200 million, down $100 million from prior expectations.  Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles: approximately $300 million, unchanged.  Depreciation: $6.3 billion, plus or minus $100 million, down $100 million from prior expectations.  Tax Rate: approximately 28 percent, unchanged.  Full-year capital spending: $12.5 billion, plus or minus $400 million, unchanged.  For additional information regarding Intel's results and Business Outlook, please see the CFO commentary at: www.intc.com/results.cfm.

   Status of Business Outlook  Intel's Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business Sept. 14 unless earlier updated; except that the Business Outlook for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, impact of equity investments and interest and other, and tax rate, will be effective only through the close of business on July 24. Intel's Quiet Period will start from the close of business on Sept. 14 until publication of the company's third-quarter earnings release, scheduled for Oct. 16. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the company's news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.

   Q2 Key Financial Information (GAAP)  PC Client Group revenue of $8.7 billion, up 3 percent sequentially.  Data Center Group revenue of $2.8 billion, up 14 percent sequentially.  Other Intel® architecture group revenue of $1.1 billion, up 3 percent sequentially.

   Risk Factors

   The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should" and their variations identify forward-looking statements. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Many factors could affect Intel's actual results, and variances from Intel's current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.

    Demand could be different from Intel's expectations due to factors including changes in business and economic conditions, including supply constraints and other disruptions affecting customers; customer acceptance of Intel's and competitors' products; changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and changes in the level of inventory at customers. Uncertainty in global economic and financial conditions poses a risk that consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to negative financial events, which could negatively affect product demand and other related matters.

    Intel operates in intensely competitive industries that are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term and product demand that is highly variable and difficult to forecast. Revenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the timing of Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intel's response to such actions; and Intel's ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products.

    The gross margin percentage could vary significantly from expectations based on capacity utilization; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; changes in revenue levels; segment product mix; the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs; start-up costs; excess or obsolete inventory; changes in unit costs; defects or disruptions in the supply of materials or resources; product manufacturing quality/yields; and impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets.

    The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income. The tax rate may be affected by the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including payment of interest and penalties; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets.  Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses on the sale, exchange, change in the fair value or impairments of debt and equity investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.

    Intel's results could be affected by adverse economic, social, political and physical/infrastructure conditions in countries where Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including military conflict and other security risks, natural disasters, infrastructure disruptions, health concerns and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, as well as restructuring and asset impairment charges, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products and the level of revenue and profits.

    Intel's results could be affected by the timing of closing of acquisitions and divestitures.  Intel's results could be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust, disclosure and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting Intel from manufacturing or selling one or more products, precluding particular business practices, impacting Intel's ability to design its products, or requiring other remedies such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.

    A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intel's results is included in Intel's SEC filings, including the company's most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K.

 
