
 
Now this is what you call a juicy standoff. Intel has announced that Paul Otellini will grace the stage at IDF next week with a demo of his company's next-gen CPU/GPU chip, codenamed Sandy Bridge, and not to be outdone, AMD has immediately retorted with plans to put its own Zacate competitor up on display -- at the same time, in the same city, but at a slightly different location. Both Zacate and Sandy Bridge meld general-purpose and graphical processing duties into one slice of silicon, consolidating the traditionally discrete CPU and GPU into a power-efficient do-it-all chip. You'll find details of where AMD's impromptu demo will be taking place after the break, whereas the Intel Developer Forum will probably be discoverable by the masses of bespectacled engineers trudging in its general direction. Boy, San Fran's gonna be one happening place next week!
      

 

Show full PR textAMD to Demonstrate Next Generation PC ExperiencePowered by AMD Fusion APU Codenamed "Zacate"- Sneak peek of stunning HD video streaming, immersive online gaming, and accelerated Internet browsing on "Zacate" APU-based platforms slated for next week -SUNNYVALE, Calif. - Sept. 10, 2010 - Next week in San Francisco, AMD (NYSE: AMD) will unveil the first North America public demonstrations of its AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Unit (APU) codenamed "Zacate," a new dual-core, 18-watt TDP processor containing discrete-level graphics capabilities on die and designed to dramatically improve the user's PC experience. Targeting value and mainstream notebooks and desktops, "Zacate" APU-based platforms bring many of the vivid digital computing experiences once reserved for high-end PCs into the opening price points of the mainstream segment. What: Demonstrations of the experience consumers can expect to see early in 2011 from a broad range of mainstream notebook and desktop PCs based on the AMD Fusion APU codenamed "Zacate", including:· Full HD streaming online video, showcasing the versatility of the "Zacate" APU-based platform to handle the most demanding multimedia tasks· Immersive online gaming with high image-quality settings, demonstrating the DirectX® 11-compliant "Zacate" APU-based platform· Preview of accelerated Internet browsing, showing how "Zacate" APU-based platforms support the future of GPU-enabled web browsing today and how these platforms perform side-by-side against currently available AMD- and Intel processor-based notebooksWhen: Monday, September 13 through Wednesday, September 15, 2010Where: San Francisco, CAWho: Senior AMD executives and engineers responsible for AMD Fusion APUsThroughout the week of September 13, 2010, AMD executives will provide frequent blog posts at blogs.amd.com on the company's demonstrations as well as commentary on new developments in the CPU, GPU and APU markets. The first two updates cover the consumer PC market and the software developer ecosystem.For those in the community who wish to learn more about the demonstrations, please follow AMD on Twitter at @AMDUnprocessed, or on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/AMD.About AMDAdvanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is an innovative technology company dedicated to collaborating with customers and technology partners to ignite the next generation of computing and graphics solutions at work, home and play. For more information, visit http://www.amd.com.Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 