
 
We can't say this one is much of a surprise, but it sure is good to get the official details on Intel's latest ultra-low voltage Core i3, i5 and i7 processors. Just as we had heard, the new dual-core CPUs will be landing this June, and though they won't be replacing the current Celeron and Pentium ULVs on the market, they'll certainly provide a more powerful option for the "ultra-thin" category. All the new 32-nanometer Nehalam chips are said to provide 32 percent better performance than previous ULVs, but a 20 percent power reduction than standard-voltage Core 2010 CPUs. And just like those regular Core 2010 processors, these get the same Turbo Boost and Hyper-threading performance advantages. All the processors have TDPs of 17 watts which is what is enabling the 50 percent improvement in thermal performance. That's all the technical details Intel shared this morning, but it shouldn't be long before we up and testing the performance and battery life of these new chips in slim laptops from MSI, Lenovo and Acer. Until then, there's the full press release after the break. 






Show full PR textIntel Expands 2010 Intel® Core™ Processor Family to Stylish Ultra-Thin LaptopsNEWS HIGHLIGHTS· The number 32 is key -- Intel's chip design and unique manufacturing dubbed "32 nanometers" delivers 32 percent slimmer laptops and more than 32 percent better performance.· Smarter, faster processors offer the perfect balance of style and performance. Ultra-thin laptops typically are approximately 0.8 to 1 inch thick and 1 to 2 pounds lighter than traditional laptops.· Chips include a multitude of new technologies to enhance performance while offering great battery life, such as Intel® Turbo Boost Technology, which intelligently provides an immediate boost when needed for certain software and Intel® HD integrated high-definition graphics.SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 24, 2010 – Intel Corporation introduced new Intel® Core™ processors today, extending the availability of its award-winning Intel Core processor family to more stylish, ultra-thin laptops. Ultraportable laptops – less than an inch thick and weighing just 2 to 5 pounds – offer the performance, battery life and connectivity consumers need on-the-go.Based on Intel's 32 nanometer (nm) technology manufacturing, the processors are more than 32 percent smaller1 and deliver more than 32 percent better performance2, all in a lightweight, sleek design. These new processors also reduce power consumption3 more than 15 percent, resulting in great battery life."Consumers crave laptops that offer style and performance, and the new 2010 Intel® Core™ Ultra-Low Voltage processors for ultra-thin laptops delivers both, in one sleek design," said Mooly Eden, vice president and general manager of the PC Client Group at Intel. "Intel's leadership in 32nm high-k metal gate process technology, combined with breakthrough architecture and design has enabled thinner, lighter and faster notebooks than previous models, with terrific battery life. Not only are laptops becoming ultraportable, but with the new processors inside, users will see faster response times and less waiting."Processors that feature Intel® Turbo Boost Technology4 will automatically accelerate performance, adjusting to the workload to give users an immediate performance boost when needed. Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology5, available in Intel® Core™ i7, Intel® Core™ i5 and Intel® Core™ i3 processors, provides responsiveness and helps reduce latency when performing several tasks simultaneously. With Intel® HD Graphics, the processors deliver crystal-clear visuals, vibrant colors and smooth high-definition (HD) video and audio playback.In addition, recently announced Mobile Intel® 5 Series Chipset designed for use with the ULV-based laptops expands support for multiple video and audio options, enhanced data and PC protection with Intel® Anti-Theft Technology and robust data protection for users' digital assets.More than 40 designs are expected from computer makers such as Acer, Asus, Lenovo and MSI, and will be offered at a variety of price points beginning in June. For more information and images, visit www.intel.com/pressroom/kits/ultrathin. To learn how ultra-thin can benefit your mobile lifestyle see the Intel Inside Scoop blog.About IntelIntel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the world's computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at www.intel.com/pressroom and blogs.intel.com. 
 