

We are already fans of the COOL-ER e-reader: if anything, its playful look and decent price point has brought a smile to our embittered faces. But still, the lack of WiFi and a Whispernet equivalent is something of a buzzkill -- who wants to rely on a USB cable or SD card in this day and age? Good news, digital book fans: Interead has big changes in store for next year, including the aforementioned WiFi and deals with AT&T for bandwidth and NewspaperDirect for access to over 1,300 newspapers and magazines. Not bad, eh? If all goes according to plan, we can expect to see the COOL-ER 3G sometime in mid-2010. Hopefully, they can set the MSRP low enough to keep consumers' interest. PR after the break.
 

Show full PR textInteread to Connect Next Generation ereader With AT&T 3G Mobile Broadband ServiceCOOL-ER ereaders in 2010 to use nation's fastest 3G networkMIAMI, Dec. 9 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Interead, makers of the COOL-ER line of ereaders, and AT&T* today announced an agreement that will deliver users of the COOL-ER 3G ereader, scheduled for release in mid-2010, the nation's fastest 3G mobile broadband experience.The current model COOL-ER, first launched worldwide in May, 2009, works in every country on the planet and comes in eight eye-catching colors. It supports books written in English, Spanish, Portuguese, German, French, Russian, Japanese and Traditional and Simplified Chinese. Books from COOL-ER's companion online bookstore, COOLER-EBOOKS.com, can be shared with up to five other readers to let friends and families share the works they love. Weighing in at only 5.6 ounces--less than a paperback--COOL-ER supports books in all of the most commonly used ebook formats. QVC will start selling the COOL-ER on Friday, Dec. 11.In 2010, Interead will launch its next generation of connected COOL-ER ereaders, including WiFi and 3G models. These models will be available from national retailers including QVC.Neil Jones, Interead's CEO, commented: "We have been overwhelmed by the positive reaction to the COOL-ER and the COOLER-EBOOKS.com bookstore. In selecting providers, we have actively sought those who share our vision and commitment to an ideal reader experience, and we're thrilled to team with AT&T to deliver content over the nation's fastest 3G network.""Compact and elegant, Interead's COOL-ER 3G will be an impressive addition to its family of readers and to the marketplace," said Glenn Lurie, president-Emerging Devices and Resale, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "We're seeing tremendous demand for ereaders and we are excited to provide the wireless connectivity that will keep consumers connected to the content they most desire on this state-of-the-art device, on the nation's fastest 3G network."Interead also today announced a partnership with NewspaperDirect, to make more than 1,300 newspapers and magazines available to COOL-ER ereaders through both the existing COOL-ER and forthcoming 3G and WiFi models.Neil Jones continued: "With the addition of thousands of newspapers and magazines from around the world, we'll be able to give readers on every COOL-ER ereader exactly the content they're looking for in precisely the way they want to receive it--quickly and reliably--wherever they are."For more information, visit www.COOLREADERS.com.* AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About IntereadBased in Reading, England and Miami, Interead and COOL-ER are the creation of seasoned entrepreneur Neil Jones. COOL-ER, the lightest and most elegant ereader available, works in nine languages, comes in eight colors, and accommodates all popular ebook formats. For more information, visit www.Interead.com.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates - AT&T operating companies - are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest 3G network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. AT&T offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse(SM) and AT&T | DIRECTV(SM) brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T's Yellow Pages and YELLOWPAGES.COM organizations are known for their leadership in directory publishing and advertising sales. In 2009, AT&T again ranked No. 1 in the telecommunications industry on FORTUNE® magazine's list of the World's Most Admired Companies. Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com.© 2009 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.SOURCE AT&T Inc.
 