
 
 
Thinking that netbook up there looks exactly like Intel's latest Classmate PC with a Lenovo sticker smacked on? Well, you'd be entirely correct. Lenovo and Intel have teamed up to bring out the Classmate+, which is indeed just a rebadged Classmate PC (or Intel Learning Series reference design). The 10.1-inch netbook doesn't have Intel's fresh Atom N570 processor, but it has all the other netbook essentials, including an Atom N455 CPU, Windows 7, 1GB of RAM, a 1.3 megapixel camera, WiFi, and three- and six-cell battery options. However, like most of the other Classmate PCs, the Classmate+ won't be available directly to consumers -- they will be sold in bulk to educational institutions or agencies, primarily in the developing world. And the Classmate+ is off to a great start -- 158,000 are already set to be deployed this spring in Buenos Aires. See kids, netbooks are far from dead! Hit the break for the full press release / specs and the gallery below for a few more images of the lunch box-like laptop.





Show full PR textLenovo and Intel® Extend Digital Learning with New Lenovo Classmate+ PC Brings schools effective, affordable PC technology as part of Intel Learning SeriesFirst PC deployment of 158,000 to improve learning for students in ArgentinaRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C. and SANTA CLARA, CALIF. – March 10, 2011: Today, Lenovo and Intel Corporation announced the Lenovo Classmate+ PC, a purpose-built laptop designed to improve learning for students in grades K-8.The Lenovo Classmate+ provides schools an affordable, child-friendly complete hardware and software solution. Based on the Intel Learning Series reference design, the PC will come pre-loaded with the Intel Learning Series software suite, specialized educational software and a variety of teaching resources. This spring, the Organization of Ibero-American States will deploy the first wave of 158,000 Lenovo Classmate+ laptops as part of its Conectar Igualdad 1:1 computing program, which will equip students throughout the country with PC technology. "As the fastest-growing PC company in education, we are committed to creating education solutions that improve schools' efficiency, as well as leading initiatives to evaluate how technology can measurably improve learning outcomes," said Michael Schmedlen, Director of Worldwide Education, Lenovo. "Our work with Intel to offer products like the Lenovo Classmate+ PC will create more opportunities for K-8 administrators, teachers and students to realize the benefits of technology-enriched 1:1 learning experiences.""Lenovo is the first multi-national company to offer the Intel Learning Series classmate PC for the global education market," said Kapil Wadhera, General Manager, Education Market Platform Group, Intel. "We are thrilled to welcome Lenovo to the Intel Learning Series Alliance and to work with them to extend the platforms to benefit more students and teachers around the world." Intel Learning Series Momentum ContinuesSince its introduction, more than 3 million Intel-powered classmate PCs have shipped globally. The Lenovo Classmate+ laptop is designed for how children learn, based upon years of Intel's ethnographic research in education and Lenovo's heritage in this segment. The PC combines a modern design with ruggedness, full PC functionality and enhanced performance. The configurations pass rigorous testing with their drop-resistant exteriors and spill-resistant keyboards. The Lenovo Classmate+ PC offers a full computing experience, equipped with an Intel® Atom™ processor, Ethernet and WiFi Internet connectivity, Windows 7 operating system and high-capacity storage up to 250 GB or solid state drive options. It also comes with a 10.1 inch LED backlit screen, a 1.3 megapixel camera, multiple USB ports and a 4-in-1 card reader to support viewing multimedia. Lenovo Launches Learning Environment to Rewrite Technology-Led Curriculums The new Classmate+ PC is a part of Lenovo's new Learning Environment, a model for how technology in education works in a classroom and 1:1 environment. The Lenovo Learning Environment, which is located in the company's Customer Innovation Center at its U.S. headquarters in Morrisville, N.C., provides a place to evaluate educational technology, offers professional development resources for teachers and serves as a feedback lab for students testing Lenovo PCs. About LenovoLenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is dedicated to building exceptionally engineered personal computers. Lenovo's business model is built on innovation, operational efficiency and customer satisfaction as well as a focus on investment in emerging markets. Formed by Lenovo Group's acquisition of the former IBM Personal Computing Division, the company develops, manufactures and markets reliable, high-quality, secure and easy-to-use technology products and services worldwide. Lenovo has major research centers in Yamato, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Raleigh, North Carolina. For more information see www.lenovo.com.For the latest Lenovo news, subscribe to Lenovo RSS feeds or follow Lenovo on Twitter and Facebook. About the Intel Learning SeriesThe Intel Learning Series brings together a strong ecosystem of PC manufacturers, operating system vendors, education service providers, content and software providers to deliver a complete, end-to-end education solution. It offers marketing tools, training, online exposure and a forum for its members to share resources and find common opportunities. More than 300 members in 60 countries are developing applications, peripherals and services optimized for the Learning Series. For more information about the Intel Learning Series, visit http://www.intellearningseries.com. About IntelIntel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the world's computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at newsroom.intel.com and blogs.intel.com.Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others. 
 