
  Home Box Office has been pushing its "interactive viewing experience" for Game of Thrones over at the HBO Go site, but if you weren't sitting in front of a computer there was no way to take part in the fantasy world fun. Now the premium channel is bringing the commentary tracks, interviews, maps and loads of other extra features to the Go iPad app. But, having that content available for season one isn't particularly exciting. What has our little nerd hearts aflutter is that all of the same features will be available for season two, starting immediately with the April 1st premier. As you watch, if the seemingly bottomless well of characters and their rival houses trip you up, you'll be able to pull up a guide to help you separate your Arryns from your Tullys and Redwynes. For a quick preview check out the video and PR after the break.
      

 

    Show full PR text  ENGAGE ON THE GO WITH GAME OF THRONES® SEASON 2  GROUNDBREAKING INTERACTIVE VIEWING EXPERIENCE AVAILABLE EXCLUSIVELY ON HBO GO® LAUNCHES FOR THE FIRST TIME ON THE iPAD®, APRIL 1  New York, N.Y., March 29, 2012 – On April 1, Game of Thrones fans will have a chance to watch their favorite show like never before when the HBO GO interactive viewing experience becomes available for the first time on the HBO GO iPad app. The Game of Thrones interactive elements on HBO GO allow viewers to engage with original features created exclusively for the service, by watching full-length episodes of the series alongside an "alert feed" showing never-before-seen bonus content. Previously available only online at HBOGO.com, the interactive viewing experience will become available on the HBO GO iPad app beginning with the season 2 premiere episode of Game of Thrones on April 1 at 9:00 p.m. ET/PT, featuring special enhancements designed exclusively for the iPad.  Interactive viewing of Game of Thrones season 2 on the iPad provides an even more immersive and exciting experience for audiences, giving them an elegant, intuitive way to explore the world of Westeros. In landscape mode, a few taps of the screen enables the "alert feed" which appears just below the episode, calling out relevant content timed to specific scenes. As users engage with bonus content, the episode above is automatically paused until the user closes the feature and the episode automatically resumes play. Users can also navigate throughout the feed, scrolling back or forward in time.    Special content in the alert feed includes:  · Cast/crew commentaries with David Benioff, D.B. Weiss, George R.R. Martin, and more  · Behind the scenes interviews with the cast and crew  · Descriptions of new characters as they come into a scene  · Info alerts providing back stories on specific scenes and character relationships  · Detailed set photos and concept art from the series design team  · Quotes from series that can be shared through social media  · A map with key locations pinpointed  · A guide to Game of Thrones houses   Interactive features that are exclusive to the experience on the iPad include social functionality–the ability to post status updates to Facebook and Twitter directly while watching. Viewers can also choose to watch the series in portrait orientation on the iPad which enables them to browse locations and characters during episode playback. In portrait mode, a navigable map of Westeros and Essos is always visible below the "alert feed" and a "Guide to Houses" link drives users to view family trees and profiles for all of the series characters.  Click the link below for a glimpse of the Game of Thrones interactive viewing experience on HBO GO:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jY9yLqwEt2M  HBO GO can be accessed at HBOGO.com, or via the HBO GO app – now available for download on Apple's iPad®, iPhone® and iPod touch® and numerous smart phones using Google's Android™ operating system as well as platforms such as Xbox 360, Samsung Smart TV™ and Roku – and is free of charge to HBO subscribers through participating television providers. For those who haven't experienced the unforgettable fictional world of Westeros, the entire first season of Game of Thrones can also be found on HBO GO. Follow HBO GO on Twitter at: @HBOGO.  Based on the popular book series "A Song of Ice and Fire," by George R.R. Martin, the Emmy® and Golden Globe®-winning fantasy series Games of Thrones chronicles an epic struggle for power set in a vast and violent fantasy kingdom. Among the returning members of the ensemble cast are Emilia Clarke, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Emmy® winner Peter Dinklage, Michelle Fairley, Lena Headey and Kit Harington. David Benioff and D.B. Weiss executive produce.  Games of Thrones Season 2 premieres Sunday, April 1 at 9:00 p.m. ET/PT, exclusively on HBO.
 