
       
We need app stores for everything, right?! Intel thinks so. Chipzilla has finally just launched the Atom app store in beta, which will not only come pre-installed on Atom netbooks from Samsung, ASUS and Acer, but will also be available for download for Windows and Linux. Intel's been working with over 3,000 devs, but there should be even more apps on the way. So, what are you waiting for? Hit the source link and go download the beta. 




Updated: We downloaded the app store to an ASUS Eee PC 1005HA. Hit the break for our impressions.


Though we aren't completely sure why you would need an app store for a Windows netbook, considering the Internet contains all the apps you'd ever need, and they're pretty easy to find with that Google thing, we downloaded AppUp in a matter of seconds to an Atom-powered Eee PC. Taking a cue from Apple, you have to create a username and password to access the store and it required us to put in our credit card. The store itself was easy to navigate and all the applications are categorized in the obvious games, social networking, etc. When we downloaded Yoono desktop, the application ended up in our program files, but we could also launch the app from AppUp. Basically, the beta is simply a place to discover new applications, which for some may be useful. Perhaps, we will be a bit more impressed with the store on non-Windows devices, but in the meantime AppUp everyone. AppUp.Show full PR textIntel CEO: 'Computing No Longer Confined to the PC – It's Everywhere'News Highlights* Otellini described how "personal" computing is transforming Intel and the industry.* Showcased innovative technologies and design wins across Intel's PC and other growth businesses.* Introduced several PC platform products, including over 25 Intel® Core™ processors and Intel® Wireless Display technology.* Unveiled upcoming LG Electronics* smartphone, Orange* media set-top box, and embedded technology concepts for home energy management and interactive, in-store shopping.* Revealed beta version of a software application storefront aimed at netbooks called the Intel AppUp Center. OEMs Acer*, ASUS*, Dell* and Samsung* collaborating with Intel to bring innovative apps to consumers.INTERNATIONAL CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW, Las Vegas, Jan. 7, 2010 – Intel Corporation President and CEO Paul Otellini today talked about how "personal computing" is expanding beyond the PC to nearly every kind of electronic device, transforming Intel and the industry in the process. He also unveiled several innovative technologies and design wins that spanned Intel's PC and other growth businesses, including netbooks, smartphones, CE devices and "connected" embedded technology."Computing is no longer confined to your computer – it's everywhere," Otellini said during his CES keynote speech. "Advances in connectivity, intuitive user interfaces, immersive content and computer chip performance have allowed computing to move into new areas. Computing moving into all manner of devices and experiences all around us improves our personal productivity and enjoyment."Otellini described how Intel and the industry are delivering the vision he painted in his keynote 2 years ago at CES. Computing is being integrated into every relevant aspect of people's lives, he said, whether they are on their computer or smartphone, watching TV, in the car or out shopping. A seamless personalized experience tailored to individuals' interests, needs and social networks will deliver the information, entertainment and experiences people want, whenever, however and wherever they want. To illustrate his point, he demonstrated exciting advances in mobile device applications, 3-D content, smarter phones and TVs, and areas traditionally not associated with computing such as home energy management and digital signage.Otellini described how bringing the world of simple and useful "viral" applets to Intel® Atom™ processor-based devices will further bring this vision of "personal" computing to life, creating new usage models and a unique and powerful distribution channel for software developers. Intel created the Intel® Atom™ Developer Program in September to address this opportunity. He revealed a beta version of a software app store for netbooks that Intel launched today called the Intel® AppUpSM Center. The first apps, which span education, entertainment, games, health and other categories, are now available for free download or purchase by visiting www.intelappup.com. Acer*, ASUS*, Dell* and Samsung* are the first OEMs to announce support for apps stores based on the Intel AppUp Center. Otellini said Intel and its partners expect to expand the stores over time to include applications for other large categories such as PCs, handheld CE devices, smartphones, CE appliances, TVs and other devices based on future Intel processor families.As an example of new ways to connect computing devices in the home, Otellini also unveiled a product today called the Intel® Wireless Display. Using a laptop powered by select all new 2010 Intel® Core™ processors and enabled with this display technology, an individual can quickly stream videos, photos and other content from the PC to the HDTV over a WiFi connection. On Jan. 17 laptops by Dell*, Sony* and Toshiba* and a TV adapter by NETGEAR* – featuring Intel® Wireless Display – will be available at Best Buy* in the United States and Canada as part of its Blue Label 2.0 program."Computing in the home is rapidly expanding beyond the PC," Otellini said. "The TV will continue to be a focal point of the home while becoming smarter, much in the way phones are evolving into smartphones. New user interfaces and forms of connectivity will change the way we interact with entertainment in the home."Intel's CEO also touched on one of the most buzzed about topics at CES – 3-D stereoscopic content – and said that creating 3-D content requires a "ton of computing power." Powerful microprocessors will play a central role in the transition to 3-D content creation. Otellini also said there are select powerful PCs available today that are expanding 3-D content creation from Hollywood studios to living rooms. To prove his point, he demonstrated how an individual could do real-time creation and editing of a 3-D video with the horsepower of an Intel® Core™ i7 processor-based PC.This morning Intel launched several PC platform products including more than 25 all new 2010 Intel® Core™ processors, wireless adapters and related chipsets for laptops, desktop PCs and embedded devices. These new processors deliver Intel's best media and graphics technologies, including the ability to intelligently adapt, automatically providing an added boost of performance for such demanding applications as HD and 3-D video creation.Otellini also described how advancements in microprocessor technology will continue to transform how people enjoy 3-D movies and TV in their homes. To prove his point, he showed new ways to visually search for TV shows, Internet access to videos and other applications on a yet-to-be introduced Orange* media set-top box powered by one of Intel's computer-on-a-chip products. The Intel® Atom™ processor CE4100, which is currently available, is optimized for the next generation of set-top boxes, media players and connected TVs."Smartphones truly embody personal computing," Otellini said. "Wireless connectivity is critical and 3G is great, but it's not fast enough. 4G technologies like WiMAX are needed to deliver on the promise and potential of these new devices."All the Internet connectivity for demonstrations in Otellini's keynote used the CLEAR* 4G mobile Internet service that has been available in Las Vegas since July. The WiMAX Forum forecasts more than 700 million people covered by WiMAX at the end of 2010."Two years ago I showed a suite of futuristic, compute-intensive applications for handheld devices," Otellini said. "The computing was really done on a desktop PC behind the curtain because handhelds didn't have the processing capability yet. Two years later, the future is here."To prove his point, Otellini showed how multi-tasking capabilities combined with new user interfaces are creating exciting new applications for smartphones today. This included the world's first demonstration of the LG Electronics* GW990 smartphone to help demonstrate the performance and software compatibility of "Moorestown," Intel's next-generation platform for handhelds and smartphones. He also showcased a smartphone reference design from Aava Mobile* and a tablet reference design from OpenPeak*. "Moorestown" is scheduled to launch during the first half of the year with devices coming to market in the second half.Otellini also described how many machines and applications traditionally not associated with computing are now connecting to the Internet, creating more personal computing experiences at home and out in the world. Examples include infotainment systems for cars, digital interactive signs, shopping kiosks and medical devices. Intel's Atom processor is making inroads in these and other intelligent devices. Otellini said customers are in process of developing 2,500 different devices and machines powered by the Intel Atom processor including a concept device for managing energy consumption in the home. He also unveiled a digital sign based on an embedded Intel® Core™ i5 processor that brings the data-richness of online shopping to the in-store shopping experience.More information about the applications demonstrated in the speech and Intel's news at CES is available at www.intel.com/pressroom/kits/events/ces2010.
 