
If you thought that Google Glass was the only wearable backed by one of tech's mega corporations, think again. Intel's investment arm has now ponied up a "significant" investment into Recon Instruments, makers of the Jet heads-up display for extreme sports. While neither party has disclosed how much cash Intel has thrown Recon's way, the release does reveal that the Intel Capital will be sharing its expertise in "manufacturing, operations and technology" in addition to its checkbook. While it's far, far too early to presume that we'll see Santa Clara dive head-first into the wearables market, we're going to be watching this partnership with extreme interest.



Show full PR textRecon Instruments Secures Investment from Intel Capital
Relationship Accelerates Heads-up Display Maker's Trajectory in Wearable Computing

26th September 2013, Vancouver - Recon Instruments, the award winning technology company behind the world's first consumer Heads-up Displays (HUD) for sports, is pleased to announce that Intel Capital has made a significant investment in the company. The funding will support Recon's product development, marketing and global sales expansion. Recon Instruments will also benefit from Intel Capital's expertise in manufacturing, operations and technology.

Complete information regarding Recon Instruments and its newest product, the Recon Jet, can be found at www.reconinstruments.com.

"Wearable computing is a major, accelerating phenomenon that re-defines how we use and interact with information," said Mike Bell, Vice President and General Manager of the New Devices Group at Intel Corporation. "In Recon Instruments, we see compelling technology and a solid strategy to capitalize on the wearable revolution. This is an area of significant focus for Intel Capital, and our investment in Recon Instruments is a key part of our approach to innovation in this emerging space."

Dan Eisenhardt, CEO of Recon Instruments said: "We have spent the last five years leading the Heads-Up Display category in the consumer space. In fact, Recon has shipped more than 50,000 Heads-up Displays worldwide, including a very successful campaign in Apple retail stores. Our products are engineered to deliver instant information, direct-to-eye and without distraction in the most demanding environments on Earth. Intel Capital shares our vision for wearable technology, which enhances users' performance and experience across a broad range of sports and outdoor activities."


