

IOGEAR was showcasing a cornucopia of tech goodies at its table at Digital Experience. Front and center was a wireless HD streaming solution that seemed to work well enough. Of course, the two boxes were three feet away from eachother, and there were no walls in the way, so we'll have to reserve judgment until we can get our own hands on a pair. A prototype USB 3.0 PCI Express Card was also on display, as was a solar charging car Bluetooth speakerphone that sticks to windshields and charges as you drive. You can see the somewhat random selection of, uh, gear in the gallery below. Full PR and specs on the new stuff is after the break.





Show full PR textIOGEAR Customizes Home Theater Set Up with Wireless HD KitConsumers can enjoy wireless HD streaming up to 100 feet awayCES 2010, Las Vegas, NV and Foothill Ranch, CA – January 7, 2010 – IOGEAR today announced its Wireless HD Kit (GWAV8141K), helping to eliminate home theater clutte r. The new kit allows consumers to customize their living space and wirelessly transmit Blu-ray / DVD players, DVR / Set-top boxes, VHS players, Computers and Media Servers / Home Theater PC's to HDTV's or projectors.An ideal solution for consumers looking to customize their home theater experience, highlights of the Wireless HD Kit include:• Enjoy the freedom of wireless HD video and digital audio - Wirelessly transmit / stream your Blu-ray player, DVD player, HD Set-top box, VCR, Media Server, or Computer - Supports Full HD 1080p/60Hz and Digital Audio• Customize your living space - Place your HDTV in a place that fits your style without the hassle of tearing out walls and running long unattractive cables - Keep your electronics neatly out of sight• Broadcast up to 4 HD Receivers - Play your favorite HD content on 4 separate HD and Non-HD displays• Works with HD and Non-HD devices and displays - Connect your HD or non-HD devices to the HD Transmitter and your HD or non-HD TV / projector / display to the HD Receiver - Versatility with more connection types allows you to connect your HDMI, Component, Composite, and VGA devices• Convenient size for home or portable use - Compliments your home decor - Use at private events and tradeshows• Simple Plug and Play - No software or drivers to install - Just plug in and you're on"Many people struggle with having too many devices cluttering their home entertainment center and creating a messy and unattractive home theater," said Miranda Su, executive vice president of IOGEAR. "The Wireless HD Kit helps eliminate that mess and allows consumers to enjoy HD streaming in a more organized fashion."IOGEAR's Wireless HD Kit will be available around the end of March at a n MSRP of $899.95. The Wireless HD Kit is part of IOGEAR's AVIOR product series. The AVIOR Series is a comprehensive product suite that enables entertainment enthusiasts to bridge the gap between the computer and home entertainment center.The AVIOR Series includes IOGEAR's collection of switches, splitters, HDMI adapters, cables, mini-extenders and wireless USB transmitters and receivers to easily connect and network a multitude of home theater devices.IOGEAR Introduces Solar Bluetooth Hands-Free Car KitSolar energy enables hands-free communication and cord-free chargingCES 2010, Las Vegas, NV and Irvine, CA – January 7, 2010 – IOGEAR today announced the availability of its Solar Bluetooth Hands-Free Car Kit (GBHFK231). The new car kit allows consumers to talk hands-free and charge cord-free while driving. Consumers can pair the device with any Bluetooth enabled cellular phone or Smart Phone.An ideal solution for consumers looking to cut the cord in the car, the Solar Bluetooth Hands-Free Car Kit includes:•	Enjoy hands-free talking with the solar-powered Bluetooth speakerphone •	Multi-point connection: Switch between two phones and answer the phone thatrings •	Windshield and visor mounting bracket included •	One full charge provides up to 11-13 hours continuous talk time •	Superior echo cancellation and noise reduction •	Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR provides easy pairing and robust signals •	Dedicated volume and mute buttons provide intuitive user experience •	Micro-USB cable and vehicle charging adapter included"People often forget to charge their car kit and are left fumbling with cords while driving in order to recharge the kit and stay connected without breaking the hands free law in several states," said Miranda Su, executive vice president of IOGEAR. "Our Solar Bluetooth Car Kit works with any Bluetooth-enabled device and harnesses solar energy to keep it charged on-the-go."IOGEAR is strongly committed to empowering consumers to enjoy life through eco-efficient technology. It strives to protect the environment by continuously adopting corporate practices that save energy, preserve natural resources and minimize the amount of waste produced. The Solar Bluetooth Hands-Free Car Kit adds another connectivity solution to IOGEAR's range of eco-friendly products. For more information on IOGEAR's green initiatives, visit: http://www.iogear.com/green/IOGEAR's Solar Bluetooth Hands-Free Car Kit is available immediately at a MSRP of $69.95.
 