
 

How to get a hefty new hard drive for your Mac without making your other gadgets jealous? Iomega is offering up a solution with the fairly elegant Mac Companion Hard Drive, a two or three terabyte external drive designed with Apple computers in mind that adds a high-powered charging port for your peripherals. The drive also packs additional USB and FireWire ports (no Thunderbolt, guys?), plus a set of four LEDs, which let you know how full it is with a glance. The drives are available via Apple at $195 and $295, for 2TB and 3TB, respectively.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Iomega Introduces New Mac Companion Hard Drive With First of its Kind High Powered Charging Port for your iPad and Other Apple Devices 			omega, an EMC company (NYSE: EMC) and a global leader in data protection, today announced the new Iomega® Mac Companion Hard Drive, a speedy, large capacity desktop hard drive styled to match the latest Mac computers with a first-of-its-kind convenient high-powered port to charge your iPad, iPhone and iPod, as well as selection of computer interfaces for connecting peripherals like a printer or other external storage device. 			"With the new Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive, Mac users now have a convenient and stylish way to quickly charge their iPads with the bonus of plenty of new storage capacity for their Mac computer," said Jonathan Huberman, president of Iomega Corporation. "With more than nine million iPads sold in the last quarter alone, the new Mac Companion Hard Drive is the perfect complement for all those iPad owners. This futuristic drive blends effortlessly with the latest Mac computers and the Apple ecosystem of mobile devices. Together, form and function rarely looks as good or works as well as the new Iomega Mac Companion Drive." 			Who wouldn't want the ultimate desktop hard drive for Mac computers? 			Available in 2TB* and 3TB capacities, the new Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive utilizes a fast 7200 RPM 3.5-inch hard drive formatted HFS+ for compatibility with Mac computers right out of the box. Rather than sitting off to the side and being in the way, the space-saving design of the Mac Companion Hard Drive allows it to fit perfectly on the base of your Apple iMac or your Apple monitor. 			Of the many features included with the Mac Companion Hard Drive, Mac users may most appreciate the first-of-its-kind high powered USB charging port for their iPad, iPhone or iPod. (Apple portable products sold separately.) The charging port is a high-powered 2.1 Amp hookup that makes it easy and convenient to charge your iPad and other portable Apple devices so they're ready to go when you are. ** 			Adding peripheral devices to your Apple iMac computer is no problem with the new Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive. The stylish drive includes two FireWire 800 ports, one USB 2.0 port and a two port integrated USB 2.0 hub that lets you connect multiple devices such as a printer or other external storage device. The Mac Companion Hard Drive doesn't require the user to buy extra cables – the drive comes complete with one FireWire 800, one conversion FireWire 400-800, and one USB 2.0 cable. 			The new Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive is the only major branded external HFS+ Mac desktop hard drive on the market today that incorporates a high powered Apple device charging port and a two-port USB 2.0 hub. 			How much storage space is available on my desktop hard drive? 			Users of the Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive never have to ask that question because a handy capacity indicator gauge*** lets them know approximately how much space is available to store their data. Four LEDs on the front of the Mac Companion Hard Drive tell you the total capacity of the data volume that is being used to store files: 			4 LEDs lit white: less than 20% capacity in use			3 LEDs white: 20-40% capacity in use			2 LEDs white: 40-60% capacity in use			1 LED white: 60-80% capacity in use			1 LED red: more than 80% capacity in use  			Iomega Protection Suite, Mac Edition, included 			Owners of the new Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive also receive a powerful suite of software solutions bundled with their drive: 			Iomega® QuikProtect for simple scheduled file-level backup			MozyHome® Online Backup for convenient online backup of up to 2GB free			A free 12-month subscription of Trend Smart Surfing for Mac allows users to shop, bank and surf online while staying safe from attacks to your identity and confidential information  			Availability and Warranty 			The new Iomega® Mac Companion Hard Drive is available worldwide in two capacities: the 2TB model is $195.00, and the 3TB model is $295.00. (Pricing is U.S. suggested retail.) The Mac Companion Hard Drive will initially be available exclusively at Apple retail stores and the Apple online store. Later this month, the product will be available from additional retailers, etailers and at www.iomega.com. 			Both models of the Iomega Mac Companion Hard Drive include a three-year warranty with registration. 			For more information about Iomega storage products, please go to www.iomega.com. 
 