
 
 Digg  If you're an iOS developer (or good friends with one), today is going to be totally awesome. Apple has just let loose the official iOS 4.2 beta builds for iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch -- meaning that someone somewhere is going to be experiencing multitasking on the 'pad (sans jailbreaking, of course). Additionally, Apple has decided to bestow a name upon its new printing experience (the direct-to-printer tech the company showed off at its fall event). And that name? AirPrint. In a piece of PR just issued by Apple (available to read after the break), it's noted that owners of HP products with ePrint tech will be the first to take advantage of the new tool -- so that's something.

Of course, all that news should be lost in a cloud of excitement over 4.2. As usual, we're going to take the OS for a spin on our developer iPad here and see what's what, and then report back to you cats and kittens about whatever nuggets of joy we find. Stay tuned!
      

 

Show full PR textApple's AirPrint Wireless Printing for iPad, iPhone & iPod touch Coming to Users in NovemberAvailable First on HP ePrint PrintersCUPERTINO, California-September 15, 2010-Apple® today announced that it is releasing a beta version of its AirPrint wireless printing for iPad™, iPhone® and iPod touch® to members of Apple's iOS developer program today, and that AirPrint will be included in the free iOS 4.2 software update in November. AirPrint automatically finds printers on local networks and can print text, photos and graphics to them wirelessly over Wi-Fi without the need to install drivers or download software. HP's existing and upcoming ePrint enabled printers will be the first to support printing direct from iOS devices."AirPrint is Apple's powerful new printing architecture that matches the simplicity of iOS-no set up, no configuration, no printer drivers and no software to download," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing. "iPad, iPhone and iPod touch users can simply tap to print their documents or photos wirelessly to an HP ePrint printer or to a printer shared on a Mac or PC.""We're pleased to work with Apple to bring Apple's AirPrint to our fall lineup of ePrint printers in time for the holiday shopping season," said Vyomesh Joshi, HP executive vice president, Imaging and Printing Group. "Making it easy for our customers to print anytime, anywhere, is a key priority for HP. iPad, iPhone and iPod touch customers are going to love how easy it is to print using our new range of ePrint printers, creating high-quality printed pages in an instant."AirPrint is designed to support a wide range of printers from entry level inkjet printers to office laser printers. Additionally, iOS 4.2 devices can print to printers shared through a Mac® or a PC. iOS 4.2 compatible HP printers this fall include the HP Photosmart, Officejet, Officejet Pro and LaserJet Pro series ePrint enabled printers.*AirPrint will work with iPad, iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS and iPod touch (second generation and later).Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.
 