
 
  More Info   iOS 5 review  Apple unveils iOS 6 at WWDC, launch apps with Siri, Facebook integration, Maps  iOS 6 coming to iPhone 4S, 4, 3GS, new iPad, iPad 2 and iPod Touch on September 19th  Starting tomorrow, iOS users will be prompted to update their devices to the newest iteration of Apple's mobile operating system. As difficult as it is to believe, we're already onto the sixth version of the OS, which continues to be updated with new features on a yearly basis. After pushing out so many upgrades critical to plugging a few major feature holes, the vast majority of its 200 advertised enhancements are strictly granular, as Apple continues to polish its popular OS.

 That doesn't mean, though, that this build is coming to the masses without any jarring UI changes: Apple has declared independence from Google by adopting its own Maps, added a few nice features to Mail and iCloud, thrown Facebook integration into the mix and introduced the Passbook for paperless tickets. The question is, how does it stack up against previous refreshes? Read on to find out.



 Compatibility As in years past, not all iDevices will have the privilege of receiving the latest and greatest software revision. Two iOS 5 products weren't able to make the cut for one reason or another: the original iPad and the third-generation iPod touch. Apple isn't offering any insight into its decision; fortunately, the three-year-old 3GS (which curiously debuted prior to the first iPad) made the cut yet again -- but it's excluded from a few major updates in iOS 6. First, a quick rundown. Here's the full list of devices that can run the new version of iOS:

  iPhone 5  iPhone 4S  iPhone 4  iPhone 3GS  iPad (2012)  iPad 2  iPod touch fifth-gen  iPod touch fourth-gen When it comes to operating systems, one size doesn't necessarily fit all, which means it's important to note which features will be enabled on which pieces of hardware. What you see below is a listing of most major firmware enhancements that aren't available across the board, and we go into detail on their availability for each device. First, let's look at the iPhones:

     Features   iPhone 5   iPhone 4S   iPhone 4   iPhone 3GS      Flyover / turn-by-turn GPS   Yes   Yes   No   No    Made for iPhone hearing aids    Yes   Yes   No   No    Siri   Yes   Yes   No   No    FaceTime over cellular   Yes   Yes   No   No    Offline reading lists   Yes   Yes   Yes   No    Reminders / phone replies   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes    Passbook   Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes    Panorama   Yes   Yes   No   No       Now, let's see which features are available to iPad and iPod Touch owners.

     Features   iPad (2012)   iPad 2   iPod touch (5G)   iPod touch (4G)      Flyover / turn-by-turn   Yes   Yes   Yes   No    Made for iPhone hearing aids    No   No   No   No    Siri   Yes   No   Yes   No    FaceTime over cellular   Yes   No   No   No    Offline reading lists   Yes   Yes   Yes   No    Reminders    No   No   Yes   No    Passbook   No   No   Yes   Yes    Panorama   No   No   Yes   No       As you can see, iPhone 3GS users will have a different user experience than folks who have already upgraded to a newer model. The key question, then, concerns the performance of the older hardware; as history is quick to remind, the 3G didn't fare so well on iOS 4. After a brief period of time using the 3GS, we noticed that some features work better on iOS 6 than its predecessor. The animations are still choppy and lack the buttery-smooth behavior of newer iPhones, but firing up the camera and maps are slightly more peppy. Typing, unfortunately, continues to give us fits. While it's still slower than we've become accustomed to with later generations of devices, it appears that the iOS experience won't be any worse for current 3GS users than it already is -- but it likely won't be any better, either.

 [Table of contents]
 General layout 
 To ask Apple to depart from its tried-and-true user interface in favor of something different, unique or (dare we say) revolutionary after six years would be like asking a dentist to stop brushing his teeth. The company is loathe to stray very far from its proven UI, and as a result each subsequent iteration has felt like Apple checking off missing features on a to-do list. If a time traveler went back to 2007 and showed off the iPhone as it looks today, Joe Cool off the street would not only be able to tell it's running the same OS; he'd likely be able to master it without any further instruction. That's not to say Apple doesn't make large changes to the way iOS looks and feels -- over the years, the company has thrown in new user interface elements such as the App Store, multitasking and the Notification Center, among other things. But Apple has sprinkled in these additions without breaking from its mold. Aside from the larger screen size and extra row of icons on the iPhone 5, iOS 6 barely changes the way you'll interact with the iPhone and iPad. Unless you're looking at the new Passbook icon or the Facebook option in your Notification Center, you may have a difficult time telling which version you're using without diving into the settings. Just because the general layout is ultimately the same, does that mean Apple hasn't progressed? Well, not exactly -- again, it's added around 200 new features to the mix. Still, we can't shake the feeling that this latest update is the most granular we've seen to date. Let's break down the firmware refresh by section and show you what iOS 6 has to offer.

 [Table of contents]
 Maps 
 One of the most striking changes to the iOS landscape is the Maps application. The winds of change have been blowing quietly in Cupertino for years: the outfit purchased three different mapping companies, beginning with Placebase in 2009, Poly9 in 2010 and C3 Technologies in 2011. Since then, it's also forged partnerships with TomTom and OpenStreetMaps, among other navigation companies. In short, the writing has been on the wall for a long time, but it's only now, with iOS 6, that Apple is finally distancing itself from Google.

 Now, before we go any further, it's worth emphasizing that when it comes to maps, at least, we're comparing a first-gen product to a mature one. Google Maps has blossomed over the past five years since we first used it on the original iPhone, so we're optimistic that Apple's offering will seem more polished a few years down the line. But how does it stack up now, and is it any better than what we had before? After all, iOS previously lacked a good deal of mapping features Android users have long taken for granted. By far, the largest improvement is the addition of turn-by-turn navigation with voice prompts. iOS already had step-by-step directions, but users didn't have a way to listen to each instruction -- a setup that seemed to encourage unsafe driving. Fortunately, Siri comes to the rescue here by lending her soothing half-human, half-robot vocal cords to a good cause. (Keep in mind that only Siri-enabled devices will have access to this feature, so iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4 users will still need to rely on third-party apps for voice navigation.)

 


