
 
We knew it was coming end of May, now we have a date: May 28th and up for pre-order on May 10th. That's when the iPad will hit Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the UK. It lands in Austria, Belgium, Hong Kong, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand and Singapore in July. Sorry, still no pricing. Full press release after the break.

Update: Tax-inclusive pricing is out. Très cher! Oh, and Orange UK has fessed up to pricing details for the iPad 3G + WiFi.

Update II: A handy pricing chart has also surfaced, helping you get a better grasp on what Apple's charging for its first tablet in the first international launch markets.

Europe:
 

16GB WiFi-only €479
32GB WiFi-only €579
64GB WiFi-only €679
16GB WiFi+3G €579
32GB WiFi+3G €679
64GB WiFi+3G €779

UK:

16GB WiFi-only £429
32GB WiFi-only £499
64GB WiFi-only £599
16GB WiFi+3G £529
32GB WiFi+3G £599
64GB WiFi+3G £699

 

 Show full PR textiPad Available in Nine More Countries on May 28Pre-Orders Begin May 10CUPERTINO, California-May 7, 2010-Apple® today announced that iPad™ will be available in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the UK on Friday, May 28. Customers can pre-order all iPad models from Apple's online store in all nine countries beginning on Monday, May 10. In the US, Apple has already sold over one million iPads and customers have downloaded over 12 million apps from the App Store, as well as over 1.5 million ebooks from the new iBookstore.iPad allows users to connect with their apps and content in a more intimate, intuitive and fun way than ever before. Users can browse the web, read and send email, enjoy and share photos, watch HD videos, listen to music, play games, read ebooks and much more, all using iPad's revolutionary Multi-Touch™ user interface. iPad is 0.5 inches thin and weighs just 1.5 pounds-thinner and lighter than any laptop or netbook-and delivers up to 10 hours of battery life.*The App Store on iPad lets you wirelessly browse, buy and download new apps from the world's largest app store. iPad includes 12 new innovative apps designed especially for iPad and will run almost all of the more than 200,000 apps on the App Store, including apps already purchased for your iPhone® or iPod touch®. Developers have created more than 5,000 exciting new apps designed for iPad that take advantage of its Multi-Touch interface, large screen and high-quality graphics.Pricing & Availability Apple plans to release iPad in Austria, Belgium, Hong Kong, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand and Singapore in July. Apple will announce availability, local pricing and pre-order plans for these nine additional countries at a later date.*Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors. Actual results vary.Apple ignited the personal computer revolution with the Apple II, then reinvented the personal computer with the Macintosh. Apple continues to lead the industry with its award-winning computers, OS X operating system, and iLife, iWork and professional applications. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store, has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.
 