
Remember "thinnovation"? That was Apple's tagline when it first introduced the MacBook Air, a laptop so skinny it could fit in a manila envelope. Six years later, the company did something similar with its tablet lineup by introducing the iPad Air. As its name suggests, the Air comes with a revamped design that sheds almost half a pound of weight, along with a couple millimeters of thickness and a significant amount of bezel area. At the same time, it maintains the same 9.7-inch Retina display that defined the last two iPads. While that's impressive enough in its own right, Apple also managed to make the device more powerful, thanks to the same A7 chip that already powers the iPhone 5s.


The one part of the iPad Air that isn't any thinner or lighter is its price, which starts at the usual $499 for a 16GB WiFi-only model. From there, the MSRP goes as high as $929 for the most expensive configuration (that's the WiFi + Cellular model with 128 gigs of storage). As always, the Air is entering a highly competitive market just in time for the holidays. So will its strong performance and super-thin frame be enough to make you upgrade come November 1st? Or is it simply not thinnovative enough? Read on to find out. 





HardwareThe iPad's design hasn't changed much over the years. Before last week, the iPad 2 offered arguably the most radical change in terms of size and shape, while the third- and fourth-gen models offered few adjustments aside from a Retina display and Lightning port. (The Retina display was one of the most important enhancements to the iPad line, but the "new iPad" otherwise looked nigh-identical to its predecessor.) At any rate, if you thought the iPad was due for a major revamp, the iPad Air should come as a breath of fresh... well, you get the idea. What's interesting is that while the iPad has indeed undergone a transformation, it's still very familiar. This isn't a coincidence: We've already seen the Air's design on the iPad mini.

Yes, as strange as it may sound, the latest iPad is actually just a larger version of the 7.9-inch mini. It's as if the smaller device -- which launched at the same time as the fourth-gen iPad -- was a pilot test for Jony Ive's new design language. Calling it the "Air" was fitting indeed, since it's ridiculously small and light compared to previous models. It measures 7.5mm thick and weighs only one pound (1.03 pounds, to be exact), making it 1.9mm thinner and 0.43 pound lighter than the iPad 4. Apple's also trimmed the left and right bezel by roughly 8mm on each side. If that doesn't sound significant, just hold the Air for a minute and then pick up an older iPad; the difference is immediately noticeable. Simply put, the iPad Air is the most comfortable 10-inch tablet we've ever used.


Despite its petite size and lightweight build, it doesn't feel at all flimsy. The unibody aluminum chassis is just as solid as on older iPads. The sides have a blunter edge this time around, so you get more of a grip than the gradually sloping edges on previous models; and Apple has added chamfered, diamond-cut edges that form a boundary between the bezel and the rest of the tablet's body, which gives it a premium look. In our experience, however, the downside to chamfered edges is that they're often susceptible to dings and scratches. (My iPhone 5, for instance, doesn't look as polished as it once did, and it's mainly because of this.)

There are other design differences as well. A pair of speaker grilles flanks the Lightning port on the bottom, instead of on the lower-left corner of the back, where they used to be. On the silver model, the buttons are silver instead of black, and the volume rocker has been separated into two individual keys. Apple's also thrown in a second mic near the top of the back for noise cancellation. The SIM slot, meanwhile, has been trimmed down to support nano-SIMs (instead of micro-SIM) and it's moved to the lower-right side of the body. The remaining improvements to the Air are all internal: It gains the Apple A7 chipset (which claims twice the performance power as the A6X, not to mention 64-bit compatibility), as well as the M7 motion-tracking coprocessor.


When it comes to connectivity, the iPad Air gets two enthusiastic thumbs up. In years past, iOS devices were spread out across several different SKUs, each one carrying a specific set of frequencies to ensure compatibility with hundreds of operators around the globe. This is no longer the case, as Apple now uses a baseband that offers support for 14 LTE bands (1/2/3/4/5/7/8/13/17/18/19/20/25/26), DC-HSPA+, UMTS, GSM/EDGE, CDMA and EVDO (Rev. A and B). If you're not sure of a specific operator's network settings, don't fret: Apple tells us that the Air will detect which carrier you're using and will download the proper settings for you.

In addition to the standard Bluetooth 4.0 and aGPS/GLONASS support, you'll also get dual-band 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi, with one major difference: The Air includes MIMO (Multiple input, multiple output) connectivity, a feature that is starting to become more commonplace in tablets. This means that the iPad takes advantage of more than one antenna, allowing the device to send and receive data much more quickly. In particular, Apple says you can enjoy double the data speeds (up to 300 Mbps), though we admittedly weren't able to thoroughly test this claim.


Despite all of the changes we've discussed so far, one particular piece of the hardware is exactly the same: that's the home button. Indeed, Apple chose not to add Touch ID, the fingerprint scanner first introduced on the iPhone 5s. This component is also missing from the new iPad mini, and while the company isn't saying why it left out that feature, we wouldn't be surprised to see it appear in the next generation. Don't make this an excuse to leave your tablet unprotected, however; we still highly recommend keeping your device password-protected.

The display also remains unchanged. Just like the two prior models, the Air sports a resolution of 2,048 x 1,536, giving the device a pixel density of 264 ppi. We really don't have much to say that hasn't been said in earlier reviews -- it still looks just as on good as the third- and fourth-gen models. We enjoy the extreme viewing angles, though outdoor brightness is more or less on par with other tablets. Though the iPad's display a big deal a year and a half ago, it's not top dog anymore -- not now that other devices like the Nexus 10 and Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 edition offer 2,560 x 1,600 panels with higher pixel density. Heck, as soon as the Retina iPad mini launches, the Air won't even be the sharpest tablet in Apple's lineup, let alone anywhere else.

SoftwareThe Air comes with the latest version of iOS, 7.0.3, which is available for every device capable of running the new love-it-or-hate-it operating system. Aside from a few essential bug fixes, the refresh comes with iCloud Keychain, a feature that lets you share passwords and credit card info across your iOS devices, as well as a new Safari password generator. Otherwise, there are essentially no software enhancements that you'll be missing out on by not owning an Air.

Camera
Tablet cameras are always good in a pinch, but they're often not given the royal treatment when compared to the latest and greatest smartphones. Apple opted not to make any major changes to its rear iSight camera, so the 5-megapixel BSI f/2.4 shooter with AF found in the previous two iPads is still there. We've been generally pleased with the overall image quality, and indeed, our thoughts haven't changed here. While attempting to fire off a series of shots, we found that we could take 12 photos in a five-second period. Also, as before, you won't get a flash of any kind and nighttime shots are rather fuzzy and noisy. We'd also like to see more modes on the Air's camera, such as panorama, burst mode and slow motion; as it stands, settings are virtually non-existent unless you count HDR, square mode and post-image editing.






