

It's a conflicting time for Apple. On one hand, it's a joyous occasion for the company because its latest iPhones, which come in larger screen sizes than the last, set new sales records worldwide; but on the other hand, its lineup of iPads just experienced its third straight quarterly decline. Coincidentally, this comes just a week after Apple announced its annual tablet refresh, which includes a thinner and more powerful version of the iPad Air along with a Touch ID-enabled mini with Retina display.


Just because it's down doesn't mean it's out. Giving up on a product category isn't really Apple's style, and last week, it offered up the Air 2 as exhibit A. The company made it clear that making a solid top-of-the-line tablet is on the top of its to-do list, so naturally the new 10-inch device got plenty of upgrades in nearly every aspect of its design. Curiously, it didn't give the mini lineup the same kind of treatment: The mini 3 got so little love this time around that the best news about it is the fact that last year's version is now $100 cheaper. Should the new iPads still get a place in the consumer's backpack? Read on to find out. 





HardwareiPad Air 2Thinner, lighter, more powerful. It sounds a lot like last year's iPad Air, which was reduced to the thickness of a pencil, but in fact, I'm talking about the sequel. At 6.1mm thick, an 18 percent decrease from the original Air's 7.5mm, you'll be hard-pressed to find a thinner tablet; Samsung's Tab S comes close at 6.6mm. It's not easy to build such a thin device that feels just as sturdy as its thicker brethren, but Apple nailed it with the Air 2. The new slate has lost weight, too, but not as much as the last one did: While the first Air managed to lose nearly half a pound over the iPad 4, the next version only trims off 0.04 pound (32g) for a total of 0.96 pound (the LTE-enabled version is a few grams heavier). So, it's lighter, but the change isn't anywhere near as noticeable this time around.

The design language hasn't changed: The Air still features an aluminum build, chamfered edges and the same footprint as before. But Apple insists that it rebuilt the new tablet from the ground up. After all, cramming better specs into a thinner package requires some creative thinking. The good news is that it looks and feels fantastic, and it comes with a no-gap display, better camera, more powerful chipset, Touch ID and stronger wireless connections. The bad news is that some compromises were made -- specifically in the area of battery size, which has plummeted from 32.4Whr to 27.3 (more on this later).


Aside from being thinner, there are a couple other ways you can tell a new Air from an old one. The first is the inclusion of Touch ID, Apple's fingerprint sensor that was introduced last year in the iPhone 5s. It's certainly a welcome feature, and one I've been hoping to see on an iPad ever since the iPhone 5s debuted; I can't count how many times I tried unlocking my iPad this way before remembering it doesn't have this feature. What's more, Touch ID is even more useful now than it was before; iOS 8 enabled third-party developer support for the fingerprint sensor, so you can use it to access sensitive account information or passwords. It also facilitates online payments through Apple Pay, but since no new iPad comes with NFC, you won't be able to use your huge tablet at a tap-to-pay station. (Update: iFixit's teardown of the iPad Air 2 reveals that it features the same NFC module as the iPhones 6.)

The Air 2 also doesn't have a mute switch, which I didn't think would be a huge loss until I actually found myself trying to use it and becoming frustrated more frequently than I expected. Your new options are to press and hold the volume down button or go into the Control Center and press the mute key; if you used the switch to lock screen orientation, you'll need to do that in the Control Center as well. A microphone now sits where the mute switch once was; there's another one right next to the camera. This means the antenna on the top of the WiFi+Cellular model is no longer interrupted by mic holes.


Inside, the Air 2 comes with a new A8X chipset, which I'll discuss later on. In short, Apple has added another CPU core, boosted graphics performance and doubled the RAM. But it's also followed the iPhone 6 by adding the M8 motion coprocessor, which includes a barometer so you can track flights climbed. Other additions include 802.11ac WIFi, which can get you faster connections (provided you have a compatible router); 20 LTE bands, which should be more than enough for most international travelers; and up to 150 Mbps cellular download speeds if your carrier offers it.

iPad mini 3
Apple's message for the iPad mini changed dramatically in the past year. When it debuted last fall, the iPad mini with Retina display was given feature parity with the Air. The two devices were nearly twins, with the exception of size and a difference in color accuracy (which we'll get into soon). In the end, iPad buyers found that the toughest decision was which size to pick. Fast-forward a year, and the mini 3 has been largely forgotten. Even the fourth-gen iPad, which was released only eight months after the previous version with a performance boost and Lightning port, looks like a bigger upgrade.






