
 
Good news for non-America: O2 UK has become the first international carrier to confirm it'll have the iPhone 4 ready for purchase and adoration on launch day, June 24. After the iPad gave preferential treatment to the US with its release schedule, some might have feared the similarly hot piece of tech Apple just announced today will also suffer from a tiered launch. It's looking like Brits won't have to worry about that particular pain, but it's also curious that Vodafone and Orange -- the other local carriers of the iPhone -- are remaining mum tonight. Is Apple lending a hand to its old partner by allowing it early stock? That wouldn't be entirely unfathomable, though it would be pretty unpleasant for impatient types who fancy some carrier choice.

Update: Never mind that whole conspiracy theory: we've just seen that Orange is also throwing its hat into the June 24 ring -- let's keep this momentum going, guys! [Thanks, Blizzard]

Update 2: And now Tech Radar has heard direct from Vodafone that June 24 is a go, giving us a complete Brit pack.

Update 3: Hey, what do you know? T-Mobile UK's getting it too. Choice is good.
      

 

Show full PR textiPhone 4 Coming to O2Special upgrade deal to be offered to in contract customersO2 will launch iPhone 4, the thinnest smartphone in the world with the highest resolution display ever built into a phone on 24th June.To make it as easy as possible for O2 customers still in contract to get their hands on a new iPhone, O2 will offer a limited time special upgrade offer. Further details will be announced in the coming days.To support the launch of iPhone 4, O2 has created www.o2.co.uk/iphonelatest a dedicated website for the latest news and updates where customers can hear details ahead of the new iPhone going on sale.O2 has a unique history in supporting the iPhone in the UK over the past three years. Customers benefit from great value tariffs, including access to thousands of public Wi-Fi hotspots, an intelligent network developed with insight from the iPhone in mind, the expertise of O2 Gurus in store and iPhone specialists in customer service, as well as unique features such as Visual Voicemail."Apple has once again raised the bar with the iPhone 4," said Ronan Dunne, UK Chief Executive of O2. "With 3 years' experience in selling the iPhone we are well placed to support the new device with the best overall experience, including making it easy for new and existing customers to get their hands on one."
 