
 
This one doesn't bode well for Mac fans and the iPhone-hopeful: we have it on authority that as of today, the iPhone launch is being pushed back from June to... October (!), and Leopard is again seeing a delay, this time being pushed all the way back to January. Of 2008. The latest WWDC Leopard beta will still be handed out, but it looks like Apple-quality takes time, and we're sure Jobs would remind everyone that it's not always about "writing a check", but just how much time are these two products really going to take?Update: Here's the story. A trustworthy source supplied us with an actual internal Apple email that went out to thousands of Apple employees earlier today (published after the break). The fact that this was an email sent within Apple's internal email system to its employees is not in question. Let us reiterate: this was an ACTUAL email distributed within Apple's internal email system to Apple employees.As it turns out, the internal memo Apple employees received was actually retracted by Apple shortly after it was sent out. (Also published after the break.) We received confirmation from Apple PR that this initial email sent out to Apple employees was incorrect, and they let us know that the iPhone and Leopard are both still on track, and should meet their expected launch timeframes. Presumably Apple is now on the hunt for whomever was able to spoof its internal email system.
      

 

Original Apple emailFrom: Bullet News Date: May 16, 2007 9:09 AM CDTTo: [redacted]Subject: Mac OS X Leopard and iPhone DelayedMac OS X Leopard Delayed Until JanuaryiPhone Delayed Until OctoberREGIONS: Asia-Pacific, Canada, Europe, Japan, Latin America, United StatesGROUPS: AppleCare, Retail Apple issued a press release today announcing that iPhone which was scheduled to ship in June, has been moved to October and the release date for Mac OS X Leopard has been moved to January next year. A beta version of Mac OS X Leopard will be given to developers at the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC).Apple email redactionFrom: [redacted]Date: May 16, 2007 10:47 AM CDTTo: [redacted]Subject: NEWS: Disregard Bullet*News Sent May 16 at Approximately 9 a.m. Central--AP/CA/EU/JP/LA/USYou may have received what appeared to be a Bullet*News from Apple. This communication is fake and did not come from Apple.Apple is on track to ship iPhone in late June and Mac OS X Leopard in October.

       

 