
 Customers have been able to enjoy the iPhone experience on Walmart's Straight Talk "BYOD" phone plans for quite some time now, but the prepaid provider will begin directly selling the iPhone 5 -- as well as the iPhone 4 -- on January 11th. The iPhone 5 will be offered in 16GB and will be sold for $649, while the iPhone 4 will come with 8GB storage and go for $449. If you don't want to pay the entire cost up front, you can take advantage of Walmart's monthly installment-financing plans for $25. For more specifics, head below the break to get the full press release.



  Show full PR text   Walmart and Straight Talk to offer the iPhone on its $45 No Contract Unlimited Plan  Retailer providing no-interest special financing on the iPhone 4 and iPhone 5 for only $25 a month
   LAS VEGAS, Jan. 8, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Walmart and Straight Talk Wireless, America's largest and top rated no-contract cell phone provider, today put the power back in the hands of customers with an industry game changing offer. Starting on January 11, 2013 in more than 2,000 Walmart stores and online at Walmart.com, customers now have access to the iPhone 5 and iPhone 4 on Straight Talk's $45 no contract unlimited talk, text and data plan. To make this offer even more affordable, Walmart will be offering customers who purchase the phone in the store, a no interest fixed-monthly payments special financing offer for only $25 a month with a Walmart Credit Card.

   The Straight Talk wireless no contract plan, exclusive to Walmart, saves consumers on average $950 a year when they switch from conventional contract plans with similar unlimited plans. To learn more about how Straight Talk Wireless saves consumers $950 a year, please visit: www.straighttalk.com.

   "We are thrilled to be bringing the remarkable iPhone 5 to customers looking for one of the most advanced smartphones with one of the most affordable No Contract plans ever," said F.J. Pollak , CEO and President, TracFone Wireless. "The advanced iPhone 5 with our unlimited $45 monthly plan and Walmart's $25 special financing offer is a marriage made in heaven – making it the most affordable premium smartphone offer in America. With this exclusive offer the last reason for not purchasing the No Contract Straight Talk plan is gone."

   "We believe customers shouldn't have to choose between saving money and having the latest technology," said Seong Ohm , senior vice president of Entertainment for Walmart U.S. "Now customers can have the coveted iPhone with unlimited talk, text and data without a contract for $70 a month thanks to our exclusive Straight Talk plan and industry first financing offer."

   Pricing and Details for iPhone

   The Apple iPhones for Straight Talk will be available for purchase at the following prices:

   iPhone 5 will be available in black and white for $649 for the 16GB model only  iPhone 4 will be available in black and white for $449 for the 8GB model only

   Walmart will offer a special financing on the purchase of the phone for $25 a month with a Walmart Credit Card on these select models. GE Capital Retail Bank is the issuer of the Walmart Credit Cards.

   Pricing for the Straight Talk no-contract plans include:

   $45 – No Contract Monthly Plan with Unlimited Nationwide Talk, Text, and Data.  $60 – No Contract Monthly Plan with Unlimited Nationwide Talk, Text, and Data PLUS Unlimited International Calling to more than 1,000 destinations in Mexico, Canada, India, and in other countries.

   iPhone 5 is the thinnest and lightest iPhone ever, completely redesigned to feature a stunning new 4-inch Retina display; an Apple-designed A6 chip for blazing fast performance; and ultrafast wireless technology-all while delivering even better battery life. iPhone 5 comes with iOS 6, the world's most advanced mobile operating system with over 200 new features including: the all new Maps app; Facebook integration; Passbook organization and even more Siri features and languages. For more information on iPhone 5, please visit: www.apple.com/iphone.

 
