
After weeks of leaks and speculation, the iPhone 5c is finally here. Apple's colorful new lower-cost handset slots below the iPhone 5s flagship and ships with iOS 7. This is the first time the company's launched two new iPhones simultaneously. The 5c replaces the iPhone 5 in the middle of the lineup, and the 8GB iPhone 4s is now available free on contract. Unlike years past, the iPhone 5 doesn't carry on as a second-tier device -- it's just gone. The 5c is built from steel-reinforced, colored-through, machined polycarbonate that's coated in a glossy finish. Apple's last plastic handset was the iPhone 3GS in 2009, but it only came in black and white. In contrast, the 5c arrives in a rainbow of pastel hues: white, pink, yellow, blue and green, along with a matching set of cases.


Spec-wise, the 5c is basically an iPhone 5 with an improved front-facing camera and global LTE support. The 16GB model costs $99 with a two-year commitment ($549 unlocked) and the 32GB version is $199 on contract ($649 unsubsidized) -- as such it's more affordable than the departed iPhone 5. While Apple's clearly positioning the 5c as an aspirational product, we suspect it's also less expensive to manufacture than the iPhone 5, which means the company gets to enjoy some higher profit margins. It's obviously not the cheap iPhone some folks were expecting, and frankly, we're not surprised -- it's an Apple device, after all. So does the 5c live up to the hype? Is it an improvement over the iPhone 5? Should you pony up for the iPhone 5s instead? Let's find out. 





HardwareWe're not going to lie. The iPhone 5c is gorgeous -- we'd even argue that it's the most beautiful iPhone since the 4 and 4s. It instantly makes the iPhone 5 and 5s look staid in comparison. Sure, we prefer materials like aluminum and glass over plastic, and we appreciate the intricate craftsmanship that goes into building the iPhone 5 and 5s, but still, we can't help it -- the 5c just triggers some reptilian part of our brains that screams, "OMG, color!" It brings a breath of fresh air to the iPhone lineup and will appeal to consumers at an emotional level. As such, we predict the 5c is going to be wildly popular this holiday season.

Apple's not the first company to design a handset using colored-through, machined polycarbonate. Nokia did it with the N9 and several Lumias -- most recently the 1020 -- and HTC did it with the One X. Indeed, with those devices, both manufacturers showed that plastic could be used to craft highly refined products with superior build quality. Now, the iPhone 5c takes that concept one step further with a steel-reinforced shell covered in an ultra-shiny finish. While some of Nokia's aforementioned models also feature a glossy coating, the surface of the 5c is even smoother -- like enamel. This, combined with an extremely rigid structure, makes the 5c feel like a solid block of ceramic.


The iPhone 5c is slightly thicker, taller and wider than the iPhone 5 and 5s, measuring in at 124.4 x 59.2 x 8.97mm (4.9 x 2.33 x 0.35 inches). And at 132g (4.65 ounces), it weighs a little more as well (the 5 weighed 112g, or 3.95 ounces). As you'll see, the general shape and layout of the ports, controls and sensors are all identical too, but the chamfered edges have been rounded off, making the 5c especially comfortable to hold. While it's heavier, it also feels more substantial. All told, between the design and the pastel colors, we can't help but be reminded of the Lumia 620 and the HTC First.

In front, the iPhone 5c is all glass with an improved 1.2MP front-facing camera, earpiece and sensors above the screen and the home button below. The Retina display is the same excellent 4-inch, 1,136 x 640-pixel (326-ppi) IPS panel that's used on the iPhone 5 and 5s. As ever, it's bright with accurate colors and wide viewing angles. Flip the handset over and you'll see the familiar iPhone layout, with the rear shooter, secondary mic and single LED flash clustered in the top-left corner. It's the same 8-megapixel camera (BSI sensor, f/2.4 AF lens) under sapphire glass that debuted with the iPhone 5 last year. Apple's logo adorns the top tier of the back and the word "iPhone" and regulatory info occupy the bottom tier.


Taking a look at the sides, there's a power / lock key on top, a nano-SIM tray on the right plus the silence switch and rectangular volume buttons on the left. The bottom is home to a standard 3.5mm headphone jack, primary mic, Lightning connector, speaker and two screws. Unlike the iPhone 5 and 5s, which hide the speaker and mic behind two rows of small holes, the iPhone 5c features four larger holes over the speaker, and just a single one covering the mic. Under the hood is the same Apple A6 processor (1.3GHz dual-core CPU and PowerVR SGX 543MP3 GPU) with 1GB of RAM found inside the iPhone 5. Our review unit was the yellow 32GB model, but the 5c is also available with 16GB of built-in storage.

Besides the usual dual-band 802.11a/b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0 and aGPS / GLONASS radios, the iPhone 5c handles a whopping 13 LTE bands. In fact, the 5c and 5s are the first handsets we've ever used that support all four major US carriers out of the box. In total, there are four SKUs: A1532 for the US (AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon), A1456 for the US (Sprint) and Japan, A1457 for Europe and A1530 for Asia / Australia. Both US versions support quad-band CDMA / EVDO and penta-band (850 / 900 / 1700 [AWS] / 1900 / 2100) UMTS / HSPA+ / DC-HSPA (42 Mbps). All models also include a quad-band GSM / EDGE radio. Our device (A1456) is unlocked -- it came with a Verizon SIM, but also worked fine on AT&T's network.

CameraAs you probably guessed (notice a theme here?) the iPhone 5c inherits the rear camera from the iPhone 5. It's the same 8-megapixel BSI sensor, five-element f/2.4 AF lens (with hybrid IR filter), sapphire glass cover and single LED flash as last year. While that's a solid foundation, iOS 7 brings a bunch of new functionality to the table, including real-time filters, a square format and 3x video zoom -- along with a much welcome UI refresh. The 5c also gains the improved 1.2MP front-facing shooter (BSI sensor with 1.9µm pixels) found on the iPhone 5s. Compared to Apple's flagship, the 5c lacks 120 fps, 720p slow-motion video capture, 10 fps burst mode with real-time analysis, auto-exposure during panoramas, auto image stabilization and the True Tone flash. 








