
 
Possibly one of the oddest contraptions to be unveiled at CES this year is coming to us courtesy of iriver. The WAVE-HOME multimedia communications device actually pulls double duty as a VoIP phone and a home networking controller (of sorts, anyway), as it provides an expansive 7-inch 800 x 480 resolution touchscreen for web browsing, photo viewing and interacting with all manners of connected widgets. Furthermore, the unit packs a 1.3-megapixel camera, inbuilt speakers, an Ethernet jack, SD slot, USB connectivity, a FM radio module and support for digipen input. So really, you're looking at an unpriced UMPC that's only fit for a desk. Clever, iriver. Full release is after the break.
      

 

iriver Brings a Hot New Look and Feel to Networking With the All-Inclusive WAVE-HOME Multimedia Communication DeviceNext Generation Networking Base Station and Handset Keep You Connected and In Control Of Your Home and Office LifeLas Vegas, NV -- iriver, a global leader in innovative digital devices, is bringing its award-winning ingenuity to the networking space with the game-changing WAVE-HOME. More than a home networking device, the WAVE-HOME is the ultimate all-in-one solution that provides advanced multimedia, web and phone capabilities – a comprehensive communications hub that keeps you totally connected and in control at home, at the office and in your life. Featuring a sleek and minimal base station and portable handset, the WAVE-HOME manages and integrates all your phone, Internet, home entertainment and lifestyle needs. iriver's WAVE-HOME and all of its new networking devices will be on display at the iriver booth (#7935, Central Hall) during the 2009 Consumer Electronics Show at the Las Vegas Convention Center, January 8-11, 2009.Myoung Woo Lee, CEO, iriver, said, "The WAVE-HOME is a milestone introduction for iriver as we expand our product innovation and design into exciting new areas such as life and home networking. Our mission has always been to help consumers easily connect with the things they value most in life. Our new networking devices take this concept to the next level by providing a stylish and powerful way to stay completely connected to every aspect of your home and business life and relationships."The WAVE-HOME comes with a stylish base station with a 7" color LCD touch screen and is designed to integrate all of your personal digital content such as music, photos, movies, digital photo frame, hand drawing, Internet and phone services. Music, video, and FM radio can all be enjoyed in pristine sound thanks to the WAVE-HOME's built-in, high-quality stereo speakers.WAVE-HOME is not just a simple VolP telephone, it's an internet multimedia communication device that combines a wide variety of activities at home or in the office. It can be used privately or in a broader context, such as creating new business opportunities via broadband internet such as VoIP. When connected to broadband Internet, the WAVE-HOME offers Web surfing, and also supports Internet phone service at home and in the office with VoIP Phone, VoIP Video Phone, SMS/MMS, MMCID/MMRB, live Phonebook sync, and more. Phone calls can be made by using either the internal speaker phone or the wireless handset that also supports a remote controller. WAVE-HOME also features a 1.3M pixel CMOS camera for taking sharp photos that can be instantly presented via the photo viewer. Another exciting feature is the intelligent Widget that provides instant weather, stock and traffic updates, as well as web and multimedia services that users can enjoy without a computer since the device is connected to broadband internet. The Widget utilizes a graphical user interface (GUI) and displays an individual information window or a text box. The defining characteristic of a Widget is to provide a single interaction point for the direct manipulation of a given kind of data. Therefore, the user can arrange his or her data with several Widget functions such as Widget Connector, Widget Icon, Widget Manager and Widget Gallery. It provides endless options on the 7" color touch screen. Due to its simplified navigation, it creates an intuitive and easy-to-use interface. WAVE-HOME catches the eye with its sleek, minimalist design that enhances any interior and creates style at home while changing the way we communicate.

       

 