
 
After breaking $300 million in the domestic box office and a record breaking (though initially flawed) predecessor, you'd figure Iron Man 2 would be in for an incredibly well-spec'd Blu-ray release... and you would be right. The three disc Blu-ray/DVD with Digital Copy set has plenty of extras including a 5.1 DTS-HD MA English soundtrack, commentary from director Jon Favreau and Previsualization and Animatics special features -- and that's just Disc 1. Disc 2 brings even more HD features including an extensive making of, more featurettes and a shout out to the late DJ AM. Check after the break for box art and all the other details in the press release (except for the MSRP) we'll be waiting to find out if this is a proper addition to the collection of reference quality discs this fall.
      

 

Show full PR textThe Year's Biggest Action Hero Blasts Off as Iron Man 2 Blu-ray and DVD Explode With Hours of Exciting Behind-the-Scenes FootageRobert Downey Jr. Returns in the $300+ Million Domestic Box Office Smash Hit, Zooming onto a Blu-ray/DVD Combo Pack and Two-Disc DVD on September 28, 2010HOLLYWOOD, Calif., July 13 /PRNewswire/ -- The billionaire Super Hero in the iron suit is back in Marvel Studios' and Paramount Pictures' thrilling sensation IRON MAN 2, debuting on Blu-ray, DVD, and digital download September 28, 2010. Packed with fantastic battles, stunning visual effects and an all-star cast, the new blockbuster adventure will be available to own as a three-disc Blu-ray/DVD combo pack with digital copy, as a limited edition two-disc DVD with digital copy, or as a single disc DVD. In this highly-anticipated sequel, Robert Downey Jr. (Sherlock Holmes, Tropic Thunder) reprises his role as Tony Stark, a.k.a. Iron Man, in a thrill-a-minute story filled with explosive action, new suits and powerful new villains. The phenomenal cast includes Gwyneth Paltrow (Iron Man), Don Cheadle (Oceans series), Scarlett Johansson (He's Just Not That Into You) as the seductive Black Widow, Mickey Rourke (The Wrestler) as the vengeful Whiplash, as well as Sam Rockwell (Charlie's Angels) and Samuel L. Jackson (The Other Guys).To date, with over $300 million at the domestic box office, IRON MAN 2 has delighted audiences with its combination of high-intensity action, intelligence and humor. The Blu-ray/DVD combo pack comes fully loaded with immersive and interactive bonus materials including an in-depth, feature-length documentary of the making of the film, revealing featurettes about Nick Fury, Black Widow and War Machine, a look inside the creation of Stark Expo, deleted scenes and an exclusive peek inside the Marvel Super Hero Universe through the S.H.I.E.L.D. Data Vault.IRON MAN 2 Blu-ray/DVD Combo PackThe Iron Man 2 Blu-ray is presented in 1080p high definition with English 5.1 DTS-HD Master Audio, French 5.1 Dolby Digital, Spanish 5.1 Dolby Digital and Brazilian Portuguese 5.1 Dolby Digital and English, English SDH, French, Spanish and Brazilian Portuguese subtitles. The DVD is presented in widescreen enhanced for 16:9 TVs with Dolby Digital English 5.1 Surround, French 5.1 Surround and Spanish 5.1 Surround and English, French and Spanish subtitles. The disc breakdown is as follows:Disc 1 (Blu-ray):* Feature film with optional commentary by Jon Favreau (HD)* S.H.I.E.L.D. Data Vault (HD)- Extend your knowledge of the Marvel Cinematic Universe with high-level clearance into S.H.I.E.L.D.'s digital data vault. Interact with select scenes from the movie that include new layers of graphics and insider information. View case files, dossiers, S.H.I.E.L.D. training films, tech details and more.* Previsualization and Animatics (HD)Disc 2 (Blu-ray):* Ultimate Iron Man: The Making of Iron Man 2 (HD)o Rebuilding the Suit-An all-encompassing look at the beginning stages of this mammoth blockbuster.o A Return to Action-From Marvel Studios to the streets of Monaco, Jon Favreau takes viewers through the trials and triumphs of continuing Iron Man's story.o Expanding the Universe-From the amazing sets of Stark Expo to Tony Stark's home and beyond, the Marvel Universe continues to unfold into new and exciting places.o Building a Legacy-From filming to editing, scoring and visual effects, Favreau and his team face the challenges of bringing the sequel to the big screen.* Featurettes (HD)o Creating Stark Expo-A look at how the sets and computer-generated elements combine to create the massive set piece.o Practical Meets Digital-How the "practical" props inform the "digital" work that ultimately brings our hero to life on screen.o Illustrated Origin: Nick Fury-A comprehensive journey into creating one of the most mysterious and influential heroes in the Marvel Universe.o Illustrated Origin: Black Widow-An exciting look at the new femme fatale introduced in Iron Man 2.o Illustrated Origin: War Machine-A look at the introduction of the character and how his friendship with Tony Stark resonates with fans.o Working with DJ AM-Jon Favreau remembers working with Adam Goldstein.* Deleted Scenes with optional commentary by Jon Favreau (HD)o Alternate Openingo Coulson at the Senateo The Sub-Orbital Jeto Tony's Workshop (extended)o Natalie Wears the Gauntleto Flying Party Girlo Mark II Securityo Element Rediscovered (extended)* Concept Art Gallery* Theatrical Trailers (HD)* Music Video: AC/DC "Shoot To Thrill" Disc 3 (DVD):* Feature Film* Digital CopyIRON MAN 2 Two-Disc DVDThe Iron Man 2 DVD is presented in widescreen enhanced for 16:9 TVs with Dolby Digital English 5.1 Surround, French 5.1 Surround and Spanish 5.1 Surround and English, French and Spanish subtitles. The disc breakdown is as follows:Disc 1:* Feature film with optional commentary by Jon FavreauDisc 2:* Deleted Scenes with optional commentary by Jon Favreauo Alternate Openingo Coulson at the Senateo Natalie Wears the Gauntleto Element Rediscovered (extended)* Featuretteso Creating Stark Expoo Practical Meets Digital* Music Video: AC/DC "Shoot To Thrill"* Digital CopyThe single-disc DVD includes the feature film with commentary by Jon Favreau.About Marvel EntertainmentMarvel Entertainment, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, is one of the world's most prominent character-based entertainment companies, built on a proven library of over 5,000 characters featured in a variety of media over seventy years. Marvel utilizes its character franchises in entertainment, licensing and publishing. For more information visit www.marvel.com.About Paramount Home EntertainmentParamount Home Entertainment (PHE) is part of Paramount Pictures Corporation (PPC), a global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment. PPC is a unit of Viacom (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B), a leading content company with prominent and respected film, television and digital entertainment brands. PHE is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of home entertainment products on behalf of various parties including: Paramount Pictures, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, Paramount Famous Productions, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, CBS and PBS and for providing home entertainment fulfillment services for DreamWorks Animation Home Entertainment.For artwork please visit: https://arc.paramount.comIRON MAN 2Street date:September 28, 2010Runtime:124 minutesU.S. Rating:PG-13 for sequences of intense sci-fi action and violence and some languageCanadian Rating:PG for violence and coarse languageSOURCE Paramount Home EntertainmentBack to topRELATED LINKShttp://www.marvel.comhttp://www.paramount.com
 