
       
Can you believe it? Another CES has come and gone -- and the crew of Engadget was there to capture all the highs and the lows. If you haven't been keeping track of things, this year was an insanely jam-packed frenzy of gadgety goodness. Our team bounced between the towering monuments to 3D TV, a boatload of smartbooks, netbooks, and tablets, an unexpected deluge of "superphones" and smartphones, and the requisite helping of crazy Crapgadgets and mountains of new laptops with the style and grace of a ballerina on opening night. Of course, we captured all of that madness on the pages (and pages, and pages) of Engadget, blowing it out with our biggest CES showing ever and putting a bunch of our new redesign elements into play to get news to you guys faster. But like all awesome things, they must come to an end, and after a week in Las Vegas, everyone is definitely ready to truck it on home. We wanted to leave our readers with a taste of what CES was like for us (including some awesome video of senior editor Thomas Ricker breaking it down). We also want to shout out a big thank you to you guys and girls for coming to the site every day and making this our biggest and best CES ever. You absolutely rule forever.





 Vital StatsNumber of posts: 631 since Monday, January 4th (and counting)Number of galleries: 274 (and counting)Number of videos: 145 (and counting)Percentage of time spent sleeping: approximately 14 percent, or 3 1/2 hours nightly3G cards: 45WiMAX cards: 20HyperMacs: 5DSLRs: 20, including one Nikon D3SThis year's song: "Party in the USA" (chopped and screwed, of course)This year's most overplayed (and hated) song at press events: "I've Got a Feeling"Second most overplayed song: the soundtrack to the Avatar 3D trailerNumber of RealD 3D glasses seen littering the floor: innumerable, after every single press conferenceTeam EngadgetJoshua Topolsky, Thomas Ricker, Paul Miller, Nilay Patel, Darren Murph, Ross Miller, Chris Ziegler, Richard Lawler, Ben Drawbaugh, Laura June, Donald Melanson, Joseph Flatley, Tim Stevens, Vladislav Savov, Richard Lai, Joanna Stern, Sean Cooper, Joshua Fruhlinger, Justin Glow, Dan Chilton, Trent Wolbe, Chad Mumm, Michael Slavens, Jacob Schulman, Kevin Wong, Sam Sheffer, Ittousai, Andy Yang, Jose Andrade, Alberto Ballestin, Carlos Martinez, and DritaSpecial guest appearance by Joystiq's Editor-in-chief extraordinaire Christopher Grant.Special super thanks to the inimitable, Brad Hill, former resident of Bulgaria.
 