
 


	Taking a break from BASE jumping to shop for your next rugged computer? If you can't wait for Panasonic's Android Toughbook slate, consider the just-announced General Dynamics Itronix GD2000. The PR mavens promise this handheld performs like a full-sized notebook, thanks to an Intel Core Solo processor. Weighing in at 2.4 pounds, this beast can run for six hours on a lithium-ion battery; it also boasts a sun-friendly 5.6-inch, 1024 x 600 LED touchscreen. Fully integrated satellite GPS will help you reach your top secret rendezvous point, and WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity will keep your Twitter feed updated along the way. But how rugged is it really, you ask? The case is Ingress Protection (IP) 54 rated, the company answers, meaning your new purchase is protected from dust and splashing water. When you're ready to build your own – maybe upgrading the standard 64GB SATA drive and adding cellular networking – prices start at $4,900.
 

 		Show full PR text 		New Fully Rugged, Pocket-sized GD2000 by General Dynamics Itronix Delivers Notebook-sized Computing Power  		Where working conditions are harsh and space is limited, the handheld GD2000 delivers wireless, full-power computing standing still or on-the-move. 		SUNRISE, Fla., June 21, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- General Dynamics Itronix introduces the new, fully rugged, pocket-sized GD2000. About the size of two stacked paperback books, the GD2000 provides the ultra-mobility of a handheld computer with the powerful performance of a full-sized notebook. The ideal combination of size, weight and power, the GD2000 weighs just over two pounds and comes equipped with the Intel® Ultra Low Voltage Core™ Solo processor, highly sensitive GPS and a 5.6-inch daylight-viewable DynaVue® touch-screen display. 		Mark Johnston, director of Strategic Computing Solutions for General Dynamics Itronix, said, "The GD2000 is designed for the most extreme work environments. For example, after jumping from a plane with the GD2000 strapped to their chests, military paratroopers can pinpoint or change their landing location as well as receive updated mission information while in flight and after they land." 		For military, law enforcement, emergency first responders and field service personnel working in environments where conditions are harsh and space is limited, the fully rugged GD2000 delivers mission-critical wireless, full-power computing. 		Key features of the GD2000 include: 		* Battery-conserving, sunlight-viewable DynaVue touch screen display delivers crisp, clear images of maps and videos in full sunlight.		* New zoom-in/zoom-out keyboard button lets users quickly and accurately adjust map and image views.		* Integrated hard drive slot enables users to easily swap hard drives without tools.		* 'On the fly' lithium-ion battery changes improve user productivity.		* Updated Trusted Platform Module security chip and user authentication software protect the GD2000 from unauthorized access.  		Additional features: 		* Fully integrated, high-sensitivity SIRFstarIII GPS		* Wireless WiFi and Bluetooth® connectivity		* Ergonomic 77-key backlit keyboard		* Six-hour battery life and EnergyStar® rating		* MIL-STD 810G certification		* Ingress Protection (IP) 54 rated		* Three-year warranty  		Specifications: 		* Size: 1.8 inches x 6.6 inches x 4.8 inches		* Weight: 2.4 pounds		* Display: 5.6 inch, 1024 x 600 LED display  		Available with a number of options, the General Dynamics Itronix GD2000 list price starts at $4,900. 		The GD2000 data sheet, with a complete list of features, benefits and specifications is available online at www.gd-itronix.com/GD2000. For additional information or to order the GD2000 call 1-800-441-1309. 		General Dynamics Itronix is a leading developer of wireless, rugged computing solutions for mobile workers, offering a full range of field computing systems, including full-sized laptops, ultra-mobile notebook PCs and tablet PCs. Additional information is available at www.gd-itronix.com. 		The company is part of General Dynamics C4 Systems, a business unit of General Dynamics (NYSE: GD). More information about General Dynamics is available at www.generaldynamics.com. 		Editors: Images of the GD2000 are available for download at www.gd-itronix.com/GD2000images. 		DynaVue® is a registered trademark of General Dynamics Itronix. All other product and service marks are the trademarks of their respective owners. 		SOURCE General Dynamics Itronix		Back to top 		RELATED LINKS		http://www.gd-itronix.com
 