
 


	Being a Cablevision customer was hard. Watching your colleagues with FiOS subscriptions stream Carnivale on their iPads, the guy who pays Dish Network for his programming could get Cinemax on his smartphone -- and all you had was YouTube for entertainment. Fortunately, the final major provider not to carry Home Box Office's online services has relented and you'll be able to enjoy both HBO Go and Go Max as soon as it's launched in "the next few months." Just remember that while you can now enjoy all those episodes of True Blood in public places, it doesn't necessarily mean that you should.
 

 		Show full PR text 		CABLEVISION REACHES AGREEMENT TO OFFER CUSTOMERS HBO GO® AND MAX GO® 		–HBO GO Offers More Than 1400 Titles To Customers Who Subscribe to HBO, With More Than 400 Additional Titles Available to Cinemax® Subscribers Through MAX GO – 		BETHPAGE, NY-December 19, 2011 – Cablevision Systems Corp. (NYSE: CVC) today announced an agreement to offer its iO TV® customers access to HBO's authenticated online video destinations, HBO GO® and MAX GO®. Cablevision customers who subscribe to HBO and/or Cinemax will have free, unlimited access to the corresponding online services at any time, on any computer in the U.S. with a high?speed Internet connection as well as iPad®, iPhone®, iPod touch® and select AndroidTM devices. The company expects to launch these services in the next few months. 		"Given the success and popularity of our own Optimum App, we know our customers want the flexibility to watch the programming they receive as part of their cable television service in new ways, on a variety of devices, so we are very pleased to have reached agreement to offer HBO GO and MAX GO to our digital cable customers," said John Trierweiler, executive vice president of product management. "With the Optimum App and other TV Everywhere agreements, Cablevision is leading the way in empowering customers to watch what they want, when and where they want it, on an expanding array of television platforms." 		"Cablevision shares an appreciation for TV Everywhere and therefore recognizes the incredible value HBO GO adds to the HBO subscription," said Eric Kessler Co-President of HBO. "With the addition of their iO TV® customers, HBO GO will now be available to 98% of HBO subscribers." 		HBO GO, which offers more than 1400 titles online, allows Cablevision's authenticated HBO customers to instantly watch every episode of every season of the best HBO shows including current series like Game of ThronesSM, True Blood®, and Boardwalk Empire®, classics like The Sopranos®, Sex and the City® and Deadwood®, plus HBO original films, miniseries, sports, documentaries, and specials as well as a wide selection of blockbuster theatricals. 		HBO's sister service, MAX GO, adds more than 400 titles of Cinemax programming online, providing instant access to hundreds of Hollywood hit movies, indies, cult favorites, the MAX After Dark series as well as new and exclusive, primetime high?impact drama series like Strike BackSM, specifically created for the channel. 		With the online services, Cablevision customers will have access to most new titles simultaneously with their premiere on the networks; the ability to create a "Watchlist" that keeps track of bookmarked content for later viewing; bonus content including interviews, recaps, and behind?the?scenes extras; and customizable views showing titles in slideshow, grid or list format. In addition, HBO GO can be personalized through a "Series Pass®" capability which automatically alerts viewers to new episodes of favorite HBO programs when they arrive on the service. 		HBO GO and MAX GO are the latest additions to HBO's digital offerings and a perfect complement to HBO On Demand® and Cinemax On Demand® with even more viewing choices. On both services, most programming is available in high definition. 		To access online, when the services launch, Cablevision's HBO and Cinemax subscribers will be able to go to HBOGO.com and MAXGO.com, sign in with their Optimum ID and password, make their viewing selection and begin watching. 		About Cablevision 		Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading media and telecommunications companies. In addition to delivering its Optimum?branded cable, Internet, and voice offerings throughout the New York area, the company owns and operates cable systems serving homes in four Western states. Cablevision's local media properties include News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and Newsday Media Group. Cablevision also owns and operates Clearview Cinemas. Additional information about Cablevision is available on the Web at www.cablevision.com.
 