
 
 Fujitsu has whipped out three matching Ivy Bridge laptops of various sizes for the business-end of your life. Each of the trio comes with either Core i5 or i7 processors, optional SSD and a nifty modular bay that lets you swap in batteries or optical drives depending on need. The 15-inch E752 desktop replacement will set you back $879, while the 14-inch thin-and-light S752 is aimed at business pros on the go, costing $899. Finally, the 13.3-inch subcompact S762 will blow a $999-sized hole in your departmental purchasing budget -- which you can start doing from today.



  Show full PR text   Fujitsu Introduces Trio of LIFEBOOK Business Notebooks From Subcompact to Full-Size
  SUNNYVALE, CA -- (Marketwire) -- 06/19/12 -- Fujitsu (http://solutions.us.fujitsu.com) today introduced a trio of commercial LIFEBOOK(R) notebooks -- the full-size 15.6-inch LIFEBOOK E752; the 14-inch thin, light and economical LIFEBOOK S752; and the 13.3-inch high-performance, subcompact LIFEBOOK S762 notebook.

   Powered by the new 3rd generation Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 or i7 processor, all three LIFEBOOK notebooks feature optional SSD cache or SSD drives with Intel(R) Rapid Start Technology for powering up with the speed of an Ultrabook(TM) device. In addition, the notebook trio offers a versatile modular bay allowing users to remove the optical drive to lighten the load when travelling or to install a second battery, which along with the high-capacity standard battery provides up to 15.5 hours(1) of operation.

   With an optional anti-microbial keyboard for protecting against harmful bacteria, the notebook trio is ideal for deploying in shared environments such as schools, reception desks, and libraries. All three notebooks are also equipped with a webcam LED indicator to signal when the webcam is operational.

   The LIFEBOOK E752 desktop replacement notebook, designed for business professionals and office workers, offers a highly flexible platform that can be configured to meet diverse business needs. Available with an optional high-resolution full HD display (1920 x 1080), and a separate 10-key keypad, the LIFEBOOK E752 helps businesses reduce costs and improve efficiency.

   Designed for mobile professionals, the affordably priced 5.4-pound LIFEBOOK S752 notebook offers optional Intel(R) Core(TM) vPro(TM) processor for improved security and remote manageability, WWAN support, an optional second battery, and an LED backlit HD display for producing sharp images, saturated colors and deep blacks.

   Both the LIFEBOOK E752 and LIFEBOOK S752 notebooks support up to three active displays with the Optional Port Replicator -- increasing productivity for multitasking users.

   The 3.7-pound high-performance LIFEBOOK S762 subcompact notebook, perfect for business travelers, offers an array of full-sized features in a thin and light system. Easily handling the most compute intensive tasks, the LIFEBOOK S762 notebook features a magnesium-alloy cover, hard drive shock sensor, WWAN support, an HD WXGA LED backlit display, and optional NVIDIA(R) GeForce(R) GT 640M LE with NVIDIA Optimus(TM) technology for longer battery life.

   "The trio of new LIFEBOOK notebooks are all built to order, allowing business professionals to design systems that meet their exact requirements for maximum productivity," said Paul Moore, vice president, PC product marketing and product management, Fujitsu America. "Every customer wants a reliable, well-built system that incorporates the latest technology -- which is exactly what Fujitsu delivers in its LIFEBOOK family."

 
