
 
It's mildly amusing that up until now, your only option when buying IZ3D's 22-inch 3D LCD monitor was to buy it on a decidedly 2D website. At long last, the recently cheapened (now $399) display has hit the brick and mortar realm, with both Fry's Electronics and Micro Center agreeing to carry it. The move is just one more in the inevitable push to get 3D in the home, and we have all ideas that it'll be joined by a number of others after CES '09 is all wrapped up. Feel free to drop by one of the aforesaid retailers to check this thing out in person, but we'll warn you, those frightened by 3D glasses need not apply. Full release (including specs) is after the break.
      

 

World's First 3D Monitor for Gamers Now Available in Retail Stores  New Deals through Retailers Set Stage to Make iZ3D the Hottest 3D Solution Available; Visit iZ3D at the Upcoming CES show in Meeting Room #25118M located in the Gaming Showcase in South Hall 2 of the Las Vegas Convention Center.  San Diego, Calif., December 18, 2008 -- iZ3D Inc., designer, developer and pioneer of advanced stereoscopic 3D visualization systems, is pleased to announce that it's popular 22-inch 3D monitor display system has leapt off the screens of online e-tailers into the real world of brick and mortar retail stores.  iZ3D's gaming display products are now being offered nationwide in Fry's Electronics Incorporated® and Micro Center® stores, specialty retail superstores renowned for merchandising innovative consumer electronics products and technology breakthroughs. In addition to the physical store locations, both retail chains are offering the iZ3D monitor through online store destinations, joining Staples Online, NewEgg, Amazon, Critical Buy, and other e-tailers.  "The move to retail is another milestone in our pursuit of bringing 3D to the home market," stated Thomas Striegler, CEO of iZ3D Inc. "Seeing games displayed with our 3D monitor startles the imagination and shatters memories of bad 3D from 1950's theatrical effects and headache prone shutter glasses," he adds.  In the past year, iZ3D has had growing success selling its monitor exclusively online. Since consumers lack experience with this new technology, seeing it proves a critical part of the purchasing decision. iZ3D faces the same challenges as the television industry as it educated consumers to shift from black and white to color, or standard to high definition. "You have to see it to understand it the first time, and selling our 3D monitor though retail represents an inflection point for the emerging 3D industry," said Striegler.  Store locations in California, Arizona, and Nevada began offering the product in mid-December. The monitor solution will be available at all store locations by January 9, 2009, after which iZ3D will begin sponsoring in-store try-and-buy demo days. Consumers can easily find a listing of store locations and get information on iZ3D's products and special offers at www.3drulez.com.  In recent month's iZ3D has made headlines as it introduced the first 3D monitors with custom painted designs from Smooth Creations®, released its new industry-standard-setting 3D display driver, announced channel distribution partnerships with Ingram Micro and D&H Distributing Company, made 3D monitors significantly more affordable, and announced a partnership with AMD which included an ATI 3DLP driver and $50 rebate offer for ATI Radeon™ graphics card customers.  The iZ3D 3D monitor solution includes: - 22-inch wide screen 3D/2D keyboard switchable LCD monitor - 3 pairs of passive polarized 3D glasses (5 other models are available online) - iZ3D Stereoscopic 3D and Anaglyph 3D software drivers (other drivers are available online) - Power and video cables - Quick-start guide - Free membership into iZ3D's upcoming 3D gaming network  Monitor specifications are: - 22-inch wide screen LCD - 1680 x 1050 resolution - Up to 170-degree 3D viewing angle - 5ms response time - 700:1 contrast ratio - 16.7-million colors - 300 nits  The solution is compatible with Microsoft Windows XP and Microsoft Vista operating systems, games written for DirectX 8, 9, (and soon 10), and requires a graphics card with 2 video outputs (VGA, DVI, or HDMI). Most games written in the last six years are already designed for 3D, but have lacked, until now, a way of displaying them properly. Games that have been tested by iZ3D, MTBS, and customer testers can be found at www.3drulez.com.   Availability and Pricing The iZ3D 22-inch monitor has a new manufacturers suggested resale price of $399.00 and is currently available at Fry's and Micro Centers as well as online stores including www.staples.com, www.newegg.com, www.amazon.com, www.pcmall.com, www.criticalbuy.com, www.iz3d.com, and other online shopping sites. The iZ3D Version 1.09 Driver is available at www.iz3d.com. The standard iZ3D S-3D output and anaglyph output are included with the purchase of an iZ3D monitor. The exclusive ATI 3D DLP output is free to AMD customers. All other drivers can be purchased at $49.99 per output.

       

 