
 

If you're secretly wearing Spandex bicycle shorts underneath your suit for on-the-fly workouts between conference calls, then perhaps Jabra's new Sport bluetooth headset is for you. Of course it allows you to answer calls, but what's cooler is the built-in FM radio and A2DP technology for wirelessly connecting to your MP3 player -- claiming to be the first headset to handle both. The company also threw in a free download of the Endomondo Sports Tracker for iPhone, Android or BlackBerry -- which is kind of like the Nike+ app, tracking runs and giving speed and distance updates. This $99 device will be sold by Sprint, Apple and T-Mobile, and available sometime in September along with a corded version, aptly named the Jabra Sport-Corded, for $69. Get ready to tear away those wool trousers and check out the full PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Jabra Announces New Additions to Sports Portfolio That Combine Fitness, Fun and Function 		New Jabra SPORT Fills Void in Wireless Headset Sports Market		JABRA SPORT The Jabra SPORT is the first wireless headset to handle calls and music while exercising. (PRNewsFoto/Jabra) NASHUA, NH UNITED STATES		Download image 		NASHUA, N.H., Sept. 1, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Jabra today announced the launch of two products that will strengthen its new Jabra Sports portfolio, aiming to fill a void in the market of wireless headsets designed specifically for active use and adding a new corded wearing style to its existing line. The new Jabra portfolio gives exercisers two "sporty," high-quality headset options – the Jabra SPORT and SPORT-CORDED - that are ideal for an active lifestyle – with or without the cords. The new products join the Jabra ACTIVE and Jabra CLIPPER to round out the sports-centric product line. The Jabra SPORT will be available at Apple, Sprint and T-Mobile stores. Both the Jabra SPORT and Jabra SPORT-Corded will be available on Amazon.com in September. 		(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20110901/NE61387 ) 		In a recent external web survey*, Jabra found that 52% of respondents said that they listen to music while running, while 60% indicated that they have occasionally answered phone calls while exercising. The Jabra SPORT, the first Bluetooth (wireless) stereo product introduction in the Company's sports portfolio, makes it possible to listen to music and take calls during workouts, all without tethering an exerciser to their mobile or music device with an unwanted wire, which the survey indicated was important to exercisers. 		Featuring a category-first built-in FM radio, A2DP technology, and powerful bass to help energize workout performance, the Jabra SPORT allows for an even wider variety of music options when exercising and easy-to-use controls. The stereo headset also features a wind-shielded microphone and is US Military Standard Rain, Dust and Shock Resistant certified, ensuring that exercisers don't need to hold back during their workouts on account of their headphones. The ergonomic behind-the-ear design, as well as three different pairs of eargels, ensures that the Jabra SPORT has both a secure and comfortable fit. 		The Jabra SPORT** comes with a free download of Endomondo Sports Tracker, a fitness tracking application for smartphones that functions as a motivational tool for running, giving quick updates on speed, distance, and lap time. Endomondo allows users to visually see past running routes on their smartphone via a GPS tracking feature. The Endomondo Sports Tracker app is designed to work with iPhone®, Android or BlackBerry® handsets. 		The Jabra SPORT-CORDED is designed for exercisers who have become accustomed to working out with traditional corded headphones. The headset seamlessly transitions between music and phone calls and features the same US Military Standard Rain, Dust and Shock Resistant certification as the Bluetooth version. The ergonomic behind-the-ear shapeable design, as well as three different pairs of eargels, ensures that the Jabra SPORT-CORDED has both a secure and comfortable fit. 		The Jabra SPORT Bluetooth stereo headset is available for $99 and the Jabra SPORT-CORDED stereo headset retails for $69. Jabra SPORT Bluetooth will be available at Apple, Sprint and T-Mobile stores. Both products will be available on Amazon.com in September. 		For more information on Jabra's line of stereo headsets and other mobile products, visit Jabra.com, like us on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/Jabra.US or follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/jabra_us. 		* Source: Jabra.com survey of 103 respondents 		**Jabra SPORT is the only Bluetooth headset in the market compatible with Endomondo Sports Tracker
 