
 
 Jabra has been venturing further and further into headphones after years of focusing on headsets and speakerphones. CES 2013 is a perfect mirror of that shift: all three products it's launching at the show are geared towards music lovers rather than plain old conference calling. The Revo and Bluetooth-based Revo Wireless (above) both integrate Dolby Digital Plus audio processing and, along with a companion app for Android and iOS, may eke out more detail than usual from compressed songs. These and the in-ear Vox (after the break) are also designed to take a fair amount of abuse, Jabra says. The audio firm is mum on prices, but its new earpieces should grace ears sometime in the second quarter of the year.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


 
  Show full PR text   JABRA ADDS A NEW DIMENSION TO ALWAYS-ON SOUND PERFORMANCE WITH A NEW LINE OF STEREO HEADPHONES
  Taking the Listening Experience to Greater Heights with Excellent Durability and Design
  (Nashua, NH, January 7, 2013) – Jabra today announced a new suite of corded and wireless stereo headphones that elevate music and multimedia experiences to a new dimension of sound performance. Specifically designed for hard-wearing, everyday use and portability, the new Jabra Revo Wireless, Jabra Revo corded and Jabra Vox in-ear earphones epitomize the ultimate balance in design, ease-of-use and outstanding sound quality that is expected from today's discerning music lover. The new headphones will be unveiled this week at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Booth #11608 (Central Hall) with Rev Run from Run-DMC + DJ Ruckus posing for pictures and signing autographs in-booth on Tuesday, January 8 (12-1PM PST). In addition, Jabra will showcase their partnership with Club Create during the show via hands-on demos of the music creation platform.
  With a worldwide reputation for delivering superbly engineered audio solutions, Jabra has upped the ante sonically with the addition of Dolby® Digital Plus technology which - together with Jabra's exclusive Sound App for iOS and Android devices - creates a much richer and fuller sound that is often missing in digitally compressed audio. This full-spectrum brings new life, extra depth and dimension to music across genres.
  The latest suite of stereo headphones will excite and impress pop and rock enthusiasts who want massive, high-definition sound clarity as well as serious jazz and classical audiophiles looking to take their favorite recordings to another level of performance and sophistication.  The global adoption of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices means more and more people are communicating on the move and taking their music with them. This 'always on' wave of mobile users is consuming an ever-increasing amount of entertainment, which results in a large amount of device wear and tear – particularly with headphones.
  Jabra's headphones are designed to be 'used and abused' and this new line is no exception. Both the Jabra Revo Wireless and Jabra Revo headphones are solidly constructed using an aluminium frame, steel hinges and a shatter-proof headband for extreme flexibility. The small but tough Jabra Vox is built from premium materials, comes with tangle-free, reinforced cables and is thoroughly tested for ultimate durability and performance.
  "Headphones are subjected to a lot of wear and tear so consumers are demanding that they are designed to withstand the rigours of regular use," noted Anne Raaen Rasmussen, Senior Vice President, Mobile Division at Jabra. "Jabra's line of stereo products has been tested to the extreme, undergoing drop tests, bend tests, fold tests, cable tests, dirt tests and more. These headphones are built to last, without sacrificing style or sound quality."
  As with audio excellence, comfort and design are synonymous with Jabra products and that unmistakably under-stated, yet stylish Scandinavian design is reflected across this new suite of products. From padded headbands and plush, memory foam ear cups on the Jabra Revo to perfectly fitting, specially designed ColorCore EarGels™ for enhanced comfort and deep sound on the Jabra Vox, these stereo headphones are all engineered to rest comfortably for extended use and lifestyle fulfilment.
  Jabra's new suite of music headphones will launch in Q2 2013 in North America. Additional information and videos showing off the line can be accessed via the official CES show app, available for download from the App Store or Google Play.
 
