
 


This week at BlackBerry World 2011, Jaguar is showcasing one of its lovely XJ sedans outfitted with a prototype of its upcoming Connect and View technology which the car manufacturer is developing together with RIM, Denso, and RealVNC. Like Terminal Mode, the system allows a client running on the vehicle's head unit to connect to a server installed on a BlackBerry smartphone. Communication is handled by VNC -- a platform-independent remote framebuffer protocol, which mirrors the handset's display on the car's infotainment screen and maps the device's physical buttons to softkeys. This provides control of the phone directly from the center stack of the XJ sedan but lets the company block potentially distracting apps. Audio is piped via Bluetooth while VNC traffic is routed over USB, thus also keeping the BlackBerry conveniently charged. Jaguar hopes to have Connect and View in its vehicles by late 2012. Until then, check out our hands-on video (above) and the press release after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textPIONEERING INTEGRATION BY JAGUAR LAND ROVER, RIM, DENSO AND REALVNC®Jaguar Land Rover joins with Research In Motion (RIM), DENSO and Real VNC® to unveil 'Connect and View', the latest generation of integrated mobile phone and in-vehicle infotainment systems.The level of integration possible between a car and a BlackBerry® smartphone is taking a step further at the BlackBerry WorldTM 2011 conference today with the unveiling of an innovative new system that projects the display of a BlackBerry smartphone onto the central touchscreen of a vehicle.Demonstrated on a Jaguar XJ connected with a BlackBerry® smartphone, the system, called Connect and ViewTM, provides the usual making and receiving of calls via the phone but adds functionality that can allow applications, such as music and navigation applications operating on the smartphone, to be accessed and displayed on the large, central touchscreen fitted to the XJ. The system only allows approved apps to be displayed and controlled, and data from the vehicle's systems can also be utilised by the smartphone. The system benefits customers with ease of use, greater functionality and the ability to access personal content from their smartphone within the vehicle's systems.Bob Joyce, Jaguar Land Rover Group Engineering Director said: "We're proud to be a part of such innovation that has efficiency, convenience and clever integration at its core. The system will make a significant difference to the way our customers use the entertainment systems on our vehicles as well as their smartphones."Connect and ViewTM is being showcased for the very first time at BlackBerry World and on the Jaguar XJ, which has been widely acclaimed for its class-leading technology and design. The XJ was recently awarded the 2011 International Luxury Car of the Year by the International Car of The Year jury.Tom Blackie, Vice President of Mobile at RealVNC® software added, "We are excited to work with such prestigious brands as BlackBerry, Jaguar, Range Rover and Land Rover. Their choice to adopt VNC and the confidence to move towards production with our solution gives us great belief of the applicability of VNC to the automotive industry.""We're pleased to work with Jaguar Land Rover, DENSO and RealVNC to support the integration of smartphones with in-car systems," said Tyler Lessard, Vice President, Global Alliances & Developer Relations at RIM. "Many BlackBerry applications can have practical benefits for in-car use, and Connect and View can help make those applications more accessible in a convenient and safe way."Connect and View TMwill be available in both Jaguar and Land Rover products in late 2012.
 