
Second chances are rare in the tech world. Unless you're one of the big boys -- say a Samsung or an Apple -- one spectacular failure is enough to doom a product line or even an entire company. Just ask Gizmondo, 3D Realms, Helio, Palm, Netscape, DivX, Sega... the list goes on and on. All it takes is one mistake and a hyped device or marquee company can end up as little more than a nostalgic Wikipedia entry. After last year's debacle with the Up, we thought Jawbone might give up on the fitness market entirely. In case you missed the drama last holiday season, here's a quick recap: within weeks of launching, the Yves Behar-designed motion-tracking bracelet simply stopped working for many customers. We even had two units fail during the course of writing our original review. It quickly became apparent that the problems were not just widespread, but near ubiquitous. Up was pulled from the shelves, customers were issued refunds and Jawbone went back to the drawing board.


We have to hand it to the company for quickly taking ownership of the problem and cutting checks to the unfortunate souls who ponied up $100 to buy one. But, while seeing a company readily admit failure was a pleasant surprise, we were even more shocked when Jawbone didn't simply cancel Up entirely and cut its losses. Instead it tracked down the root issues -- water permeability, flexibility and a barebones app -- and redesigned the bracelet from the ground up. The basic functionality and aesthetic choices are the same, but the materials, the iOS data logger and actual internal assembly are all completely different. Unfortunately, all these upgrades mean last year's $100 bust is this year's $130 shot at redemption. And the real question is, even if it works, is the Up something you'll want or need?




HardwareBehar played it pretty safe with the design of the Up. From close up it's pretty clear it's not just a fashion accessory, but no one is going to point and stare at it from across the street. It's downright subtle when compared to the LED-riddled (and overpriced) Nike+ FuelBand. It's got the same zigzag pattern across the top as the original, an aesthetic choice that's a little too reminiscent of a bad tribal tattoo for this reviewer's tastes. (One person asked if it was meant to prevent sea sickness.) What is problematic is the textured button on one end and the cap covering the 3.5mm plug on the other. They constantly got in the way, catching on things and scraping against the palm rests of our laptops. The rubberized body is clearly supposed to be inconspicuous, but we constantly had to turn the bracelet around so the Jawbone-branded cap and button were facing outwards, giving away its non-decorative function.

We had to turn the bracelet around so the branded cap and button faced outwards, giving away its non-decorative function.Last year's model was built to be "rugged" according to certain industry standards. The new Up goes well beyond those measurements, and that's good since underneath the rubber exterior are some rather delicate electronics. Gone are the issues with warm water and soap seeping in or its tendency to break apart internally when bent. We've showered with it, washed dishes, scrubbed floors, yanked it roughly off our wrists and needlessly bent it back and forth just out of boredom. Weeks later, it's still ticking. Jawbone even built special machines like the Big Shower 2000 to put its durability to the test before shipping.


Sadly, the more things change, the more they stay same. There's still no Bluetooth or other wireless syncing option (point Fitbit), nor is there a micro-USB port for charging. Instead you'll still have to rely on the repurposed headphone jack for both these tasks. So yes, that means you'll have to plug the band into your iPhone or iPad every time you want to upload your steps or change your settings. Though, you might not want to bother with the iPad since the app doesn't scale natively. It also means you'll need to keep close tabs on the cap and proprietary charging cable, both of which we've come dangerously close to losing more than once in the last few weeks. On the plus side, if you did lose the charger, you'd have plenty of time to order a new one and have it shipped to you; Jawbone claims the Up has a battery life of 10 days. And the company is pretty darn close: we were able to go nine days before our review unit finally demanded that we plug it into our computer's USB port.

Software 
The other major complaint leveled against the original Up was that its companion app was rather lackluster. The software, currently compatible with iOS devices only, is an essential part of the data-tracking package -- without it the Up is little more than a piece of plastic jewelry. Thankfully Jawbone buckled down and polished up the app. In fact, whereas last year it felt like an afterthought, now the bracelet seems like an accessory to the app. Many of the major aesthetic elements have returned, but there's a fresh coat of paint, a more modern layout and, most importantly, tons of new features.

The social aspects serve two purposes -- to motivate you through a sense of companionship and competition, and to shame you through public humiliation.The "Me" page is now the home screen and there have been some minor tweaks to the design. It still uses bars to represent your progress towards sleep, step and food goals, but you can now scroll down through the day's updates -- including any exercise or meals you and your friends "teammates" have entered. In addition to presenting you with more information and context up front, the new home screen also more readily exposes the app's social features. If you want to comment on your own or a teammate's progress all you have to do is tap on the tiny speech bubble at the bottom of each update card. Making the social aspects more visible serves two purposes -- to motivate you through a sense of companionship and competition, and to shame you through public humiliation. Though Jawbone and most other fitness-tracking services will deny that shaming is an intentional component of their products, there's no ignoring reality. Publicly confessing that you just ate a 1,400-calorie Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Blizzard from Dairy Queen at 11 AM on a Wednesday is probably the best way to ensure you never do it again. Similarly, seeing your calories pile up in a public forum will make you more conscious of what you put in your body.



