
Late last year, Jawbone faced a herculean task: regaining consumers' trust after widespread reports of brickage on the original Up fitness tracker. The outfit was able to right many of the wrongs that plagued the first edition, but there was still room for improvement. You still had to plug the Up into a smartphone to sync your collected data; sleep tracking left a lot to be desired; and the iOS app needed more usable functionality beyond tallying steps and monitoring dietary habits. However, the 2012 model did offer more than seven days of battery life and, you know, kept working even after a week of use.


This time around, the company has finally opted to go wireless. Thanks to a Bluetooth Low Energy radio, the new Up24 can sync wirelessly and only needs to be plugged in when it's time to recharge. The convenience of wireless comes at a cost, however. The 2013 version got a $20 price increase to $150. So is the ability to sync wirelessly worth the extra coin? Are the software improvements impressive enough to make folks trust Jawbone above rival companies? I spent a few weeks tracking my every move to determine just that. 





Hardware
You're not alone if you confuse the Up24 with either of the previous Up bands. The new offering comes in two colors (black and orange) and sports the same rubber-coated exterior as before. Upon closer inspection, the unit now features a swirly textured pattern around its outer shell -- a change from the zigzag design on the 2012 model. The lone physical button, used for toggling between Sleep Mode, Power Nap and other functions, now has a slightly different texture as well. Opposite the button is the removable nickel-plated cap that hides the 3.5mm plug for charging. Recharging still happens over USB, with the help of an adapter. In some places, the new unit may be a hair thinner, but there are otherwise no significant changes to report there.

The simplicity of the Yves Béhar-designed original remains, and that's a good thing. Jawbone decided not to add a display à la the Fitbit Force; instead it's relying on its companion software to serve up your fitness stats (more on that in a moment). There are still two LEDs, though, and they're still situated around back by the band's button, indicating when the unit is awake (that's the sun icon) or snoozing (that'd be the moon).

One change you'll notice pretty quickly on the Up24 is the reduced battery life.As with the previous models, you can use the physical button to activate a number of modes. Pressing once still shows whether you're in active or Sleep Mode; just press and hold to toggle between the two. When the band is awake (for lack of a better term), you can turn on the stopwatch by pressing once and then pressing and holding until the sun icon flashes and the band vibrates. Similarly, pressing the button followed by pressing and holding until the indicator flashes and Up24 vibrates in Sleep Mode triggers Power Nap.
Last year's model also brought improved flexibility and water resistance, and indeed, those features are still in play. I was sure to get the unit good and wet each time I washed my hands or did the dishes. Several weeks later, I still haven't had any issues. The Up24 is also just as flexible as the previous model. From time to time, though, the band would snag when I put on a jacket, sliding it about halfway down my arm, at which point I had to adjust it.

One change you'll notice pretty quickly on the Up24 is the reduced battery life. The ability to wirelessly sync your data means the runtime now hovers around seven days. That's the figure Jawbone has claimed, and so my experience was right in line with what the company is advertising. Of course, the band itself will remind you when it's low on juice using both vibrations and a push notification to your iPhone so you can plug it in for the requisite 90-minute recharge. I say iPhone because while there is an Android version of the Up application, the Up24 is only iOS compatible at this time.

Software
The Up24 arrives with version 3.0 of the Up app, which brings a smattering of new features and improvements. Otherwise, it largely looks like the software we familiarized ourselves with last year. First, there are notifications that get pushed to your iPhone when you're about to reach your goal. You might also receive alerts updating you on your progress. For example, after waking up in the morning and switching Sleep Mode off, I got a message letting me know how much shut-eye I got. These updates all arrive automatically without the need to plug in the device if you're using the Up24. There's also a sleep-recovery tool that allows you to manually enter your estimated hours should you forget to enter Sleep Mode before dozing off. Owners of the previous Up bands can enjoy all of these improvements -- everything aside from push notifications, that is. 




