
Jawbone's original Jambox made Bluetooth portable speakers a mass-market hit. Since then, though, Jawbone has started to lag behind as other companies have come out with better units that cost either the same price or less. Now, the $180 Mini Jambox is here with an even more portable design to help Jawbone keep its edge. Now that we've gotten the chance to live with it for a few weeks, it's time to answer the big questions you might have before placing a pre-order. Does the Mini Jambox offer marked improvements over the original? Is it enough to compete with all the other options in this space? And, most importantly, is the price right? Read on for the Engadget take. 





Hardware
The Mini Jambox is what it sounds like: a Jambox, made smaller. Yves Béhar was yet again put in charge of the design, which maintains the same boxy shape and wavy speaker grille we've already grown accustomed to. The Mini comes clad in a rigid anodized-aluminum case, with strips of rubber at the sides that roll under the bottom edges to act as feet. Sadly, there's no way to angle the speaker or let the drivers face vertically for situations when you can't have it positioned in front of you. All told, it's available in nine colors, with five different grille textures. Our unit is the new take on the original "Red Dot" variation, which Jawbone has been shipping since the very beginning.

The Mini Jambox is what it sounds like.On top, you'll notice volume keys and a multi-purpose button (play, pause, Siri / Google Now). The right side, meanwhile, houses a microphone, a pairing button, a micro-USB port (for charging and updates), a 3.5mm auxiliary input and a glowing power button. Speaking of the sort, every button offers a pleasing amount of tactile feedback, without being too "clicky." In the box, you'll find both 3.5mm audio and micro-USB cables, but the smaller size means a wall wart is now an extra $30. While we're on the subject of things you lose on this smaller model, the Mini is rated for 10 hours of battery life, just like on the original. down from 15 on the original. Don't worry, though: it was still enough keep us away from the power outlet for a few days.

So, just how tiny is it compared to the original? The key difference is the thickness. The Mini comes in at 6.06 inches in length, 0.96 inch in width, 2.28 inches in height and weighs nine ounces, while the Jambox is 5.95 inches in length, 2.24 inches in width and 1.57 inches in height and weighs 12 ounces. Basically, the Mini will fit in your pants pocket -- even if you're wearing skinny jeans. Still, the 90-degree edges make it quite annoying in that particular scenario, despite Jawbone's suggestions to the contrary. Yes, it's a much smaller speaker, but unless you're wearing cargo pants, you'll want to toss it in your bag. Chop off another quarter of the thickness or taper the edges in a future model, and the pocket thing could be more realistic.

SetupGetting the unit to work with our devices was incredibly easy. When you power it up, you'll be greeted by a new take on the familiar boom and beep (there's a double beep when turning it off), which changes to a voice prompt that lets you know it's time to pair on your first go. The speaker handles two simultaneous connections at a time over a Bluetooth 4.0 Low Energy connection. From there, it's just like syncing up any other Bluetooth device. And on iOS, you'll see the nifty battery meter appear in your info bar too.

Jawbone app
In addition to announcing the Mini Jambox, Jawbone introduced new apps for both iOS and Android. As before, you can use the MyTalk settings to make adjustments to the device itself, but it also adds a music player, which you can use to play locally stored iTunes music or stream from Spotify or Rdio. (More apps will be added at a later date, Jawbone says.) Unfortunately, though you can play locally stored music on either app, the streaming functionality only works on Android iOS for now. Sorry, folks! That disclaimer aside, the app works fluidly, but it isn't any more appealing than using other music apps.




