
 

Jaybird's been pretty quiet about its latest Bluetooth offering. In fact, the company actually sneaked a few of its JF3 Freedom sports headphones into some stores back in April, but they quickly ran out of stock -- we imagine it was either a test run or the product needed some tweaking. Regardless, we've just been informed that the JF3 will finally be available to all starting next week, with Jaybird's online store currently taking pre-orders for $99 a pop (including free delivery), followed by wider availability at retail stores in late July. What's more, these sweat-proof stereo buds are now enhanced with new blade-like silicon ear cushions -- head past the break to watch Jaybird founder Judd Armstrong ecstatically shake his head to show off the secure fit.





    			Show full PR text  Originally announced at CES in January, JayBird launches the new JF3 Freedom Bluetooth Headphones with secure fit ear cushions for sports. 			Website: http://www.jaybirdgear.com			Feature Videos and Review: http://www.youtube.com/jaybirdsporttv 			Key features include:			1) Small wireless Bluetooth buds			2) Secure fit for sports thanks to the proprietary honey comb design ear cushions			3) Great sound performance, tuned to avoid listener fatigue during long work outs			4) Sweat proof design with Lifetime Warranty Against Sweat 			Completely forget about your headphones with Freedom Bluetooth earbuds. No wires and an incredibly secure fit for sports.			The Freedom features a clean, natural looking design and wearing style, 6 hours music and play time, a premium hard shell magnet sealed carry case, 3 sizes of ear tips, and 3 sizes of secure fit ear cushions for sports. 			Inspired by the fog lamp grill of a sports car, and with the soft comfort of silicon, the new hexagon design ear cushions offer superb comfort and secure fit for sports. The honey comb center gives a balanced amount of resistance against the back bowl of the ear (top, back and bottom), thus holding the ear tip securely forward in the ear. Three sizes of ear cushions are provided in addition to 3 sizes of ear tips. 			Freedom has been selling in retail stores without any announcement since April, and now, JayBird has enhanced the offering with new secure fit silicon sports ear cushions. The enhanced Freedom is available now and exclusive on the JayBird online store for $99 with free shipping (and will reach retail stores late July). Existing Freedom owners can order a free set of the new ear cushions from jaybirdgear.com/jf3.   Technical Specifications 			Construction 			Heavy-duty case construction			Sealed against sweat and moisture			Rubberize overmolded sealed buttons			Tangle-free flat cord			High integrity light-weight construction			Audio 			Type: In-Ear Style			Noise-isolation: No			Impedance: 32 Ohm			Output 15mW RMS (with level limit)			Total Harmonic Distortion <5% (1KHz, 10mW)			Protocol: BT 2.0, A2DP, Handsfree, Headset			Speaker sensitivity: 117 +-3dB At 1KHz			Audio Format: 16-bit Stereo			Operation 			Operating: 14F - 140F (-10C - 60C )			Storage: -22F - 176F (-30C - 80C)			AC power: DC 5A 100mA 			Bluetooth 			Tx Power: Bluetooth Class 2.1+EDR			Codec: SBC Range: 10 meters/33 feet			Frequency Band: 2.4 GHz			Response Bandwidth 20-20000Hz			Pairing 			No of Paired Devices: 2			Pairing passkey: 0000			Integrated Microphone 			Type: 4mm omni-directional			Sensitivity: -34 dB + /-3dB (1KHz, 0dB = 1V/Pa)			Battery 			Music Play Time: 6 Hrs*			Talk Time: 6 Hrs*			Standby Time: 250 Hrs*			Charging Time: 2 hrs			Charging: USB (included)			Type: 250 mAh Lithium Polymer			* May vary dependent on usage & device 			Weight & Dimensions 			Width: 18 mm			Height: 40 mm			Depth: 8 mm			Weight: 16 g 			Button Controls 			AVRCP Music Controls (Play, pause, Next, Back)			Call Controls (answer, end, reject call)			General (Volume, pair, power) 			In The Box 			JF3 Freedom Bluetooth Headphones			USB Cable			3 pair eartips			3 pair secure fit ear cushions			Premium Carry case			User Manual 			Compatible Products 			iPod Touch, iPhone, iPad			iPod nano and classic with Bluetooth adapter			Andriod and other smart phones			MP3 players, PC/Mac			Gaming Devices 			See JayBird Bluetooth adapters for non-bluetooth products.			Warranty 			1 Year Limited Warranty			Lifetime Warranty Against Sweat 
 