
 
 JBL has been on a wireless speaker kick lately -- it might as well throw some truly portable models into the equation. Accordingly, two of the three speakers it's shipping today, the Flip and Micro Wireless, sport Bluetooth audio and a 5-hour battery to cut the cord. The Flip (seen above) is the multi-talented athlete of the bunch: its design can work either upright or on its side to stuff into small spaces, and a built-in mic provides speakerphone duties. The Micro Wireless' puck shape isn't as clever, but it fits a standard 3.5mm input jack and space to clip to a carabiner or lanyard. Both these and the Micro Wireless' strictly wired counterpart, the Micro II, have a bass port to improve the low-end frequencies that are so often missing in this class of speaker. Prices may be the real incentives here: the Flip is the most expensive of the trio at $99, while the Micro Wireless and Micro II are even lighter on the wallet at respective $59 and $39 price points.



  Show full PR text   Fresh JBL® Ultra-Portable Speakers Let Music Fans Enjoy a Lively, On-the-Go Performance
  The JBL Flip, Micro Wireless and Micro II Offer Wireless or Wired Sound in a Compact Case That Can Sit on a Desktop or Be Stowed in a Bag – All for Less Than $100
  STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, announces the availability of three new, ultra-portable JBL® speakers built for superior on-the-go music enjoyment from a smartphone or tablet. The compact speakers – the JBL Flip (right), JBL Micro Wireless and JBL Micro II – easily fit into a backpack or back pocket and are ideal for business travel, dorm rooms or a second bedroom. Each speaker includes a built-in bass port to deliver a deep, more resonant sound than comparably sized portable speakers.
  The three ultra-portable JBL speakers range from $39 to $99 and work with virtually any music-playing gadget, including the Apple iPad, iPhone or iPod touch as well as Android™ smartphones or tablets and BlackBerry® or Windows® Mobile phones. Each features a convenient, rechargeable battery that provides up to five hours of playing time. Two speakers – the JBL Flip and JBL Micro Wireless – connect via Bluetooth® wireless or through a cable, while the JBL Micro Wireless and JBL Micro II can be daisy-chained with other JBL Micro speakers to create a significantly larger – and louder – soundscape.
  "These ultra-portable JBL speakers were designed specifically for the on-the-go music lover who wants a quality audio performance with portability – a desirable feature set that JBL, thanks to its pioneering role in audio development, is uniquely positioned to deliver," said Sachin Lawande, executive vice president of HARMAN and co-president of HARMAN Lifestyle and Infotainment. "We are providing technically sophisticated speakers with high-performance drivers and built-in bass ports in small packages so music fans will hear the truth. The sound is very impressive."
  Details of three JBL ultra-portable speakers include:
  * The JBL Flip wireless speaker easily pairs with any Bluetooth-compatible device – including an iPhone, Android phone, BlackBerry or tablet. The cylindrical speaker features two high-performance drivers, a built-in bass port and digital signal processing software to extend frequency response on the high end while providing tighter low ends for deeper bass response. The JBL Flip can be placed horizontally to perform like a small speaker system or flipped upright on a desktop for room-filling sound. The JBL Flip includes a built-in microphone for hands-free Bluetooth calls and a 5-hour rechargeable battery. And it offers an audio performance that stands up to products at twice the price. It is available in black or white.
  * The JBL Micro Wireless easily pairs with any Bluetooth-compatible device – including an iPhone, Android phone, BlackBerry or tablet. The wireless speaker also includes a built-in audio cable to connect to any device with a standard 1/8-inch (3.5-millimeter) jack and can be daisy-chained to other JBL Micro speakers for a bigger sound. The built-in bass port and 1-5/8-inch (40-millimeter) driver deliver exceptional sound, while the rechargeable lithium-ion battery provides 5 hours of play time. The pocket-sized JBL Micro Wireless speaker can be clipped to clothing or slipped into a purse and will be offered in multiple colors.
  * The JBL Micro II includes a lithium-ion rechargeable battery, a built-in bass port and a 1-5/8-inch (40-millimeter) driver to deliver exceptional sound from a speaker the size of a hockey puck. The JBL Micro II includes a built-in audio cable to connect to any portable device with a standard 1/8-inch (3.5-millimeter) jack – and, like the JBL Micro Wireless, can be daisy-chained to other JBL Micro speakers for a bigger sound. The pocket-sized JBL Micro II ultra-portable speaker can be clipped to clothing or slipped into a purse. It will be available in multiple color options.
  Pricing and Availability
  The new, ultra-portable JBL speakers are available at JBL.com. The JBL Flip has a suggested retail price of $99, the JBL Micro Wireless has a suggested price of $59, and the JBL Micro II has a suggested price of $39. For additional product information, visit www.JBL.com.
 
