
 Sprint's the first US carrier to get the long-awaited Jelly Bean (Android 4.1) upgrade to the Samsung Galaxy S III. Featured as an OTA update, your device may start seeing it as early as today. Don't worry too much if this doesn't happen right away; experience has shown us that these large-scale OTA rollouts can be a lengthy process spanning the course of a couple weeks. Feel free to shout out in the comments if your device has already prompted you for the update. The press release is found below.



  Show full PR text   Sprint First U.S. Wireless Carrier to offer Jelly Bean to Samsung Galaxy S III Customers,  Rollout Starts Today
   Today, Sprint became the first U.S. wireless carrier to offer the Android™ 4.1.1, Jelly Bean, update to  its Samsung Galaxy S® III customers. The update began rolling out today and adds a host of new and  enhanced TouchWiz® features, offering a faster, richer and more responsive device experience.

   The update is available as an over the air update. When your Galaxy S III is eligible for the update, it  will automatically download. Once the download is complete, you will be prompted to install the update.  Installation will take a few minutes, and your device will be disabled during the installation process. It will  be ready to use when the process is complete.

   Jelly Bean offers users a smoother, faster and more fluid experience with expanded feature functionality,  including:  • Google Now™ gets you just the right information at just the right time, like how much traffic to  expect before you leave for work or when the next train will arrive as you're standing on the  platform. Google Now can be launched by pressing and holding the menu key from the home  screen.  • Expandable, actionable notifications allowing you to take action directly from the notifications  shade.  • Android Beam™ now lets you send photos and more.  • Widgets work like magic as you place widgets on the screen, everything else automatically  moves to make room; when they're too big, widgets resize on their own.

   Samsung also added new capabilities to Galaxy S III, including:  • Camera Enhancements:  o New live camera and camcorder filters offer a range of new ways to spark your creativity.  Warm vintage, cold vintage, black and white, sepia, color highlights (blue, green, red/  yellow), and many more are selectable from the main camera screen.  o Pause and resume while recording video allows users to string together multiple captured  video clips from a party, birthday, or sporting event into a single file with no post editing  required.  o Low light photo mode takes advantage of Galaxy S III's best-in-class High Dynamic  Range (HDR) capabilities and offers an optimized mode for low light and indoor photos.  • Pop Up Play Update easily resizes or pauses the Pop Up Play picture-in-picture video window,  taking full advantage of Galaxy S III's powerful processor and large 4.8-inch display.  • Easy Mode is a simplified user experience option for first-time smartphone owners, providing  large home screen widgets that focus on the device essentials.  • Blocking Mode can disable incoming calls, notifications, alarms and LED indicators for a  designated period of time.  • Improved Usability with access to multiple keyboard options and the addition of the Swype®  keyboard.

   With the Jelly Bean update, Galaxy S III will also add support for some exciting new accessories.  • AllShare® Cast Wireless Hub allows users to wirelessly mirror their phone screen to any HDTV or  HDMI® display. It even supports licensed content playback of premium TV and movies.  • NFC One Touch Pairing Support pairs Galaxy S III with supporting NFC Bluetooth® accessories  in a single touch.

 
