
 


	With Pogoplug Video out of the picture, Nuvyyo's JetStreamHD is ready to become your default iPad media streamer. The tower plugs into your router and delivers streaming content like hi-def videos, music and photos from your home network to your Apple tablet. And the free JetSteamHD iPad app makes it easier to sort through your content, while promising the best available resolution for seamless entertainment streaming. The device is shipping now, for a suggested price of $199. Video and PR after the break.
 
     					Show full PR text  JetStreamHD - the World's First Mobile Media Streamer for the iPad - Now Shipping in North America 					Ottawa, Canada – Sept 14, 2011 – JetStreamHD, the only consumer electronics product to stream all of your digital media stored anywhere on a home computer network to the iPad, is now available to buy from the JetStreamHD web store at www.jetstreamhd.com and from Amazon at www.amazon.com and www.amazon.ca. JetStreamHD enables iPad users to instantly access and stream any video, song, or photo from their home network while traveling for business, visiting friends and family, or simply relaxing anywhere – without upfront planning, conversion headaches, download time, sync hassles, or iPad memory limits. 					JetStreamHD generated enormous consumer and media interest when it was previewed at the prestigious DEMO launch event earlier this year. "The iPad can hold pictures, movies and lots of music, of course," reported Edward C. Baig, Personal Tech Writer for USA Today. "But chances are, it can't hold your entire multimedia library. That's where JetStreamHD comes in." 					"Consumers have been eagerly waiting for a solution that gives them access to all of their media instantly, wherever they go," said Grant Hall, JetStreamHD company CEO. "Other solutions require hours of difficult setup and format conversion for each mobile device, require a powerful home computer to act as the streaming server, and deliver a grainy, stuttering viewing experience. JetStreamHD is the first product to solve this problem." 					Now, using JetStreamHD, a person at a coffee shop, on the train, a business trip, or at a friend's place,can use their iPad to easily find and instantly play videos, listen to music, or show off some photos from their home-based media collection – at the highest possible resolution without stuttering. 					How it Works: 					Plug and play setup in minutes – you simply plug the sleek, silent JetStreamHD box into your home router and download the free app to your iPad. Within a few minutes, it discovers all of the media that resides in any format, including 1080p HD, on any computer, USB drive, media server or NAS attached to your network. All of your media is immediately available for viewing on your iPad. 					Easily and quickly find any media with the beautiful iPad app – powerful search, sort and filter					controls make it easy to quickly find any item in the largest of libraries. You can quickly sort and filter by movie, genre, rating, date added and much more, and JetStreamHD takes it a step further by automatically adding media cover art, plot summaries and other important data to ensure a rich viewing experience. 					Instant access to your media without any upfront work – as anyone who has worked with digital video knows, video format conversion and streaming are computationally intensive and time consuming. 					With JetStreamHD, just one touch on the app starts the selected media playing in the best possible resolution without stuttering. 					The best possible mobile viewing experience over any connection – JetStreamHD's powerful hardware takes care of everything automatically as it streams in real-time: converting any format to accommodate your mobile device and adaptively adjusting the streaming bit-rate to make best use of your available Wi-Fi or 3G connection strength. Unlike other solutions, you don't consume one of your home computers to act as the streaming server.  
  
