
Think same-day delivery is the bee's knees? In China, an e-commerce company called Jingdong not only delivers your package a few hours after you place your order, but also gives you power to track it in real time on a map. You can even bug the delivery crew while they're on the road, although they probably (hopefully) won't pick up the phone or text you back while driving. The company offers its services in six major Chinese cities, including notoriously populous Beijing and Shanghai. Jingdong is a young company that's yet to be profitable, but based on what it offers its customers, one can't help but feel that eBay Now, Amazon Prime, and Google Shopping Express should step their game up.


[Image credit: Dwight Burdette, Wikipedia]



Show full PR textJingdong Launches "Night Delivery" and "Three-Hour Delivery" OptionsTwo new delivery programs increase options for Jingdong customers

PR Newswire

BEIJING, May 31, 2013

BEIJING, May 31, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Jingdong ("JD.com" or the "Company"), China's leading direct B2C e-commerce company, announced that it has launched two new delivery services today, including "Night Delivery," which expands the order deadline for same-day delivery from 11AM to 3PM, and "Three-Hour Delivery," setting a new standard for last-mile delivery in the e-commerce industry.

Beginning May 31, Jingdong customers can now receive orders placed before 3PM the same evening between 7PM and 10PM through the Company's self-operated delivery network. The new service expands on the same-day delivery option in Jingdong's 211 program, which previously required orders to be placed by 11AM.

Jingdong also launched "Three-Hour Delivery," an option for customers who want to receive their products within three hours of placing an order. Both Night Delivery and Three-Hour Delivery are currently available in six major cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Wuhan, and Shenyang, with the aim of increasing convenience and flexibility for customers.

Jingdong's last-mile delivery network offers customized delivery options to its customers, including same-day, next-day, and timed delivery, in more than 150 cities across China, with a wide variety of payment options, like cash on delivery. The two new delivery initiatives are the latest improvements in Jingdong's long-standing commitment to providing customers first in class service, from their ordering experience to their speedy and convenient delivery options.


