
       
It's the ultimate "why didn't I think of that?" concept, but kudos to Joby for doing more than just keeping a bar story to itself. Following in the footsteps of the magnified Gorillatorch, Joby decided to add a few magnets to the feet of its tried-and-true Gorillapod flexible tripod. The result? The Gorillapod Magnetic, of course! Reportedly, this little bugger supports digital cameras and camcorders weighing up to 11.5 ounces, and it should go on sale worldwide this April for an undisclosed amount. We know you've been dreaming of a way to snap group photos while inside those steel prison bars, and at long last, those dreams can be become reality. In related news, the company is also showing its professional side with the April-bound Ballhead X, which is described as a "portable yet sturdy" head that can pan, tilt, and rotate cameras up to 11.1 pounds, and while it's designed to play nice with the Gorillapod Focus, it should work fine with 3/8- and 1/4-inch threads on other tripods. Full release is after the break.





Show full PR textJoby to Unveil Two New Photography Products at PMAJoby highlights commitment to the photo market; announces Gorillapod Magnetic and Ballhead XSAN FRANCISCO, CA – February 18, 2010 – Joby, Inc., the world renowned designer of the Gorillapod™ flexible camera tripod, is pleased to introduce two new additions to the Gorillapod family of products at this year's Photo Marketing Association International tradeshow, February 21-23 in Anaheim, CA. Joby will showcase its entire suite of products from the Gorillapod, Gorillamobile™ , and Gorillatorch™ lines at the Joby booth (#1436, Anaheim Convention Center), demonstrating its commitment to making thoughtfully-designed, revolutionary products that meet the creative and active needs of the photography community.Inspired by the overwhelmingly positive reception of the Gorillatorch hands-free flashlight, which features powerful magnetic feet in addition to flexible, wrappable legs, Joby is thrilled to introduce the Gorillapod Magnetic flexible tripod. The world's most versatile tripod is now even more adaptable! With the addition of powerful magnets in the feet, the Gorillapod Magnetic can now be anchored to any magnetic surface, in addition to being secured with its fully-articulating legs. Stick it to a pole, wrap it around a tree-branch, or perch it on a jagged rock – the positioning possibilities are truly endless.The Gorillapod Magnetic supports compact digital cameras and mini video cameras weighing up to 11.5oz, weighs just 2.5 ounces, is 6-inches tall, and will be available globally in April.Joby is also excited to announce the Ballhead X for Gorillapod Focus, the latest addition to its Professional Line of photographic equipment. The portable yet sturdy Ballhead X supports 11.1lbs (5kg) and allows the user to easily and fluidly pan, tilt, and rotate his camera while still enjoying the versatility and reliable support of a Gorillapod on virtually any surface. Built with the serious photographer in mind, the Ballhead X is lightweight and compact, yet still robust enough to support professional SLR cameras with substantial zoom lenses and sizable camera rigs. It further extends the functionality of the Gorillapod Focus by allowing even more creative camera positioning, enabling the user to capture great shots anywhere his travels take him! While it is optimized for use with the Gorillapod Focus, the Ballhead X can accommodate both 3/8" and ¼" threads, allowing convenient compatibility with any tripod. The Ballhead X will be available both separately and bundled together with the Gorillapod Focus.The Ballhead X for Gorillapod Focus is constructed from precision-machined anodized aluminum, weighs just over 9 ounces, is 3.3-inches tall, and will be available globally in April.All of Joby's products will be on display at the Joby booth, #1436, Anaheim Convention Center.
 