
When Jon Rubinstein left HP, it wasn't certain whether he would retire (again) or once more respond to the siren's call of technology. Clearly, he couldn't resist -- Qualcomm has confirmed that Rubinstein is joining its board of directors. It's not hard to understand why the firm would be interested, mind you. Between NeXT, Apple, Palm and HP, Rubinstein has extensive experience with Silicon Valley technology in general, and mobile in particular. While Qualcomm is already doing blockbuster business without his help, it no doubt wants to keep the money train going. Us? We're just happy to see a familiar name back in the limelight.



Show full PR textQualcomm Elects Jonathan Rubinstein to Board of Directors
SAN DIEGO, May 6, 2013 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- Qualcomm Incorporated QCOM +0.14% today announced the election of Jonathan Rubinstein to its Board of Directors. Rubinstein brings more than 30 years of experience in the mobile, computing and consumer electronics industries to the position, and he last served as senior vice president of Product Innovation for Hewlett-Packard Company until January 2012.
"We are extremely pleased to welcome Jon as a member of Qualcomm's Board of Directors," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "His experience in creating revolutionary consumer electronics and mobile products will provide added insight to Qualcomm's board as we continue to expand the scope and impact of wireless products and technology, improving and enhancing people's lives around the world."
Rubinstein's longstanding career has spanned a number of roles. In his most recent positions at HP, he led product innovation for HP's Personal Systems and, prior to that, presided over the launch of the HP's Touchpad tablet as senior vice president and general manager of Palm Global Business Unit. Previously, Rubinstein joined Palm Inc. as executive chairman in 2007, where he focused on product development, R&D and engineering to drive Palm's return to innovation with its webOS software and smartphone devices. He led Palm as chairman and chief executive officer from June 2009 until it was acquired by HP in 2010. Prior to his role at Palm, Rubinstein earned the nickname, "The Podfather," while running Apple's iPod division, where he was instrumental in creating the iPod and its robust ecosystem. He also served as senior vice president of Hardware Engineering, where he was responsible for overhauling the Apple's engineering teams, product roadmaps, manufacturing processes and leading the rapid rollout of the iMac. Rubinstein previously held a number of engineering and leadership positions at different computing companies, such as Stardent Computer and NeXT Computer Inc., and founded his own company, Firepower Systems Inc.
Rubinstein is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, a senior member of the IEEE and a board member of Amazon.com, Inc. He earned a bachelor's and master's degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and a master's degree in Computer Science from Colorado State University.

