
 When it comes to launching a groundbreaking flagship video camera at CES, JVC's got previous experience. The company has outed the Procision GC-PX100, a 1,920 x 1,080 camcorder that shoots at 36Mbps, a bit-rate that the company claims makes it perfect for slow-motion and special effects work. Light will be pouring forth into a F/1.2 lens, a 1/2.3-inch 12.8-megapixel backside illuminated CMOS censor with optical image stabilization. JVC is claiming that it's capable of cranking out 600 frames per second and shoot still images in bursts of nine frames a second -- although not at the same time. When you're done, you can push the footage straight to your smartphone or tablet over WiFi and the company is also offering a mobile app that'll let sports coaches analyze their players movement in staggering detail. It'll be available in March, but you'd better all of that athletic scrutiny is worth it, as it'll set you back $1,000.

 At the same time, the company's outing a game of Everio camcorders, with the entry-level GX-E100 setting you back $230 for the most basic model the company can offer. At the other end of the range, the $500 GZ-VX815 offers a f/1.2 lens, a 12.8-megapixel sensor and WiFi when it goes on sale in March.



  Show full PR text    New Flagship JVC Camera Designed to Capture Fast-Moving Action

   LAS VEGAS, January 8, 2013 – A new premium camcorder designed to capture high-quality video of fast-moving action was announced today by JVCKENWOOD Corporation. The new Procision JVC GC-PX100 offers high bit rate progressive recording to deliver high resolution HD images and Full HD slow-motion video. The camera's high performance combines with Wi-Fi connectivity and a range of free specialized apps to make the GC-PX100 ideal for capturing and analyzing fast-moving action

   The camera shoots Full HD 1920 x 1080/60p video at 36Mbps, a bit rate that allows Full HD slow-motion playback, perfect for motion analysis or special effects. Premium performance is further assured by the fast F1.2 lens, 1/2.3" 12.8 megapixel back-illuminated CMOS sensor and optical image stabilization. Five shooting speeds are available, ranging from 120fps to 600fps, easily selected using a dial conveniently located next to the lens. It's also possible to grab bursts of nine still images from video at the touch of a button, similar to what can be done using the motor drive on an SLR still camera. Other shooting modes for capturing action include high-speed digital still recording at up to 60fps and variable speed time-lapse recording. Zoom Position Memory, ideal for analyzing sports plays, allows quick switching among three angles of view - Full Wide, Full Tele, and a user-settable position in between. Go from full field team formation analysis to a tight shot of a goal being scored, with instant switching of focus, zoom and exposure.

   With Wi-Fi connectivity, video and images can be wirelessly sent to and viewed on a smartphone or tablet. And for coaches and others with an interest in analyzing an athlete's performance, the free "JVC CAM Coach" app for iOS and Android allow annotations to be made on the playback image. Flaws in an athlete's form can be noted by drawing on the screen and easily seen by both coach and athlete using the large screen a tablet provides, and without the need to disturb the camera setup. There's also Twin View, which enables simultaneous side-by-side playback of two different video clips after they're transferred to a tablet, for comparative viewing. A Tagging function allows scenes to be tagged for easy access at any time, and the Scoring function allows the user to record a running tally of a game score as it progresses by tapping on a smartphone.

   The GC-PX100 was designed for fast, easy handling, with an SLR-type body and all key controls and functions conveniently placed for intuitive operation. A three-inch tiltable LCD monitor allows high and low angle recording, and an LCD monitor hood is included. An optional color viewfinder is available.

   The JVC GC-PX100 will be available in March for $999.95.  ---

   Performance Enhancements and Expanded Wi-Fi Functions For New JVC Everio Camcorder Line

   LAS VEGAS, January 8, 2013 – A new line of JVC Everio camcorders announced today by JVCKENWOOD Corporation offers a combination of performance enhancements, expanded Wi-Fi functions and innovative features for those who want to take their videos beyond what a smartphone or other camcorders can deliver. Highlights include a new imaging sensor for improved image quality, powerful optical zooms, expanded Wi-Fi functions, and unique viewing and sharing features.

   The 2013 JVC Everio line is comprised of the entry-level GZ-E100, step-up GZ-E300/EX310/EX355 and high-performance GZ-E505/EX515/EX555 characterized by their lens-prominent design, and the unique GZ-VX815, which offers top performance in a stylishly sleek and elegant form.

   At the heart of the new Everio line is a new 2.5-megapixel Back-Illuminated CMOS image sensor that with 2 million effective pixels delivers an outstanding Full HD image and improved low light performance for every model in the 100, 300 and 500 series. The new flagship GZ-VX815 boasts a 12.8-megapixel sensor. What's more, the eight-model line includes seven with a powerful optical zoom – 40x or 38x – and four with a new wide-angle lens up to 29.3mm (35mm conversion) to more easily capture those tight indoor scenes.

   JVC led the way with built-in Wi-Fi in its camcorders, and this year expands the available Wi-Fi features. New functions include live streaming over the Internet via services such as USTREAM, and One-Touch Auto Back-up instantly wirelessly transfers recorded video to a PC at the touch of a button. Also new is the optional Pan Cradle, which allows remote panning and tilting of the camera from a smartphone or tablet. Wireless data transfer possibilities include sending video to a smartphone or tablet (AVCHD converted to high definition MP4 or Standard Definition), as well as non-converted iFrame data transfer to an iPod or iPad or Android smartphone. JVC's free app for using wireless communication functions is available for download from the Apple App Store and Google Play Market. To make it quick and easy to get rolling with Everio, Wi-Fi models are supported by a QR code-based Wi-Fi setup utility, and all models are supported by a mobile user guide that's been optimized for smartphone viewing.

   In addition to native Full HD 1920 x 1080 resolution AVCHD recording (all models) and Standard Definition recording (all except GZ-VX815), Wi-Fi models also offer an iPhone/iPad-compatible iFrame recording mode at 1280 x 720 or 960 x 540 resolution. All models work with iMovie and Final Cut Pro X. Every model also incorporates K2, a technology developed and used in professional sound studios, which is applied during playback (GZ-E100) or during recording (all other models). Auto Wind Cut intelligently reduces wind noise without that annoying unnatural muting of sound. The GZ-VX815 goes even further with an F1.2 Super Bright Lens and 12 Megapixel stills. There's also a powerful two-hour battery for longer recording and streaming. JVC engineers have also redesigned Everio's Wi-Fi antenna to provide a drastically improved powerful wireless connection over last year's models.

   For ease-of-use, all new Everio camcorders feature a "Best Play" function that provides simple digest playback of the best scenes from recorded footage. This is actually a cluster of functions comprised of Best Scene Mode, which allows tagging of favorite scenes while recording or later on, Best Face Mode, which automatically picks out scenes containing registered faces, and Best Smile Mode which picks out just the scenes containing great smiles. Also new is Sports Scoring, a function that lets the user record a running tally of the score for a sporting event by simply tapping on a smartphone.

   All Everio Wi-Fi models come with LoiLoFit software. Powerful video editing is possible with timeline editing, transition effects, trimming, text insert, BGM insertion and various decoration effects. Intuitive drag-and-drop operation makes using the software easy for even the casual user.

   The Everio GZ-E100 and GZ-E300 are available this month. The rest of the Everio line will be available in February. Prices are:

   GZ-E100 $229.95

   GZ-E300 $249.95

   GZ-EX310 $299.95

   GZ-EX355 $349.95

   GZ-E505 $349.95

   GZ-EX515 $399.95

   GZ-EX555 $449.95

   GZ-VX815 $499.95

 
