
 
With Sony and Panasonic dishing out new 1080p projectors here at CEDIA, we knew JVC wouldn't be long in following suit. Matter of fact, it's launching not one, not three, not five, but four new beamers here in the Mile High City. All four models boast the company's proprietary 0.7-inch full HD D-ILA technology, and the DLA-HD750 (pictured) and DLA-RS20 (30,000:1 contrast ratios) are also THX-certified. Those two are joined by the less spectacular (and less costly) DLA-HD350 and DLA-RS10, which offer up 15,000:1 / 17,000:1 contrast ratios, respectively. Additionally, you'll find an HQV Reon-VX video processor, 2x motorized zoom lens, external 12-volt trigger and HDMI 1.3 sockets across the board. You can check out pricing / availability along with the full press release after the break.
      

 

JVC Announces THX® Certified Home Theater Projectors Plus New Models That Bring D-ILA Technology To A Broader Audience Four new front projectors offer brighter images, deep black levels, ease of use and flexible set-up  DENVER, September 4, 2008 – JVC expands its award-winning line of D-ILA home theater projectors with the launch of four new full high-definition models, including two THX® Certified* models. The new JVC projectors establish new benchmarks in performance and value, breaking new ground in color accuracy, black levels, ease of use and flexible adjustment. Like current highly-acclaimed JVC projectors, they achieve unprecedented contrast ratios without the use of an auto iris, and in fact the two THX Certified models offer a 30,000:1 native contrast ratio -- the highest among all currently available home theater projectors.  The new projectors are the DLA-HD750 and DLA-HD350, to be marketed by JVC's consumer group, JVC Company of America, and the DLA-RS20 and DLA-RS10 from JVC's professional group, JVC Professional Products Company. The DLA-HD750 and DLA-RS20 are both THX Certified to ensure accurate and exceptional picture quality in the home theater environment. A trusted cinema and consumer brand, THX certification provides JVC a means to further differentiate its projectors from competitive offerings and communicate a clear message about quality to customers.  Core technologies and many of the features that earned earlier JVC projectors accolades from reviewers and users alike are also incorporated into the new projectors. But improvements in several key areas allow all four new models to deliver brighter, more intense images. What's more, JVC has engineered an all-new chassis that is both smaller and more cost-efficient to manufacture.  eTHX certification is pending final testing and approval by THX Ltd. Critical carried over technologies include JVC's proprietary 0.7-inch full HD D-ILA devices and the company's wire-grid optical engine. These will once again deliver the industry's highest native contrast ratio, meaning that there is no dynamic iris to artificially inflate contrast specifications. As a result, the projectors simultaneously deliver true blacks and extraordinary luminance detail thanks to native contrast ratios of 30,000:1 (DLA-HD750/DLA-RS20), 17,000:1 (DLA-RS10) and 15,000:1 (DLA-HD350).  JVC-developed D-ILA technology employs three (RGB) devices for a naturally rich, flicker-free picture even when there is rapid movement in the image. In addition, the optical engine with wire grid polarizers ensures precise light polarization without light leakage for true black level reproduction. Together, the D-ILA devices and the engine guarantee a smooth picture with vivid colors and high contrast.  Among key new developments is the use of the HQV Reon-VX video processor developed by Silicon Optix to ensure excellent image reproduction with precision I/P conversion and scaling. In addition, the DLA-HD750 and DLA-RS20 feature color management that interpolates colors individually by R, G, B, C, Y, or M, in three separate axes of color phase, chroma saturation and brightness. Up to three customized color settings can be stored for future use.  Also unique to the DLA-HD750 and DLA-RS20 is THX certification. With a strict focus on image quality and signal processing performance, THX certification promises that the HD750 and RS20 are capable of presenting a wide range of video content at maximum resolutions with the correct color and luminance levels. In addition, THX has created a battery of signal processing tests that challenge the projector's scaling, motion conversion and de-interlacing capabilities. This type of in-depth analysis predicts how the HD750 and RS20 will present a variety of high definition and standard definition content.  The JVC HD750 and RS20 will also feature THX Movie Mode, a pre-calibrated video setting for watching movies on DVD, Blu-ray HD or broadcast television. This playback feature is designed to recreate the cinema experience at home by setting the display's gamma, luminance, color temperature and other settings to mirror those used by filmmakers in post-production. THX Movie Mode also ensures projector brightness is optimal for large screen viewing.  Features shared by all four new projectors include:  1. High-performance 2x motorized zoom lens  A new high-performance 2x zoom lens with motorized focus features a large diameter, all-glass lens system with 16 elements in 17 groups that includes an ED lens to project a full HD image with exceptional depth.  2. Customized on-screen gamma control  Manual adjustment of the gamma curve is possible via an on-screen display, allowing the viewer to adjust projector luminance levels by either increasing contrast in scenes that are too dark or dimming washed-out scenes to ensure precise brightness levels suited to individual preferences. Up to three settings can be adjusted and stored for future use.  3. Flexible set-up  Setup is easy with the ±80 percent vertical and ±34 percent horizontal motorized lens shift function that allows the projected picture to be moved horizontally or vertically via the remote control.  Other features include an external 12-volt trigger that can be used to automatically raise and lower a screen or draw curtains, or it can be linked to engaging the V-Stretch mode and move an optional anamorphic wide screen lens system into place. Also, an automatic lens cover opens and closes with power on/off.  All four projectors comply with HDMI version 1.3 (Deep Color/CEC) specifications, which provide for billions of colors and reproduce subtler shades of grey, and CEC compatibility for system control.  The DLA-HD350, available in either glossy piano black or glossy white, and the DLA-HD750, available in a pearl black finish, will be available in November through JVC Company of America. The DLA-HD350  will be available for less than $5,000, while the DLA-HD750 will be available for less than $8,000. Both projectors will be part of the company's Procision series of premium-level products.  The DLA-RS10 and the DLA-RS20, available in a pearl black finish, will be available from JVC Professional Products Company in November for less than $6,000 and $8,000, respectively.

       

 