
       Well, while some folks are busily working to revive the technology that made the Polaroid name what it is, it seems that company itself (now owned by Hilco and Gorden Brothers) is wasting no time in going down the potentially perilous path of licensing the brand for other companies to use. On that front, consumer electronics maker jWIN -- responsible for the iLuv line of products -- has now announced that it's signed an exclusive agreement to produce and market a whole range of products under the Polaroid brand (which is actually just one of a number of licensing deals recently announced). While specifics are still a bit light, jWIN will apparently make an "extensive assortment" of peripherals for PCs, game consoles and cellphones, as well as other audio / video products, and even the odd laptop case and "cleaning care accessory," among what's sure to be countless other products. Full press release after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textjWIN® signs Polaroid® Licensing Agreement jWIN to release a comprehensive line of new products under the Polaroid brand name in the PC, console game, mobile phone and audio/video peripherals categories, as well as products in the telephones and cleaning care accessory categoriesPORT WASHINGTON, NY – (December 29, 2009) – jWIN Electronics Corporation, a leading consumer electronics company that brings uniquely styled brand name quality products to consumers worldwide, announced the signing of an exclusive long-term licensing agreement with PLR IP Holdings, LLC, (PLR) owners of the Polaroid brand. jWIN acquired the exclusive rights to produce and market in numerous countries throughout the world an extensive assortment of peripherals for PC's, console games, mobile phones, audio/video as well as telephones, certain laptop carrying cases and cleaning care accessories starting January 2010. "Polaroid is excited to partner with jWIN, a solid company with proven product development and distribution capabilities in the US and around the world" said Scott W. Hardy, president of PLR." "We are proud to partner with PLR in this major licensing agreement that will enable jWIN to offer quality Polaroid-branded products by leveraging our core competence of creating award winning innovative products at competitive prices with the global awareness and built-in equity of the Polaroid brand," says Sean Cho, director of marketing and strategic planning at jWIN. "We thrive in the consumer electronics, peripherals and accessories markets by offering consumers high quality products with innovative designs at smart prices. We look forward to bringing that same value proposition into the new line of Polaroid branded products." For more information on jWIN products please visit www.jwin.com and www.i-luv.comAbout jWIN:jWIN Electronics Corporation is a leading consumer electronics company, bringing uniquely styled brand name quality products to consumers worldwide. jWIN's commitment is to offer the latest technology and the highest quality consumer electronic products, affordable to everyone, everywhere. iLuv, a brand of jWIN Electronics offers IT peripheral products, uniquely styled audio video products and accessories for Apple MacBook, iPhone and iPod. The iLuv App Station, an App-driven rotational alarm clock for iPhone and iPod, the iEA15 iPod Remote Adapter, and the iAD115 Micro USB Car Charger were recently recognized as CES Innovations 2010 Design and Engineering Award Honorees in the Portable Multimedia Accessories, the Headphone Product and the In-Vehicle Accessory categories. About Polaroid:Since 1937, Polaroid® has been considered to be one of the most respected and recognized consumer brands in the world. Best known for pioneering polarized lenses and instant photography, the Polaroid brand is now reaching a new generation of consumers, extending into innovative lines of digital instant and imaging products including flat panel televisions, digital photo frames, digital cameras and more. As part of a portfolio of iconic brands jointly owned and managed by Gordon Brothers Brands (www.gordonbrothers.com) and Hilco Consumer Capital (www.hilcocc.com), Polaroid is extending into a full-scale, global licensing and marketing company to wholesale, direct-to-retail (DTR) and e-commerce channels. Polaroid is registered trademark of PLR IP Holdings, LLC. (www.polaroid.com)
 