
 Still waiting to see a Kindle in the wild before you pull the trigger? Hate shopping online? Need to pick up some toilet paper and a huge barrel of pretzels? You're in luck, because Amazon's finally going to be spreading Kindles out in retail nationwide through Target stores. After a trial run in April that got the e-reader into Target's flagship store and 102 brightly lit retail paradises in south Florida, the $259 e-ink device will be available all over as of June 6th. The press release points out that the Kindle is still Amazon's bestselling product, and we can't see a retail push like this hurting its prospects -- though with rumors flying about an imminent Kindle update, it might not be the absolute best time to buy. PR is after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTarget Launches Kindle NationwideAmazon's revolutionary wireless reading device available in all Target Stores on June 6MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Target® Corporation (NYSE: TGT) today continued its commitment to making Kindle, Amazon's bestselling product, available to its guests with a June 6 nationwide roll-out. Target is the first brick-and-mortar retailer to carry the reading device."Our guest's response to Kindle has been overwhelmingly positive," said Mark Schindele, senior vice president, Target. "We are thrilled to bring guests nationwide this incredibly light, portable, easy-to-read product that allows them to get all the news and books they want."Kindle retails for $259 and is Amazon's purpose-built reading device that wirelessly downloads books, magazines, newspapers, blogs, and personal documents to a crisp, high resolution electronic paper display that looks and reads like real paper. Kindle fits comfortably in one hand for hours, has an e-ink display that is easy on the eyes even in bright daylight, two weeks of battery life, and 3G wireless with no monthly fees. Customers can read and sync their Kindle books on iPhones, iPod touches, PCs, BlackBerrys, Macs, iPads, and soon, Anroid devices. These features, paired with the massive selection of over 550,000 books available in the Kindle Store, have made Kindle the bestselling product across the millions of items available at Amazon.com.About TargetMinneapolis-based Target Corporation (NYSE:TGT) serves guests at 1,740 stores in 49 states nationwide and at Target.com. Target is committed to providing a fun and convenient shopping experience with access to unique and highly differentiated products at affordable prices. Since 1946, the corporation has given 5 percent of its income through community grants and programs like Take Charge of Education. Today, that giving equals more than $3 million a week.
 