
 


It's been one heck of a week for e-readers, with a new $139 touchscreen Nook in town and a $129 finger-friendly Kobo as well. What's Amazon going to do about the newfound competition? Simply lower the price of its best-selling Kindle 3G to $164. Well, perhaps "lower" isn't quite the right word, because you'll simply be paying by different means: the new Kindle 3G with Special Offers will be the company's second e-reader to feature built-in advertising. If you're shy on cash, though, we suppose viewing a few ads is a small price to pay for cheaper Whispernet. PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Introducing the Lowest Price 3G E-Reader - Kindle 3G with Special Offers for Only $164		Same features as latest-generation Kindle 3G - free 3G wireless, Pearl E Ink display, up to two months of battery life and more - plus sponsored screensavers and money-saving special offers 		SEATTLE, May 24, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- 		(NASDAQ:AMZN)--Last month, Amazon.com introduced Kindle with Special Offers, a new member of the Kindle family that gives customers access to money-saving special offers. Just five weeks later, Kindle with Special Offers became the bestselling member of the Kindle family in the U.S. Today, Amazon announced that it is now making special offers available for Kindle 3G. Kindle 3G with Special Offers is available starting today for only $164 and ships immediately. At just $164, Kindle 3G with Special Offers is the lowest price of any 3G e-reader, and includes the latest Pearl electronic ink display. Learn more about the entire Kindle family, including the $114 Kindle with Special Offers and the new $164 Kindle 3G with Special Offers, at www.amazon.com/kindle3G. 		"Kindle is the bestselling e-reader in the world. It's been just six weeks since we introduced the new $114 Kindle with Special Offers, and already customers have made it the bestselling member of the Kindle family," said Jay Marine, Director, Amazon Kindle. "In response to customer requests, we're now making these money-saving special offers available for Kindle 3G. You will get all the features readers love about Kindle 3G - free 3G wireless, global wireless access, Pearl electronic ink display that's easy to read even in bright sunlight, access to over 950,000 'Buy Once, Read Everywhere' Kindle books - all for just $164 - the lowest price for any 3G e-reader." 		Special offers that will be available in the coming weeks include: 		- $10 for a $20 Amazon.com Gift Card - customers loved this offer, so we're making it available again in time for Father's Day		- Save up to $500 off Amazon's already low prices on HDTVs with a unique 20% discount on 200 HDTVs from brands including Sony, Panasonic, LG, and VIZIO		- $1 for a Kindle book, choose from thousands of books including Water for Elephants and the Hunger Games trilogy		- Spend $10 on Kindle books and get a free $10 Amazon.com Gift Card 		Kindle 3G with Special Offers includes all the same features that helped make the third-generation Kindle the #1 bestselling product in the history of Amazon.com: 		- Free 3G wireless , no annual contracts, no monthly fees		- Global 3G coverage means books in under 60 seconds in over 100 countries and territories		- Paper-like Pearl electronic ink display, no glare even in bright sunlight		- Lightweight 8.7 ounce body for hours of comfortable reading with one hand		- Up to two months of battery life with wireless off eliminates battery anxiety		- Kindle Store with over 950,000 books - largest selection of the most popular books		- Seamless integration with free "Buy Once, Read Everywhere" Kindle apps for Android, iPad, iPod touch, iPhone, PC, Mac, BlackBerry and Windows Phone 		Kindle 3G with Special Offers is available for immediate shipment to customers in the U.S. at www.amazon.com/kindle3G. 		Learn more about the new Kindle 3G with Special Offers at www.amazon.com/aboutkindlespecialoffers. Advertisers and agencies interested in learning more about Kindle sponsorship opportunities can contact kindle-sponsorships@amazon.com.
 