
 
 Amazon has just announced that the Kindle Fire has joined the Kindle Touch on the out-of-stock list, presumably forever, a week before the company's mysterious product announcement. Jeff Bezos has teased that the company's got an "exciting roadmap" ahead, which we'd expect to include at least one touchscreen e-reader and a vastly revamped 7-inch tablet, designed to better compete with Google's similarly sized budget offering.



  Show full PR text   Kindle Fire-The #1 Best-selling Product on Amazon Since Launch-Now Sold Out
   In just 9 months, Kindle Fire captures 22% of U.S. tablet sales

   10 of the top 10 best-selling items on Amazon since Kindle Fire launched are Kindle devices and content

  SEATTLE-August 30, 2012-(NASDAQ: AMZN)-Less than one year ago, Amazon introduced Kindle Fire -combining 15 years of innovation into a single, fully-integrated, end-to-end service for customers. Kindle Fire quickly became the most successful product launch in the history of Amazon.com, earning over 10,000 5-star customer reviews, and is the #1 best-selling product across the millions of items available on Amazon since its introduction 48 weeks ago. Today, Amazon announced that Kindle Fire is sold out, and that in just nine months, Kindle Fire has captured 22% of tablet sales in the U.S.

   "We're grateful to the millions of customers who have made Kindle Fire the most successful product launch in the history of Amazon," said Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com Founder and CEO. "This has been a big year for digital products on Amazon-all of the top 10 sellers on Amazon.com since Kindle Fire launched just less than a year ago are digital products. Kindle Fire is sold out, but we have an exciting roadmap ahead-we will continue to offer our customers the best hardware, the best prices, the best customer service, the best cross-platform interoperability, and the best content ecosystem."

   Kindle Fire offers customers a vast selection of digital content-over 22 million movies, TV shows, apps, games, books, magazines and more-in one seamless, end-to-end experience, making it easy for customers to browse, discover and purchase. Since Kindle Fire launched last September, all of the top 10 products on Amazon-across all products-are digital products.

 
