
Waiting another month for that new inspirational Gloria Gaynor book? You'll survive, most likely -- but just in case, Amazon's debuting a new program called Kindle First. Customers can get early access to new titles for $1.99 - or for free, if they're a member of the exclusive club that is Amazon Prime. New titles will be chosen each month - though judging from the current offerings, it's not exactly a-list material. But hey, what do you want for free? You can check out the current offerings in the source link below.



Show full PR textIntroducing Kindle First-Exclusive Early Access to New Books
Amazon.com, Inc. today announced the launch of Kindle First (www.amazon.com/kindlefirst), a new program that offers customers access to Kindle books a month in advance of their official release date.
"We also love that these amazing books by Amazon Publishing authors will get a chance to reach a much wider audience."
Here's how Kindle First works:
Each month, Amazon Publishing editors select several titles from Kindle's most popular categories a month ahead of their official publication date, adding a note of recommendation and a behind-the-scenes look at the stories and the authors.Customers can choose one of the featured books each month for $1.99. Prime members can make their selection for free – adding yet another benefit of Prime membership.Customers can receive a monthly email alerting them of new Kindle First selections. Signup is free and there is no purchase obligation.Customers can visit the Kindle store on amazon.com or their Kindle device to select their book. All Kindle First books become part of your permanent Kindle library and can be read on any Kindle device and Kindle free reading apps.
The debut Kindle First picks are Things We Set on Fire, by best-selling author Deborah Reed; No Place for a Dame, by best-selling romance author Connie Brockway; Silent Echo, by best-selling mystery author J.R. Rain; and We Will Survive: True Stories of Encouragement, Inspiration, and the Power of Song, by Grammy-award winning recording artist Gloria Gaynor. All books will be published in December but are available to Kindle First members starting today.
"Prime just keeps getting better for our members, and any customer will find something interesting in our Kindle First picks," said Russ Grandinetti, Vice President of Kindle Content. "We also love that these amazing books by Amazon Publishing authors will get a chance to reach a much wider audience."
To learn more about Kindle First, and sign up for monthly emails announcing new selections, please visit www.amazon.com/kindlefirst. To learn about all of the additional benefits included with Amazon Prime, visit www.amazon.com/prime.

