
Come on now, why are you wasting your time here, when you could be reading some Gossip Girl fan fic? Roughly a month after announcing its licensed character publishing platform, Amazon has taken the wraps off of Kindle Worlds. The site currently offers up 50-plus commissioned stories based on properties like The Vampire Diaries, Valiant Comics titles, and yes, Gossip Girl. Worlds' Self-Service Submission Platform is open to the public as well, letting interested parties make some cash (up to 35-percent royalties) by putting their fan fiction up on the site. Stories are largely priced between $1 and $4. You can take a gander in the source link below, to make some sweet Gossip Girl of your own.



Show full PR textNow Open: Kindle Worlds Store and Self-Service Submission Platform
The Kindle Worlds Store and Self-Service Submission Platform are now open. Customers can enjoy works from dozens of authors including Barbara Freethy (writing in Pretty Little Liars), Charles Sasser (Foreworld Saga) and Anita Clenney (The Vampire Diaries). Kindle World's Self-Service Submission Platform enables any writer to publish fan fiction based on a range of original stories and characters and earn royalties for doing so. To browse the store and learn more about Kindle Worlds, visit www.amazon.com/kindleworlds.
Kindle Worlds is a new publishing model that allows any writer to publish authorized stories inspired by popular Worlds and make them available for readers to purchase in the Kindle Store, and earn up to a 35% royalty while doing so. Kindle Worlds stories will typically be priced between $0.99 and $3.99 and will be exclusive to Kindle. To learn more and get started writing, visit kindleworlds.amazon.com.
Here's what authors and licensors are saying about Kindle Worlds:
"It's actually a gift to be able to take someone else's creation and see whether you can take it in a new direction. Watch every show; read every comic book. Honor the canon and honor the fans. There is a reason these stories have become so popular. And don't feel restricted by the universe that has already been created. It reminds me a bit of writing a haiku or a sonnet. There are rules that must be followed, but within those rules, you can go anywhere. Your imagination is the only limit." -Carolyn Nash, writer in Archer & Armstrong"I believe Kindle Worlds has the potential to increase writership in much the same way the introduction of the Kindle expanded readership. I am thrilled for the Silo Saga to be a part of this program. It's a natural fit because for the past year, talented authors have been exploring Silos of their own creation, and I look forward to reading more and to crafting some Worlds stories of my own." -Hugh Howey, World Licensor for the Silo Saga"I was intrigued by the opportunity to create something that absolutely had to fall inside a canon that someone else came up with. In one way, it was very freeing to do so. Because the universe itself exists, with all the richness of an already established background and history, I could get right into the meat of the story without having to explain everything to the readers. I did try to make it understandable and enjoyable to a newcomer to the world, however. But there's a lot I worked to add that will hopefully tickle the fancy of the fans." -L.J. McDonald, writer in The Vampire Diaries"It was great fun to play 'What if?' and come up with scenarios that had ties to things that have happened on Vampire Diaries but which took things in a different direction or introduced new characters that could fit into the world of Mystic Falls. There's probably not a writer fangirl alive who hasn't fantasized about being able to write at least one episode of her favorite show, and I'm no different. While these stories aren't show episodes, it's still pretty darn cool to be able to write them with the idea of fellow fans reading them." -Trish Milburn, writer in The Vampire Diaries
The Kindle Worlds Store is now open with over 50 commissioned stories including:
"Pretty Little Liars: Stained" by Barbra Annino"The Vampire Diaries: The Arrival" by Lauren Barnholdt & Aaron Gorvine"Shadowman: Salvation Sally" by Tom King"The Foreworld Saga: The Qian" by Aric Davis"X-O Manowar: Noughts and Crosses" by Stuart Moore
Today's announcement is also a call to storytellers to join Kindle Worlds. Here's how the self-service submission platform works:
Choose Your World: Choose a World to write in and read the content guidelines.Sign Up and Submit: Sign in (or sign up) with your Amazon account and submit your work using our self-service submission platform.Review and Publish: Amazon Publishing will review your submission for compliance with the stated guidelines and we'll publish your work once approved. Each sale of the Work will result in a royalty to the author.Promote and Track Your Work: Post publication, sign into Author Central to track progress on your work.
"Today, we launch the Kindle Worlds Store and the platform that will enable any writer to benefit from writing in one of the Worlds we've licensed," said Philip Patrick, Director, Business Development and Publisher of Kindle Worlds. "We look forward to hearing feedback from readers and writers, and hope to learn and improve as time goes on."
Amazon Publishing has already secured licenses from:
Warner Bros. Television Group's Alloy Entertainment division for its New York Times best-selling book series Gossip Girl, by Cecily von Ziegesar; Pretty Little Liars, by Sara Shepard; and The Vampire Diaries, by L.J. SmithValiant Entertainment for Bloodshot, X-O Manowar, Archer & Armstrong, Harbinger and ShadowmanBest-selling authors Hugh Howey for Silo Saga, Barry Eisler for his John Rain novels, Blake Crouch for his Wayward Pines Series, and the Foreworld Saga by Neal Stephenson, Greg Bear, Mark Teppo and more
Amazon Publishing is engaged with additional rights holders from different areas of entertainment-books, games, TV, movies and music-and looks forward to announcing future deals soon. To get started writing works in licensed properties and to view the submission guidelines and instructions, visit the Self-Service Submission Platform at kindleworlds.amazon.com. For updates on licensed properties and to buy Kindle Worlds works, visit www.amazon.com/kindleworlds. For regular updates on Kindle Worlds, follow @KindleWorlds on Twitter.

