
 

Kinect is almost as popular for its hacks as it is for actually playing games, but Microsoft and its third party developers are making a hard push for motion and voice-controlled games on the Xbox 360. Popular EA Sports franchises Madden NFL, FIFA World Cup, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour will all join the motion-gaming parade. No longer will you have to punch obscure sequences of buttons to pick plays, you'll actually be able to call out running patterns to your offensive line. Plenty of others are also getting in on the shouting and arm-flailing action, including Mass Effect 3, Forza Motorsport 4, Fable: The Journey, and Ghost Recon -- in fact, we were told, "all future titles in the Tom Clancy franchise will leverage Kinect." Crytek also offered a sneak peak at Ryse, a Roman-era brawler that will have you headbutting the air to take out baddies. Looks like you'll have to start stretching before firing up your console from now on.

The following games will also be coming to Xbox 360 with Kinect Support:


Minecraft

Disneyland Adventures

Kinect Star Wars

Sesame Street Once Upon a Monster

Kinect Fun Labs

Kinect Sports: Season 2

Dance Central 2

Update: We've got a slew of demo videos of Kinect Fun Labs after the break -- it's Kinect hacks for the masses!






            			Show full PR text  Xbox 360 World Premieres Biggest Blockbuster Games and Entertainment			Major publishers unveil Kinect support, including Ubisoft's Tom Clancy series of games, Electronic Arts' "Mass Effect 3," "Madden NFL," "Tiger Woods PGA TOUR" and "FIFA"; UFC comes to Xbox 360. 			LOS ANGELES - June 6, 2011 - Today, on the eve of the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), Microsoft Corp. premiered a spectacular lineup of new games, demonstrating that Xbox 360 continues to deliver the biggest hits and blockbuster experiences - bar none. This year, Microsoft showcased a host of new groundbreaking exclusive titles on Xbox 360, including "Gears of War 3," "Forza Motorsport 4" and the world premiere trailer for "Halo 4." In addition, Microsoft debuted the next installment of the famed "Fable" franchise with "Fable: The Journey," a game imagined from the ground up for Kinect on Xbox 360 by famed developer Peter Molyneux. Fans were also treated to a preview of the Kinect-powered historical epic, "Ryse," created by acclaimed developer Crytek GmbH. Finally, Microsoft revealed that this winter, "Minecraft," the independent PC game phenomenon, is making its console debut exclusively on Xbox 360. 			Xbox at E3 			In 2010, the controller-free magic and instant fun of Kinect for Xbox 360 captivated consumers all over the world, making it the fastest-selling consumer electronics device in history. This year, millions of Kinect owners will use their entire body to experience the world's most iconic entertainment brands through "Kinect: Disneyland Adventures," "Kinect Star Wars" and "Sesame Street: Once Upon a Monster." Fans will also get their bodies in motion while playing the successors to the platform's best-selling titles, "Dance Central 2" and "Kinect Sports: Season Two." 			In addition, Kinect Fun Labs, a new hub showcasing the latest Kinect innovations, was unveiled and is available to all Xbox LIVE members starting today. Create magical moments with never before seen Kinect technology, including player capture, object scanning and finger tracking. Kinect Fun Labs will launch with four Gadgets: Kinect Me, Bobble Head, Build A Buddy and Kinect Googly Eyes. More experiences will begin arriving in July, including Avatar Kinect and Kinect Sparkler. 			With Kinect and Xbox LIVE, Third-Party Blockbuster Games Are Best on Xbox 360 			The industry's best creators and publishers demonstrated their commitment to immerse Xbox fans even deeper in the action. On Microsoft's E3 stage, Ubisoft announced that all future Tom Clancy games will be Kinect-enhanced including "Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Future Soldier." Microsoft further delighted audiences with the first public demonstration of "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3" and reminded them that in 2011 and again in 2012, all "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3" add-on content will launch first on Xbox 360. 			EA SPORTS announced Kinect support for several of its blockbuster titles in 2012, including "Tiger Woods PGA TOUR," "Madden NFL" and "FIFA." In the next 12 months, EA also has several additional titles that will feature Kinect, including "The Sims™ 3 Pets," "Family Game Night 4" and what is sure to be one of the biggest games of 2012, "Mass Effect 3." 			"For Xbox, games have always been at the heart of who we are: the world's biggest blockbusters, enduring stories from the world's best storytellers and innovative entertainment experiences that you can't find anywhere else," said Phil Spencer, corporate vice president of Microsoft Studios. "Whether it's Kinect games like 'Kinect Star Wars' and 'Kinect: Disneyland Adventures,' or the latest installments of our most acclaimed and anticipated exclusive franchises like 'Gears of War 3' and 'Halo 4,' our existing fans, and new ones alike, will find something here to delight them and their families." 			Ultimate Fighting Championship Comes to Xbox 360 and Xbox LIVE 			In addition to all the best titles on Xbox 360, Microsoft also announced new blockbuster entertainment, teaming up with UFC. Starting this fall, Xbox LIVE Gold Members can subscribe to UFC to access live pay-per-view matches, classic fights, interviews and exclusive behind-the-scenes looks into the lives of the world's greatest fighters; it's access to the octagon in an all-new interactive way. 			With games and entertainment for every member of the household, Xbox 360 continues to bring the best in interactive entertainment to living rooms around the world with the following:			• 			"Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3" (Infinity Ward, Sledgehammer Games). The best-selling first-person action series of all time returns with the epic sequel to the record-setting, blockbuster phenomenon "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2."			• 			"Dance Central 2" (Harmonix Music Systems Inc., Microsoft Studios). Following up to the best-selling dance game for Kinect, Harmonix expands the full-body dance game universe with "Dance Central 2," which provides new multiplayer experiences and all-new routines set to an unstoppable soundtrack, featuring Usher, Rihanna, La Roux, Nicki Minaj, Montell Jordan and more. Meet the crews and dance collaboratively with friends in Perform It! or challenge them to a simultaneous head-to-head Dance Battle to determine dance floor supremacy.			• 			"Fable: The Journey" (Lionhead Studios, Microsoft Studios). Set five years after the events of "Fable III," "Journey" takes you on a magical journey with only your loyal horse at your reins, Theresa, the mysterious seer of "Fable III," by your side, and a malevolent evil to defeat before it claims all of Albion. With the power of Kinect for Xbox 360, craft and control magic in a way that can't be done with a controller. "Fable: The Journey" draws players deep into the action and adventure of the "Fable" franchise like never before.			• 			"Forza Motorsport 4" (Turn 10 Studios, Microsoft Studios). The highest-rated racing franchise of this generation returns, delivering the most expansive and vividly realistic automotive experience across any console. With genre-defining controller-based racing, game-changing Kinect experiences, such as head tracking, and new social features that connect players in ways no other racing game can, "Forza Motorsport 4" is transforming the racing category.			• 			"Gears of War 3" (Epic Games, Microsoft Studios). "Gears of War 3" wraps up the ambitious trilogy starring Marcus Fenix and Delta Squad. With civilization in ruins, Delta Squad must wage brutal war on two fronts in order to save their world. "Gears of War 3" continues to innovate with new multiplayer experiences on Xbox LIVE,* including the genre-defining cooperative campaign mode and the return of five-player Horde mode. Surpassing more than 1 million copies pre-sold to date, "Gears of War 3" hits store shelves on Sept. 20, 2011, worldwide, except for Japan, where copies go on sale Sept. 22, 2011.			• 			"Halo 4" (343 Industries, Microsoft Studios). "Halo 4" is the next blockbuster installment in the iconic franchise that's shaped entertainment history and defined a decade of gaming. Set in the aftermath of "Halo 3," Master Chief returns to confront his own destiny and face an ancient evil that threatens the fate of the entire universe. A new trilogy begins when "Halo 4" releases in 2012.			• 			"Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary" (343 Industries/Microsoft Studios, Saber Interactive, Certain Affinity). Created in celebration of the 10th anniversary of one of the most beloved franchises in gaming history, "Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary" is a spectacularly re-mastered version of the original "Halo" campaign, bundled with some of the most beloved multiplayer maps in "Halo" history reimagined for Xbox LIVE.* Releasing only on Xbox 360 on Nov. 15, 2011, "Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary" will include a bounty of new features, including cooperative play over Xbox LIVE, new challenges and new fiction to uncover.			• 			"Kinect Sports: Season Two" (Rare, Big Park Games, Microsoft Studios). The sequel to last year's No. 1 hit for Kinect is back with more full-body action, featuring six new sports: American football, golf, baseball, winter skiing, darts and tennis. Whether you want to go for a hole-in-one in golf, throw a Hail Mary touchdown pass in American football or compete against a friend during a few sets of tennis, "Kinect Sports: Season Two" has something to appeal to everyone.			• 			"Kinect Star Wars" (Terminal Reality, LucasArts/Microsoft Studios). Drawing on iconic action from many of the "Star Wars" major motion pictures, "Kinect Star Wars" allows to you to physically experience training and battling as a Jedi, using the Force and battling with a lightsaber like never before, thanks to the full-body recognition of Kinect.			• 			"Kinect: Disneyland Adventures" (Frontier Developments Ltd., Microsoft Studios). This holiday, Disney Interactive Studios and Kinect for Xbox 360 invite you to take a journey where stories come to life and dreams come true - right in your living room. With "Kinect: Disneyland Adventures," the first title coming out of a licensing agreement between Microsoft Studios and Disney Interactive Studios, children, parents and Disney fans can explore Disneyland park - from Main Street U.S.A. to Critter Country - joining Peter Pan to battle Captain Hook, high-fiving Mickey Mouse or hugging Snow White using their full bodies and voices, no controller required.			• 			"Mass Effect 3" (BioWare, Electronic Arts). The galactic war has begun. An ancient alien race known only as the "Reapers" has launched an all-out invasion of the galaxy, leaving nothing but a trail of destruction in their wake. Earth has been taken, the universe is on the verge of total annihilation, and you, as Commander Shepard, are the only one who can stop them. Whether you are playing with a controller or through new voice recognition technology made exclusively for Kinect on Xbox 360, "Mass Effect 3" allows you to immerse yourself in the Mass Effect universe like never before, as you decide how to rally the forces of the galaxy in a game that will react to each decision you make.			• 			"Minecraft" (Mojang, Microsoft Studios). Known for its limitless possibilities, "Minecraft" will come to life this winter in a whole new way through the magic of Kinect and also feature cross-functionality between the PC and Xbox 360 versions.			• 			"Ryse" (Crytek, Microsoft Studios). Be the warrior in this cinematic, visceral, action-packed experience that brings ancient Rome to life through the stunning visuals and innovative gameplay that Crytek is famous for. "Ryse" defines what's next on Xbox 360 by creating a truly immersive experience that only Kinect can enable.			• 			"Sesame Street: Once Upon a Monster" (Double Fine Productions, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment). Join your favorite Sesame Street characters Elmo, Cookie Monster, Oscar and Grover, and friendly new monsters in a colorful and whimsical storybook adventure filled with learning, discovery and fun. Each chapter is full of life lessons, including friendship, sharing and teamwork. "Once Upon A Monster" features co-op game play so kids can play alone, with each other or with Mom or Dad in this controller-free gaming experience only on Kinect.			• 			"Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Future Soldier" (Ubisoft Paris, Ubisoft). Welcome to the U.S. Special Forces' most legendary unit, the Ghosts. Equipped with the most advanced combat technology, track down high-value targets in eight spectacular locales around the world in the latest chapter of the celebrated "Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon" franchise. Teamwork is key, whether it is fighting alongside your teammates in the campaign, Elite Co-op, or multiplayer modes. With the magic of Kinect's body tracking and voice recognition, a special mode called "Gunsmith" will allow gamers to customize their weapons into more than 20 million variations in a way that simply can't be done with a controller alone.			• 			"Tomb Raider" (Crystal Dynamics, Square Enix Europe). Experience the intense and gritty origins of Lara Croft and her ascent from a frightened young woman to a hardened survivor. Armed with only the raw instincts and physical ability to push beyond the limits of human endurance, start at the beginning of where the "Tomb Raider" adventure all began.			• 			UFC.** UFC on Xbox LIVE drops you dead center into the octagon, with live pay-per-view events in full HD and exclusive live event experiences. Launching this fall, UFC on Xbox LIVE is the ultimate fan destination with pre-fight coverage and a deep catalogue of past fights to put you closer to the action than ever. 			About Xbox 360 			Xbox 360 is a premier home entertainment and video game system. Thanks to the addition of Kinect, Xbox 360 will forever transform social gaming and entertainment with a whole new way to play - no controller required. Xbox 360 is also home to the best and broadest games as well as the largest on-demand library of music, standard- and high-definition movies, TV shows and digital games, all in one place. The entertainment center of the living room, Xbox 360 blends unbeatable content with a leading social entertainment network of nearly 35 million Xbox LIVE members to create a limitless entertainment experience that can be shared at home or across the globe. More information about Xbox 360 can be found online at http://www.xbox.com. 			About Xbox LIVE 			Xbox LIVE is the online entertainment service for your Xbox 360, connecting you to an ever-expanding world of games, movies, TV, music, sports and social entertainment. Xbox LIVE lets you play the best games, enjoy the largest on-demand library on any console, listen to millions of songs and share the fun with friends around the world. Xbox LIVE is also the exclusive home of controller-free online entertainment through Kinect, making your Xbox 360 more intuitive and interactive than ever before. With an active community of nearly 35 million people across 35 countries, Xbox LIVE, together with Xbox 360, provides you with instant access to the entertainment you want, shared with the people you care about, wherever you are. More information about Xbox LIVE can be found online at http://www.xbox.com/live. 			About Microsoft 			Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential. 			* Xbox LIVE Gold Membership required for online multiplayer. 			** Xbox LIVE required for UFC feature. 			Note to editors: For more information, news and perspectives from Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft News Center at http://www.microsoft.com/news. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may have changed. For additional assistance, journalists and analysts may contact Microsoft's Rapid Response Team or other appropriate contacts listed at http://www.microsoft.com/news/contactpr.mspx. 
 