
 


	You know all those convoluted gestures and hate-infused fist pumps you make every time you look at your bank account? Well, you can now put them to good use, thanks to a new Kinect hack from Lithuania-based Etronika. The company's software, which made its debut at last week's CTIA E&A event, effectively brings motion-controlled banking directly to your living room. All you have to do is stand in front of your display, clap your hands to choose an icon, or wave your hand back and forth to navigate across the app's carousel menu. This means you can pay your bills, check your balance and return to fetal position without even touching a sharp object. "A lot of banking software apps are filled with boring crap," Etronika CEO Kestutis Gardziulis explained with refreshing candor. "With our software, you could be on the couch at home, having a beer, all while dealing with your bank account and kicking back." Beer, banking and body language -- sounds scandalous! Head past the break to watch a demo video, starring Pam Beesly's doppelgänger.
 

    			Show full PR text  ETRONIKA Shows off Kinect Banking App 			ETRONIKA trot out future vision about internet banking by exhibiting personal finance management carried out at home, standing in front of TV screen, accomplishing bill payment or money transfer with hand gestures at international exhibition CTIA Enterprise & Applications 2011 which takes place in San Diego, also know as capital of Silicon Valley, USA. 			CTIA Enterprise & Applications – reflects the evolution of the industry and growing use of mobile technology in business, gather alongside 250 service providers, manufacturers, developers, retailers, enterprise endusers and the media to join in the dialogue on the future of wireless. In parallel one of the largest IT conference in the field with more than 15,000 people from industry is taking place. 			The application, developed by ETRONIKA, uses Kinect, Microsoft's motion and voice sensing technology developed for its Xbox 360 games console. The interface has two rows of icons that spin left or right. Waving an arm to the left rotates the top row, and waving to the right rotates the bottom row. Users select an icon or confirm operation by bringing their hands together in front of them. User can also sent a copy of the bill to his phone. 			Microsoft doesn't yet allow developers to offer commercial products based on Kinect, Microsoft has said it plans to release a commercial SDK package in the future. 
 