
 
Sleek Audio's SA6 canalphones generated quite a bit of buzz due to those adjustable acoustics, and if you've been wishing on your lucky stars for a wireless interpretation of said headphones, something is clearly going right for you. The outfit has just revealed that a new partnership with KLEER (yes, KLEER) has led to a wireless application for the SA6 and Sleek Customs, which, according to Sleek, is the first wireless technology that could do these drivers justice. The new adornment attaches right to the SA6 earphones to provide "CD quality sound from a wireless platform," and better still, the SA6's detachable cable ensures that you can keep on listening with a tether should your battery die in the midst of cordless jamming. The KLEER accessory should be up for pre-order shortly at $120, while a KLEER / SA6 bundle will sell for $299.99. Full release after the break.
      

 

  A New Standard is Set for Wireless Earphones; Sleek Audio Launches their KLEER Wireless Application for the SA6 and Sleek Customs  Music lovers are freed from the limitations of cords with Sleek Audio's award winning earphones that offer CD quality digital audio for the ultimate wireless listening experience  Bradenton, Fl. October 08 – Sleek Audio, developer of the award winning SA6 earphones, has teamed with KLEER™, the leading wireless audio application developer, to create a wireless audio experience that sets a new standard for audio quality, comfort and flexibility.  Sleek Audio wireless earphones using KLEER technology are a breakthrough in sound quality from a wireless platform. They are the first to offer true, CD quality sound wirelessly through a customizable, ultra-wide balanced armature driver. No detail, range or power is lost as the audio signal travels from the music player to the earphones, allowing listeners to "escape" into their music like never before. They are also the first wireless earphones to resolve battery issues that other wireless systems struggle with. Previous wireless earbuds were rendered useless if the wireless application ran out of power and the listener was out of luck until they could recharge the battery. Thanks to the SA6's detachable wire, if the wireless application runs out of battery, the original cable can simply be plugged in, and the listener is back in business.  "It's amazing how far wireless technology has come along over the years. Until KLEER, wireless technology really did not do justice to our SA6's, but now wireless technology has caught up with the audio side and we can offer wireless earphones that don't sacrifice sound quality," said Mark Krywko, CEO of Sleek Audio. "Our earphones are designed to evolve, and allow music lovers to escape into their music by offering unparalleled sound quality, comfort and ESC (Environmental Sound Control). Wireless is the next step in that evolution allowing for more freedom than ever. We've tested our wireless SA6's with the most particular audiophiles we could find, and they couldn't believe the quality of sound coming from our earphones using a wireless platform, we've really set the bar high and are excited to bring this application to music lovers around the world," added Krywko.  The KLEER wireless system attaches seamlessly to all current and future Sleek Audio products thanks to the proprietary detachable cable that comes standard. It provides up to ten hours of battery life independent of the media player and allows up to four people to listen from a single audio stream with 60 feet of freedom thanks to KLEER's multi-point Listen in™ technology.  "Sleek Audio really is a leading innovator in personal audio and after seeing (and listening to) what they had developed with their SA6 earphones we knew we were going to do some incredible work together as two leaders in our respective fields," said Levent Gun, President & CEO for Kleer . "Sleek Audio really thought of everything when they created their SA6 earphones, and it made it relatively easy for a wireless application to be developed," added Gun.  The wireless application is available for pre-purchase at www.sleek-audio.com and is currently adaptable to both the SA6 and Sleek Customs.

       

 