
 
Klipsch managed to unveil a black-and-white version of its high-end Image X10i earbuds as well as something referred to as a LightSpeaker at last CES, and this year they're doing the inevitable: unveiling a trio of iDevice-friendly sound systems. All a part of the new Gallery series, the Studio, Forum and Arena are all making their debut tonight in Vegas. Each of these units are AirPlay certified, meaning that each one will wirelessly ingest smooth jams and fusion metal from a nearby iTunes library. The Studio and Forum each have slots along the front edge where you can rest your iPhone / iPod / iPad, while the high-end Arena actually has a 30-pin Dock Connector port as well as a video output. The unit's the company had on display this evening were far from being production quality, but the overall design was nice, if not a touch understated. To remedy that on the Studio, the outfit plans to offer well over a dozen faceplates with various graphics -- if sales are strong, we're told that it could create similar plates for the higher-end siblings.

To go along with those, Klipsch also unveiled a trifecta of slim, passive speakers: the G-12, G16, G-28 and G-42. These range from $299 to $599 per speaker, and are obviously aimed at the more affluent crowd. One thing of note -- the backs of these speakers have clever cutouts along the bottom and rear, enabling you to better manage your wires. Yeah, wires. These units definitely aren't wireless, but here's hoping for 2012, right? As for the iPod sound systems? Those are slated to ship in Q2 or Q3 with prices set for $399 (Studio), $599 (Forum) and $799 (Arena).





Show full PR textKlipsch® Gallery: One Audio Family Presenting Infinite Sound SolutionsINDIANAPOLIS (January 5, 2010) - Klipsch®, a leading global speakermanufacturer, announces today the launch of its Klipsch Galleryseries. Ideal for anyone seeking enhanced sound-no matter their needor living environment-Klipsch Gallery is the first true cross-overhome audio solution, offering users an array of wireless-new mediasound systems and sleek, minimalist home theater speakers forupgraded, seamless whole-house audio.Embodying the same power, detail and emotion produced by Klipschhorn-loaded speakers, the Klipsch Gallery series features exclusiveTractrix® Horn technology that effortlessly delivers legendary Klipschsound, complete with extended highs and constant directivity for alive soundstage experience. Designed with modern décor in mind, eachKlipsch Gallery solution occupies minimal space, all while deliveringwhat competitive products lack – deep, powerful bass and crystal-cleardynamic range."We feel a strong obligation to bring the best possible sound to everyproduct category in which we participate, and this definitely holdstrue for Klipsch Gallery," said Mark Casavant, vice president ofproduct development for Klipsch. "No matter how or where theseproducts are used, the sleek speakers and wireless-new media soundsystems deliver true high fidelity sound and do wonders in enhancingvalued content from a user's HDTV, computer, iPhone, iPod Touch oriPad."Klipsch Gallery consists of four slim, passive speakers (G-12, G-16,G-28 and G-42) and three wireless-new media sound systems (GallerySTUDIO, Gallery FORUM and Gallery ARENA). Each passive speaker's namerepresents its particular speaker's size in length and can beconfigured as a left, center, right or surround speaker. KlipschGallery's wireless solutions connect wirelessly over an existing Wi-Finetwork and can be controlled with an Apple smart device. BecauseKlipsch is an official AirPlay partner with Apple, each new mediasystem will utilize AirPlay technology to allow for wirelesstransmission of users' iTunes libraries throughout any livingenvironment."Klipsch Gallery's wireless products are a revolution in connectedaudio solutions and carve out a new category of simplicity and sonicperformance," said Paul Jacobs, Klipsch Group president. "Thesepassive and powered app-enabled products are a true manifestation ofhow audio and video content will be enjoyed in the future. Astransformative products, Klipsch Gallery represents not only theblurring of lines between whole-house audio, music, home theater,gaming and computing, but the series truly revolutionizes thesimplicity of plug 'n play technology."Available in a high-gloss black finish, each Klipsch Gallery speakerexudes superior style for seamless integration into any décor. KlipschGallery will be available for purchase in spring/summer 2011 at selectKlipsch retailers and klipsch.com.
 