
Klipsch, worldwide enemy of fast-typing journalists, has arrived at IFA with two new audio products for our enjoyment. First up, the company is touting the Gig, a portable Bluetooth speaker with a clip-on arm that doubles as a stand. Packing AptX, NFC and a battery rated for 12 hours of life, the speaker is controlled with a chunky analog knob which reminds us of a childhood wasted playing with audio separates. Sound-wise, the Gig crams in four drivers -- two tweeters and a bass up front, while a second bass 'round back balances out the sound. At least, that's what Klipsch says, anyway. Black and white versions will launch in October for $200, and if you want to jazz up your sound with a different-colored strap, you can purchase additional hues from the company website. Wanna hear about Klipsch's other offering? Head on past the break. 





Meanwhile, the Status is a new set of headphones that are built from Grilamid, a highly light and flexible material. In addition, it's clad in a fancy pearl finish which, we have to admit, is just a little bit baller. As well as being light enough to carry around, the unit comes with passive noise cancellation, meaning that you'll be spared the annoyance and weight of strapping a battery-powered ANC set to your head. When we tried it on, when in a hugely busy trade show hall, the Status was easily able to push the rabble around us to mere background noise. Naturally, we can't give a full conclusion on that test alone, but we're excited to turn these over to our resident audiophile for his expert views. The Status is launching towards the end of the month for $250, and we've got pictures for you to paw through in the meantime

Show full PR textKlipsch Introduces New Over-Ear Headphone Model
INDIANAPOLIS (September 6, 2013) - Klipsch, a leading global speaker and headphone manufacturer, today announces the launch of the Klipsch STATUS, the company's latest innovation in noise-isolating, over-ear headphones. Perfectly-engineered with pristine yet virtually indestructible materials, the headphone compacts over six decades of technology and acoustic prowess to produce a pure, first-class listening experience.

Constructed from the same durable material used in high-end eyewear and available in a black and white finish, the Klipsch STATUS headphone's frame, made of Grilamid TR® material, offers unsurpassed durability while a gloss finish with subtle reflective highlights exudes both fashion and luxury. Ergonomically designed for maximum comfort and stability, the headphone features ear cups lined with high-density memory foam, optimized clamp force as well as precisely dimensioned ear cup rotations to create a perfect seal around the ear.

With two detachable cloth cables similar to those used in premium HiFi systems, Klipsch STATUS headphones fit any device with a standard 3.5mm headphone jack. One of the cable features a three-button mic and remote compatible with iPods ®, iPhones ® or iPads ® for complete music and call control.

Aligned with Klipsch's commitment to generate powerful, emotional music reproductions, the headphones maintain the same sound signature for which Klipsch is known. With dynamic, 40mm drivers, the product delivers crisp highs, deep bass and zero distortion for a strikingly realistic listening experience.

"This Klipsch STATUS presents the ideal blend of sound quality, comfort and portability providing for music enthusiasts who prefer an over-ear model," said Mike Klipsch, president of global operations for Klipsch. "Not only does it serve as a reminder of our industry-leading position in the highly-saturated headphone industry, but the product also highlights our commitment to engineer products that establish a new listening standard."

Klipsch STATUS headphones have collapsible ear cups that fit nicely into the included travel case. Also included with purchase are a two-year warranty, two detachable cables, ¼-inch adapter and airline adapter. Klipsch STATUS headphones retail for $249.99 (U.S. MSRP) and will be available at authorized retailers and http://www.klipsch.com in September 2013.

---


