
 
 Been fancying a new set of in-ear headphones as of late? If you'll recall, it was last week when Klipsch quietly revealed its new $200 Image X7i and a trio of Image S4 (II) series in-ears. Today, after getting our mitts on the new Image One on-ear models at its NYC event, we were able check out the in-ears for the first time. To refresh your memory, the X7i is the company's first set crafted from ceramic materials, featuring balanced-armature drivers and intended as a step-down option from its $350 X10i. The S4 (II) models, on the other hand, are unsurprisingly refreshes of its tried and true S4 line. So if you're interested in finding out more, join us past the break for our detailed impressions.




 
 Being that all of the S4 (II) models are acoustically identical, we specifically used the iPhone-focused S4i (equipped with a three-button remote / mic and available in white or black) and Android-purposed S4A (featuring a one-button remote / mic and only available in black), as the $80 S4 lacks an inline remote. In terms of build quality, Klipsch has thankfully gifted the units with slightly thicker, tangle-proof flat cabling, fixing two of our chief complaints with the past versions. No matter how hard we tried, we were happy to find that we couldn't get the cable twisted up at all. Secondly, although the sets still have straight jacks (instead of the 90-degree kind our pockets prefer), the thicker connection should be less prone to shorting out. Sadly, there is still a fair bit of cable-noise while walking around, that is unless you opt for the "sport fit" by wrapping the wires behind your ears.

 
 Although the button layout is different for both models, the casings are essentially the same and a bit chunkier than that of our OG S4i. The added size may seem like an odd change, but we found it easier to find and more pleasant to hold. In terms of sound quality, the units sound almost exactly the same as S4i: warm with a pleasant amount of chunky bass that doesn't overwhelm the highs and mids. If anything, we'd say the new versions might be slightly less sibilant in the treble department -- the S4 series' only glaring abnormality sound wise. Furthermore, the headphones are still using Klipsch's super comfy oval-shaped silicone tips, which also helped drown the loudness of the bustling balcony around us admirably.

 
 Moving along to the X7i, we're not sure we'd choose it over the S4 (II) models. The X7i's balanced-armature drivers deliver a flatter response and cleaner sound than the S4s, but as we experienced with the X10i, it might not sound or feel like a drastic improvement to most for the price. This editor found the treble to be much to bright for his tastes -- especially with rock and pop tracks, it became quite jarring unless we toned it down with Google Music's EQ. The ceramic is pleasantly cool to the touch, and the 'buds themselves feel nearly as slim as the X10i. Because of the tiny size, however, we had to jam them oddly far into our ear canals to get a tight seal no matter which tips we used (single and dual-flange options are offered). Outside of the earpieces, the cabling is identical to that of the S4is. We'll likely spend more time with the X7i and S4 (II) in-ear headphones in the future, but for now, you'll find more info in the press release below.

  Show full PR text   Klipsch Launches Three New Versions of Popular Image™ Series  Headphones
  INDIANAPOLIS (August 14, 2012) - Klipsch, a leading global speaker manufacturer, today  announces the launch of new Image™ S4®, Image™ S4i® and Image™ S4A® headphone models  that serve as updated versions to the already in-market products. With their introduction, Klipsch  delivers enhanced product features while maintaining the same acclaimed acoustics and  unrivaled comfort.
  The new Image S4, Image S4i and Image S4A present flat cabling for added strength and  tangle resistance, a more streamlined shape and overall improvements in product durability.
  Equipped with the patented oval ear tips for which Klipsch is known, each model allows for  hours of comfortable, long-term wear. Unlike circular-shaped ear tips that put stress on the  pressure points inside the ear, Klipsch's patented oval ear tips naturally fit the contours of the  ear canal. These ear tips also offer superior noise isolation (or passive noise-cancellation),  blocking out almost all ambient noise and providing excellent bass.
  Each model produces the same award-winning sound signature through an 8.5 mm dual  magnet micro-speaker. This technology covers a wide frequency range and delivers dynamic  detail for the most strikingly realistic sound reproductions of music libraries.
  Image S4  The Image S4 is available in a piano black or pristine white finish and comes complete with four  different-sized oval ear tips, a protective carrying case and two-year warranty. The in-ear  headphone is compatible with any portable device that features a standard 3.5mm headphone  jack. The updated Image S4 retails for $79.99 (U.S. MSRP) and will be available at authorized  retailers and http://www.klipsch.com in August 2012.
  Image S4i  In addition to its audio functionality with any device housing a 3.5mm headphone jack, the  Image S4i features a three-button remote that houses a directional mic, granting Apple device  users seamless call and music control, as well as crystal clear conversations. Also available in a  black or white finish, the headset carries a two-year warranty and includes four pairs of different-  sized ear tips, a protective carrying case and clothing clip for the remote and mic. The new  Image S4i retails for $99.99 (U.S. MSRP) and will be available at authorized retailers and  http://www.klipsch.com in August 2012.
  Image S4A  Catering to Android's™ mobile and tablet users, the Image S4A presents a fully functioning  headset with in-line remote and mic for advanced controls. Upon download of the free Klipsch  Control App, the headset's single-button remote and mic allows users to play, pause and skip
  music tracks, answer and end incoming calls, and voice search. Each of these button functions  and more can be customized through the app. Available in a sleek black finish, this model  comes complete with four different-sized oval ear tips, a protective carrying case, clothing clip  and two-year warranty. This Image S4A retails for $99.99 (U.S. MSRP) and will be available at  authorized retailers and http://www.klipsch.com in August 2012.
 
  First Ceramic Headphone Joins the Klipsch Image™ Series
   INDIANAPOLIS (August 21, 2012) - Klipsch, a leading global speaker manufacturer, today  announces the launch of the Image™ X7i, the company's first-ever ceramic headphone model.  Offering unique design, unrivalled in-ear comfort and the brand's renowned sound signature, the  Image X7i exemplifies an undeniable personal audio upgrade-especially when compared to  the variety of plastic headphone models currently available in today's market.  In addition to offering a sophisticated, sleek black or white finish with laser-etched logos, the  Image X7i's ceramic composition provides listeners with significant durability. The headphone  employs the brand's newest cabling that offers users a flat surface area for heightened cord  strength and tangle resistance. Adding to its functionality, the Image X7i features a three-button  remote that houses a directional mic, granting Apple device users seamless call and music  control, and crystal clear conversations.  "With the Image X7i's introduction, we aim to deliver a high-design product that stands out  against its similarly priced competitors not possessing the same level of build quality," said Chris  Aiello, Klipsch product manager for headphones. "By taking conscious steps to both uphold and  evolve our Image series throughout the product development process, we have engineered a  product that delivers our sound caliber through deep bass, clear mids and crisp highs, while  delivering a never-before-seen design element from the brand."  Equipped with the patented oval ear tips for which Klipsch is known, the Image X7i allows for  hours of comfortable, long-term wear. Unlike circular-shaped ear tips that put stress on the  pressure points inside the ear, Klipsch's patented oval ear tips naturally fit the contours of the  ear canal, providing comfortable long-term wear. These ear tips also offer superior noise  isolation (or passive noise-cancellation), blocking out almost all ambient noise and providing  excellent bass.  The Image X7i utilizes a proprietary balanced armature driver, presenting advanced audio  technology that covers a wide frequency range and is capable of delivering dynamic detail for  strikingly realistic sound reproductions.  The Image X7i's audio works with virtually any device that has a standard 3.5mm headphone  jack; however, the mic and three-button remote support select Apple products.  Included with purchase are four different-sized oval ear tips, a protective carrying case, clothing  clip for the remote and mic, as well as a two-year warranty. The Image X7i retails for $199.99  (U.S. MSRP) and will be available at authorized retailers and http://www.klipsch.com in August  2012.
 
 
 
