
 
Altec Lansing does it, as does Harman Kardon. Oh, and lest we forget about Beats. We're talking about companies that have gone the extra mile (and paid a certain price) to get their speakers into the shells of laptops, and now the fine folks at Alienware are grabbing a top-tier name of their own: Klipsch. Despite being snapped up by Audiovox a few months ago, the outfit's powering ahead with an apparent plan for expansion. Today, Alienware's launching its first-ever Klipsch-equipped laptop, the 3D-enabled M17x. Not only will buyers find Intel's newest Sandy Bridge CPUs, a 1080p 3D panel, custom lighting controls and an HDMI input, but they'll also be gifted with a set of Klipsch drivers and MaxxAudio 3 software from Waves. Hard to say if the partnership will soon bleed over to even more of Alienware's machines, but all logical signs are pointing to "yes." As for this guy? It'll ship this month starting at $1,499.
      

 

Show full PR textKlipsch® Powers Speakers in First-Ever 3D-Gaming Laptop by AlienwareINDIANAPOLIS (March 11, 2011) - Klipsch®, a leading global speaker manufacturer, announces it is working with Alienware to provide a premium audio experience in the high-performance gaming laptop manufacturer's first 3D-capable gaming laptop. The M17x is the first release in Alienware's gaming laptop series featuring audio powered by Klipsch to give gamers sound quality superior to anything they've ever heard in a built-in laptop speaker.Klipsch is no stranger to the PC-gaming community and understands that intense gameplay and gripping storylines demand high-powered audio. For nearly 10 years, the company's acclaimed THX®-certified ProMedia 2.1 have been the de facto speakers in the gaming community. Klipsch's experience in delivering high-powered sound in a small package for gamers made the company the perfect partner for Alienware's latest project."We are honored to have the opportunity to team up with Alienware and can't wait to experience the excitement in the marketplace surrounding the release of this new laptop series," said Chris Aiello, Klipsch product manager for personal audio. "By fusing 3D technology with unmatched built-in, Klipsch-refined laptop sound performance, Alienware is truly defining an entirely new product category. We're thrilled to play a role in it."The M17x is Alienware's first-ever 3D-capable gaming laptop. The 17-inch laptop is available with second generation "Sandy Bridge" quad-core Intel Core i7 processors, which prove to be 42 percent faster on content creation. Its ability to have HDMI-In support for XBOX 360 and PlayStation 3 connectivity is a first for Alienware. It also can be configured with an optional 120Hz stereoscopic FullHD panel, and can support up to 100W of graphics horsepower. The laptop features the Alienware Command Center for access to AlienFX lighting controls, AlienFusion power management and AlienTouch touchpad controls. Along with Klipsch, the M17x also features award winning MaxxAudio 3 software from Waves to provide the best audio experience in PC gaming.The Klipsch audio-powered Alienware M17x will be available for purchase in March 2011 at $1,499.
 