
 Did you happen to pre-order a single- or dual-screen 14.1-inch Kno tablet textbook? Alright, we're assuming that schools and wealthy students were the only ones that actually did, but regardless, the monster-sized tablets are starting to ship out this week. According to the press release after the break, both the single- and dual-display versions are being boxed up and will be sent out to those early pre-orderers over the next couple of weeks. However, if you were hoping that this would mark the launch of the general availability of the enlarged tablets, that's just not the case yet -- you still have to receive an "invitation" and complete a "request for purchase" form on its website. That means even we'll be waiting longer to get one of these our hands, but if you're one of the lucky ones to receive one of these bad boys this week, let us what you think of it in the comments!
 

Show full PR textKNO BEGINS SHIPPING GROUNDBREAKING EDUCATIONAL TABLET FOR STUDENTSThe Company Reaches Major Milestone with First Customer Ship This WeekSanta Clara, California – December 21, 2010 – Kno, Inc., the new educational tablet that revolutionizes the way students learn, today announced it has begun shipping its highly anticipated product to pre-order customers. The first Kno tablets will begin arriving on doorsteps this week. "Since launch, we have been encouraged by the positive response to Kno and we are excited to deliver the first units to our most passionate customers – students and educators," said Osman Rashid, CEO and Co-Founder of Kno, Inc. "Over the next month, we plan to deliver units to pre-order customers and work closely with them to ensure a great user experience."Kno, short for knowledge, is a unique 14.1 touch-screen tablet that blends textbooks, course materials, note-taking, web access, educational applications, digital media, sharing and more into a more powerful and engaging educational experience. Kno also offers a digital bookstore, www.kno.com/store/books, which includes tens of thousands of textbooks from most of the major publishers, with new books being added regularly. Digital textbooks typically cost between 30 and 50 percent less than physical textbooks and the Kno pays for itself in 3 semesters with the money students save in textbook costs.The Kno tablet is available as a single and dual 14.1 inch screen and costs $599 and $899, respectively. Currently, the Kno tablet is available in limited quantity and is now available by invitation only. Shipments to pre-order customers will be staggered over the next month and new customers interested in purchasing a Kno tablet can go to www.kno.com to complete a request for purchase form."Designing and developing the Kno has been a collaborative 18 month process with students, partners and publishers, and it's exciting to see our vision come to fruition," said Babur Habib, CTO and Co-Founder of Kno, Inc. "We look forward to hearing from our first customers and working with them to continue to innovate on the product."About Kno, Inc.Kno, Inc. is fundamentally changing the way students learn, by offering new ways to digitally consume, organize, create and share knowledge. Kno is a transformative tablet textbook that artfully blends the intuitive experience of the conventional textbook with a rich digital world of video, note taking, collaboration and more. Its open platform encourages publishers and developers to create and distribute innovative education applications and content. Osman Rashid, the co-founder of Chegg, and Babur Habib, a consumer electronics veteran, founded Kno, Inc. in May 2009. Kno has a world-class management team from Apple, Cisco, HP, Intel, TiVo, Chegg and Palm. The company has received funding from Andreessen Horowitz, Floodgate, First Round Capital, Ron Conway, Silicon Valley Bank and TriplePoint Capital and is based in Santa Clara, California. For more information go to www.kno.com. Press Contacts:JSA Strategies  Kathryn KellyJennifer@jsastrategies.com  kathrynkellypr@gmail.com310-780-3331  408-718-9043
 