
We had some initial misgivings about the usefulness of Kobo's Reading Life ecosystem, but the company has certainly been working to expand the scope of its social / competitive reading offering. Now Kobo's partnering with Pocket (the app formerly known as Read it Later), a deal that integrates the app directly into Reading Life, letting you send articles to the company's new line of e-readers and tablets for offline reading. The app is accessible via Reading Life's new Articles from Pocket feature. You can read more in the press release below right now.



Show full PR textKOBO BRINGS POCKET'S SERVICE TO ITS EREADING PLATFORM
Kobo, a global leader in eReading, today announced a new partnership with Pocket, a San-Francisco based company that lets users save and consume interesting web content they discover on a variety of devices. Kobo is the first eReading company to bring the convenience of the Pocket platform to its E Ink eReaders as well as its tablets.
"Just like Kobo, Pocket understands that Reading is a passion, something that is coveted, deeply personal, and attacked with voracious appetite. Through our partnership, we are able to help our Readers go beyond the book, and curate content from almost any source - to read later," said Michael Serbinis, CEO, Kobo. "We are excited to partner with a company that shares our mission to provide Readers with the best reading experience and encourages people to read and read more often."
Today, people are reading books five times more on eReaders than with apps and more than 90 percent of Kobo customers read every week, with the majority of them reading every day. At the same time, each month Pocket users read the equivalent of three books' worth of content saved from across the Web. With people reading more, at different times and in different ways, Kobo and Pocket understand the importance of offering a convenient platform for Readers to access content easily and on any device they choose-regardless of internet connection.
"This is the first time we've partnered directly with a manufacturer to bring Pocket to a native eReading device," said Nate Weiner, CEO and Founder, Pocket. "Through our work with Kobo, Readers are able to take all of the interesting articles they find on the web and deliver it directly to the native eReading experience."
With Pocket, Kobo gives Readers a way to save and view the articles they want to read later from their browser and more than 400 other popular apps like Twitter, Flipboard, Pulse and Zite, and view it on their Kobo E Ink eReaders and tablets. When Kobo Readers find an interesting article, they can save it to Pocket then view it as easily as they view any book content on their eReader, whether they are online or offline. The integration with Pocket is available as part of Kobo's enhanced Reading Life platform in the Articles from Pocket section on the Kobo Aura 6" eReader, and on Kobo Arc 10HD, Kobo Arc 7 and 7HD tablets. Current Pocket users can simply log in for instant access to their list, and new users can sign up for a free Pocket account.

