
 

Looks like HP will be getting some company in Google's print cloud. Kodak today announced a new line of Cloud Print-friendly all-in-one devices, which let users print documents without all of those pesky cords. The imaging company is rolling the Hero 3.1, 5.1, 6.1, 7.1 and 9.1. The low-end 3.1 features a 2.4-inch display and does printing, scanning, and copying for $99, while the top of the line 9.1 adds faxing, a 4.3-inch display, a 30 page automatic document feeder, automatic two-sided printing and Smart Sensor technology to the mix at $249. The $199 6.1, meanwhile, is the most business-minded of the bunch, with its home office networking capabilities. All of the models will be available this month. Printable press info after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   KODAK Expands Mobile Connectivity With New Google Cloud Print Ready™ Printers 			ROCHESTER, N.Y., Sept. 7, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- To meet the demands of today's mobile consumers and connected professionals, Kodak introduced a new line of KODAK HERO All-in-One Printers allowing people to print how, where and when they want. The HERO Printers are Google Cloud Print Ready and KODAK Email Print Ready, letting consumers easily send documents and photos to their printer from anywhere in the world, using any Internet-connected device(1). They represent the latest innovation in the company's consumer inkjet portfolio, marrying effortless connectivity with Kodak's unique combination of high quality output and affordable ink. 			In addition, Kodak will enable Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print for previous generation KODAK All-in-One Printers, making Kodak the first printer manufacturer to also offer cloud printing for its existing customers(2). 			"With our new lineup of HERO Printers, Kodak is helping to meet the needs of an on-the-go lifestyle by making it easy and convenient for consumers to print from any connected device, anywhere," said Susan Tousi, General Manager, Inkjet Systems, and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company. "With new features like Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print, we continue to advance our intelligent technology while also offering the exceptional quality consumers expect from Kodak and premium ink at an affordable price. With Kodak, consumers do not have to compromise between smart features, quality and affordability." 			"Google Cloud Print enables users to print from any app, on any device, to any printer without the need for drivers or a PC connection," said Mike Jazayeri, Product Management Director at Google. "The service works with existing printers as well as with a new generation of Google Cloud Print Ready printers, so we're very excited that Kodak's new HERO All-in-One Printers support the service." 			Available this month, Kodak has added four newly-designed printers to its portfolio for the home: the HERO 3.1, HERO 5.1, HERO 7.1 and HERO 9.1 All-in-One Printers. For the home office, Kodak is introducing the KODAK OFFICE HERO 6.1 All-in-One Printer. 			Intelligent Printing for a Connected World 			New this fall, KODAK HERO All-in-One Printers let consumers seamlessly print on the go from their smartphone, laptop or tablet using Google Cloud Print-enabled apps such as Gmail and Google Docs. They can also send emails and attachments to their KODAK Printer from anywhere, using any email account, with KODAK Email Print Service. Consumers can even share their printer's unique email address with friends, family, colleagues and clients to receive printed files or photos. 			In addition to cloud printing capabilities, with the KODAK Pic Flick App, consumers can print photos directly from an iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, BLACKBERRY or ANDROID OS Device(3). And with Kodak's fast Wi-Fi set-up, it's easy to connect to a home network. 			Exceptional KODAK Quality with Great Ink Value 			The world's foremost imaging innovator, Kodak offers premium photo and document quality backed by more than 100 years of leading KODAK Image Science. KODAK All-in-One Printers with Kodak's proprietary pigment-based inks deliver crisp, sharp text documents, brilliant graphics and KODAK Lab-Quality Photos that dry instantly, are smudge, water and fade resistant, and last a lifetime(4). Kodak offers the world's fastest photo speed printing for highest-quality prints(5). 			Committed to providing customers great value, Kodak offers the lowest total ink replacement cost(6) and exceptional cost-per-page. 			Built-In Intelligence for Ease and Productivity 			KODAK All-in-One Printers feature built-in intelligence, such as Kodak's Smart Sensor technology that predicts the supplies and time needed to complete a job, and automatically identifies paper, size and amount, to help consumers save time and get more done easily. Consumers can also send scans directly to Google Docs, email, memory cards, USB flash drives and network folders. 			Kodak is also introducing a touchscreen display with its HERO 7.1 and HERO 9.1 Printers, and more automated features with the OFFICE HERO 6.1 Printer including automatic two-sided printing, copying, scanning and faxing. 			Included with every KODAK Printer is KODAK All-in-One Printer Home Center Software, featuring Kodak's Perfect Page Technology(7) which corrects and improves scanned images so they are sharper than the originals. Kodak's software allows consumers to do more with their photos, including 3D photo printing, printing scenes from video files, as well as photo printing directly from FACEBOOK, KODAK Gallery, PICASA, FLICKR and PHOTOBUCKET sites(7). 			For more information on Kodak's inkjet printer portfolio and inks, visit http://www.intelligentprinting.kodak.com. 			HERO All-in-One Printers Feature Highlights 			KODAK HERO 9.1 			Top of the line, fully featured wireless all-in-one to print, copy, scan and fax			Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print Ready			4.3 in. color touchscreen display			30-page automatic document feeder(8)			Automatic two-sided printing(8)			Separate, automatic 40-sheet photo tray			Smart Sensor technology			Compatible with KODAK Ink Cartridges, 10 Series			US $249.99 MSRP  			KODAK HERO 7.1 			Premium wireless all-in-one to print, copy and scan			Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print Ready			3.5 in. color touchscreen display			Automatic two-sided printing(8)			Separate, automatic 40-sheet photo tray			Smart Sensor technology			Compatible with KODAK Ink Cartridges, 10 Series			US $179.99 MSRP  			KODAK OFFICE HERO 6.1 			Fully featured, networked home office wireless all-in-one to print, copy, scan and fax			Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print Ready			Intuitive control panel and 2.4 in. color display			35-page automatic document feeder(8)			Automatic two-sided printing, copying, scanning and faxing(8)			High-capacity 200-page document tray, also holds 70 sheets of photo paper			Smart Sensor technology			Compatible with KODAK Ink Cartridges, 10 Series			US $199.99 MSRP  			KODAK HERO 5.1 			Versatile wireless all-in-one to print, copy and scan			Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print Ready			2.4-in. color display			Automatic two-sided printing(8)			Smart Sensor technology			Compatible with KODAK Ink Cartridges, 30 Series			US $129.99 MSRP  			KODAK HERO 3.1 			Easy-to-use, wireless all-in-one to print, copy and scan			Google Cloud Print and KODAK Email Print Ready			2.4-in. color display			Compatible with KODAK Ink Cartridges, 30 Series			US $99.99 MSRP 
 