
 
 It's not quite as earth-shattering as Zuck's deal to snap up Instagram, but one of the pioneers of photography is making waves any way it can. Kodak Gallery has been available on the App Store since November of last year, but starting this week, users will be able to order photos right on their iPhone for pickup at participating Target and CVS locations in America. Kodak claims that the time between order and pickup is usually around an hour, with all prints (available in 4x6, 5x7 and 8x10 sizes) arriving on Kodak photo-quality paper. Pricing, as you'd expect, will vary by store, and more deets can be spotted in the release after the break.



  Show full PR text   KODAK Gallery Becomes the First Major Online Photo Company to Monetize Mobile Photo Sharing
  KODAK Gallery is the only leading photo service to enable mobile consumers to order prints from their iPhone
   EMERYVILLE, CA, April 19, 2012- KODAK Gallery (www.kodakgallery.com), the only online photo service uniquely designed for celebrating KODAK MOMENTS together, announced today that consumers can use the KODAK Gallery app for iPhone to conveniently order KODAK-quality prints for same day pickup at Target and CVS stores nationwide.

   "Mobile consumers want the convenience of ordering prints from their phones and they want them right away – we know this because they've been demanding it from us," said Mark Cook, Vice President of Social and Mobile Products for KODAK Gallery. "Whether you're browsing your vacation photos while waiting for your flight home, checking your phone during lunch, or relaxing on your couch – being able to use a mobile app to quickly order prints and pick them up at a Target or CVS store, is the ultimate convenience for the 'need it now' mobile consumer. With this new release, a group of friends can attend a party together, pool all the photos they take on their phones real-time into a shared Group Album, then pick up prints or enlargements of their favorite shots on their way home."

   The print to store capability is now available at more than 1,200 Target and more than 6,500 CVS locations throughout the US.

   How it Works

   By using the KODAK Gallery app for the iPhone, shoppers can choose their photos and pick them up at any participating Target or CVS store, in about one hour (timing may vary). Customers can choose their premium glossy prints in three size options: 4x6, 5x7 and 8x10. The photos, printed on KODAK quality paper, can be picked up and paid for at the photo counter at participating stores (pricing is set by the individual retail stores and may vary by chain and location).

   The Mobile Photo Leader  The print to store option with the KODAK Gallery iPhone app is one of the many ways KODAK Gallery continues to assert its leadership in the mobile photo space. KODAK Gallery -- the only leading online photo service to provide an app for ANDROID devices -- offers the broadest platform for friends to easily share and access photo memories using an iPhone, iPad, ANDROID phone or tablet, KINDLE FIRE and PC.

   "It's clear with the Instagram acquisition that mobile photo apps are critical to the future on any consumer Internet service," said Victor Cho, General Manager of KODAK Gallery, Eastman Kodak Company. "In the photo business, the winner will not be the player with the best web experience, but the one with the best mobile experience. KODAK Gallery continues to demonstrate its leadership here and --unlike Instagram --we have a directly connected and established photo-product revenue stream such photo books, photo cards, photo gifts and prints."

   The KODAK Gallery app is one of the highest-rated and most popular photo apps, ranking in the top 20 free photo apps in the Apple App Store and in the top five in the Amazon Appstore. More than one million photos are uploaded every week using the KODAK Gallery app-and that number continues to grow.

   KODAK Gallery recently announced that ANDROID users can use the app to share a single photo or album to a Pinterest board. Pinterest is now the second most popular way people share photos – more than twice as popular as Facebook – on ANDROID.

 
