
 
Things are just getting underway here at CES in Las Vegas, and Kodak's on-hand in order to serve up its latest smorgasbord of optical treasures. Without further ado, allow us to present to you the Easyshare Touch -- a $149.95 offering with a three-inch capacitive touchpanel, a dedicated video record button, a 14 megapixel sensor, 5x Schneider-Kreuznach lens and an HDMI output. Next up is the $99.95 Easyshare Mini, described as Kodak's smallest camera yet. It's "around the size of a credit card," offering a 3x wide-angle optical zoom lens, a built-in front mirror (you know, for those glorious self-portrait sessions), a ten megapixel sensor and a 2.5-inch rear LCD. Moving right along, there's the $79.95 Easyshare Sport, which is the outfit's first waterproof camera that can go up to ten feet underwater without any significant consequences. It'll also shrug off dirt and dust while snapping 12 megapixel shots and previewing them on the 2.4-inch LCD. Sashaying over to the video realm, there's the $149.95 Playfull camcorder, which touts an ultraslim design (it'll "fit in the pocket of your skinny jeans," according to Special K), a 1080p capture mode and an unmistakable 'Share' button to get your footage onto YouTube or a social network without any wasted time. 

The company's also using CES as an opportunity to launch the next generation of its Playsport video camera, with this $179.95 model being waterproof up to ten feet, shockproof, dustproof and capable of logging clips at 1080p. You can also snap stills at five megapixels, and that previously mentioned 'Share' button is predictably tacked on here as well. Speaking of revisions, the Pulse digital photo frame is also seeing a gentle refresh, with this one available in 7-inch ($129.95) and 10-inch ($199.95) sizes. The newcomers add the ability to comment on the pictures you receive from friends and family, with our favorite predetermined response being "Such a KODAK MOMENT!" Seriously. Oh, and these also have an ingrained activity sensor that turns the frame off when you walk away, and brings it back to life when you re-approach. Finally, the ESP C310 all-in-one printer will be selling for $99.99, but so far as we can tell, Kodak would rather extol the virtues of its ink-saving abilities than drum up interest in its cutting-edge feature set. Further details can be spotted in the full release after the break. 






Show full PR textKodak Changes Landscape for Sharing with Smarter Imaging and Output Solutions Announced at CESKodak to be First Printer Manufacturer to Ship 3D Photo Creation and Print ExperienceLas Vegas, NV, January 4, 2010 – Eastman Kodak Company (NYSE:EK), the world's foremost imaging innovator, today introduced at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) digital photography products and services that redefine the way consumers capture, share and display their picture-perfect moments. Combining consumer insights with intuitive technology, Kodak is reshaping the way consumers share with its newest offerings, including the world's only digital cameras with 3-step sharing1 and new sharing destinations like TWITTER, as well as a high-quality addition to the entry of Kodak's line of AiO Inkjet Printers featuring Kodak's unique affordable ink system, and a new way to create and experience 3D images at home. Rounding out the new products are innovative and customizable offerings like photo books and photo cards from KODAK Gallery and KODAK Picture Kiosk. "Innovation at Kodak has always been focused around making the complex simple for our customers," says Betty Noonan, Kodak Director and Vice President, Business to Consumer Marketing. "Today, Kodak continues to bring technological advancements to market that make it easier and more convenient for consumers to share with their friends and family in their own unique way. The real KODAK Moment happens when you share and that drives our ongoing commitment to leading the evolution of imaging by developing intelligent solutions that marry consumer insights with innovative technology." Throughout CES, Kodak will lead a variety of panel discussions around the evolution of imaging on its interactive, in-booth stage, K-Zone. Bringing together the most influential industry thought leaders, Kodak continues to honor its commitment to innovation and smart technology for consumers and businesses alike. The compelling and engaging discussion around today's emerging technology trends will be featured live from the show floor and also streamed live online at ThePulseNetwork.com during the first three days of CES, from January 6th through January 8th. To view the complete list of topics, the daily K-Zone schedule and to watch sessions live, please visit www.Kodak.com/go/CES.In-booth, Kodak will engage consumers with an experiential Responder Wall, which leads consumers on a journey through Kodak's rich heritage and provides interactive demonstrations of the smart technology products introduced at CES. Kodak Products Introduced Today at CESCapture and Share It Kodak's commitment to bringing to market intuitive products that make it easy to share and relive life's moments continues with its innovative Spring 2011 product portfolio. Kodak offers the world's only digital cameras with 3-step sharing1, making it easy for you to email your pictures to friends and the KODAK PULSE Digital Frame, and upload them to popular social networking sites including FACEBOOK, TWITTER, YOUTUBE, KODAK Gallery, FLICKR, and ORKUT, YANDEX and KAIXIN001 sites internationally. Using Kodak's exclusive Share Button, you can tag pictures to the largest number of social networks and also simultaneously share to multiple social networks and email.2 The new KODAK EASYSHARE TOUCH Camera (US $149.95 MSRP) has a 3-inch high resolution capacitive touchscreen LCD so you can show off your pictures in style. It also features a dedicated video record button that makes it easy to take 720p HD video that you can edit and share right on the camera. In addition, the EASYSHARE TOUCH Camera has an auto organization feature that simplifies finding the moments you want to share. With 14 MP and a 5X wide-angle SCHNEIDER-KREUZNACH Optical Zoom Lens, the camera also boasts Kodak's Smart Capture and Face Recognition features, multiple scene and artistic modes – like photo booth and film effects – to have more fun with your pictures, and an HDMI connector. The new KODAK EASYSHARE MINI Camera (US $99.95 MSRP) is Kodak's smallest camera yet. It's super chic and super sleek. About the size of a credit card, it has a 3X wide-angle optical zoom lens and built-in front mirror so it's a snap to get you and all your friends in the picture. The EASYSHARE MINI is a 10 MP camera with a 2.5-inch bright LCD, Kodak's Smart Capture and Face Recognition features, multiple scene and color modes to have more fun with your pictures, and video.The new KODAK EASYSHARE SPORT Camera (US $79.95 MSRP) is the perfect companion for your daily adventures. Dunk it in the pool or bring it to the beach. Kodak's first waterproof digital still camera can go up to 10 feet underwater and is also dustproof to withstand dirt, dust and sand. The EASYSHARE SPORT is a 12 MP camera with a 2.4-inch LCD, Kodak's Smart Capture feature, multiple scene and color modes to have more fun with your pictures, and video.The new KODAK PLAYFULL Video Camera (US $149.95 MSRP) is packed full of features in an ultra slim and chic design. Made for social butterflies and social networking superstars, it not only fits in the pocket of your skinny jeans but looks good with them too. You can capture your best friend's birthday party or a night at the fashion show in full 1080p HD video or 5 MP stills. Then simply press the Share Button to tag to your favorite social networking sites and email, and connect to your computer for automatic upload.The next generation of the popular and award-winning KODAK PLAYSPORT Video Camera (US $179.95 MSRP) is designed for your adventurous lifestyle. In addition to being waterproof up to 10 feet, it's now also shockproof and dustproof to withstand tough conditions and elements like dirt, dust and sand. Take it snowboarding, snorkeling, mountain biking, whitewater rafting or wherever your active lifestyle takes you. Capture your adventures in full 1080p HD video or 5 MP stills, then press the Share Button to easily share them with your social network.Relive ItThe next generation of the award-winning PULSE Digital Frame is Kodak's latest socially connected product. The popular wireless device with its own email address now has an extra shot of social – allowing you to comment on the pictures you receive from friends and family the moment you receive them. A Quick Comment button on the touchscreen lets you communicate back to the picture sender directly from the frame and includes options like Such a KODAK MOMENT, LOL!, OMG!, Congrats! and Wish I were there!In addition to a custom email address that makes it easy to receive new pictures wirelessly from mobile phones, smartphones and any device with email capability, the PULSE Frame connects to FACEBOOK and KODAK Gallery albums so pictures are streamed to your frame automatically. You can also now create playlists to choose the pictures you want to see the most. Available in 7-inch (US $129.95 MSRP) and 10-inch (US $199.95 MSRP) sizes, the KODAK PULSE Digital Frame also has a new built-in activity sensor that turns the frame on when you're nearby and conserves power when you're not. Print ItThe new KODAK ESP C310 All-in-One (AiO) Inkjet Printer ($99.99 U.S. MSRP) gives consumers a high-quality, unique printing experience. The newest addition to its AiO Inkjet Printer portfolio, the ESP C310 Printer with a sleek, new compact design provides wireless printing for effortless home use, easy-to-use features and Kodak's legendary image quality for an unbeatable value. Coupled with a new, proprietary pigmented ink system4, which builds upon Kodak's offer to consumers of the lowest total ink replacement cost5 and exceptional cost-per-page output, the ESP C310 Printer helps save the consumer time, money and energy. The proprietary pigmented inks, which use both Black and Color standard and XL cartridges, offer consumers more choices tailored to meet their printing needs. For example, the KODAK Black Ink Cartridge, 30XL and the KODAK Color Ink Cartridge, 30XL enable consumers who print a high volume of photos and documents two times more prints6 than the KODAK Black Ink Cartridge, 30 and KODAK Color Ink Cartridge, 30.For consumers looking for a fun, creative project that adds a whole new dimension to their most precious memories, Kodak is launching 3D photo printing. Developed in the Kodak labs, Kodak will be the first consumer inkjet printer manufacturer to ship a 3D photo creation and printing experience, at an affordable price, enabling KODAK AiO Printer owners to easily create 3D photos – with no special equipment.Learn more about Kodak's inkjet portfolio and see how to save on ink at www.printandprosper.com.Display ItConsumers are finding their way back to print – because innovative and customizable offerings like photo books and cards from KODAK Gallery and KODAK Picture Kiosk are so compelling. The latest innovation from KODAK Gallery, Photo Books with SMART FIT Technology, revolutionizes the photo book industry. This modern, cutting-edge technology allows you to organize, preserve and create a beautiful book of memories with speed and ease – and in a fun and creative way. Creating photos books from a Kodak Picture Kiosk offers instant gratification. Books are offered in a variety of sizes and prices to meet the needs of every consumer. (Dedicated website is http://www.kodakgallery.com/smartfit).KODAK's PYNK Smart Print System – an innovative and unique design tool found on the KODAK Picture Kiosk – redefines the frame category by automatically measuring, cropping, arranging and printing photos to fit your frame. The output is a KODAK PYNK SmartPrint that falls right into place – no scissors or searching for that perfect sized picture. Making the sharing process simple and solving the inherent problems of so many photo products, KODAK's Picture Kiosks can be found in over 100,000 retail stores worldwide. "The products we introduce year after year are representative of our core mission – to make it easy and enjoyable for consumers to capture, share and display life's most important moments," said Noonan. "With this year's new product and service offerings, we are making it more personal – letting you capture and share your KODAK Moments your way."###About Kodak As the world's foremost imaging innovator, Kodak helps consumers, businesses, and creative professionals unleash the power of pictures and printing to enrich their lives. To learn more, visit www.kodak.com and follow our blogs and more at www.kodak.com/go/followus. More than 75 million people worldwide manage, share and create photo gifts online at KODAK Gallery--join today at www.kodakgallery.com. Choose from the widest selection of KODAK Digital Cameras, All-in-One Inkjet Printers, Pocket Video Cameras and more at http://store.kodak.com.
 