
 
Metal Gear creator Hideo Kojima confirmed that the interactive horror game unvealed during Sony's Gamescom 2014 press conference is indeed Silent Hills, a new, pluralized game in Konami's Silent Hill series. Kojima is working with Hellboy director Guillermo Del Toro on a game that will make players "shit their pants," as Kojima said through a translator during Konami's livestreamed Gamescom event today, joking that a limited edition version of of Silent Hills will include an extra pair of slacks (you know, for all the pants-shitting you'll be doing).

The interactive teaser, now available on PSN, was briefly discussed during Sony's event yesterday under the name P.T. As it turns out, that only stood for "Playable Teaser," as there's "no deep meaning into it." Kojima clarified, "you see all these trailers and teasers, but it is a game so I wanted to have something that was really interactive that you could play through and after playing it, clearing something, you will finally get to the IP or title or whatever it was." 
 

Of course, the final puzzle to get to the big reveal in the demo was more difficult than the rest, which Kojima said was intentional. "I personally expected this to take at least a week to be solved, and i was really surprised it was less than half a day," he said. "I wanted people to get together, cooperate," he added, noting that "there are cryptic messages in different languages."As for the final product, Kojima expects the game to give players quite a fright, noting that if players get too spooked, they'll likely just shut the game down. "That's why there's a limit on how scary you can make a game, but in this case we're ignoring that. If you don't want to keep playing through the game, so be it we don't care," he said. "That's the game we're aiming for. We're aiming for a game that will make you shit your pants."The initial connection between the teaser and both Kojima and Del Toro came from a title card in the demo that lists the two creators, which occurs just before the camera shifts to show actor Norman Reedus of The Walking Dead fame. There's still no word on Silent Hills' release date or which platforms it is targeting, but given P.T.'s availability on PS4, Sony's next-gen console is likely one of them.[Image: Konami]
 