
 

Two K-words we're almost always pleased to hear: Korg and Kaoss. Good, then, that the former has decided to make more of the latter -- the mini Kaoss Pad 2 (effects unit), and Kaossilator 2 (synthesizer), to be precise. Both new editions will slip in your pocket, and are dominated by that all-important X-Y pad. The mini Kaoss Pad 2 is all about effects, packing 100 programs, three memory slots, and MP3 playback (with pitch adjust). The traditional flanger, filter, delay, and reverb ear candy are also joined by looper, vinyl break, and ducking compressor.

But what good are effects without anything to, er, affect? Enter Kaossilator 2. It's a palm-sized synthesizer, with 150 onboard sounds and a PCM engine for drums. You can sample via a built-in mic, gate and arpeggiate sounds, and create layered textures with loops. Both can record your performance, save it to SD, or impose share with others via a built-in speaker. It's all peace and quiet, though, until April when the Kaossilator lands for about £168 ($260). The KPad, on the other hand won't hit the market until May, retailing at the same price. Full PRs after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  mini KAOSS PAD 2 Dynamic Effect Processor 		Sleek, self-contained, and ready for stage, studio or the DJ scene.		Introducing the mini KAOSS PAD 2 – with onboard MP3 playback! 		Korg's KAOSS PAD Series products have become the must-have effect units on in every musician's rig – especially on the DJ scene. The original mini KAOSS PAD has earned enormous popularity for packing full-fledged effects into its compact body. Now, welcome the mini KAOSS PAD 2! In addition to inheriting powerful effect programs from the KAOSS PAD KP3 and the KAOSS PAD QUAD, it provides an MP3 player with adjustable pitch, making the mini KAOSS PAD 2 unit ideal for creating DJ-Style performances. Use it as a DJ playback device, or use it to process the entire output of your DJ rig with Korg's famous KAOSS effects. Instrumentalists, guitarists, sound designers and even just music fans will enjoy using the mini KAOSS PAD 2. The Organic Electroluminescent (OEL) display provides superb visibility. Add to that a touch slider for ease of use, microSD card data saving, plus a built-in speaker and mic. All of these features reflect the enhancements incorporated into the sleek and exciting mini KAOSS PAD 2 		Product Highlights:		・Control effects in real time using the intuitive touchpad interface		・100 effect programs, ideal for DJ mixes or sound design		・3 Program Memories provide instant recall of favorite effects		・FX RELEASE applies a natural "tail" to the effect sound		・Powerful Looper, Vinyl Break, and Ducking Comp effects borrowed from the KAOSS PAD QUAD		・Use the "Hold" feature to memorize a position on the touchpad		・Built-in Auto BPM detection		・Internal mic plus external audio inputs		・MP3 player with microSD card slot for data storage/exchange;		・Perform on the mini KAOSS PAD 2 without needing any other equipment!		・Support for pitch change and cue point settings allows serious DJ play.		・Record your performances		・6 preset loops for use as audio demos sample		・Easy-to-read screen uses high-visibility organic EL (OEL) display		・VALUE slider allows smooth parameter control		・Battery operation and built-in speaker for on-the-go enjoyment		Realtime touchpad control 		The intuitive design and amazing flexibility of the touchpad allows mini KAOSS PAD 2 users to easily control multiple effects and parameters by simply stroking, tapping, or rubbing the KAOSS touch pad with their finger. Using this remarkable design, you can easily control effects in complex ways that would be impossible on a conventional effect unit, almost as though you were playing an instrument.		100 dynamic KAOSS effects 		100 diverse, ready-to-play effect programs are packed into the mini KAOSS PAD 2, including many inherited from the KAOSS PAD KP3. These include standard effects such as Flanger, Filter, Delay, and Reverb, as well as three new effects that first appeared on the KAOSS PAD QUAD: the powerful Looper, Vinyl Break, and Ducking Compressor.		FX RELEASE provides natural effects and transitions 		When you take your finger off the touchpad, the FX RELEASE automatically adds a delay effect so that the effect blends smoothly into your song or performance, and avoids abrupt effect dropouts. When using an effect (such as aggressive distortion) that has a completely different character than the unprocessed sound, enabling the FX RELEASE ensures that the effect will blend naturally into the tracks of your song.		Extreme performance control 		Excellent for DJ use and live performance, the mini KAOSS PAD 2 provides three Program Memories for instant recall of your favorite effects. The Hold function freezes the effect parameters based on your finger's current location on the touchpad for hands-free operation. Auto BPM detection syncs the applicable effects to the tempo of the song, so that everything continues to move in sync for a professional performance. These features provide the mini KAOSS PAD 2 with extreme DJ potential.		Built-in Mic 		Need to really whoop it up on the dance floor? The mini KAOSS PAD 2 offers a built-in mic that can be used as a "shout" mic during your DJ performance to further energize the crowd. And yes indeed, you can apply the effects to the mic sound. 		MP3 player 		The mini KAOSS PAD 2 provides an MP3 player that can play back audio data from a microSD card. You can save your favorite songs on a card, and apply real time effects to the song as it plays. Store sound effects or other audio material that you want to use during your DJ session, or save your favorite song data and then enjoy applying various effects to it. Unlike previous KAOSS PAD models, the self-contained mini KAOSS PAD 2 allows you to perform without requiring any additional equipment as input sources.		Both the WAV format as well as the MP3 format is supported; you can use the mini KAOSS PAD 2 for professional performances that require high audio quality. 		* SDXC cards cannot be used.		* Supported file formats:		WAV files (16-bit, 44.1 kHz/48 kHz, stereo)		MP3 files (44.1 kHz@128, 192, 256, 300 kbps, stereo, VBR supported)		Serious DJ toolkit 		The playback speed of the internal MP3 player can be varied using the VALUE slider. The mini KAOSS PAD 2 also allows you to set a cue point specifying where in the song playback will start. In addition, the VALUE slider can be used as a fader to adjust the volume balance between the external audio input and the MP3 player, allowing the mini KAOSS PAD 2 to be used as a serious DJ player or a simple mixer. Add the mini KAOSS PAD 2 as the third player in a DJ set, enjoy exciting DJ play by combining two mini KAOSS PAD 2s, or load your mini KAOSS PAD 2 with sound effects or voice samples and use it as a sample player!		Record your performances 		A microSD card can be used for saving MP3 data, and also to capture your mini KAOSS PAD 2 performance into the master recorder as WAV format data. Once you've found the perfect way to apply an effect, you can use this function to record your idea. This is a convenient way to share mini KAOSS PAD 2 performances on the Internet.		6 preset audio demo Loops 		6 preset audio demo loops are stored in the internal memory. These demo loops provide a handy audio source that can be used to immediately audition the various effect programs, without having to hook up an external audio player, or before any audio data or MP3 files have been stored on to a microSD Card.		Ergonomic design 		The mini KAOSS PAD 2 features a comfortably curved body that makes it both stylish and extremely easy to play. The high-contrast OEL (Organic Electroluminescent) display clearly shows the names of the sounds, features, and parameters, and ensures excellent visibility, even in a dimly lit DJ booth or stage. As with the touchpad, the VALUE slider is also touch-sensitive. By sliding or tapping your finger (as appropriate for each function), parameters and functions may be controlled smoothly. Lightweight and compact, the KAOSS PAD 2 is slim enough to fit easily in your hand or pocket. The energy-efficient design allows it to operate everywhere on just two AA batteries. Equipped with a built-in speaker, the KAOSS PAD 2 is ready to share your exciting sonic creations wherever your music takes you. The headphone output provides privacy for playing and experimenting alone, and can also be used to connect the KAOSS PAD 2 to another audio device. 		Show full PR text  KORG KAOSSILATOR 2 Dynamic Phrase Synthesizer 		It's a totally new KAOSSILATOR!		Introducing the KAOSSILATOR 2; the palm-size phrase synthesizer that can be played by anyone, at any place, and at any time. 		Introduced in 2007, the KAOSSILATOR has won high acclaim as the original gadget instrument and gave rise to the KAOSSILATOR PRO and iKaossilator for iPhone. Now say hello to the impressive KAOSSILATOR 2. Boasting a powered-up sound generator, KAOSSILATOR 2 delivers synth and drum sounds spanning a wide range of genres, plus dramatically expanded loop recording. KAOSSILATOR 2 is packed with capabilities that can be enjoyed alone on or together with other people. Use two loops to create DJ-like mixes. Use the internal mic to record guitar, vocal, or other audio source – just as with a looper effect. The Organic Electroluminescent (OEL) display provides superb visibility. Add to that a touch slider for ease of use, microSD card data saving, plus a built-in speaker and mic. All of these features reflect the enhancements incorporated into the sleek and exciting KAOSSILATOR 2. 		Product Highlights:		・Play the synthesizer simply by using your finger to stroke, tap, or rub the touchpad		・150 built-in sounds cover every style of dance music		・PCM sound engine serves up realistic drums		・Scale Key and Note Range eliminates "wrong" notes		・Built-in Gate Arpeggiator with adjustable gate time and swing settings		・Loop Recording allows the creation of layered phrases with unlimited overdubs		・Dual Loop Recording banks allow DJ-Style mutes and cross-fades		・Record using the built-in mic; or use the mic input for recording of external input		・microSD/SDHC card slot for saving loops and recorded performances		・Operation linked with KORG iKaossilator for iPhone		・Easy-to-read screen uses high-visibility organic EL (OEL) display		・VALUE slider allows smooth parameter control		・Battery operation and built-in speaker for on-the-go enjoyment  		Freely play the synthesizer simply by touching the touchpad  		The unique interface allows melodies and phrases to be played by simply stroking, tapping, or rubbing the touchpad. Horizontal motions control the pitch; vertical motions control aspects of the tone such as filter cutoff, feedback, or modulation depth. When using a drum kit program, multiple sounds can be played simultaneously, and you can even play the touchpad as if it were a drum pad.		The intuitive design and amazing flexibility of the touchpad allows users who are not keyboard players to perform easily, as well as creating performances rich with tonal changes that could not be produced on a keyboard instrument.		150 built-in sounds covering a full range of musical styles 		Korg's acclaimed synthesizer technology has been meticulously packed into this sleek, compact format. The 150 ready-to-play sounds cover a broad range of styles including hip-hop, house, dubstep, new disco, and electro. In addition, the KAOSSILATOR 2 provides a solid set of synth sounds such as synth lead, synth bass, acoustic sounds such as piano or guitar, and even sound effects for DJ use.		Accurate PCM drum sounds 		PCM sound generation provides drum sounds and drum performances that are more realistic than ever. There are 15 Drum Kits in the KAOSSILATOR 2. Each Drum Kit consists of instruments such as kick, snare, and hi-hat. In addition, there are 25 Rhythm Loop patterns that let you create drum phrases simply by moving your finger. The lineup of sounds covers numerous genres, so you'll be sure to find the drum sounds you need.		Musical Scale, Key, and Note Range help create musical performances 		Even if you've never played a musical instrument, the KAOSSILATOR 2's Key and Scale features ensure that the notes being played will match the song being performed. Use the Key setting to specify the musical key or "root." Choose any of 35 scales, ranging from popular scales such as chromatic, major pentatonic, and minor blues, as well as unusual scales such as Spanish, Ryukyu, and Raga. By using both the Key and Scale settings to match the song, you can play perfect solos without a single wrong note. In addition, the Note Range allows you to specify the range of playable pitches. You can set this to a narrow range to ensure that melodies will be played accurately as you intend, or to an extremely wide range to allow unexpectedly dynamic and unconventional phrases to emerge.		Gate Arpeggiator expands your performance power 		The fifty built-in gate arpeggiator patterns can automatically generate phrases and beats by simply moving a finger across the touchpad. As a new capability of the KAOSSILATOR 2, you can now edit the arpeggiator's gate time and swing settings so that musical phrases are created exactly as you intended. 		Loop Recording allows intuitive overdubs 		The KAOSSILATOR 2's Loop Recording feature can overdub touchpad performance as many times as you like. By adding layer upon layer to a simple phrase, it's easy for anyone to create amazingly intricate tracks. Thanks to the Scale/Key settings, the results will always sound musically appropriate, each and every time!		Dual Loop Recording banks provide DJ-Style performances 		The two Loop Recording banks can be used alone, or used together for truly dramatic results. By combining the two loop recording banks, you can create new performances that were not possible on earlier KAOSSILATOR units. Different sounds and phrases can be recorded onto each of the two loops. These loops can then be cross-faded or muted, or the loop length can be changed in realtime to create dynamic live performances. Unwanted loops can be erased and rerecorded while playback continues, so you'll be able to create DJ-like performances on the KAOSSILATOR 2 without the sound ever stopping!		Record and loop nearly any source! 		The KAOSSILATOR 2 offers both an internal mic as well as an auxiliary mic input. This combination allows the loop –recording of nearly any audio source. Plus, you can easily mix different audio sources, so that as a loop phrase created using the KAOSSILATOR 2's internal sounds plays in the background, you can overdub your own rap, vocal, or other external sound, or enjoy a loop recording session with a musical collaborator – such as a guitarist. 		microSD card slot for data storage 		A microSD card can be used to save loop recorder data. In addition, performances played on the KAOSSILATOR 2 be recorded using the master recorder, and stored on a card. Whenever an important musical idea begins to take shape, it can easily be saved, and can even be used later as part of a studio production. This is also a convenient way to share KAOSSILATOR 2 performances on the Internet. The KAOSSILATOR 2 also acts as an audio player, and can play back performances created using the master recorder. Listen to your best performances for comparison, or share them with your friends. 		* SDXC cards cannot be used.		* Supported file formats: WAV files (16-bit, 44.1 kHz/48 kHz, stereo)		Operation linked with KORG iKaossilator for iPhone 		You can use the kaossilator 2 together with Korg's iKaossilator for the iPhone/iPad. This allows audio data to be transferred between the kaossilator 2 and iKaossilator, and lets you use the two devices in a BPM-synchronized performance. 		Although iKaossilator and the kaossilator 2 share the KAOSSILATOR name, their sound generator and recording style are completely different. While the iKaossilator uses a PCM sound source, the kaossilator 2 uses a modeling synth. And while the iKaossilator provides a five part sequencer that lets you freely insert or remove notes as you perform, the kaossilator 2 allows unlimited overdubbing as well as recording of external audio input. By combining these two with audio data that utilizes the advantages of each, you can vastly expand your performance possibilities. 		* Linked operation will be enabled by an update for KORG iKaossilator for iPhone.		The update is expected to be released in March 2012.		Ergonomic design 		The KAOSSILATOR 2 features a comfortably curved body that makes it both stylish and extremely easy to play. The high-contrast OEL (Organic Electroluminescent) display clearly shows the names of the sounds, features, and parameters, and ensures excellent visibility, even in a dimly lit DJ booth or stage. As with the touchpad, the VALUE slider is also touch-sensitive. By sliding or tapping your finger (as appropriate for each function), parameters and functions may be controlled smoothly. Lightweight and compact, the KAOSSILATOR 2 is slim enough to fit easily in your hand or pocket. The energy-efficient design allows it to operate everywhere on just two AA batteries. Equipped with a built-in speaker, the KAOSSILATOR 2 is ready to share your exciting sonic creations wherever your music takes you. The headphone output provides privacy for playing and experimenting alone, and can also be used to connect the KAOSSILATOR 2 to another audio device.
 