
  We're baffled that we missed this gem of news during the bustle of CES, but it turns out that Koss has recently announced a new version of its iconic Porta Pro headphones. The Porta Pro KTC (Koss Touch Control), as it's dubbed, is essentially the same piece of retro kit that's been delighting ears and keeping wallets chubby for nearly three decades. The KTC bit in its name refers to the inclusion of an iDevice-certified inline remote / mic, aimed at keeping on-the-go users in sync with their playlists and phone calls. If you prefer earbuds, but hate tangled cords, then the company's interlocking intra-aurals might be to your liking. This lineup features in-ears which snap into each other for easier storage. You'll have a choice between the IL-100 and 200, the latter of which distinguishes itself with the mere addition of an inline remote for iPhones. While there's no word on pricing just yet for any of the aforementioned units, Koss aims to begin shipping the new audio-wares once spring is in full bloom. For now, you'll find the press releases and a render of the 'buds after the break.
      

 

       INTRODUCING THE ALL NEW KOSS PORTA PRO KTC  Las Vegas, NV USA – January 10, 2012 – Koss Corporation, the Milwaukee, Wisconsin based high fidelity stereophone manufacturer and inventor of the world's first SP/3 Stereophone in 1958, has revolutionized the world renowned Porta Pro.  Porta Pro KTC, the most sophisticated version of the Porta Pro, features a new technological upgrade which brings listeners closer to the music they love. Koss Touch Control (KTC) remote and microphone technology, made for iPhone®, iPad® and iPod®, gives listeners more control in fewer steps. Now listeners are able to stay connected, shuffle songs and adjust volume with the flick of a switch.  "Today's listeners are consolidating their music into just one device, more often than not to a mobile phone. We wanted to provide listeners the additional flexibility of staying connected while staying inside the music they love," Koss Corporation's President and CEO Michael J. Koss said from the company's Listening Lounge at the 2012 Consumer Electronics Show. "The Porta Pro continues to be rated the best on-ear portable headphone here in the US and globally. Adding KTC was an evolutionary step to make one of our best stereophones even better."  Porta Pro KTC features the standard setting sound performance the original Porta Pro established more than 25 years ago. The elements, designed for those with a refined love of music, are constructed from extremely rigid Mylar that minimizes mechanical distortion while ensuring exceedingly accurate sound reproduction.  Comfort is at its peak with the Porta Pro KTC. The lightweight design, paired with Koss Comfort Zone temporal pads, reduces pressure on the ears to create the absolute best fit. "Comfort is always a must with any of our stereophones," Koss commented. "Porta Pro KTC really exemplifies this. They are so light and comfortable, listeners will wear them for hours."  The Porta Pro KTC collapses for easy portability and is equipped with a sleek carrying case for additional protection.  "We know the Porta Pro KTC is the premium choice for music lovers craving the epic sound and excitement of a live performance, at any time, any place – day or night," said Michael Koss. "Adding the simple and easy to use multi-tasking capabilities of the KTC makes the Porta Pro KTC the most exciting Porta Pro to date. We are committed to offering a tremendous value to listeners while maintaining the incredible Sound of Koss they have come to know and expect."  The Porta Pro KTC will ship in early Spring 2012. To find out more and to become a True Believer, visit www.koss.com.    INTRODUCING THE KOSS INTERLOCKING IN-EAR STEREOPHONES  Las Vegas, NV USA – January 11, 2012 – Koss Corporation, the Milwaukee, Wisconsin based high fidelity stereophone manufacturer and inventor of the world's first SP/3 Stereophone in 1958, has revolutionized the design of the in-ear stereophone with the release of the interlocking in-ear stereophones.  "We were especially interested in developing an in-ear headphone that was unlike anything else available," commented Michael J. Koss, President and CEO of Koss Corporation. "Our goal throughout the design phase was to create an original product – one that offered an innovative design and that also produced the authentic Sound of Koss."  Koss creates perfect harmony between form and function. The interlocking in-ear headphones utilize an ingenious patented design for easy on-the-go storage without sacrificing richly delivered audio through performance tuned 9mm drives.  The frame of the new interlocking in-ear headphones is constructed from highly polished aluminum and surrounded by flexible, soft touch material. This innovative material doubles as a soundproofing coat, intended to deaden any unwanted distraction, allowing the listener's focus to remain on the crystal clear highs and crisp lows.   "We have seen so many earbuds and in-ear headphones that miss the mark in design, fit and sound," Koss said. "Our design team is committed to creating original stereophones that enable our listeners to become as close as possible to the music they love."  The interlocking in-ear headphones are available in two configurations and will also be offered in various color varieties throughout the year. The IL100 is the standard in-ear headphone which features the world renowned Sound of Koss and the patented interlocking design.  The IL200 KTC, includes Koss Touch Control (KTC) remote and microphone technology made for iPhone®, iPad® and iPod®. KTC allows listeners to stay connected, shuffle songs and adjust volume with an easy flick of the switch.  "It's really interesting to look at the stereophone market today and compare it to the industry my father helped create in the 1950's – a lot has changed, but what has remained constant is the authentic and original design, fit and Sound of Koss," Michael Koss said, "We are really excited to offer an evolutionary product based on our revolutionary introduction in 1958."   The IL100 and IL200 KTC interlocking in-ear stereophones will ship in early Spring 2012. To find out more and to become a True Believer, visit www.koss.com.
 