
 

Don't look now, but Mirasol has just arisen from the dead. Today, Korea's Kyobo Book Centre and Qualcomm jointly unveiled the world's first Mirasol-coated e-reader, just a few months after CEO Paul Jacobs heralded the demise of his company's color e-paper format. The device, known as the Kyobo eReader, sports a 5.7-inch, 1024 x 768 color display with 223ppi and touchscreen capabilities, runs Android 2.3 and is powered by a 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S2 CPU. Kyobo says you'll be able to use the WiFi-enabled slate for "weeks" on a single charge, as long as you do so at decreased brightness, and for a total of 30 minutes per day. The eReader is available now for around $310, but only in South Korea. There's no indication that it'll be making its way to other markets anytime soon, but in the meantime, sate yourself with a portion of PR, after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Kyobo, Korea's Largest Bookseller, and Qualcomm Introduce Kyobo-Branded Color E-reader Featuring Qualcomm's mirasol Display Technology 		World's First Color mirasol Display Enables Outdoor Visibility, Low Power - 		SEOUL, South Korea and SAN DIEGO, Nov. 21, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Qualcomm MEMS Technologies Inc. (QMT) a wholly owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM), and Kyobo Book Centre, Korea's largest seller of books, today announced the retail availability of the world's first e-reader to include mirasol® display technology. Kyobo and Qualcomm have collaborated to deliver an unmatched reading experience by providing a large and diverse content portfolio spanning books, magazines and video on a touch display that features vibrant color in bright sunlight. The device will allow for weeks of reading under typical usage.* 		"Kyobo is a recognized content leader focused on bringing unique and innovative experiences to its customers," said Clarence Chui, senior vice president and general manager of Qualcomm MEMS Technologies, Inc. "Kyobo's customers will be the first to enjoy the exceptional color e-reader experience and long battery life that only mirasol displays can provide." 		The Kyobo e-Reader includes access to Kyobo's 90,000 ebook library, notably including early rights from Korean publisher Minumsa for the much-anticipated Steve Jobs' exclusive biography, a full one-month before any other Korean digital outlet. Additionally, the device features: video lecture content exclusive to EBS, a leading Korea-based provider of educational material; content sharing through Korean social networking services; English language text-to-speech capabilities; and searchable content through the popular Diotek dictionary application. 		"The Kyobo e-Reader brings the user a true book reading experience," said Mr. Seong-Ryong Kim, chief executive officer of Kyobo Book Centre. "With our diverse content and leading edge technology from Qualcomm, Kyobo Book Centre will provide a premium reading experience to our customers." 		The Kyobo e-Reader features a 5.7" XGA format (1024 x 768 pixels) mirasol display (screen resolution of 223 ppi) and Qualcomm's 1.0 GHz Snapdragon™ S2 class processor. Kyobo's custom application interface sits atop an Android 2.3 base. 		Kyobo's e-Reader is now available for purchase at the full retail price of KRW349,000 (US$310). Kyobo Platinum Book Club members can purchase the e-reader at a discounted price of KRW 299,000 (US$265). Kyobo's e-readers are available at bookstore locations across South Korea, including Kyobo's flagship Gwanghwamun-jum location in Seoul. 		* Battery life varies depending on usage and ambient light. Battery life based upon 30 minutes of daily reading time with Wi-Fi off and front light set to 25 percent utilization.
 