
 LaCie's no stranger to kicking out portable HDDs that are a-okay with getting kicked around, and the Rugged USB 3.0 Thunderbolt Series is no exception. As the extended title implies, this one is equipped to transfer files via USB 3.0 or Thunderbolt, and it'll play nice with Mac and Windows platforms. The LaCie Rugged SSD offers up transfer rates as high as 380MB/sec -- a feat we came darn close to hitting ourselves in testing -- and the HDD variants claim up to 110MB/sec. The bantam drive is entirely bus-powered, and it's engineered to shake off drops of up to four feet. Interesting? Both models should be shipping shortly, with the 1TB HDD edition going for $249.99 and the 120GB SSDer for $199.99.



  Show full PR text   LaCie Announces Fastest Mobile Product Ever: Rugged USB 3.0 Thunderbolt Series
   PARIS, FRANCE – Today LaCie announced its award-winning Rugged hard drive is the first storage solution to feature both Thunderbolt™ and USB 3.0 technology on a high-performance SSD. These cutting-edge technologies make the new LaCie Rugged the fastest bus-powered* solution on the market.

   "Since LaCie introduced the Rugged, it has been a favorite of creative professionals," said Philippe Spruch, CEO, LaCie. "It's trusted and always with them through the content creation process. Today, LaCie gives the ultimate solution to those professionals. The most impressive speeds I've seen to revolutionize their productivity."

   NO COMPROMISE SPEED  The LaCie Rugged brings two industry leading technologies, USB 3.0 and Thunderbolt together so users can experience the fastest transfer speeds available on PC or Mac. The LaCie Rugged SSD delivers record-breaking speeds up to 380MB/s – making it the fastest bus-powered product ever. Respectively, the hard disk version performs up to 110MB/s, a 35 percent improvement over FireWire 800. Whether you are a photographer, videographer, or power user, the LaCie Rugged can move 10GB in a few seconds** and ensure zero lag-time when accessing files, viewing photos, or editing videos.

   UNIVERSAL CONNECTIVITY  The LaCie Rugged ensures projects don't get derailed due to external drive or computer incompatibility. With both USB 3.0 and Thunderbolt interfaces, the LaCie Rugged is guaranteed to work on any PC or Mac. And because USB 3.0 is backwards compatible, the user can connect it to any standard computer on the planet. The LaCie Rugged is also fully bus-powered through the included USB 3.0 and Thunderbolt cables, so professionals will be up and running right out of the box. Its portability and ensured connectivity make the LaCie Rugged an ideal sidekick to a new Mac or Ultrabook™.

   FULL DATA PROTECTION  Traveling from desktop to mountaintop, the LaCie Rugged can protect data against any threat. It is MIL-compliant for superior data protection from accidental drops up to 1.2 meters (4 feet). And thanks to SSD technology, it can resist intense vibration and shock. The LaCie Rugged is tough enough to be shipped for reliable delivery to colleagues, clients or partners and includes AES 256-bit encryption software to protect files from prying eyes or theft.

   VIDEO  Watch the LaCie Rugged in action as a busy photographer makes a mad dash to meet an important deadline. See how speed, universal connectivity and ruggedness help save the day - http://bit.ly/KxuyhD.

   AVAILABILITY  The Rugged USB 3.0 Thunderbolt Series, design by Neil Poulton, comes in a 1TB HDD model and 120GB SSD model. It is available through Apple® Retail, as well as the LaCie Online Store and LaCie Resellers starting at $249.99. For more product information, visit www.lacie.com.

 
