
  
 Sure, your iPhone already keeps track of your work schedules, lunch meetings and Lego creations -- isn't it about time you let it tell you when to go to bed, too? It can, if you're so inclined -- at least when paired with a Larklife fitness band. This wearable pedometer peripheral tracks your activity, sleep patterns and diet with a companion app, nagging you with suggestions on how to eat, sleep and exercise. It'll even gently buzz you awake with a vibrating alarm, should you try to shirk its suggestions. The $149 Bluetooth band promises to sync with your device in real time, removing the burden of syncing and updating exercise data. It's also an iOS exclusive, and is fittingly available at Apple retail locations. Determined to do your holiday shopping from your armchair? No worries -- Lark's own website is offering free shipping through December 25th. Read on to scope out the company's official press release.



  Show full PR text   larklife™ lands in U.S. Apple Retail Stores and online in North America Exclusive
   Give the gift of a personal trainer, nutritionist & sleep coach for only $149.99

   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – December 6, 2012 – lark (www.lark.com), creator of lark™ original, lark pro and larklife™, today announced that it is on shelves in all U.S. Apple Retail Stores. For less than a single personal trainer session, you can get a fitness trainer, a nutritionist, a productivity and sleep coach in your pocket this holiday season.

   How it's different

   larklife comes with a sweat-proof, ergonomic daytime wristband and a pajama-inspired nighttime wristband, specially designed for comfort during sleep. The wristbands share an interchangeable smart core that collects your activity, sleep and diet information and syncs to a free iOS app. It is the only product that automatically syncs in real-time, wirelessly through Bluetooth® Smart (4.0) technology without you ever needing to remember to plug it in to download your data.

   larklife goes beyond tracking your information; it is focused on helping you build better habits through small changes that help you feel your best each day. Using continuous machine learning, it analyzes your activity, identifies your unique patterns, and delivers real-time coaching through the iOS app. Designed with world-renowned scientists and coaches, like Dr. Shiv, Stanford neuroscientist and Fortune 500 CEO coach, lark's app provides personalized simple suggestions from the wristband and app.

   "While we'd all love to be healthier, happier and more productive, achieving these things can require a series of hundreds of decisions every day. We're already so busy handling day-to-day life, that we don't have time for the added chore of self-improvement," said Julia Hu, lark CEO and founder. "Although they're intended to help ease the burden, most health monitors still feel like another chore because first, you're downloading and syncing data at the end of the day and second, feeling overwhelmed by you data, wondering what you should do about it. larklife focuses on making it simple. Just wear it, and let your coach help you tackle the little things."

   larklife is connected to the cloud and will always be getting smarter. Both its hardware and software can be updated; the app can be updated the same way all iOS apps are and the app can also push special software, called "firmware," to the smart core automatically. Its ability to track movement will get smarter over time and its suggestions will be updated as lark experts keep its database up to date with the latest science and expertise.

   Scenarios

   Sleep: larklife has a strong background in sleep tracking technology, but since larklife knows more information about you, it will provide informed advice on getting the most out of your downtime. It might tell you:

   Today, 10:30 p.m. is your optimal bedtime (based on your activity, diet, and sleep levels)

   Activity: larklife tracks your movement and knows whether you're walking or running. During the day, many of us get stuck in stationary positions and don't realize it. No need to set reminders; larklife will automatically sense that and tell you:

   You haven't been active for a while. Walk around a bit to engage your muscles and get your blood flowing again.

   Diet: larklife lets you easily log a meal with just one tap of the wristband (instead of the complex diet tracking programs that most people stop using very quickly) and when you have time, you can go back to the app and add in a bit more detail. Because it's also tracking your activity, after you exercise, it might say:

   You just completed a workout. Be sure to rehydrate and try eating a little fruit to restore lost glucose/glycogen stores.

   Productivity: larklife learns your daily patterns of waking and sleeping, monitors changes in your activity levels, and uses all that information to help you keep on track throughout the day. In the morning, it might remind you to:

   Start the day with an important project or an activity that you enjoy instead of immediately checking email or social networks. It can improve your focus and mood for the rest of the day.

   Energy: You've been getting a good night's rest all week, but yesterday you went to bed late and this morning you had to rise early. larklife will notice and might suggest:

   You didn't sleep much last night. Eat some extra protein to help you get the long-lasting energy you need to make it through the day.

 
