
 Verizon is lining up to use IMS for its 4G voice solution, but an alternative spec coming out of the VoLGA Forum -- which counts Deutsche Telekom, HTC, Samsung, and LG among its members -- is shaping up with a revised version this week that includes some intriguing new features. Some of the line items are bare-bones basics that'll be required of any successful next-gen spec, notably the addition of SIM-less emergency calling like you can do on a GSM handset today, but what caught our eye is a mention of "the use of VoLGA over HSPA." Presumably, this means that carriers that already have 3G services widely deployed today will be able to run voice using the same protocol for both their HSPA and LTE networks, simplifying infrastructure in the long term. It's still pretty crazy to us that voice over LTE isn't a unified, cut-and-dried standard that was squared away years ago -- but if anything, it just serves as a stark reminder for how important data has become in our mobile devices. Follow the break for the press release.
      

 

Show full PR textVoLGA Forum Adds New Capabilities to Voice Over LTE SpecificationsJuly 12, 2010The VoLGA Forum announced today it has released an updated set of specifications for delivering mobile voice and SMS services over LTE. This latest release adds key new features and capabilities to facilitate rapid deployment, including:• the use of VoLGA over HSPA;• support for SIM-less emergency calling;• optimized voice-bearer routing; and• host APIs for LTE handsets."We are pleased to see that the VoLGA Forum has continued to add valuable new capabilitiesto the specifications," said Karl-Heinz Nenner, chairman of the VoLGA Forum. "Voicecontinues to be a critical service for next-generation mobile networks. The additional features make VoLGA a very complete solution."The VoLGA Forum has 19 member companies, including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco, Deutsche Telekom, Ditech Networks, GENBAND, HTC, Huawei, Kineto Wireless, LG Electronics, Mavenir, Motorola, Samsung, Sonus, SPA, Tecore Networks, Ulticom, Vitendo, WiChorusand ZTE.The VoLGA documents are available for download at VoLGA-Forum.com. For more information about VoLGA, please visit www.volga-forum.com.
 