
   Intel has already announced a partnership with Orange to bring the first Intel-based smartphone to Europe, and it's now also announced a deal with Lava International to bring a similar phone to India. Like the Orange phone, this new XOLO X900 is based on Intel's reference design, and packs a 1.6GHz Atom Z2460 processor, a high-res 4-inch display (presumably the same 600 x 1024), front and rear-facing cameras, support for HSPA+ networks, built-in NFC, and HDMI connectivity -- plus what appears to be stock Android 2.3 for an OS, with no mention of a possible ICS upgrade just yet. Still no firm word on launch details for the phone either, but Intel says it's expected to be available early in the second quarter of this year.
 

  Show full PR text  Lava First to Deliver New Smartphone Based on Intel Technology to Fast-Growing India Market  Lava Launches XOLO Brand, Bringing Best of Intel Computing to Mobile Users in India  MOBILE WORLD CONGRESS, Barcelona, Spainand New Delhi, India, Feb. 27, 2012 - Intel Corporation and Lava International Ltd., one of India's fastest-growing mobile handset companies, announced that the companies are collaborating to launch the XOLO X900 -- India's first smartphone with Intel Inside®. The XOLO X900 from Lava is based on Intel's smartphone reference design featuring the Intel® Atom™ processor Z2460 with Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology and supporting HSPA+ with the Intel XMM 6260 Platform.  Lava is a successful and growing mobile phone brand in the Indian market. In order to bring a high- performance and differentiated smartphones to the market, Lava has collaborated with Intel to introduce its first Intel-based smartphone under the brand XOLO. The XOLO X900 Android smartphone is expected to hit retail shelves in India early in the second quarter this year and will support all major 2G and 3G networks.  "We are proud to partner with Intel on XOLO to bring a superior smartphone computing experience to customers in India," said Vishal Sehgal, co-founder and director, Lava International. "Over the last two and a half years, we have built our business in the feature phone segment where Lava has been the brand of choice for nearly 10 million Indian customers. With XOLO, we intend to now serve the discerning and fast-paced smartphone customer, which is where this collaboration with Intel is critical to us."  "India is one of the fastest-growing smartphone markets with the world's second-largest mobile subscriber base," said Mike Bell, Intel vice president and general manager of the Mobile and Communications Group. "We are pleased to be working with Lava to bring the best of Intel computing to the India market. Lava's XOLO X900 device is a great result of our collaboration. It also demonstrates how innovative and compelling products can be brought to market through strong partnerships by using Intel's smartphone reference design as a foundation."  The XOLO X900 is powered by a super-fast 1.6 Ghz processor and comes equipped with a 4.03-inch high-resolution LCD touch screen for crisp text and vibrant images. The smartphone delivers a fast application, Web browsing and multitasking experience, and also features two cameras for advanced imaging and video capabilities, including burst mode that allows individuals to capture 10 pictures in under a second with 8-megapixel quality. The smartphone also supports HDMI®, NFC and HD video playback.  As service providers roll out 3G services and connect more cities in India, the smartphone market will grow as more people access the Internet from their phones. The smartphone opportunity in India for 2012 stands at 19.1 million units which is a 78 percent growth year-on-year over 2011, according to Deepak Kumar, research director for Telecommunications and Mobile Phones, IDC India.  About Intel Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the world's computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at newsroom.intel.com and blogs.intel.com.  About Lava Lava international is one of the fastest growing brands in Indian mobile market today. The organization started operations only 30 months back and is rapidly growing its market share. "Get the power in your hand"- with this motto as the guiding principle, Lava embarked on its journey to empower people with innovative products. Today the brand has a wide range of handsets in its portfolio. The company has already expanded its operations in all the states of India and has a network of 1,000 distributors and presence in ~50,000 retail counters.  Intel, Atom and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. Lava, Xolo and Lava Xolo are trademarks of Lava International Ltd.  * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 