
Ever since we first saw Leap Motion's hyper-accurate gesture control system in person, we've been waiting for the time when we can walk into a store and buy one. Sure, devs have been able to buy Leap controllers for some time and it won't be long before Leap's tech is baked into retail laptops, but now the general public's going to get the chance to grab the standalone controller, too. That's right, folks, this spring, the Leap Motion Controller will be available nationwide at any Best Buy store, with pre-orders starting in February. So, it won't be long before you can stroll on down to the nearest big blue box and pick one up -- assuming there's still one within strolling (or driving) distance.



Show full PR textLeap Motion to Launch Leap Motion Controller Exclusively at Best BuyBest Buy to Feature Leap Motion Controller in All U.S. Stores and Online
SAN FRANCISCO – January 16, 2013 –Leap Motion, the motion-control software and hardware company changing the future of human/computer interaction, today announced it will launch its Leap Motion Controller exclusively in all U.S. Best Buy stores and online at BestBuy.com this spring. The Leap Motion controller will be available for pre-order online at BestBuy.com beginning in February, and Leap Motion will also continue taking pre-orders directly at LeapMotion.com.

Leap Motion's technology can track movements up to 1/100th millimeter-smaller than the tip of a pin-with no visible lag time. The Leap Motion controller has a 150-degree field of view, and tracks individual hands and all 10 fingers at up to 290 frames per second. The Leap Motion controller measures approximately 3 inches long, 1 inch wide and ½ inch thick.

"Consumers expect Best Buy to have the latest connected technology and the Leap Motion Controller is a great example," said Jason Bonfig, merchant vice president for computing at Best Buy. "We are excited to bring this innovative product exclusively to our customers. ""Finding a major retail partner for our North American launch was a critical component to our strategy, and Best Buy was the obvious choice," said Leap Motion President and COO Andy Miller. "Best Buy's market leadership and extensive store distribution network, combined with the product floor space and dedicated marketing promotional plans, represents an incredible opportunity to bring the Leap Motion controller to a massive consumer audience."

In May 2012, Leap Motion revealed its technology and controller to huge global excitement. More than 40,000 developers worldwide have requested to work with Leap Motion, and the company has sent out 12,000 free units to developers to foster the creation of new applications. The controller will ship with an application store for consumers to discover new uses of the technology, and for developers to sell their applications. Leap Motion will continue taking direct orders world wide for the controller at www.leapmotion.com, and will ship pre-orders later this quarter.

About Leap MotionBased in San Francisco, Leap Motion is a motion-control software and hardware company developing the world's most powerful and sensitive 3-D motion-control and motion-sensing technology. Leap Motion's first product, the Leap Motion controller, will be available in early 2013 and will ship with an application store. Leap Motion is 200 times more sensitive than existing motion-control technology, making it the first product to let users navigate and interact with computer applications using natural hand and finger movements. Leap Motion was founded in 2010 by Michael Buckwald and David Holz.


