
 
No word yet if Lego Chris Pratt will feature those Guardians of the Galaxy abs, but he will feature in the upcoming Lego Jurassic World. Also announced this morning is Lego Marvel's Avengers. Although that's quite exciting, there's still a part of us pining for regular ol' Lego Avengers, starring Emma Peel and John Steed.

"We look forward to expanding the successful [Lego] series with this very exciting line-up of new LEGO experiences for players of all ages to enjoy on console, handheld and mobile gaming devices," said Executive Vice President and General Manager of Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment David Haddad, betting his little blue bonnet.

The slate of upcoming Lego games includes the aforementioned titles, along with Lego Ninjago: Shadow of Ronin, The LEGO Movie Video Game for mobile (more Chris Pratt abs!), which is actually out now, and Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham (more Bat abs!) for mobile. There are plenty of apps to refine your abs on mobile also.
      

 

Show full PR textWARNER BROS. INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT, TT GAMES, AND THE LEGO GROUP ANNOUNCE AN ACTION-PACKED SLATE OF LEGO® VIDEOGAMES FOR 2015New Brick Smashing Adventures Are Coming to Console, Handheld and Mobile Platforms LEGO Jurassic World and LEGO Marvel's Avengers Lead the Line-upFor more information and assets click here »Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, TT Games, and The LEGO Group, today announced their 2015 slate of LEGO ® videogames including LEGO Jurassic World™, LEGO Marvel's Avengers, plus new handheld and mobile titles."The LEGO videogame franchise remains a cornerstone of our business, consistently delivering fun, engaging gameplay and remarkable humour both kids and adults love," said David Haddad, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. "We look forward to expanding the successful series with this very exciting line-up of new LEGO experiences for players of all ages to enjoy on console, handheld and mobile gaming devices.""This year will be the biggest yet for LEGO videogames with these incredible titles and several firsts for the series," said Tom Stone, Managing Director, TT Games. "TT Games are crafting humorous LEGO adventures, based on new stories and characters across some of the most well-known and iconic worlds."The upcoming LEGO videogame titles are:LEGO Jurassic World™Following the epic storylines of Jurassic Park, The Lost World: Jurassic Park and Jurassic Park III, as well as the highly anticipated Jurassic World, LEGO Jurassic World is the first videogame where players will be able to relive and experience all four Jurassic films. The game will be available in June for the Xbox One all-in-one games and entertainment system; the Xbox 360 games and entertainment system for Microsoft; PlayStation®4 and PlayStation®3 computer entertainment systems; PlayStation®Vita handheld entertainment system; the Wii U™ system from Nintendo; Nintendo 3DS™ hand-held system; and Windows PC.LEGO Marvel's AvengersAvengers Assemble! Experience the first console videogame featuring characters and storylines from the blockbuster film The Avengers and the much anticipated sequel Avengers: Age of Ultron and more . Play as the most powerful super heroes in their quest to save humanity. The game will be available in Fall 2015 for the Xbox One all-in-one games and entertainment system; the Xbox 360 games and entertainment system for Microsoft; PlayStation®4 and PlayStation®3 computer entertainment systems; PlayStation®Vita handheld entertainment system; the Wii U™ system from Nintendo; Nintendo 3DS™ hand-held system; and Windows PC.LEGO Ninjago™: Shadow of Ronin™The popular LEGO Ninjago franchise gets its most expansive adventure to date in LEGO Ninjago: Shadow of Ronin. The latest LEGO handheld game delivers an untold story of the LEGO Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu TV show. Using their Spinjitzu abilities, players can unleash their Ninja's elemental power to smash their way through enemies and solve puzzles. Developed by TT Fusion, a subsidiary of TT Games, the game comes to the Nintendo 3DS™ handheld system and the PlayStation ® Vita handheld entertainment system on 27th March, 2015.The LEGO Movie Video GameThe LEGO Movie Video Game for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch follows Emmet, an average, rule-following citizen, who is mistakenly identified as the key to saving the world. In the game, players guide Emmet as he is drafted into a fellowship of strangers on an epic quest to stop the tyrannical Lord Business from gluing the LEGO universe into eternal stasis. With a delightful mix of over 90 characters from the feature film, including Batman, Superman and the Green Ninja , The LEGO Movie Video Game leads gamers on a journey through fantastical worlds in 45 exciting levels. Developed by TT Games, the mobile game is now available on the App Store.LEGO Batman™ 3: Beyond GothamIn LEGO Batman 3: Beyond Gotham for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, the Caped Crusader joins forces with the Super Heroes of the DC Comics universe and blasts off to outer space to stop the evil Brainiac from destroying Earth. Players will unlock and play as more than 150 characters, including members of the Justice League and the Legion of Doom and explore iconic locations such as the Hall of Justice, the Batcave and the Justice League Watchtower. Developed by TT Games, the mobile game will be available this spring on the App Store.Follow LEGO Jurassic World at:https://www.facebook.com/LEGOJurassichttp://twitter.com/LEGOJurassichttp://instagram.com/LEGOJurassic#LEGOJurassicGameFollow LEGO Marvel's Avengers at:https://www.facebook.com/LEGOMarvelVideoGamehttp://twitter.com/legomarvelgamehttp://instagram.com/legomarvelgame#LEGOMarvelAvengers# # #
 