
 
Is that Leica M9 Titanium announced at Photokina last month not limited enough for you at just 500 units available? Then take a gander at the Leica M9 Neiman Marcus Edition pictured above, which is available exclusively through Neiman Marcus's Christmas Book, and is limited to a mere fifty units. The camera itself is, of course, the same M9 you already know and covet, although it's wrapped in a brown ostrich leather trim this time around, and it comes paired with a chrome-finished Summicron-M 35mm f2.0 ASPH lens for this occasion. Sure it costs $17,500, but that includes Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 3 and a personal delivery from a Leica photography expert, who will also provide a private training and orientation session. It's really quite a bargain when you think about it.
 
 

Show full PR textThe Leica M9 Neiman Marcus EditionLimited Edition Camera Only Available Through the Neiman Marcus Christmas BookAllendale, NJ (October 5, 2010) – Leica Camera AG is pleased to be included in the 84th edition of the Neiman Marcus Christmas Book as one of the coveted Neiman Marcus "Fantasy Gifts." The Leica M9 Neiman Marcus Edition is available in a limited edition of only 50 pieces exclusively through the Neiman Marcus Christmas Book.With exquisite craftsmanship and premium digital technology, this gift is simply one of the finest cameras in the world. Limited to a worldwide edition of just 50, the Leica M9 Neiman Marcus Edition is the only camera that combines the classic Leica M shooting experience with the latest digital technology and luxurious design. The rugged Leica M body and matching Summicron-M 35mm f2.0 ASPH lens are flawlessly finished in silver chrome, and the body is covered in luxurious brown ostrich leather trim with a matching ostrich leather strap. It is the world's smallest digital rangefinder camera with a full-frame 18 mega-pixel sensor and interchangeable lenses to capture ultra-high resolution images. The high-resolution 2.5-inch LCD screen is protected by sapphire cover glass.The Leica M9 is a true connoisseur's camera for photographers that value ultra-precise manual focusing and relish taking personal control of the creative process. Each body is numbered and your gift can be personalized with an engraved signature.A full suite of Adobe® Photoshop® Lightroom® 3 digital editing software, a personal letter from Leica CEO Alfred Schopf and certificate of authenticity, are included. The Leica M9 Neiman Marcus Edition can be personally delivered by a Leica photography expert, which would also include a private training and orientation session to introduce new photographers to the full Leica experience (only available in the continental US).For further information on Leica, please visit www.leica-camera.com or www.facebook.com/leicacamera.About Leica Camera:Leica represents a union of craftsmanship, technology and experience. It is at once an extension of art, knowledge and philosophy, providing a state-of-the-art optical experience in a precision, hand-made photographic instrument. Leica Camera has a simple mission: to provide users with an incomparable experience, an instrument that defines an unsurpassed heritage and sets a standard of excellence for the industry to meet. www.leica-camera.comAbout Neiman Marcus Group:The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. operations include the Specialty Retail Stores segment and the Direct Marketing segment. The Specialty Retail Stores segment consists primarily of Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman stores. The Direct Marketing segment conducts both online and print catalog operations under the Neiman Marcus, Horchow and Bergdorf Goodman brand names. Information about the Company can be accessed at www.neimanmarcusgroup.com.
 