
       
Lenovo's giving some of its ThinkPad flagships a nice little spec overhaul, specifically the X200 series of ultraportables and the spectrum-leaping W700 hardlyportable dual screen laptop. The new X201 and X201s start things off with a new option for touchpads on the 12.1-inch form factor, options for Core i7 and Core i5 processors, and sub-three pound weigh-ins on at least the 4-cell configuration. The X201s is slightly lighter and slightly thinner, and is limited to Core i7 procs, though neither version gets much under an inch thick. The X201t (pictured) is the well-leaked tablet version, adding on a bit more thickness in exchange for a highly configurable screen, which includes options for outdoor viewing, capacitive touch and of course pen input. All three laptops rely on Intel HD graphics and are rather extensively configurable, with batteries ranging up into the 12 hour ballpark with the 9 cell battery option on the X201 and X201s. Unfortunately you'll still have to look to Lenovo's consumer line for HDMI output -- none of these machines are packing anything other than VGA.

Meanwhile, on the other end of town, the 17-inch, Wacom-equipped W701 and W701ds (dual screen) are making the leap to Core i7 as well, though the Core i7-920 Extreme and Core i7-820 QM Quad Core on display here is fairly desktop class. There's also NVIDIA Quadro FX 3800M / 2800M graphics, and an option for a dual SSD drive configuration to really break the bank.

All of these laptops should be available in the beginning of March, with starting prices of $1,199 (X201), $1,599 (X201s), $1,549 (X201t), $2,199 (W701), and $3,799 (W701ds). Can't wait to find out more? We've got a review of the X201t all warm and ready for you. There's PR after the break. 






Show full PR textPerformance Matters: Lenovo Designs Fastest Ultraportable Laptop(1 )and Smart Business Tablet PCSix New Think-branded Products Push Envelope on ValueRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C., Feb 23, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- --The News--The fastest ultraportable laptop(1) - the ThinkPad X201--Most powerful ThinkPads with W701 and W701ds mobile workstations--ThinkPad X201 tablet - the smart tablet choice for business--Industry's first server with remote management using Intel(R) AMT,(2) and Lenovo's first value server with models starting under $500Lenovo /quotes/comstock/22h!e:992 (HK:992 5.49, +0.09, +1.67%) (ADR: LNVGY) today is breaking barriers for thin and light performance with the new ThinkPad X201 laptop, the industry's fastest ultraportable laptop(1). Lenovo is also introducing five new Think-branded products to give customers a new level of value with more choice, unparalleled performance and greater productivity. These include the ThinkPad X201s laptop, the thinnest and lightest ThinkPad, the X201 tablet, the smart tablet for business users, the powerful W701 and W701ds mobile workstations, the most powerful ThinkPads, and the ThinkServer TS200v tower, Lenovo's first server with unprecedented management capabilities and solid reliability at a desktop price."We're continuing to push the envelope on innovation to give our mobile customers faster, more powerful and smarter ThinkPad laptops," said Dilip Bhatia, executive director, ThinkPad Product Marketing, Lenovo. "These PCs incorporate the latest computing technologies and extra Lenovo features to make the PC experience more simple and productive."Ultralight Performance MattersAt "over three gigahertz and under three pounds(1)," the ThinkPad X201 packs heavyweight performance into an extremely thin and light design. Unlike competitors that compromise on size, weight, performance or cooling, Lenovo has optimized the X201 for a no compromise experience between mobility and performance. The X201 outclocks competitors in its class by 25 percent(1) and includes Intel's(R) normal volt Core(TM) Processors while competitors offer low volt processors. The X201 also gets extremely long battery life with up to 11 hours.(3 )The new ThinkPad X201s, the X Series' featherweight fighter, weighs in at under 2.5 pounds(4) and now achieves over 12 hours(5 )of battery life.Mobile Workstation Power and ProductivityFor those who need extreme performance and productivity, the new W Series mobile workstations are Lenovo's most powerful ThinkPads yet. They pair Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 Series processors (with Intel(R) Turbo Boost and Intel(R) Hyperthreading technologies) with NVIDIA Quadro FX 2800 and 3800 Series GPUs. These technologies help deliver the responsiveness of a workstation in a 17 inch mobile design. The W701 and W701ds are the only 17 inch mobile workstations to feature an optional built-in color calibrator to help professionals in computer aided design and digital content creation ensure that accurate colors are displayed. They are also the only mobile workstations to feature an optional built-in WACOM digitizer and pen to manipulate fine details. The W701 and W701ds are certified to run the most popular applications from independent software vendors including Dassault Systemes CATIA(R), SolidWorks, PTC Pro/E and more."Lenovo's ThinkPad mobile workstations have helped us increase our productivity by 20 percent," said Alan Duerden, lead systems engineer, McLaren Racing. "We rely on these mobile workstations for determining computational fluid dynamics and rendering high performance graphics to improve the car's design as well as to support our drivers on the track."A Smart Tablet for BusinessLenovo optimized the ThinkPad X201 tablet for a smart business computing experience. Unlike slate devices designed for consumers, the X201 tablet features:More than Fingers:-- 12.1 inch capacitive multitouch screen with a touch-based hardware interface and Lenovo SimpleTap navigation application-- Dual functionality as a pen or finger-based slate and a full-size laptop with keyboardFunctionality and Productivity-- Microsoft(R) Windows(TM) 7 business operating system optimized for touch-- Multitasking capability with Flash and Java support-- The latest Intel(R) Core(TM) processors-- Wide-viewing angle screen for viewing up to 185 degrees-- Optional superbright outdoor screen-- Security tools including fingerprint reader, anti-theft technologies, self encrypting hard drives and moreMultimedia and Expandability-- Noise cancelling microphones, stereo speakers, 2.0 MP camera, 54mm ExpressCard slot for smart card reader, TV Tuner, firewire and other devices-- WiMAX, 3G, WiFi, Bluetooth and Gigabit Ethernet connectivity-- Optional DVD drive connection through ultrabase or USB port for watching multimedia-- Expandability with up to 8GB memory, multiple USB ports, 54mm Express Card Slot and moreClick here to watch a video on the story behind the first ThinkPad, which was a tablet.Big Server Features, Small Server Price for the Small Office and MSPThe ThinkServer TS200v goes big on features and performance at an unbelievably affordable price. Designed as an entry single processor server with models starting under $500 for small businesses, corporate branch offices and managed service providers (MSP), the ThinkServer TS200v provides a reliable, easy to set up and manage, energy-efficient solution. As the first server with Intel(R) Active Management Technology, it makes remote management easy for customers who may not have a dedicated IT staff. It also includes enterprise-class reliability features like memory error correction and built-in RAID protection."As a managed service provider, our ability to remotely monitor and maintain server hardware is key to our success, said Greg Donovan, president and CEO, Alpheon. "Lenovo's new ThinkServer TS200v sets the stage for dramatic cost savings, improved response time and new services.""Lenovo and Intel are delivering intelligent performance with new levels of manageability in servers for small business," said Dylan Larson, director, Technology Initiatives, Intel. "Intel(R) Active Management Technology on the Lenovo ThinkServer TS200v will enable consistent management for small business servers with existing AMT-enabled management consoles."Unexpected Features. Unprecedented ValueLenovo PCs are engineered with the unexpected, extra features that make a difference. These features are practical and simple solutions that make everyday computing more convenient. For example, now the fingerprint reader on the ThinkPad X Series laptops works as conveniently as using an electronic pass for a car going through a toll booth. Users can power on their laptop just by swiping their finger on the fingerprint reader without having to press the power button.Lenovo is also taking the hassle out of replacing laptop batteries by offering a new three year warranty on the X Series laptops for more up and running time. Strong design and performance go hand in hand, and Think PCs are designed to last. Roll cages on the W701 and W701ds, carbon glass fiber on the X201s and the Active Protection System in all the laptops helps them meet up to eight military specifications for burning and blistery temperatures, shock, high altitude and dust.Because costs add up, it's also important to remember the hidden savings energy efficient technology can provide. The new products meet Energy Star 5.0 and Energy Star Server 1.0. Many of the laptop models are EPEAT Gold-rated for their environmental attributes, including high amounts of post consumer recycled plastics.Pricing and Availability(6)The ThinkPad X201, X201s, X201 tablet, W701, W701ds and ThinkServer TS200v are available beginning in March through business partners and www.lenovo.com. Pricing for models of the X201, X201s, X201 tablet, W701 and W701ds start at approximately $1,199, $1,599, $1,549, $2,199 and $3,799.For the latest Lenovo news, subscribe to Lenovo RSS feeds or follow Lenovo on Twitter and Facebook.About LenovoLenovo /quotes/comstock/22h!e:992 (HK:992 5.49, +0.09, +1.67%) (ADR: LNVGY) is dedicated to building exceptionally engineered personal computers. Lenovo's business model is built on innovation, operational efficiency and customer satisfaction as well as a focus on investment in emerging markets. Formed by Lenovo Group's acquisition of the former IBM Personal Computing Division, the company develops, manufactures and markets reliable, high-quality, secure and easy-to-use technology products and services worldwide. Lenovo has major research centers in Yamato, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Raleigh, North Carolina. For more information see www.lenovo.com.(1)X201 models featuring Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-620M at 2.66GHz with Turbo Boost reaches higher CPU frequency compared to 12-inch enterprise ultraportables with up to 2.13 GHz. Compared with enterprise-class 12-inch from Dell and HP. With 4-cell battery.(2)Available with Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 processors(3) With a 9-cell battery.(4)With a 4-cell battery.(5)With a 9-cell battery.(6)Prices do not include tax or shipping and are subject to change without notice and is tied to specific terms and conditions. Reseller prices may vary. Price does not include all advertised features. All offers subject to availability. Lenovo reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice.SOURCE: Lenovo
 