
Lenovo's getting into the cloud storage game, but rather than dive straight in, the company's taking a tiptoe approach. Starting today, curious consumers can sign up to preview the company's cloud service, dubbed Reach, which offers exactly what you'd expect: remote access to 5GB worth of stored files and applications from any device, be it Android, iOS or Windows. The actual beta won't be open until June 22nd, at which point only a select few will be able to test drive the new service and provide Lenovo with feedback. Depending on how smoothly things go, an official launch for all comers should be announced sometime "later this year." But with so many other free cloud storage options already available and so many consumers already tethered to those clouds, Reach could find itself overextended.



Show full PR textLenovo to Preview Lenovo Reach Consumer Cloud Service
Customers can sign-up for the exclusive preview starting todayRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C. – June 4, 2013: Lenovo(HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced that it will offer an exclusive preview of its consumer cloud service called Lenovo Reach, which allows users to securely access their cloud-based files and applications from any device via a single login ID. Starting on June 22 in North America, a limited number of users can preview Lenovo Reach and provide feedback and recommendations to Lenovo as a beta-tester. Customers interested in a preview of Lenovo Reach can sign up beginning today. General customer availability is expected later this year.The Lenovo Reach personal cloud offering, through a single sign-on ID, allows users to access social networks, favorite applications, as well as help them find files, photos and other digital media across your online storage accounts, no matter where users put them. The intuitive interface is consistent across all user devices and is designed for touch as well as keyboard and mouse interaction. Lenovo Reach supports Microsoft® Windows®, Google Android™ and iOS operating systems across Lenovo and non-Lenovo branded PCs, tablets, and smartphones."Lenovo Reach makes it incredibly simple and convenient for people to interact with their growing libraries of digital content and apps from virtually anywhere, at any time, on any device through a consistent interface" says Mark Cohen, vice president of software and cloud solutions at Lenovo. "Lenovo Reach plays a fundamental role in our plan to expand cloud services to consumers around the world."For more information about Lenovo Reach and to sign-up for the exclusive preview team please visit http://www.lenovo.com/lenovoreach.


