
 
Lenovo's insatiable ambition for growth has taken another boost today with the news that China's best-known computer maker is partnering up with NEC for a "strategic alliance" in Japan, the world's third biggest PC market. Under the terms of the deal, a new NEC Lenovo Japan Group will be formed, wherein Lenovo will benefit from 51 percent of the shares and NEC will own 49 percent plus the choice of first CEO, for which it's selected its own Hideyo Takasu. Lenovo will also pad NEC's pockets with $175 million of change and contractual formalities are expected to be completed by the end of June this year. Sadly, specifics on how this will benefit consumers are light on the ground -- both companies will continue to sell products under their respective brands and there's only general talk of collaboration, economies of scale, harnessing operational synergies, and leveraging each company's strengths. At least you'll know your computer's been made in the spirit of fraternal cooperation. Full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textLENOVO AND NEC FORM JOINT VENTURE TO CREATE JAPAN's LARGEST PC GROUP - Companies also exploring strategic cooperation in other areas -Beijing and Tokyo, January 27, 2011: Lenovo and NEC Corporation (NEC) today announced a strategic relationship that creates a joint venture between the two companies and forms the largest PC group in Japan. The agreement aligns NEC, Japan's number one PC company, with Lenovo, the fastest growing top-five PC maker in the world*. The new joint venture gives both Lenovo and NEC a unique opportunity to grow their commercial and consumer PC businesses in Japan, the third largest PC market in the world, through a stronger market position, enhanced product portfolios, and expanded distribution channels.The new joint venture combines NEC's market reputation, product development capabilities, well-regarded customer service and knowledge of customer needs in Japan with Lenovo's heritage of technology expertise, strong global business momentum, and global supply chain reach. It will give customers in Japan more innovative products that are faster to market, more attuned to their needs, and competitively priced.Lenovo and NEC will form NEC Lenovo Japan Group, and under this group, Lenovo and NEC will establish a new organization known as Lenovo NEC Holdings B.V., registered in the Netherlands. Under the terms of the agreement, Lenovo will hold a 51 percent stake in the new joint venture, while NEC will hold a 49 percent stake. Hideyo Takasu, currently President, NEC Personal Products, Ltd., will become President and CEO of the new joint venture, while Roderick Lappin, currently Representative Director and President, Lenovo (Japan) Ltd., will become Executive Chairman. Lenovo (Japan) Ltd. and NEC Personal Computers, Ltd., a new company formed as a result of separating NEC's PC business from NEC Personal Products, Ltd. will both become 100 percent subsidiary companies of the new joint venture. As the result of this transaction and upon closing, NEC will receive from Lenovo US$175million through an issue of Lenovo shares.NEC has long been the leading PC company in Japan with widespread sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Lenovo, the fourth-largest PC maker in the world* currently has a major research center, known as the Yamato Lab, in Yokohama, Japan, and a main sales office in Tokyo. Combining the operations of both companies in Japan will commence immediately with cooperation and collaboration in manufacturing, development and sales. The transaction is expected to close by June 30, 2011."The agreement with NEC is a perfect fit for our strategy. It reinforces our commitment to our core PC business while, at the same time, providing important new opportunities for growth in Japan," said Yang Yuanqing, CEO, Lenovo. "We have a long history of innovation in Japan and a firm commitment to the Japanese market. Now, we are combining our global strength and momentum with NEC's market leadership. It is the perfect partnership for us and for our customers.""Lenovo is the right partner at the right time for NEC, and we believe that we are creating a strategic relationship today that will benefit NEC and our customers for many years to come, said Nobuhiro Endo, President, NEC. "We believe this alliance will further reinforce and expand our PC business in Japan, upholding the NEC brand name and will continue to provide Japanese PC users with products supported by high quality and service. Taking this strategic relationship as a first step, NEC will accelerate expansion of our IT business worldwide."During and after the transition from independent operations to the joint venture, both companies expect that all their existing PC operations, including customer service, product delivery and warranty fulfillment, will continue as usual. The current product brand names of both NEC and Lenovo will continue, and the joint venture will leverage each company's strength, such as NEC's product development capabilities and Lenovo's procurement resources to develop and to provide the most suitable products to all users in Japan. For consumer products, NEC and Lenovo will continue to maintain their own brands, and provide sales and support through existing routes. For commercial PCs, NEC will continue to market products and support customers through NEC's current channels.As part of this strategic alignment, Lenovo and NEC have also agreed to discuss further cooperation in other areas, including selling PCs and providing global support to Japanese companies operating outside of Japan (JOCs); developing, producing, and selling devices such as tablets; and selling additional IT platform products such as servers.About LenovoLenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is dedicated to building exceptionally engineered PCs. Lenovo's business model is built on innovation, operational efficiency, and customer satisfaction as well as a focus on investment in emerging markets. Formed by Lenovo Group's acquisition of the former IBM Personal Computing Division, the Company develops manufactures and markets reliable, high-quality, secure, and easy-to-use technology products and services worldwide. Lenovo has major research centers in Yamato, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Raleigh, North Carolina. For more information, see www.lenovo.com.In its fiscal year closing March 31, 2010, Lenovo recorded US$16.6 billion in revenue and last year reached a record high global market share at 10.4%*. Lenovo, the fastest growing top five consumer PC maker in the world, and the third largest commercial laptop manufacturer globally, has grown faster than the PC industry six quarters in a row worldwide, and Lenovo Japan has been the fastest growing PC company five quarters in a row in Japan.About NEC CorporationNEC Corporation (TSE:6701) is a leader in the integration of IT and network technologies that benefit businesses and people around the world. By providing a combination of products and solutions that cross utilize the company's experience and global resources, NEC's advanced technologies meet the complex and ever-changing needs of its customers. NEC brings more than 100 years of expertise in technological innovation to empower people, businesses and society. For more information, visit NEC at http://www.nec.com. 
 