
 
 In addition to announcing some traditional all-in-ones today, Lenovo is introducing the IdeaCentre Horizon 27 Table PC. It too is a full-fledged, battery-powered desktop, but it can collapse into table-top mode, becoming a 27-inch, 1080p slate optimized for multi-user touch input.

 The design is quite similar to the Sony VAIO Tap 20 we saw at IFA, with a built-in stand that supports the screen in an upright position. The 17-pound design feels sturdy, but it's also very thin, at 27mm (1.1 inches) thick. The blood and guts are what you'd expect of a high-end AIO: processors range from Core i3 to i7, graphics max out at NVIDIA GeForce GT 620M and storage tops off at 1TB.

 Users can switch between the Aura moon-dial UI, which is a hub or games, photos and other media, and the standard Windows 8 interface. As you can imagine, the Horizon is ideal for multi-player games, and EA Games has pre-loaded several titles, including Monopoly, that are primed especially for this machine. Incidentally, Lenovo also bundles the Table PC with joysticks and an e-dice. There will also be an optional stand, which supports use in flat table mode as well as desktop mode -- with an included keyboard, to boot. Lenovo says pricing will start at "approximately $1,699," with a release date slated for early summer. Check out our hands-on video past the break for a closer look. 



 
 
  Show full PR text   Lenovo Pioneers "Interpersonal Computing" with World's First Table PC For the Home  Multi-user, multi-touch, multi-mode device makes computing collaborative 
  Connects families with library of learning and entertainment apps by top game-makers
  LAS VEGAS – January 6, 2013: Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced the IdeaCentre Horizon Table PC, the world's first "interpersonal PC," a multi-user, multi-touch, multi-mode device for the home that allows users to turn their personal computing experience into a shared computing experience. 
  As a Table PC, Horizon can lie flat on any surface, lets two or more people use the screen at the same time, supports interactive physical gaming accessories and is designed for touch screen game-play among several players. Horizon takes advantage of Windows 8 touch functionality to bring customized games from Electronic Arts and Ubisoft to life in a way players have never before seen. Horizon can also easily transform into a 27-inch high performance desktop to handle whatever productivity tasks users need to do. 
  At the Consumer Electronics Show this week, Lenovo also today demonstrated a large 39-inch wide-screen Table PC, code-named "Gamma." While still an early concept, Gamma illustrates the outstanding multi-user entertainment experiences such a large screen can provide and is indicative of Lenovo's future direction in Table PC computing.
  "We've seen technology shifts across the four screens, from the desktop to the laptop, tablet and smartphone, and yet, while people have more computing power than ever before, there is still room for technologies like Horizon that bring people together. Horizon makes personal computing interpersonal computing with shared, collaborative experiences among several people," said Peter Hortensius, president, Product Group, Lenovo. "Now many people can enjoy different photos, music and video on the same screen, and they can play games with our special accessories that blend physical and digital interaction. Horizon reflects our commitment to delivering the innovative products that define the PC Plus era."
   A Table PC for the Home 
  Horizon unleashes the power of Windows 8 and brings multi-player games to life with its gigantic screen, dynamic graphics and 10-finger touch. It comes with a special set of accessories including an e-dice and four joysticks and strikers to offer a completely new digital gaming experience that combines the physical gaming accessory with the on-screen action. For the player, the action is part physical, part digital - an activity that Lenovo refers to as "phygital."
  The Horizon Table PC includes Lenovo App Shop, a dedicated apps store powered by Intel AppUp giving users access to 5,000+ multi-user entertainment apps. Horizon also comes with exclusive access or package of preloaded gaming and educational apps from industry leading vendors including Electronic Arts, FableVision, Open Labs, Ubisoft, FilmOn TV and hundreds of top games and apps from BlueStacks so players of all ages can:
   Become a real estate tycoon in a modern take on the classic MONOPOLY   Maneuver the Lenovo joystick uniquely customized for FishingJoy and Raiding Company  Draft Release  Confidential: Embargoed Until January 6th, 3pm PST / 6pm EST Discover, download and run chart-topping phone and tablet apps on Horizon powered by BlueStacks   Challenge friends and family to race their way to the finish line in Draw Race 2 HD   Vie to grab the spotlight and be crowned King of the Opera   Create music and songs like Grammy-award winning artists do with Stagelight   Access more than 120 streaming TV channels on FilmOn TV   Enjoy painting and coloring in the Paint, Color Corner app or play contest games in Lenovo Best Guess
  With Horizon's smart hinge system, users can easily lay it flat and in so doing, the Lenovo Aura multi-user, multi-touch interface (UI) will automatically activate. This simple UI lets families play, learn or enjoy multimedia content together on one screen. Aura also serves as a great way to launch pre-loaded gaming and educational apps or download new ones from the online app store. In addition, Horizon performs beautifully as a family's main all-in-one desktop for work and play. Its impressive large backlit screen can be seen from virtually any angle and its NVIDIA GeForce graphics make content look gorgeous with smooth and seamless video playback, eye-popping graphics and heart-pounding Dolby Home Theatre® v4 audio. To support such a command performance, Horizon is powered by Intel® Core™ i7  processors. 
  As an option, Horizon offers a moveable and space-saving Horizon Multimode Table. This adjustable table allows users to change the angle and height position of the Table PC, from lying flat to a straight-up, 'wall-like mount' at 90 degrees. Lenovo offers an array of protection services for the Horizon Table PC, including InHome Warranty upgrades for service at the owner's home or business and up to three years of warranty coverage. Additionally, Lenovo Premium Support's expert technicians are available when needed with convenient over the phone or remote session support from the comfort of home. 
  Pricing and Availability   The IdeaCentre Horizon Table PC will be available beginning in early summer through Lenovo business partners and www.lenovo.com. Prices start at approximately $1,699.
 
