
 
Well, isn't this a pleasant surprise! Lenovo's expanding its ThinkPad Edge family once again, and this time it's adding the 11.6-inch Edge 11. Just like the X100e, the "notbook" -- our word for an ultraportable that looks like a netbook but isn't as slow and weak -- is available with AMD's single and dual-core Nile platform, and also Intel Core i3 / i5 processor options. Certainly you're thinking it sounds and looks like a nice laptop, but Lenovo's not planning to release it stateside anytime soon. Apparently, the X100e will continue to be the 11-inch option in the US, while the Edge 11 will be spreading its wings overseas -- the AMD version will start at $450 and the Intel version at around $550. Of course, we could keep telling you about what the machine is available with and without, or we could just point you in the direction of our piping hot review. Although, before you jump over to a new tab you may also want to check out the full press release after the break or peruse some of the glossy press shots below. How's that for options? 






Show full PR textLenovo Combines Best of Netbooks and Ultraportables in New ThinkPad Edge 11-inch LaptopNetbook-like size & affordability with SMB-level performance & featuresRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, NC – September 28, 2010: Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced the new ThinkPad Edge 11-inch laptop, the smallest and lightest member of the ThinkPad Edge family. Created for small-to-medium businesses (SMB), the laptop packs ultraportable-like performance and features into a small form factor PC at an affordable price."Just like large businesses, small business customers want laptops that perform without skimping on features that at the same time, fit their unique style and come at the right price," said Dilip Bhatia, vice president, ThinkPad Marketing, Lenovo. "That's why we've created the ThinkPad Edge 11-inch laptop with the latest processors for multitasking, 3G and WiMax for anywhere connectivity and included extra business-focused features like a standard low light sensitive webcamera."Light on Weight & Size, But No Lightweight on Style & FeaturesAt roughly the size of a paperback book, the 1.1 inch thin laptop weighs less than three pounds1, making it light for carrying in a bag or briefcase. The 11.6 inch screen gives users plenty of room to work on office documents, presentations and even connect to a TV to watch a high definition movie through the HDMI video port. The full-size, contemporary style, spill-proof ThinkPad keyboard makes typing throughout the work day comfortable without less worrying about damage from accidental spills. And the standard low light sensitive webcamera makes video conferences for business or staying in touch with family and friends simple. The ThinkPad Edge 11-inch laptop comes in three color choices: Midnight Black Glossy, Midnight Black Smooth and Heatwave Red Glossy.A Powerful PerformerThe ThinkPad Edge 11-inch laptop, which offers the choice of Intel Core/Pentium or AMD Vision Pro Athlon ultra low voltage processors, provides a responsive computing experience. Users can work nearly all day with up to seven hours of battery life2 and connect to wireless hot spots through WiFi or roam using optional 3G or 4G/WiMAX3 with Qualcomm Gobi technology. Equipped with choices of business- class versions of the Windows 7 operating system, only Lenovo PCs come with Enhanced Experience for Windows 7, which enables them to start up significantly faster than identical configuration, non-optimized PCs. Extras like three USBs and a 4-in-1 media card reader make connecting and charging to peripherals like external hard drives and digital cameras easy. Users can further expand with the optional Lenovo USB Power Hub, which combines a 65 watt AC adapter with four USBs to simultaneously charge the laptop and connect and charge other devices.Pricing and Availability4The ThinkPad Edge 11-inch laptop is available immediately through business partners. Models start at $449. The Lenovo USB Power Hub is also available now for $74.99.1With a 3 cell battery. 2With a 6 cell battery. 3WWAN/WiMAX Service Providers: Requires separate agreement with select third party service provider, and is subject to credit approval and applicable service agreement/terms, rate plan and coverage maps of the provider. Service is available in select metropolitan markets, not available in all areas. Service provider, not Lenovo, is solely responsible for service. Lenovo customers may be contacted after purchase to activate service. Special credit and tenure restrictions and additional charges may apply to international roaming. A network connection, third-party software, additional hardware, and/or subscription to a third-party service may be required for certain solutions/applications. Additional restrictions apply. 4Prices do not include tax or shipping and are subject to change without notice and is tied to specific terms and conditions. Reseller prices may vary. Price does not include all advertised features. All offers subject to availability. Lenovo reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice.
 