
 
Were you getting worried that Lenovo was going to pull another ThinkPad Edge 11 and forget to release that dapper IdeaPad U260 in the US of A? Well, set those worries aside -- we just received word (or you know, a press release) that spills all the US pricing and availability details. That's right, the world's first laptop with a 12.5-inch display will be available starting November 15 (that's this coming Monday) for a starting price of $899. But there's more to the .7-inch / 3-pound U260 than its unique screen size -- it's got a glass touchpad option, a "breathable" chiclet keyboard for cooling, and it's the company's first "single piece design made of magnesium-aluminum alloy materials." We don't have details on what you get for the sub-$900 starting price, but the system is available with Core i3-380UM and Core i5-470UM processors, up to 4GB of RAM, and a 320GB hard drive. We should be getting a closer look at this guy soon, but at least you have the weekend to peruse the pictures and press release below before deciding if you want to hit "Add To Cart" come Monday. 




Show full PR textUncompromising Luxury You Can Touch: Lenovo's U-niquely Designed IdeaPad U260 is the World's First 12.5-Inch Ultraportable LaptopRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, NC – November 15, 2010: Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced the IdeaPad U260, the world‟s first 12.5-inch ultraportable consumer laptop, giving users a 16:9 widescreen dimension in a 12-inch form factor for the first time. This latest addition to the IdeaPad U Series is all about luxury featuring a sleek, minimalistic design that includes a magnesium-aluminum alloy real metal cover, leather-patterned palm rest and glass touchpad.The IdeaPad U260 is high fashion in laptop form. Designed for consumers who enjoy a sophisticated sense of style, the U260 highlights premium details and craftsmanship that can be touched.Inspired by the silhouette of a classic leather-bound journal, the U260 exudes elegance with a "U" shaped outline and a specially engineered one-piece magnesium-aluminum alloy frame, making it stronger yet thinner and lighter. The exterior cover, which boasts a one-piece design without any breaks in the pattern, is made possible by the latest insert- molding injection technology.Its black leather-patterned palm rest is soft to the touch providing comfort and support for the user while giving a luxurious look. The stainless steel frame around the chiclet keyboard is the perfect complement to the leather-textured exterior. A durable, yet silky smooth glass touchpad with matte exterior etching gives just the right resistance for multi-touch functionality such as pinch-to-zoom photo browsing and web surfing. The U260 is available in mocha brown or clementine orange for those seeking a "pop" in their PC wardrobe."The U260 is a design one can truly touch and feel that showcases the extreme attention our team places in every aspect of design, from mechanical to human interaction to color, material and finish," said Yingjia Yao, vice president, Innovation Design Center, Lenovo. "Our philosophy is that Idea product design should be simple, unique and provide value, and the IdeaPad U260 delivers just that through the high- quality selection of materials, advanced ergonomics and a signature design concept."Perfect for those who love to travel or executives who enjoy a classy laptop away from the office, the IdeaPad U260 is the right choice weighing in at less than three pounds and measuring just over a half- inch thin. The U260 is ergonomically designed with sleek curves, proportions and hinge mechanics for maximum comfort as it can be easily opened with one hand. Users will also enjoy standing out in a crowd with their uniquely designed, world‟s first 12.5-inch laptop powered by up to an Intel® CoreTM i5 processor in the US market for impressive performance and long battery life. The U260 can be configured with up to 320GB of hard drive storage providing plenty of room for music, photos and movies. With up to 4GB of DDR3 memory, consumers can enjoy a seamless multimedia experience when browsing multiple web pages and using applications."The IdeaPad U260 is a luxury laptop for someone with discerning tastes that desires high quality and elegance paired with the freedom of immense mobility," said Dion Weisler, Vice President, Business Operations, Lenovo. "This is one of numerous additions to the Idea portfolio, manifesting Lenovo‟s fun and fashionable PC consumer offerings, which are not only sophisticated but brimming with features. The U260 fits in seamlessly with the today‟s „on-the-go‟ lifestyle without sacrificing excellence for style."Additional features on the U260 include an industry leading Breathable Keyboard, an Intel® Advanced Cooling Technology that allows the PC to run cooler and maintain spill resistance. Ambient Light Sensors on the U260 help protect users‟ eyes by automatically adjusting screen brightness based on lighting conditions and Lenovo‟s Active Protection SystemTM acts as an "airbag" for the hard drive to cushion data stored on the laptop in the event of a fall or drop. Those seeking entertainment and multimedia functionality will enjoy the U260‟s Dolby® Advanced AudioTM surround sound speakers, HDMI output for streaming high definition to an HDTV and an integrated web camera for Skype and video calling. The U260 comes with Genuine Windows 7 Home Premium and Lenovo Enhanced Experience for Windows 7, a unique Lenovo certification that delivers speedy boot-up and shutdown times, rich multimedia capabilities and easy system maintenance tools.Pricing and Availability1The Lenovo IdeaPad U260 laptop will be available November 15, 2010 on Lenovo.com and starting at $899.For the latest Lenovo news, subscribe to Lenovo RSS feeds or follow Lenovo on Twitter and Facebook.About LenovoLenovo (HKSE: 0992) (ADR: LNVGY) is dedicated to building exceptionally engineered personal computers. Lenovo‟s business model is built on innovation, operational efficiency and customer satisfaction as well as a focus on investment in emerging markets. Formed by Lenovo Group‟s acquisition of the former IBM Personal Computing Division, the company develops, manufactures and markets reliable, high-quality, secure and easy-to-use technology products and services worldwide. Lenovo has major research centers in Yamato, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Raleigh, North Carolina. For more information see www.lenovo.com.1Prices do not include tax or shipping and are subject to change without notice and is tied to specific terms and conditions. Reseller prices may vary. Price does not include all advertised features. All offers subject to availability. Lenovo reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice.
 