
Remember when we reviewed Acer's (sorta crappy) W3 tablet, and assured you it wouldn't be long before we saw more 8-inch Windows 8.1 tablets? Well, with that latest Windows update due out tomorrow, you'd better believe the smaller Windows tablets are about to start pouring in. Now that we've heard from Dell, Lenovo is also getting in the game: it just debuted the Miix2, its first 8-inch Windows 8.1 tab. Like pretty much every other 8-incher that's about to be announced, it runs on one of Intel's new quad-core Bay Trail processors, rocks a 1,200 x 800 display, and comes with Microsoft Office installed. Even the camera specs are on par with other models: you get a 2-megapixel webcam in the front, and a 5MP shooter around back. If you're feeling fancy, you can also buy a cover case and a capacitive stylus. Expect to see it on shelves later this month, with a starting price of $299 -- though if money is no object, there's also going to be a tricked-out version with a full 128 gigs of storage inside.




Show full PR textLenovo Blends Entertainment with Productivity in New Miix2 8-inch TabletRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, NC – October 17, 2013: Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced the Lenovo Miix2 8-inch tablet, a Windows 8.1 multi-mode device that packs an Intel quad- core processor and IPS wide-angle, high-definition display into a small tablet form factor. Paired with an optional stylus and detachable cover, the Lenovo Miix2 8-inch joins its popular predecessor, the Lenovo Miix.
Measuring only 8.35mm thick and weighing a mere 350mg, the Lenovo Miix2 8-inch tablet delivers a 16:10 widescreen experience that deftly balances visual experience with portability. The 10-point multi- touch WXGA display delivers an 800 x 1280 resolution and its impressive 178-degree viewing angle means no one is left out of the fun. Equipped with two webcams, one in front (2MP) and one in back (5MP) 1, the tablet is designed for effortless video chatting and photo sharing. Pre-loaded with Windows 8.1, the Lenovo Miix2 8-inch brings all the enhancements of Microsoft's latest operating system, including enhanced searching and sharing; improved Web-surfing with the new IE 11, touch optimization and the return of the popular "Start" button.
Underneath the hood, Lenovo Miix2 8-inch packs a powerful punch with an Intel®Bay Trail-T Quad Core processor, based on Intel® AtomTM S architecture and integrated Intel HD Graphics (Gen7) with Clear Video HD technology for smooth video performance. This combination of speed and responsiveness separates the 8-inch tablet from the tablet pack, while making the most of the Windows 8.1 OS. With up to 128GB of eMMC onboard storage (expandable up to 32GB with micro-SD slot) 2 for videos, music and photos, the Miix2 is standout tablet designed for users "on the go."
The Lenovo Miix2 8" also encourages productivity outside the office. The device comes pre-installed with Microsoft Office Home & Student 2013, allowing users to easily view, edit and manage their documents right out of the box. The tablet also offers the option of a stylus and detachable cover. The cover protects the screen when not in use and doubles as a stand for viewing content on the device. The stylus is a perfect companion for drawing, sketching or taking notes and further enhances productivity.
"Many users want the convenience of a smaller screen tablet, but do not want to lose the performance and convenience of a powerful, quad core Windows 8.1 device. With the Lenovo Miix2 8-inch, users can take advantage of a small, light form factor without sacrificing performance," said Bai Peng, vice president and general manager, notebook business unit, Lenovo Business Group. "The Lenovo Miix2 8-inch is a great example of how thoughtful design can deliver the best of both worlds."
The Miix2 8-inch will be available later this month beginning at approximately $299. *

