
 
 Lenovo is expanding its IdeaPad line to include some new S Series ultraportables. Today the company announced the 13.3-inch S300, the 14-inch S400 and the (also 14-inch) S405. These models sport a metallic finish, with color options including crimson red, silver grey and cotton-candy pink. All three models measure 0.86 inches (21.9mm) and weigh 3.97 pounds (1.8kg), and, aside from screen size, the main difference between them is processor type. The S300 and S400 will be available with Core i3 or Core i5 CPUs, while the S405 will ship with an AMD chip (up to a quad-core A8 processor). Storage options include a 500GB, 750GB or 1TB hard drive, and the S400 and S405 are configurable with a 32GB SSD. Lenovo says you can expect up to five hours of battery life from these machines. They'll go on sale in August (aka now) for $499 and up. Though all models will ship with Windows 7, they'll be eligible for an upgrade to Windows 8. Check out our hands-on below.

  



  
  Show full PR text   Lenovo Ushers in New Affordable, Thin and Light S Series Laptops Full-featured laptops feature ultraportable design with mainstream performance and price
   RALEIGH, NC (August 30, 2012) – Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY), the world's second largest PC company, has expanded its ultraportable IdeaPad® product line with the IdeaPad S300, S400, and S405 laptops. These affordable thin and light laptops strike a balance between portability and performance for consumers who want more computing power than a netbook and longer battery life than a traditional laptop, without the premium price of an Ultrabook.

   Measuring just 21.9mm thin (less than one inch) and weighing 1.8kg (less than four lbs), the S Series features a sleek exterior design with a stylish metallic finish powered by either 3rd generation Intel® CoreTM or AMD A-Series processors. The S Series laptops combine comfort, simplicity and responsiveness to give consumers an inexpensive PC with quality construction and solid performance.

   "As a global leader in the PC market, Lenovo's success rests on our ability to deliver consumer-centric innovations in products that deliver a blend of mobility, performance and price," said Bai Peng, vice president and general manager, IdeaPad Business Unit, Lenovo. "Customers don't just want a functional product, though; they also want one that speaks to their sense of style and individuality. The new Lenovo IdeaPad S Series laptops give everyday consumers exactly what they need by matching small size and light weight with the power needed for everything from Web browsing to productivity tasks, all in an affordable package."

  Powerful and intelligent  Equipped with the latest technology, the Lenovo IdeaPad S300 and S400 laptops are available with Intel's 3rd generation CoreTM i3 or i5 processors, while the IdeaPad S405 is packed with up to AMD A8 quad core processors. Up to 500GB hard disk storage capacity (up to 1TB HDD in the S405) offers plenty of space to store music, movies and documents, and an optional 32GB solid state drive on the S400 and S405 can help speed boot time and application responsiveness. In addition, intelligent energy management features not only increase time spent between charges-up to 5 hours-but also protect the long-term durability of the battery.

   All of the new S Series laptops offer Microsoft Windows 7 Home Professional and will be eligible for the Microsoft Windows 8 upgrade program. Designed for Windows 8, the updated S Series' intelligent touchpad gives users a more controlled experience when scrolling and zooming, while the AccuType keyboard with individual rounded keys provides a platform for comfortable and accurate typing.

   Users can also take advantage of innovative ease-of-use features such as Lenovo Quick Start "instant on" functionality to get online in seconds. Even data protection is made easy with Lenovo's OneKey Rescue System, which offers an amazingly simple and quick way to back up and restore data, recover corrupted system files and run a complete virus scan.

  Slim and stylish multimedia companion  Less than an inch at their thickest point and weighing under four pounds, Lenovo's new consumer laptops feature a contemporary design with a tactile metallic finish available in a variety of colors including, crimson red, silver grey and cotton-candy pink. With up to a 14-inch HD widescreen display, HDMI output, stereo speakers and Dolby® Advanced AudioTM v2 certification, the new S Series laptops offer premium features for immersive entertainment and multimedia activities.  Pricing and Availability1  The Lenovo IdeaPad S300, S400, and S405 will be available starting in August through Lenovo sales representatives and business partners in the US starting at $499.

 
