
 
 We're no strangers to Lenovo's new IdeaPads, having seen them at CES, but now the relatively cheap (and chunky) Ultrabooks are available to purchase. The starting price seems to have inflated slightly since January, with the 13.3-inch U310 base model going for $749 and the 14-inch U410 starting at $799. If size and weight are your prime concerns, be advised that even the smaller U310 comes in at 1.7kg (3.74 pounds) and 18mm (0.7 inches) thick. The 14-incher takes the Ultrabook definition to its limit at 1.9kg (4.18 pounds) and 21mm (0.83 inches) thick. Both are available with Ivy Bridge processors up to Core i7, as much as 1TB of storage, plus optional 32GB SSD cache drives and NVIDIA discrete graphics. Look to buy them starting today at retailers in the US and UK as well as direct from Lenovo's website at the source link.



  Show full PR text   Lenovo Unleashes Ultrabooks to Power Next Chapter of Great Ideas
    "Book of Do" Global Marketing Campaign Shows IdeaPad U310 and U410 Engines for Creativity and Productivity   RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C.– JUNE 4, 2012: Marked by the launch of a multi-million dollar global marketing campaign, Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced the worldwide availability of its coveted IdeaPad U310 and U410 Ultrabooks. Powered by the 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processors, Lenovo's new U Series Ultrabook™ devices take the era of thin, lightweight and ultra-responsive mobile computing to a new level of affordability, without compromising quality or style. To showcase the benefits and features unique to its new Ultrabooks, Lenovo's multi-faceted, global "Book of Do" advertising campaign highlights how the combination of innovative thinking and IdeaPad Ultrabooks empower people-the world's tinkerers, creators and builders-to make great things happen.   Lenovo Ultrabook devices combine the best features of traditional laptops-powerful processing performance, large storage capacity and rich audio-with the sleek aesthetics and desirable qualities of tablets, such as fast boot up, instant resume and all day battery life. With a svelte, book-inspired design that appeals to the fashion-forward consumer, the new Ultrabooks are available in a variety of vibrant colors including Sapphire Blue, Aqua Blue, Cherry Blossom Pink, Graphite Grey or Metallic Red1. Lenovo is making this progressive technology attainable for consumers with competitive prices starting under $800 (USD).   "Ultrabooks are an industry game changer that shift not only the way people think about laptop design, but also how much performance technology can be packed into such a thin and light device," said Peter Hortensius, president, Product Group, Lenovo. "Lenovo Ultrabooks free people from having to choose between a device with a productivity-focused user experience and one with a style and design that inspire their creativity. The IdeaPad U Series Ultrabooks embody this convergence and are the perfect tool for consumers to manage every aspect of their digital lives."   The Book of Do Campaign  As one of the largest coordinated marketing campaigns in Lenovo's history, "The Book of Do" aims to give consumers, especially teens and young professionals, a glimpse into the exciting and innovative ways the new Ultrabooks can play a role in their digital lives. Spanning TV with the "Seize the Night" ad, and other print and online advertising in major markets including the U.S., U.K., Germany, Russia, China, India and Japan, the "Book of Do" brings to life the people who do behind the device-the musicians, artists, designers, technologists, fashionistas and engineers.   More so, the campaign is designed to reach youth via intersecting technology with their interests. To creatively introduce U.S. college students to the Ultrabooks, Lenovo will give students the opportunity to dash on campus to win their own "Book of Do" at several colleges this fall. Lenovo is also working with DoSomething.org and Microsoft Bing this summer to inspire youth to act in their communities with The Hunt: 11 Days of Doing, starting July 10. Each day, young people will receive clues on service-related tasks to complete to win Lenovo U310 and U410 Ultrabooks and other prizes.   In Japan, Ayako Hara, Miss Universe Japan 2012, is serving as a brand ambassador to highlight the intersection between fashion and technology. Similarly, in India, youth sensation and Bollywood actor Ranbir Kapoor is touting his Ultrabook to appeal to the cell-phone tapping, social-networking Net Gen audiences.   The Can Do Everything Book of Do – Ultrabooks  As thin as a small paperback book, the 13.3-inch U310 and 14-inch U410 measure only 0.7-inch (18mm) and 0.83-inch (21mm) thick and weigh just 3.74lbs (1.7kg) and 4.18lbs (1.9kg), respectively. Even with a thin and light frame, these Ultrabook devices offer the performance to handle any mobile computing task with 3rd generation Intel® Core™ i3, i5 or i7 processors, up to 1 TB of storage; NVIDIA GeForce® graphics and up to nine hours of battery life on the U410; and 500 GB HDD drive and up to seven hours of battery life on the U310. They also feature Dolby® Home Theatre® v4 for intense sound quality and have Intel® Wireless Display (WiDi) technologyto project videos and other content wirelessly on any big screen.   Available with 32GB solid state drives (SSD) to cache data, Lenovo's latest Ultrabooks put a stop to slow wait times. Thanks to Lenovo's new Enhanced Experience 3 optimization for Windows 7 PCs, the new Ultrabooks achieve ultra-fast boot up and quick resume from sleep that's up to 40 percent faster than non-optimized devices. Lenovo Smart Update further amplifies the user experience by enabling the ultra-brilliant U310 and U410 to automatically update email, IM chats and social media messages even when in sleep mode. Watch the product tour here.  "The IdeaPad U310 and U410 Ultrabooks deliver on the next generation mobile computing experience," said Kirk Skaugen, vice president and general manager of Intel's PC Client Group. "Working with Lenovo, we've delivered stunning visuals and amazing performance with our 3rd generation Intel Core processors in exceptionally thin and light designs that meet the needs of today's most demanding mobile users."  To keep doers up and running, Lenovo Ultrabook devices come with a full array of warranty and protection services, whether it's an onsite warranty upgrade, Accidental Damage Protection for when things don't always go right, or a Sealed Battery Warranty to minimize downtime due to battery replacement.   Pricing and Availability2  The IdeaPad U Series Ultrabook devices will be available for sale beginning today in many countries worldwide as well as on Lenovo's website this week. Later this month, the Ultrabooks will be available via major retailers in countries including the U.S., UK, Germany, Russia, India, China and Japan.   MSRP for models of the IdeaPad U310 starts at $749 (USD) and $799 (USD) for the IdeaPad 2U410 Ultrabook.   For the latest Lenovo news, subscribe to Lenovo RSS feeds or follow Lenovo on Twitter and Facebook.

 
