
 

If CES is the place where companies can demo products they don't intend to sell for another six months, what better place for PC makers to tease their first Windows 8 tablets? Though the OS isn't expected to reach its final stage until later this year, Lenovo is already showing off the IdeaPad Yoga, a convertible tablet with a screen that flips over, like a cover on a spiral-bound book. If you like, you can bend it partway so that the keyboard functions as a stand when you're in the mood to watch a movie.

Based on our conversations with Lenovo reps, it's clear the company sees this as a laptop first, and tablet second. The proof is in the specs, really. It weighs "less than 1.5kg," or 3.3 pounds, making it heavier than some Ultrabooks. Not only is its display IPS, but it boasts 1600 x 900 resolution -- an unheard of pixel count for tablets, let alone most 13-inch laptops. And when this hits, it'll pack "next-generation" (read: Ivy Bridge) Intel Core processors -- albeit, of the ULV variety. Accordingly, it has a laptop price: around $1,000, when it eventually ships, sometime later this year after Windows 8 gets finalized.

Fortunately, the battery life is worthy of a tablet: Lenovo says the 54Wh juicepack can last up to eight hours.

If you only have five minutes, we highly suggest you meet us past the break for some hands-on impressions and not one, but two videos. Seriously, folks, even next to all the Android tablets, chubby Ultrabooks and baby scales that have been announced at CES, this is by far the most memorable thing we've seen. Do it. You know you're curious.





 For what it is, though, we would have expected it to be thicker. It measure s 17mm (0.67) inches tall, which wouldn't be at all impressive for a typical tablet, but seems slim here, all things considered. Interestingly, Lenovo even rejiggered the power port to help minimize the thickness.Whether you call this a laptop or a tablet, the build quality is top-notch in either category. The patented hinge is rated for 25,000 cycles, and the back cover has a soft, tactile finish. The keyboard, too, feels sturdy, in the style of the IdeaPad U300s. The real start of the show, though, is that IPS display, which we can tell offers vibrant colors, crisp detail and wide viewing angles. But even at this early stage, the screen seems responsive. Not just to rote taps and swipes, but 10-fingered input, which at the very least should come in handy for drawing apps. HD videos, so far as we can tell, run fluidly at full-screen too.Of course, the timing of this all depends on how quickly Microsoft can get Windows 8 out the door, so suffice to say, it could be the better part of a year before we or any of you guys get to take one for a spin. Until then, have a gander at our hands-on photos, and watch the demo for yourself. 		Show full PR text   Lenovo Stretches Innovation with New IdeaPad Yoga Flip and Fold Device			IdeaPad YOGA: Fusing the Ultrabook and Tablet for Four-in-One Personal Computing			CES 2012, Las Vegas – January 9, 2012: Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced IdeaPad YOGA, the industry's first multi-mode notebook with a 360 degree flip-and-fold design. Combining the tablet's ease-of-use with the ultrabook's functionality, IdeaPad YOGA gives consumers four-in-one personal computing, with four separate usage modes in one PC. Lenovo also announced today its new IdeaCentre A720, the slimmest 27-inch all-in-one (AIO) PC in the industry. 			IdeaPad YOGA is the union of a stylish, powerful ultrabook and a portable 13.3" multi-touch tablet. YOGA's patented dual-hinge design is engineered to enable content consumption and creation spanning four intuitive usage positions ... notebook, tablet, stand, and tent ...in one computer, while offering higher durability1 and stability than conventional convertible form factors. 			Not to be outdone, the IdeaCentre A720 all-in-one features a pioneering 27-inch screen that allows a more widely adjustable angle from -- -5o to 90o. An innovative screen hinge allows for a more comfortable use in any position and combines with a frameless display that supports 10-point multi-touch capabilities for a greatly enhanced multi-user experience. 			"It is clear to us that consumers want their four screens: mobile devices, tablets, notebooks and smart TVs and they want them to work together seamlessly, anytime, anywhere. Whether a notebook that bends and folds, or an all-in-one that puts the 'wide' into wide-angle, today's announcements reflect our focus on delivering the inspirational innovations that consumers are looking for," said Yang Yuanqing, Chairman and CEO, Lenovo. "The IdeaPad YOGA multi-mode notebook redefines the convergence and convertible user experience by bringing together the best of traditional PCs, with the best of tablets and more."  IdeaPad YOGA Notebook: Four Experience Modes to Create and Consume			Created for the convergence of professional and personal lifestyles, the IdeaPad YOGA multi-mode notebook introduces an intuitive design that optimizes the user experience of both an ultrabook and tablet across four different usage modes – notebook, tablet, stand and tent. Compared with conventional convertible form factors, YOGA's patented 360 degree dual- hinge flip design is more stable and durable,1 and enables an overall thinner and lighter hardware design. YOGA is the industry's thinnest convertible ultrabook measuring 0.67" (16.9mm) thin at 3.1 lbs (1.47kg). Powered by the Intel Core Processor family with a Windows 8 operating system, YOGA supports eight hours of battery life with up to 8GB RAM and 256GB SSD. As a full-size notebook, YOGA's svelte design includes small but meaningful details such as soft touch rubber paint on the exterior for strong grip, a leather cover on the palm rest, and side buttons designed for easier access for all usage modes. 			As a multi-mode notebook, IdeaPad YOGA delivers a comfortable and natural user interaction when using it in any position. To enjoy multi-player touch-based gaming and social media on-the-go, the user simply folds back YOGA's screen for a portable 13.1" HD+ (1600 x 900) tablet with 10-point capacitive touch. For entertainment, reading, and web browsing, users can flip the YOGA's screen panel into a convenient stand or tent mode that saves space and brings the screen closer to the user. YOGA's versatile multi-mode form factor strikes an ideal balance between creating and consuming content, while at the same time, offering consumers an optimal experience of a notebook and tablet in a single device.  IdeaCentre A720 All-in-One: Taking Touch Experience in the Home to the Next Level			As the industry's slimmest 27" all-in-one and sporting a sleek metal exterior, the IdeaCentre A720 measures less than an inch (24.5mm)2 and combines a frameless display supporting 10-point multi-touch. The A720 continues Lenovo's heritage of svelte designs for the AIO by smartly positioning the PC at the base on the unit. Improving AIO design even further, the A720 is engineered to optimize the touch experience in the 'digital' home. The A720's widely adjustable hinge allows the screen to be pulled towards the user at an angle of -5o and folded back to an angle of up to 90o, making touch applications more comfortable over longer periods in any position. 			To optimize the touch experience on the AIO, the A720's 10-point multi-touch display supports multi-user scenarios with greater accuracy. Powered by the Intel Core Processor family and NVIDIA® GeForce® graphics with up to 1TB HDD and 64 GB SSD storage, the A720 delivers an impressive home multimedia experience on a frameless high definition 16:9 wide-screen. With integrated entertainment features, such as room-shaking Dolby Home Theatre V4 audio, Lenovo High-Sense (720p HD) Webcam, and Lenovo IdeaTouch (a suite of touch-optimized applications and games), the A720 is an ultra stylish and fun addition for the modern home entertainment center.  Pricing and Availability			The IdeaPad YOGA multimode notebook will be available in the second half of 2012 with an estimated starting retail price of $1,199. The IdeaCentre A720 all-in-one will be available in the first half of 2012 with an estimated starting retail price of $1,299. 
 