
 
Lenovo has just dropped the dime on its new IdeaPad Y Series notebooks, including the 14-inch Y450, the 15.6-inch Y550 and the 16-inch Y650. All of these guys feature 16:9 aspect ratio widescreen displays, up to 500GB storage, up to 4GB memory, surround sound, optional NVIDIA GFX graphics, a multi-touch touchpad, and facial recognition technology. Additionally, the 16-inch Y650 comes packing JBL speakers and an ambient light sensor that automatically adjusts screen brightness levels. And these bad boys are pretty small -- measuring one inch at their thinnest point they weigh a mere 5.6 pounds. Heading out of the gates in March, MSRPs starts at $1,199 for the IdeaPad Y650 and $829 for the IdeaPad Y550 and Y450. Check out the full press release after the break.

 

"Thin is In" for Consumer PC Design as Lenovo Debuts All-in-One Desktop and 16-inch LaptopMarks One Year Anniversary with New Collection of Trend-Setting Entertainment-Focused PCsRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, NC – January 5, 2009: Lenovo today announced the latest additions to its Idea brand of personal computers for consumers. The new PCs push the envelope in the pursuit of thinner and more stylish designs, and combine these attributes with unique features like facial recognition and high-definition entertainment technologies to give consumers a computing experience like no other. There are four new IdeaPad laptops – the IdeaPad Y650, the thinnest and lightest 16-inch laptop in its class1, the Y550 and Y430 laptops with a similar family design to the Y650, and the thinnest all-in-one desktop PC, the IdeaCentre A600. With the explosive growth of social networking, Lenovo also continues to enhance its IdeaPad S10 netbook with new instant on capability, facial recognition and easy access to Lenovo's social networking community. "With the launch of our global consumer Idea brand a year ago, we've shown the world that PC technology can be powerful and beautiful," said Liu Jun, senior vice president and president, Consumer Business Group, Lenovo. "This year, we will keep pushing the limits of good design, balancing form and function, as you'll see exhibited in our super-thin, 16-inch laptop and all-in-one desktop. This unique blend of design and engineering sets us apart from competitors and gives consumers a new kind of entertainment and computing experience."IdeaPad Y650, Y550, Y450 LaptopsLenovo's latest IdeaPad Y Series laptops deliver powerful Hi-Definition entertainment in new sizes that are smaller, thinner and lighter than the previous generation to give more choices to consumers. The three Y Series laptops – the Y650, Y550, and Y450 – share the same modern soft black design featuring an interlocked hexagon pattern on the top cover along with a discrete copper accent around the perimeter of the laptop. Lenovo delivers its first 16-inch widescreen laptop, the IdeaPad Y650, to the distinction of being the thinnest and lightest laptop in its class1. In fact, the laptop weighs even lighter than many 15-inch laptops, providing users with an additional inch of screen space without compromising on mobility. Making use of special materials like carbon fiber, as used in the aerospace and automotive industries, Lenovo has engineered the laptop down to a slender one-inch at its thinnest point with a weight of just 5.6 pounds.The expanded Y Series add three new 16:9 screen sizes: the 16-inch Y650, the 15.6-inch Y550, and the 14-inch Y450 laptops. The new Y Series laptops are configurable with up to 500GB of hard drive storage space and up to 4GB of DDR3 memory. Designed for HD and MultimediaTo provide an exceptional Hi-Definition entertainment and multimedia experience, the Y Series laptops are equipped with 16:9 format glossy widescreen panels, optional latest generation NVIDIA GFX graphics for gaming and smooth HD video playback and Dolby® Home Theater™ surround sound. The IdeaPad Y650 laptop also features JBL speakers for a rich, resonate sound.The Y Series includes the new Lenovo OneKey™ Theater software to enhance the audio and visual experience. By pressing a button, OneKey Theater gives users an easy way to adjust the PC's display and sound effect settings. Users can switch from normal mode to movie mode on the fly to optimize the picture when watching movies or playing games. The Y Series also includes Lenovo Desktop Navigator so users can toggle between shortcuts, files and other frequently used programs just by placing their finger along the touch-sensitive slide bar. For extra convenience, users can simply use the multi-touch touchpad below the keyboard and use their fingertips to enlarge or reduce image size. Additionally, an ambient light sensor on the IdeaPad Y650 laptop automatically adjusts screen brightness based on surrounding light conditions, helping to reduce eye strain. Lenovo has added new levels of performance to its Y Series by equipping them with the latest Intel processors as well as DDR3 memory to help applications respond more quickly under multi-tasking conditions. Now users can burn DVDs in less time, compress and open large documents more easily and enjoy smoother, more realistic gaming. Y Series laptops have several wireless connectivity options including WiFi and optional Bluetooth.For added convenience, Lenovo's latest VeriFace™ facial recognition technology combines Windows log-in and file encryption for logging onto the PC and for password-protecting individual files. The new Y Series also features Lenovo's OneKey™ Rescue System to help users to recover their data and restore critical system files after system failures, viruses and other mishaps.Pricing and Availability4The new IdeaPad Y650, Y550, Y450 laptops and S10 netbook will be available beginning in March. Manufacturer suggested retail pricing (MSRP) for models starts at $1,199 for the IdeaPad Y650, $829 for the IdeaPad Y550 and Y450, and $349 for the IdeaPad S10 netbook. The IdeaCentre A600 all-in-one desktop will be available beginning in April with MSRP for models starting at $999.About LenovoLenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is dedicated to building exceptionally engineered personal computers. Lenovo's business model is built on innovation, operational efficiency and customer satisfaction as well as a focus on investment in emerging markets. Formed by Lenovo Group's acquisition of the former IBM Personal Computing Division, the company develops, manufactures and markets reliable, high-quality, secure and easy-to-use technology products and services worldwide. Lenovo has major research centers in Yamato, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China; and Raleigh, North Carolina. For more information see www.lenovo.com.1Thinnest and lightest in the 16-inch laptop screen class, including offerings from Acer, Sony, HP and Lenovo.2Compared with competitor existing all-in-ones from Apple, HP, Dell and Sony.3VOIP functionality requires VOIP software which is freely available for download from a wide range of 3rd party vendors4Prices do not include tax or shipping and are subject to change without notice. Reseller prices may vary. Price does not include all advertised features. All offers subject to availability. Lenovo reserves the right to alter product offerings and specifications at any time without notice.
 