
Android has made its share of appearances on laptops before, but today Lenovo announced that it's taking a crack at the idea with the A10, a 10.1-inch notebook with a fold-back touchscreen display. The 2.2-pound convertible, which you can use in laptop or tablet mode, comes with a 1.6GHz quad-core Rockchip RK3188 Cortex-A9 processor, a 1,366 x 768 display, Android 4.2, 2GB of RAM, 32GB internal storage with microSD expansion, VGA webcam, two USB 2.0 ports and one HDMI port. The whole package is 0.69 inch thick, and Lenovo claims it offers nine hours of battery life with continuous video playback. We haven't heard details on pricing or availability -- Lenovo tells us that it'll vary by region -- but earlier rumors pegged it at about $340.



Show full PR textLenovo A10 Debuts as First Lenovo Laptop Powered by Android
RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, NC– October 18, 2013: Multimode computing leader Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) today announced the Lenovo A10, an affordable, ultra-portable, dual-mode laptop and the company's first to run on Android 4.2 OS. Weighing less than 1kg and measuring just 17.3mm at its thickest point, the Lenovo A10 is an ideal companion for users on the go, providing easy access to a wide range of apps on a unique, dual-mode platform, which enhances the user experience for entertainment and Web browsing as well as productivity."In laptop mode," users can take advantage of the A10's unique, Lenovo-customized user interface, which provides an app launcher, task bar and status bar for quick, intuitive access to the app library and desktop, as well as convenient multitasking and app switching. File manager software, also included with the Lenovo customized OS, makes it easy to locate and manage a library of documents, videos and music. In laptop mode, the device offers a full-size ergonomic, AccuType keyboard for safe, comfortable use.With the A10's 10.1-inch HD (1366 x 768) resolution screen flipped around 300 degrees in "stand mode," the Lenovo A10 shines as a device optimized for touch-enabled apps and entertainment. The stable hinge and "fold-back" design keeps the device steady and prevents shaking and bouncing while using the 10-point multi-touch screen. Stereo speakers and an integrated 0.3M webcam help users stay connected with family and friends while enjoying an immersive "sight and sound" experience with multimedia apps, games and video.The Lenovo A10 is powered by an RK3188, quad-core Cortex-A9 processor, running at a maximum frequency of 1.6GHz, the highest frequency for all quad-core ARM-based CPUs currently available. The Cortex-A9 processor delivers solid performance for gaming and entertainment purposes, as well as enhances users' ability to multitask and be productive. In addition, the A10's battery supports up to nine hours of continuous video playback, ensuring that it is ready to perform, both on the road and at the desk."With the recent explosive growth in Android-based, smart connected devices, customers are relying more on Android apps for both work and play. Why should they be required to switch and duplicate to use their laptop? Lenovo's A10 brings ultra-portability and dual-mode benefits to Android users at a reasonable price," said Bai Peng, vice president and general manager, notebook business unit, Lenovo Business Group. "Thin and light, with multiple modes and user-inspired innovations for an outstanding user experience ... the A10 is uniquely Lenovo."Pricing and availability varies per region. Please contact your local PR representative for details.


