
 Lensbaby, maker of creative optics that let you take pictures you'd otherwise have to make in Photoshop is going after youthful crowd with its newest product, the Spark. The selective focus lens attaches to your Canon or Nikon DSLR, allowing you to create bokeh-rich images -- simply squeeze the unit to focus and tilt it on its axis to move the "sweet spot" as you go. The 50mm lens features a fixed f/5.6 aperture and focuses from 13-inches to infinity, and goes on sale from today from the company's website, Amazon and specialist retailers who deal in such things.




 
  Show full PR text   Lensbaby Ignites Creativity with Spark™ – a Fun & Affordable Selective Focus Lens
   Lensbaby Spark is a perfect entry point into the Lensbaby system for photo enthusiasts who want a fun way to break out of the box

  Portland, OR – Lensbaby, today at Photokina, announces the release of Spark, a fun and affordable addition to the Lensbaby lens family. Spark is geared toward young photo enthusiasts who are looking for a creative spark to help break out of the box of traditional photography. It retails for $80 and is available for Canon and Nikon DSLRs. Spark lets photographers capture creative images in-camera that have a sweet spot of focus surrounded by beautiful artistic blur. It is a manual focus lens that provides a fun, tactile shooting experience. Photographers squeeze to focus, and tilt to move the "sweet spot" of focus around the image.

   "Spark sprouted from Lensbaby's fun and creative roots," said Craig Strong, Lensbaby Chief Creative Officer and Co-Founder. "We crafted Spark for photographers who look to go beyond their predictable kit lens and experiment with visual spontaneity in-camera."

   This new Lensbaby speaks to youthful, adventurous photographers looking for fun, creative tools to help tell their unique story. Indomitable photographers who harness energy and inspiration by capturing the magic of fleeting moments through their camera lenses will find a kindred spirit in Spark. Whether documenting their experiences on vacation or their daily escapades in their own hometown, Spark is designed to help young, creative photographers express themselves. Spark is a lightweight lens with a unique 50mm selective focus multi-coated glass doublet optic. The optic features an f/5.6 fixed aperture providing ease of use for new Lensbaby enthusiasts.

   Lensbaby Spark Product Specs:   Focal Length: 50mm   Aperture: fixed f/5.6  Optic: multi-coated glass doublet   Focus type: manual   Sweet spot, selective focus lens (creates a sweet spot of focus surrounded by gradually increasing blur)   Available for Canon and Nikon mount DSLRs   Focusing range: approximately 13" (33 cm) to infinity   Compatible with Lensbaby Optic Swap System and all Lensbaby 37mm threaded accessory lenses

   Spark will be available starting September 18, 2012 from amazon and select specialty photo stores worldwide and from www.lensbaby.com. For more information,

 
