
 
First it was CCTV surveillance, and now a Mexican security firm called Portoss is teaming up with biometrics manufacturer Global Rainmakers, Inc., to make the city of Leon in Guanajuato the most potentially oppressive in the world. The secure city initiative will provide "unparalleled iris identity fusion" by wrapping the city in miles of fiber optic cable, creating a central database that will contain of all convicted criminals (as well as any good citizens who wish to "opt in"), and a network of iris scanners. As you can imagine, the man in charge of selling this stuff -- Global Rainmakers CDO Jeff Carter -- is something of a "true believer." Fast Company attributes the following quote to him: "Every person, place, and thing on this planet will be connected [to the iris system] within the next 10 years." Great! There's also this one: "If you've been convicted of a crime, in essence, this will act as a digital scarlet letter. If you're a known shoplifter, for example, you won't be able to go into a store without being flagged. For others, boarding a plane will be impossible." And how about embittered bloggers? Will we be prevented from accessing the Internet to point out how unbelievably frightening this is? PR after the break.
 

Show full PR textGlobal Rainmakers Delivers World Class Iris Capability for PortossCity of Leon, Guanajuato to create visionary secure city with iris scanningNEW YORK and LEON, GUANAJUATO MEXICO, Aug. 18 /PRNewswire/ -- Global Rainmakers Inc. (GRI), a company revolutionizing the access control and identity management market, announced today that it will provide iris technology for the secure city initiative in Leon, Guanajuato, Mexico. Portoss, a Leon-based company, specializes in creating information systems for the law enforcement sector. This latest partnership between Portoss and the City of Leon is envisioned to create the most secure city in the world, utilizing iris biometrics from GRI as the foundation."This project has far reaching implications for the state of iris biometrics, the 1.2mm citizens of Mexico, and the world," said Hector Hoyos, CEO of Global Rainmakers. "The vision Portoss has for the secure city initiative, utilizing iris recognition to fortify all aspects of life, is in complete harmony with our own. The project will utilize GRI's iris technologies to identify humans in motion and at a distance while ensuring liveness. Their requirements not only fit perfectly into the core of what we do best, they provide the most secure system possible in identity management and access control systems."The effort will bring together some of the most advanced technology in the world to increase security in the city, providing unparalleled iris identity fusion for law enforcement and other uses. Iris technology has the smallest outlier group (the fewest number of people who cannot use or enroll in the system) of all biometric technologies. Due to its speed, iris recognition is the only biometric technology well-suited for one-to-many identification, which is necessary with populations of millions or even more than a billion."We built Portoss to create a legacy of providing the very best solutions in partnership with Leon," said Alfonso Huerta Jimenez, CEO of Portoss. "This project marks the culmination of years of successfully delivering to that promise. This serves as a demonstration of Portoss' ability to effectively apply GRI's biometrics technology for large-scale urban activities and provides a foundation for Portoss to further dedicate itself to national security, transportation, and law enforcement projects."To achieve this task, Portoss will integrate iris capability across the city, install miles of fiber optic cable, and construct the central iris database with power to enlarge the scale to include private sector corporations for a variety of applications.GRI's suite of iris-based biometric technologies has been vetted across the public sector including U.S. government agencies, the Pentagon, and the U.S. Air Force. Iris identification access control and identity management products developed and manufactured by GRI are currently in use, safeguarding daily operations of major corporate clients, including Bank of America."The City of Leon is located just two hours south of Guadalajara, the second largest city in Mexico and four hours north of Mexico City. Our central location has catalyzed the City into becoming the foundation for one of the most important regions in the country," said Ricardo Sheffield, Mayor of Leon. "Because of our growth and increase in investment over the last 10 years, the City is highly visible in the country. This project will further cement our position as a leader."About PortossPortoss (similar to Portal or Gate) was born in 2001 creating information systems for law enforcement in Leon, Guanajuato, integrating a more robust security platform, which now includes every document that is generated in a police intervention to fingerprints, LPR cameras, and surveillance analytics. The company has programming and electronics experts from different universities in the country and thanks to the support from the government is growing rapidly.About Global Rainmakers, Inc.Global Rainmakers, Inc. (GRI) was established in Puerto Rico in 2005, as an intellectual property holding company with a world class R&D operation. Today, Global Rainmakers is revolutionizing the access control and identity management space focusing on developing next-generation systems and services for the public, commercial and consumer sectors. The global reliance upon electronic data and transactions has created an increasing need to secure identity and control access to physical locations, electronic networks and the devices that connect to them in order to combat the very costly threats of identity theft and fraud. This new GRI paradigm unleashes a vastly different operating model where privacy, convenience and security are synonymous.
 