
 
Lack of public EV charging stations got you down? Range anxiety a frustrating part of life? Wouldn't life be grand if you could just carry around an outlet in your trunk? Smile, friend, because Leviton's got just the bit your boot's been looking for. It's the Evr-Green 120 Level 1 Portable Charger, able to be plugged into any 15- or 20-amp household outlet before the other end goes into your car's receptacle. Level 1 chargers are not the fastest, often taking 20 or more hours to put a full charge into big batteries, but if you just need to top-up and do it on the go this could be a great solution. It's also one of the first truly portable chargers we've seen. The Best Buy charger for the Focus Electric (which is also from Leviton) is technically portable, but it's obviously meant for bolting to the wall. This one looks to fit neatly in the trunk right next to all your hockey gear, though the ice might well be thawed before this releases -- Leviton is only pledging a rather vague "2011" for availability.
      

 

Show full PR textLeviton Announces UL Listing for Portable ChargerPart of the Evr-Green™ Line of Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment,Charger Maximizes Driver FlexibilityMelville, New York, March 30, 2011 – Leviton today announced the Evr-GreenTM 120 Level 1 Portable Charger, which allows drivers to charge a plug-in vehicle anywhere a standard outlet is available, has received Underwriters Laboratories Inc.® (UL) Listing for Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) in the United States and Canada.Available for purchase this spring, the charger is part of Leviton's Evr-Green line of residential, commercial and public charging equipment. The Portable Charger can be plugged into any standard 15-amp or 20-amp, 125-volt grounded receptacle found in almost all homes, buildings and public facilities. The charger allows drivers to charge an electric vehicle at home, or to take the charger with them, allowing them to plug in at stops along the way or when they arrive at their destination.Evr-Green chargers comply with all industry standards, including the current National Electrical Code®. Assembled in the United States, the chargers are backed by a three-year warranty, and are compatible with all major automakers' plug-in vehicles (SAE J1772TM compliant)."Consumers look to UL as a leading resource for safety information and we're proud that our Evr-Green 120 Level 1 Portable Charger meets the demanding UL product safety testing requirements. With the Portable Charger's UL listing, we continue to provide our customers with the highest-quality, safest and most sustainable products on the market," said Mike Mattei, vice president and general manager for Leviton's Commercial and Industrial Division. "The Portable Charger, which consumers can pack and take with them, eases 'range anxiety' concerns by allowing drivers to recharge nearly anywhere there is an outlet."A convenient handle and a cord management system allow for easy transport and storage. The portable cord set also has a selectable charge rate to minimize circuit overload.In addition, a watertight, dust-tight and corrosion-resistant enclosure provides for indoor/outdoor use. The enclosure is constructed with an eco-friendly PBT resin that features a 50 percent to 85 percent lower carbon footprint than other thermoplastics. The patent pending design also has a dockable holder for the J1772 charge connector. This holder enables consumers to conveniently store the connector."We conducted extensive primary and secondary market research in the design and development of the Evr-Green 120 Level 1 Portable Charger," said Manoj Karwa, project leader, Leviton EVSE Programs. "Our goal was to use environmentally friendly components and develop an enhanced ergonomic design to provide consumers with a product that delivers exceptional electrical, mechanical and aesthetic performance."The Evr-Green product line has been specifically developed to meet stringent automotive quality, product development and testing requirements. The products are planned to be available through multiple channels including electrical distributors, retail, online and through automakers in 2011.About LevitonLeviton is a global leader in electrical wiring devices, data center connectivity solutions and lighting energy management systems. A member of the USGBC (United States Green Building Council), Leviton was founded at the turn of the 20th century, and has grown to become a preeminent leader in the industry. Today Leviton's product portfolio consists of over 25,000 devices and systems used in homes, businesses and industry. Nine out of ten buildings and homes throughout North America use products made by Leviton and builders, electrical contractors and other industry professionals rank Leviton products #1 in brand preference. Leviton products are the smart choice for smart professionals. For more information, visit leviton.com. To request more information about Leviton's Evr-Green portfolio, visit http://www.evrgreeninfo.com.
 