
 
 As LG continues its slew of CES pre-announcements, it's revealed details about the new HDTVs it will be showing off in Las Vegas next week. Predictably, they include three lines of plasma models (fewer than previous years, but still kicking) in 42- to 60-inch sizes, and new LCD HDTVs in various levels of trim and sizes from 22-inches up to 60-inches. Most notably, this year all of its new LCDs are LED, as it's kicked the old CCFL tech to the curb. LG has already detailed upcoming changes for its voice/gesture Magic Remote control and a couple of Google TV models, however other new features for 2013 include an "On Now" recommendation system that learns what you watch and offers relevant selections from live TV and video on-demand services. Expect new tie-ins to be announced with both streaming and local TV providers to help fill out the selection around the world.

 Hardware-wise, new feature boxes checked this year include NFC, thanks to a new "Tag On" sticker smartphones and other devices can easily pair with. Getting content from mobile devices to the display will also be easier thanks to Miracast and WiDi support, and MHL ports will be readily available as well. LG's FPR 3D tech isn't going anywhere, and Smart TV features should be speedier than ever thanks to CPUs with a promised 120 percent speed boost, and 300 percent faster GPUs. As seen in the pics, the design has also been altered slightly with a new stand that both swivels and rolls, plus a reduced bezel size.

 If you're looking for the latest and greatest however, LG will be showing off the 84-inch Ultra HD 4K set it just started shipping and the 55-inch OLED display we're waiting for. No word yet on shipping dates or price for any of the new models, but as we surmised from LG Display's plans, we should see a couple of 55- and 65-inch Ultra HD TVs appear before the year is out. There's a couple more pictures of the new HDTVs in the gallery plus a press release with all the details after the break. Beyond that, HD Guru has a model-by-model breakdown of the available information -- we'll check back with our in-person impressions in a few days.




  Show full PR text   LG UNVEILS SMARTER, MORE REFINED SMART TV LINEUP AT CES 2013
  LG Provides Simple, Intuitive Smart TV User Experience with  Enhanced Magic Remote and Expanded Search and Share Capabilities
    SEOUL, Dec. 31, 2012 –- LG Electronics (LG) will unveil its new CINEMA 3D Smart TV lineup at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. The 2013 lineup offers easier content access and sharing along with an updated Magic Remote for a simplified, intuitive user experience (UX). A variety of models and sizes will be on display at CES, including LG's awe-inspiring 84-inch Ultra HD and 55-inch OLED TVs.   Smart Control: Simple and Intuitive  LG offers the very definition of Smart Control with its enhanced Smart Home and Magic Remote. The new Smart Home onscreen interface featuring My Interest Cards – a special folders for apps and other content –provides easy, quick access to what's trending on news sites as well as up-to-the-minute weather information. My Interest Cards can be customized according to the needs and preferences of the user.   TheMagic Remote has been redesigned to fine-tune content and menu navigation, making interaction as simple and intuitive as possible. The device still incorporates the fundamental control capabilities of earlier Magic Remotes – point, wheel, gesture and voice recognition. At CES, LG will demonstrate Voice Mate, an enhanced version of the company's voice control technology capable of recognizing the natural flow of language.The Voice Mate feature offers a new voice search option that simultaneously filters search results from all corners of the LG Smart TV platform – VoD services, search engines, external devices and more. LG's Smart Control with Magic Remote is like no other system, enabling users to experiment and discover the most comfortable way to enjoy their LG Smart TV.   Smart Sharing  The enhanced SmartShareTM feature offers users the ability to mirror or transfer content from smart devices to LG Smart TVs via a multitude of connectivity options, including WiDi and Miracast. The 2013 lineup will enhance inter-device sharing further by implementing Tag On. This feature immediately connects two devices for speedy media sharing. To use Tag On, the user simply holds a smartphone or other NFC-enabled device against the NFC sticker on a CINEMA 3D Smart TV. The 2013 lineup also supports LG Cloud, which allows the user to remotely stream high-quality content from practically any location.   Smarter Discovery in Sea of Content  Smart TV users have a steadily growing selection of content from which to choose. But how can Smart TV users easily find what they want in a vast sea of Video-on-Demand (VoD) and live broadcasts from multiple sources? The LG Smart TV offers a solution to the problem via an advanced recommendation function called On Now. The convenient service suggests trending VoD and broadcast content. Results pop-up with handy thumbnail images, making it faster and easier for the viewer to make a content selection.   With a vast array of movie, lifestyle, gaming and 3D choices, consumers looking for international or local content can quickly find what they want on their LG CINEMA 3D Smart TVs. Partnerships with a growing list of providers from around the world, including local broadcasters and subscription programming services, allow LG to keep its content offerings relevant and fresh.   LG CINEMA 3D Smart TVs deliver a smooth user experience and superior picture quality thanks to an upgraded central processing unit (CPU) and graphic processing unit (GPU). CPU speeds are now 120 percent faster in several premium CINEMA 3D Smart TV models. Even more impressively, GPU speeds are now 300 percent faster, which translates to clearer images that enhance gaming, viewing and multitasking.   Magic Stand and CINEMA SCREEN Design  The new 2013 models embody LG's minimalist CINEMA SCREEN Design. The TV's bezels have been significantly reduced to provide a greater sense of immersion. The Magic Stand further enhances the effect, enabling the screen to appear as if floating. Both elegant and functional, the stand complements the screen without creating any visual distraction. This sleek formation effortlessly blends into any modern interior design scheme. The stand also features a convenient swivel and roller function, allowing the TV to be repositioned with ease.   Comfortable CINEMA 3D  LG's CINEMA 3D Smart TVs employ Film Patterned Retarder (FPR) technologyfor superior 3D viewing comfort. This technology uses lightweight glasses tocreate a comfortable 3D viewing experience without the distracting flicker or crosstalk of active shutter-style glasses.   Eco-Friendly and Safe  LG's CINEMA 3D Smart TV has won CES Innovations Awards for its superiority in hardware and software a number of times, including at the 2013 CES Innovations Awards. Another accolade was bestowed on the CINEMA 3D Smart TV lineup in December when the 55LA6900 model earned an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) from Underwriters Laboratories Inc. The 55LA6900 was singled out for its remarkable energy efficiency and eco-friendly qualities.   "LG always strives to provide the most engaging, most convenient user experience to consumers all over the globe," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of the LG Home Entertainment Company. "We have been singularly uncompromising, both in developing and improving the LG Smart TV platform. As a result, we are confident the UX our 2013 models will shatter all expectations and demonstrate that LG has moved the medium of Smart TV forward."   # # #

 
