
 
 LG just gave a price to its entry level 55-inch OLED TV: $12,000. That's the starting price, mind you. There are three different OLED sizes to choose from, but we're only seeing 55- and 65-inchers -- no word on pricing for the larger set, but we'd wager it'll be a pretty penny over that initial $12K. You can put in an order now, and LG's saying it'll arrive in March. The South Korean electronics company also mentioned partnerships with Activision, Verizon, Google, and Disney for its OLED line, and teased a third size for launch in 2013. Presumably that largest size will require a second or third mortgage, but we're hoping to hear more specifics during CES this week.

 Update: We've added PR after the break.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   LG Electronics USA Announces Availability of Eagerly Anticipated OLED TV
   March U.S. Rollout Will Follow Early Launch in Korea

   LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Electronics USA announced today that the revolutionary new LG OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) TV will be available in the United States beginning in March.

   The eagerly-awaited 55-inch class (54.6-inch diagonal) WRGB OLED TV went on sale for the first time in South Korea last week with deliveries scheduled to begin there in early February.

   The suggested price in the United States is expected to be $11,999, LG Electronics USA said here today at the 2013 International CES®, where an earlier version of the TV previewed last year was awarded "Best of Show."

   As the first company to announce availability of the next-generation TV technology, LG is prepared to ramp up quickly to take the lead in the OLED segment that is expected to grow to 7.2 million units by 2016, according to DisplaySearch.

   "OLED TV will usher in a whole new era of home entertainment," said Jay Vandenbree , senior vice president, LG Electronics USA Inc. "With its lifelike color, infinite contrast ratio and slim profile, LG OLED delivers an outstanding viewing experience; it's undoubtedly a premium product worthy of its premium price."

   Havis Kwon , global president of the LG Home Entertainment Company, said: "Not since color TV was first introduced 60 years ago has there been a more transformational moment. When high definition TV was first introduced 15 years ago, the public's reaction was 'wow!' Now, when customers see our razor-thin OLED TV for the first time, they're left speechless. That's a clear indicator as any that OLED TV is much more than just an incremental improvement to current television technology."

   Only 0.16 inches (4 millimeters) thin and weighing less than 22 pounds (10 kilograms), LG's OLED TVs produce astoundingly vivid and realistic pictures thanks to its superior WRGB technology:

   LG's unique Four-Color Pixel system features a white sub-pixel, which works in conjunction with the conventional red, blue, green setup to create the perfect color output.

   LG's exclusive Color Refiner delivers even greater tonal enhancement, resulting in images that are more vibrant and natural than anything seen before.

   The 55-inch OLED TV also offers an infinite contrast ratio, which maintains optimal contrast levels regardless of ambient brightness or viewing angle.

   Even before its official 2013 launch, the LG OLED TV has been turning heads all over the world. In addition to being named Best of Show at CES 2012, the influential Industrial Designers Society of America recognized the TV with a coveted IDEA Award. Meanwhile, LG received the European Display Achievement 2012-2013 Award from the European Imaging and Sound Association (EISA). LG's OLED received Korea's Good Design President Award in October.

   About LG Electronics USA

   LG Electronics USA, Inc., based in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., is the North American subsidiary of LG Electronics, Inc., a $49 billion global force and technology leader in consumer electronics, home appliances and mobile communications. In the United States, LG Electronics sells a range of stylish and innovative home entertainment products, mobile phones, home appliances, commercial displays, air conditioning systems and solar energy solutions, all under LG's "Life's Good" marketing theme. For more information, please visit www.lg.com.  About LG Electronics, Inc.

   LG Electronics, Inc. (KSE: 066570.KS) is a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile communications and home appliances. With 117 operations around the world, LG achieved global sales of USD 49 billion (KRW 54.26 trillion) in 2011. LG comprises four business units – Home Entertainment, Mobile Communications, Home Appliance, and Air Conditioning & Energy Solution – and is one of the world's leading producers of flat panel TVs, mobile devices, air conditioners, washing machines and refrigerators. LG Electronics is a 2012 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year. For more news and information on LG Electronics, please visit www.LGnewsroom.com.

   PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1y42l)

 
