
 

LG's got quite a bit in store for us this week at SID's annual display exhibition in Vancouver. In addition to that 55-inch curved OLED TV we first heard about last month, the company will be demonstrating a very nifty 5-inch OLED panel. Created for mobile devices, the display is constructed of plastic, making it both flexible and unbreakable -- certainly a welcome quality when it comes to smartphone design.


Also on display will be 5- and 7-inch HD Oxide TFT panels. That first size features a bezel that's just 1mm wide, enabling a borderless frame when installed in smartphones. Both displays are lightweight and consume less power than their traditional equivalents. Finally, LG will have a 14-inch 2560x1440-pixel laptop panel on hand, along with LCDs designed for use in refrigerators and automotive dashboards. We'll be live from the SID show floor later this week -- check back for our hands-ons with all of these new LG panels, and quite a bit more.


 
Show full PR textLG Display Introduces Next Generation Display Technology at SID 2013
Curved 55-inch OLED TV and 5-inch plastic OLED panels on exhibit

Seoul, Korea (May 20, 2013) – LG Display [NYSE: LPL, KRX: 034220], a leading innovator of display technologies, will showcase the latest TV, mobile, and other products representing the future of display technology at the Society for Information Display's (SID) Display Week 2013. Underscoring its leadership in OLED technology, the company will introduce both a curved 55-inch OLED TV and a 5-inch plastic OLED panel. Also exhibited will be mobile panels applied with Oxide Thin Film Transistor (TFT) which is viewed as the next generation TFT technology.

"Recent trends indicate that the small- and medium-sized display market is moving towards high resolution and low power consumption, and the large panel market to OLED and Ultra HD," said Dr. Sang-Deok Yeo, CTO and Executive Vice President of LG Display. "With the resulting rapid need for new display advancements, LG Display, at the forefront of these trends, is well positioned to lead the market with its differentiated and cutting-edge technologies."

Industry Leadership in OLED

LG Display will demonstrate its industry leadership in OLED technology by showcasing a curved 55-inch OLED TV, as well as its award-winning standard 55-inch OLED TV at SID 2013. Based on the same WRGB OLED technology as the standard set, now widely adopted as the most effective OLED application for large-sized panels, the new curved 55-inch OLED TV offers a glimpse into the future of TV design.

In addition, for the first time to the public, the company will unveil an unbreakable and flexible 5- inch plastic OLED panel for mobile devices. The development comes at a crucial time when smart devices are being used more than ever and at increased risk for damage from drops, hits, and other accidents.

Next Generation TFT LCD Method

LG Display will also introduce 5-inch and 7-inch HD LCD panels based on Oxide TFT, seen as the next generation TFT technology as it offers high investment efficiency in producing thin, high transparency, and low power consumption displays. LG Display, which utilized this technology in its large-sized OLED displays for the first time in the world, will expand its expertise to LCD panel development thereby leading the market.The 5-inch HD panel will feature 1.0mm bezel allowing production of borderless smartphones that are lightweight and emit significantly less heat. The 7-inch HD LCD panel is equipped with touch function-embedded technology enabling superior touch functionality in thin and lightweight mobile products.

Superior High Resolution for Monitors and Tablets

LG Display, which was first to introduce an 84-inch Ultra HD TV, now advances the high-definition trend further with the world's first Ultra HD panel for 23.8-inch monitors. In addition, the company will showcase a 14-inch Quadruple HD (2,560X1,440) panel for laptops, and the world's first 7-inch Full HD panel for tablets that exceeds 300 pixels per inch (PPI).

Other Innovative Advancements on Exhibit

LG Display will also present a new type of LCD which can depict the highest level of color reproduction ratio for implementation across various industries. Products, on exhibit, applying this technology include a transparent 47-inch LCD panel for refrigerators featuring a 15% increase in transparency while maintaining NTSC 72% or the same as generic HDTVs, a 12.3-inch Full HD LCD panel for automotive dashboards with 800nit high brightness and 85% color reproduction ratio, and a 24-inch Adobe RGB monitor panel for professionals with 100% color reproduction ratio.

The company will also spotlight it's commitment to heightened design standards based on borderless technology with a 5-inch HD LCD panel for smartphones with 1.0mm bezel, as well as products boasting the world's most narrow bezels including a 13.3-inch Full HD LCD Neo Edge panel for laptops with 1.5mm bezel, a 23.8-inch Full HD LCD Neo Blade panel for monitors with 3.5mm bezel, and a 55-inch LCD panel for video walls with 5.3mm bezel.

SID Display Week 2013

SID Display Week 2013 will be held in Vancouver, Canada from May 19 to 24. LG Display's products will be showcased at Booth #1012, and allow visitors to experience the latest offerings from the world's leading display company.

In addition to product exhibits, LG Display will also present its distinguished technology with 17 major dissertations on a variety of display topics. Also, Dr. In-Byung Kang, Senior Vice President and Lead Laboratory Chief of LG Display, will be recognized with a special achievement award for his work in FPR 3D and IPS LCD technology.


