
 We saw all the 2013 HDTVs debut last month at CES and the first few new models are starting to reach shelves. One of the more interesting sets arriving is LG's 55-inch OLED HDTV, the first of its kind at this large size. Shipments are starting Monday for the 11 million won ($10k~) television, and according to a press release, LG has notched about 100 pre-orders so far in its home country. For comparison, LG announced it sold 300 of its 84-inch, $20k Ultra HDTV in Korea as of last month. LG also mentioned it plans to sell as many as 15 percent more HDTVs in 2013 than it did in 2012, as it continues to push its Smart and 3D features. We're still waiting for Samsung to release its own OLED HDTVs, while this one is still slated to ship in the US in March for $11,999.



  Show full PR text   LG STRENGTHENS POSITION IN NEXT GENERATION TV MARKET WITH ULTIMATE PICTURE QUALITY
  LG Redefines Home Viewing Experience with Industry-leading Display
  Technologies Including OLED, Ultra HD and New CINEMA 3D Smart TVs
   SEOUL, February 14, 2013 – LG Electronics (LG) today introduced its 2013 TV lineup in South Korea, unveiling products that deliver unrivalled picture quality as well as a bevy of easy-to-use features to heighten the viewing experience. With industry-leading products such as the ultimate 55-inch OLED TV, the world's first-to-ship 84-inch Ultra HD TV and the most advanced 3D Smart TVs in the market, LG is setting a high bar by demonstrating that superb picture quality is its top priority.

   "LG is building a brand that is synonymous with great picture quality," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of LG Electronics Home Entertainment Company. "With our advanced display technologies, we are confident that our products will lead the next generation of TVs in 2013 and beyond."

   Delivering World's First 55-inch OLED TV

   With delivery in South Korea starting next week, LG will be the first TV manufacturer to ship a 55-inch OLED TV (Model 55EM9700) in the world. This advanced TV employs LG's unique WRGB OLED technology to produce beautiful images unmatched by anything currently in the market. With the addition of a white sub-pixel to the existing RGB pixel configuration, LG's OLED TV can produce vivid and brilliant colors as well as deep blacks. This new pinnacle of home entertainment also offers an infinite contrast ratio which maintains optional contrast levels regardless of ambient brightness or viewing angle.

   Worldwide Rollout of Ultra HD

   LG took a clear lead in the Ultra HD TV segment with the introduction of its stunning 84-inch Ultra HD TV last year and subsequent rollout of the 84-inch model in 40 countries worldwide. This milestone marked the start of the Ultra HD TV era with LG also taking a leadership role in driving adoption of this new standard.

   LG's Ultra HD TV boasts 8 million pixels (3840 x 2160) to generate crystal clear images at a resolution four times higher than existing Full HD. LG's proprietary Resolution Upscaler Plus adds to the lifelike viewing experience by enabling regular HD images to be rendered in greater detail and clarity. And LG will be introducing two new sizes - 55-inch and 65-inch - to its Ultra HD TV lineup this year.

   Enhanced and Convenient Smart TV

   LG's new CINEMA 3D Smart TV lineup for 2013 offers an enhanced user interface (UI) designed to deliver convenience and ease-of-use features all around. LG will employ In-Plane Switching (IPS) - far superior to vertical alignment (VA) displays - across the majority of its TV offerings this year. IPS displays produce a wide viewing angle of 178 degrees without distortion even when viewed from shallow angles and deliver consistent, vivid colors that are nearly indistinguishable from those found in nature.

   LG's advanced picture quality is further enhanced by its 2013 Triple XD Engine which controls and processes images more precisely than ever before. The updated Triple XD Engine enables more natural colors, deeper contrast and more definition when viewing fast-moving images so that viewers can enjoy the most realistic picture quality available today. The engine comprises technological advances that work together to create the superb picture synonymous with LG CINEMA 3D Smart TVs. Super Contrast Booster maximizes contrast and brightness by enhancing parts of the screen where necessary. Dynamic Scanning elevates image sharpness to another level by speeding up response time and eliminating blur even in the fastest action scenes to deliver the clearest picture possible. And Active Noise Reduction provides a more detailed and realistic viewing experience by reducing unwanted noise and distractions.

   The new lineup also includes upgraded Smart TV features highlighted by the redesigned, more intuitive Magic Remote. The new remote makes navigation simpler and easier with the addition of natural voice recognition to complement the point, wheel and gesture controls. The new remote also includes Voice Mate which recognizes the natural flow of language to facilitate quick and easy searching across the entire Smart TV ecosystem. LG Smart TV also offers an advanced service, Now On, which makes recommendations on trending video-on-demand (VoD) and broadcast programs so viewers can access content based on popularity or individual preference. Results pop up with handy thumbnail images for faster and easier selection from a range of sources. And Tag On, LG's NFC-based device-pairing feature, makes accessing content even simpler and more convenient. Pairing devices is as simple as holding a smartphone or other NFC-enabled mobile device against the NFC sticker on LG's CINEMA 3D Smart TV.

   New 2013 Smart TVs employ LG's CINEMA SCREEN Design with a narrower bezel to provide a greater sense of immersion and viewer enjoyment. The Magic Stand further enhances this effect, enabling the TV to appear as if floating on air. Both elegant and functional, the stand complements the screen by minimizing visual distractions. The stand also features a convenient swivel and roller function, allowing the TV to be repositioned with ease in any room.

   LG's new 2013 CINEMA 3D Smart TV lineup will be available starting today in Korea with other markets to follow.

   # # #

 
