
  You've already seen this little guy in the wild, but LG has gone ahead and made its first LTE tablet very official -- ladies and gentlemen, meet the Optimus Pad LTE. The 9.3mm thin slate packs a 1.5GHz dual-core Qualcomm CPU and an 8.9-inch 1280 x 768 IPS display, along with an 8 megapixel camera on the rear and a 2 megapixel option up front. Users can expect an SD card slot that supports modules up to 32GB, and there's also HDMI connectivity and DLNA certification for good measure. It's powered by a 6,800mAh battery, but out of the gate, it'll ship with Android 3.2 -- no word on when the latest Pad hopes to grab a bite of Ice Cream Sandwich. The Optimus Pad LTE's scheduled to arrive first in LG's home territory of South Korea, but for those interested in a more complete rundown, be sure to check the PR after the break.





  Show full PR text  LG TO INTRODUCE ITS FIRST LTE TABLET  Expanding LTE Leadership into Tablets to Meet the Needs of Consumers' Faster Lifestyles  SEOUL, Jan. 18, 2012 – LG Electronics (LG) today unveiled its first LTE-capable tablet, the Optimus Pad LTE. Initially launching in Korea, LG has equipped the tablet with both LTE technology and True HD IPS display, the two features that have helped LG differentiate its latest smartphone, Optimus LTE, from the competition.  "With tablets generating five times more traffic than the average smartphone, it's not a huge jump to assume that tablet users need and want faster connectivity," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Mobile Communications Company. "The combination of LG's LTE technology with the tablet form factor is a clear advantage for consumers who use a tablet as their primary consumption device when on the move."  Boasting the best-in-class in the tablets, LG Optimus Pad LTE provides the ultimate user environment to enjoy HD multimedia with a 1280 x 720 True HD IPS display and 8 megapixel camera for shooting high definition video. The Optimus Pad LTE is also the world's first tablet to support an SD memory card expandable to 32GB, recognizing the importance multimedia would play for owners of this device.  Along with these features, the Optimus Pad LTE offers easy-to-use controls and functions such as the Smart Movie Editor for editing pictures and videos more easily. Moreover, Web Duet allows for e-mailing, messaging and SNS sharing with search functions, and On-Screen Phone (OSP) ensures compatibility with LG smartphones.  LG Optimus Pad LTE is extremely portable and aesthetically pleasing, weighing in at a svelte 479g and only 9.34mm thin. Equipped with a 1.5 GHz dual-core processor running Android 3.2 Honeycomb OS, LG's newest tablet guarantees superior performance. It also supports High Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) and Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA).  Key Specifications: Operating System: Android 3.2 Honeycomb Memory: User 32GB (Micro SD up to 32GB) Size: 245 x 151.4 x 9.34 mm Weight: 497 g Display: 8.9-inch IPS True HD Display Resolution: 1280 x 768 Camera: 8MP (Rear) / 2MP (Front) Processor: Qualcomm 1.5GHz Dual-Core / Dual Channel Processor Battery: 6,800mAh Others: HDMI, DLNA
 