
 
Seems like LG really has a thing for those quantum dot LEDs. After hooking up with Nanosys earlier this year, the Korean giant is now stretching out another of its tentacles -- LG Display, to be specific -- for a partnership with a competing QLED designer in QD Vision. What's being promised by this joint venture falls right in line with your generic pipe dream -- better color accuracy than OLEDs, up to twice the power efficiency at a given color purity, and a cheap and straightforward manufacturing process. In fact, because QLEDs do not require the same glass substrate as most current display technologies, they offer unmatched flexibility (olé!) in terms of how and where they may be used. The only downer, and you had to know there would be one, is that QD Vision describes its tech as still in the "development stage," but hey, at least we have another cool acronym to add to our library.
      

 

Show full PR textQD Vision and LG Display Join Forces to Develop New Generation of Active Matrix Displays Based on Quantum Dot LEDs (QLEDS)Advanced display technology will produce brilliant, colorful images while requiring far less energy than today's display productsWatertown, MA, November 30, 2010 – QD Vision, Inc. and LG Display (NYSE: LPL, KRX : 034220), today announced a joint development agreement focused on creating highly-efficient, high-performance active matrix displays based on electroluminescent quantum dot LED (QLED) nanotechnology. The display will require much less energy than current products, while producing brighter, richer colors.The new breakthrough products will employ patterned thin films of QD Vision quantum dots to create a direct-view, active matrix display. In addition to energy and color improvements, the new technology is expected to lower display manufacturing costs by greatly simplifying the overall display manufacturing process."LG Display has always been at the forefront of advanced display technology. This partnership with QD Vision will accelerate development of exciting new LGD products for the rapidly expanding display marketplace, and increase our industry leadership position," said Chang-Dong Kim, Vice President of LG Display.Quantum dots provide the stability and reliability of inorganic semiconductor materials, and can be processed in solution. This enables the efficient manufacture of next generation electroluminescent displays with extraordinary color, efficiency, and stability. For more information: http://www.qdvision.com/qleds-the-future."The continuing advances in nanotechnology at QD Vision are the key to a whole new generation of displays that are far superior to what is available today. Our relationship with LG Display will result in exciting new products that meet growing consumer demand for ultra–thin, high quality, energy efficient displays," said Jason Carlson, QD Vision President and CEO.About LG DisplayLG Display Co., Ltd. (NYSE: LPL, KRX: 034220) is a leading manufacturer and supplier of thin-film transistor liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD) panels, OLEDs and flexible displays. The company provides TFT-LCD panels in a wide range of sizes and specifications for use in TVs, monitors, notebook PCs, mobile products and other various applications. LG Display currently operates eight fabrication facilities and five back-end assembly facilities in Korea, China and Poland. The company has a total of 35,000 employees operating worldwide. Please visit http://www.lgdisplay.com for more information.About QD Vision, Inc.QD Vision (www.qdvision.com) is a quantum dot product company that delivers highly differentiated lighting and display solutions. QD Vision's Quantum Light™ platform enables step-change advances in current generation solutions, such as LCDs, LEDs and even OLEDs, and ultimately a significant leap over these technologies. Leveraging a first-tier patent position in nanotechnology originating at MIT, QD Vision is a privately held company based in Watertown, Mass.
 