
 

Following the footsteps of Samsung and Sony, LG has come forth with details on which devices will be getting Android 4.0 -- also known as Ice Cream Sandwich -- and when we can begin expecting those upgrades to roll out. The phone manufacturer made its official announcement via its Facebook page, stating that several of its 2011 models will be on the receiving end of ICS starting in the second and third quarters of next year, with a full-scale rollout occurring sometime afterward.

In the second quarter we should expect to see updates for the LG Optimus LTE, Prada 3.0, Optimus 2X, Optimus Sol, myTouch Q and the Eclipse. Fast forwarding to the third quarter, the Optimus 3D, Optimus Black, Optimus Big, Optimus Q2 and the Optimus EX will all be lucky recipients. As can be expected, LG was careful not to lump carrier-branded devices into the mix here, as a large portion of the timing depends on the carrier's testing procedures. Head on past the break to see the full statement by LG.
      

 

LG's statement: 		LG will be offering the Ice Cream Sandwich (ICS) OS upgrade for a range of LG smart-phones which were introduced this year. The global upgrade schedule will begin in the second and third quarters of 2012, which will be followed by a global roll out. 		During the second quarter of 2012 upgrades will begin for the following smartphone models: the LG Optimus LTE, Prada phone by LG 3.0, the LG Optimus 2X, the LG Optimus Sol, the LG myTouch Q and the LG Eclipse. These upgrades will be followed by upgrades for the following smartphone models during the third quarter of 2012: the LG Optimus 3D, the LG Optimus Black, the LG Optimus Big, the LG Optimus Q2 and the LG Optimus EX. 		LG will be taking all possible measure to offer a smooth OS upgrade in a timely manner. The exact start dates can vary by market, as each country can have different requirements, depending on the carrier and the smartphone model. 		LG would like to thank its customers for their most valued loyalty and support. Further details on the ICS OS upgrade, including their exact start dates, will be released prior to their commencement. Please stay tuned for more updates from LG. Thank you.
 