
 After a Korean press release revealed that it will bring a bevy of new Google TV offerings in 2013, LG has firmed up the details in English, saying it'll launch seven new models at CES next month. Those include 42-, 57-, 50-, 55- and 60-inch models from the upcoming GA6400 series, along with 47- and 55-inch Cinema Screen panels included in the new GA7900 series. All the screens will ship with a redesigned Magic Qwerty Remote, which uses a full keyboard along with "natural language recognition" via a built-in microphone. Together with built-in Google search functions, that'll allow users to find "broadcast TV or internet content with only one vocal command," according to LG. Other features include the OnLive gaming platform app, a home dashboard to display other apps and content, LG's PrimeTime Quick Guide for browsing TV shows or movies, and a full browser. There's no word yet about pricing or availability, but hopefully that'll be one of the many, many morsels of info we'll be grabbing for you at CES 2013. Check the PR after the break for more info.



  Show full PR text   LG Expands Google TV Line-Up For 2013
   To Be Introduced at CES 2013, Seven New Models to Offer Most User-friendly Way to Search and Discover Amazing Content  ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Dec. 24, 2012 -- Building on the success of its Smart TVs with Google TV, LG Electronics (LG) is expanding its 2013 Google TV lineup to seven models in five screen sizes for 2013 – including premium models featuring LG's popular CINEMA SCREEN design, the company announced today.

   The extended LG Google TV lineup, which will be officially introduced at next month's 2013 International CES® in Las Vegas, encompasses two model series (GA7900 and GA6400) designed to deliver an outstandingly intuitive user experience, various sizes and new design to better meet consumers' expectations.

   Google's latest platform and LG's redesigned Magic Qwerty Remote work together to enhance the effectiveness of Voice Search and the PrimeTime quick guide. The updated Home Dashboard also adds to the user experience by offering convenient, streamlined access to premium video on-demand, such as HBO GO, content from YouTube and more apps*. Discovering exciting new content from the rich pool of choices available on LG Google TV has never been easier. Additionally, the premium models will incorporate LG's advanced CINEMA SCREEN design for an undeniably sleek and modern finish.

   "LG is committed to providing diverse home entertainment options that offer the most satisfying user experience and the latest LG Smart TVs with Google TV do just that," said Havis Kwon , President and CEO of the LG Electronics Home Entertainment Company. "They deliver a stellar user experience by merging the latest Google TV platform with LG's proven Smart TV technology. The result is a comprehensive system that is groundbreaking in its simplicity."  LG Google TV aims to redefine the user experience. The new Home Dashboard offers varied types of "cards" that act as folders to display apps and other content. The new "My Interest" Card can even display useful information including real-time weather and customizable news.

   The entire user interface can be navigated using the redesigned Magic Qwerty Remote, which combines a complete keyboard with the convenient benefits of the Magic Remote's point-and-click control. The enhanced natural language recognition incorporated in the revamped remote is a perfect match with Google's outstanding search functionality so that broadcast TV or Internet content can be found with only one vocal command. Consumers can use search terms like "romantic comedy" to get results. Consumers can also tell it to switch to a specific channel number, station or website with one voice command, eliminating extra scrolling and controller clicking. The overall voice-based capabilities multiply the effectiveness of the PrimeTime quick guide to provide an ultimate user experience and make browsing through the more than 100,000 available movies and TV episodes on LG Google TV a breeze.

   The LG Smart TV with Google TV offers superb connectivity options and can connect to a variety of devices wirelessly. The latest YouTube app update for Android, smart phones and tablets can be automatically paired with Google TV over the same home network via Wi-Fi, making it easy to send videos from your device to your TV with just the touch of one button. Gamers will be pleased to know that LG Google TV will offer the OnLive® app pre-installed, which transforms the TV into an incredible gaming platform without the need for a separate console. The app makes hundreds of high quality video games available instantly from the cloud.

   The embedded dual core CPU enables easy menu navigation, fast Internet browsing and video streaming. The additional processor power allows the TruPicture XD Engine to process images more quickly and precisely, resulting in richer colors, deeper contrast and greater overall picture clarity. Also offering CINEMA 3D TV functionality, the LG Google TV employs FPR technology to give movie buffs and gamers a great 3D effect.

   The GA6400 series will be available in 42-, 47-, 50-, 55- and 60-inch class screen sizes (42.0-, 47.0-, 50.0-, 55.6- and 59.8-inch diagonals, respectively). LG applied its CINEMA SCREEN design to its 2013 premium GA7900 series (47- and 55-inch class screen sizes) to offer a sleek, modern look for discerning consumers who want the Google experience, but don't want to sacrifice on aesthetics. This design further minimizes width of the bezel, giving the TV a streamlined appearance while creating the impression of a borderless display. Along with the LG Google TV's unique stand design, it integrates perfectly with interior design of a living room.

   *Smart TV devices include HDTVs, Blu-ray Disc Players and Network Home Theater Systems. Internet connection and certain subscriptions required and sold separately. Content and services vary by product and are subject to change without notice.  *For a small percentage of the population, the viewing of stereoscopic 3D video may cause discomfort such as dizziness or nausea. If you experience any of these symptoms, discontinue using the 3D functionality and contact your health care provider.  *Designs, features and specifications subject to change without notice.  About LG Electronics USA

   LG Electronics USA, Inc., based in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., is the North American subsidiary of LG Electronics, Inc., a $49 billion global force and technology leader in consumer electronics, home appliances and mobile communications. In the United States, LG Electronics sells a range of stylish and innovative home entertainment products, mobile phones, home appliances, commercial displays, air conditioning systems and solar energy solutions, all under LG's "Life's Good" marketing theme. For more information, please visit www.lg.com.

   About LG Electronics, Inc.

   LG Electronics, Inc. (KSE: 066570.KS) is a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile communications and home appliances. With 117 operations around the world, LG achieved global sales of USD 49 billion (KRW 54.26 trillion) in 2011. LG comprises four business units – Home Entertainment, Mobile Communications, Home Appliance, and Air Conditioning & Energy Solutions – and is one of the world's leading producers of flat panel TVs, mobile devices, air conditioners, washing machines and refrigerators. LG Electronics is a 2012 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year.

   Show full PR text    LG TO SHOWCASE TWO NEW MODELS FEATURING GOOGLE TV AT CES 2013
   Expanded Smart Google TV Lineup from LG Provides the most User-friendly Way to Search and Discover Amazing Content  SEOUL, Dec. 24, 2012 – LG Electronics (LG) will introduce an extended Google TV lineup at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. LG's new models GA7900 and GA6400 deliver an outstandingly intuitive user experience at various sizes and new design to meet more consumers' expectations.

   Google's latest platform and LG's redesigned Magic Remote Qwerty work together to enhance the effectiveness of Voice Search and the PrimeTime quick guide. The updated Smart Home also adds to the user experience by offering convenient, streamlined access to VoD, YouTube and more apps. Discovering exciting new content from the rich pool of choices available on LG Google TV has never been easier. Additionally, the premium model will incorporate LG's advanced CINEMA SCREEN design for an undeniably sleek and modern finish.

   "LG is committed to providing diverse home entertainment options that offer the most satisfying user experience and the latest LG Smart TVs with Google TV do just that," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of the LG Electronics Home Entertainment Company. "They deliver a stellar user experience by merging the latest Google TV platform with LG's proven Smart TV technology. The result is a comprehensive system that is groundbreaking in its simplicity."

   LG Google TV aims to redefine the user experience. The platform offers the ease of use that recalls the simplicity of earlier television sets. The new Smart Home offers varied types of "cards" that act as folders for apps and other content. The new My Interest Card can even display useful information including real-time weather and customizable news.  The entire user interface can be navigated using the redesigned Magic Remote Qwerty, which combines a complete keyboard with the convenient benefits of the Magic Remote's point-and-click control. The enhanced natural language recognition incorporated in the revamped remote is a perfect match with Google's outstanding search functionality. The overall voice-based capabilities multiply the effectiveness of the PrimeTime quick guide to provide an unparalleled user experience and make browsing through the more than 100,000 available movies and TV episodes on LG Google TV a breeze.

   LG Smart TV's dual core CPU enables easy menu navigation, fast internet browsing and video streaming. The additional processor power allows the TruPicture XD Engine to process images quickly and precisely, resulting in richer colors, deeper contrast and greater overall picture clarity.

   And LG has applied its advanced CINEMA SCREEN design to the premium model to offer a sleek, modern look. This design further minimizes width of the bezel, giving the TV a streamlined appearance while creating the impression of a borderless display. Along with the LG Google TV's unique stand design, it integrates perfectly with interior design of a living room.

   The LG Smart TV with Google TV offers superb connectivity options and can connect to a variety of devices wirelessly. With the latest YouTube app update for Android, smartphones and tablets can be automatically paired with Google TV over the same home network via Wi-Fi, making it easy to send videos from your device to your TV.

   Gamers will be pleased to know that LG Google TV will offer the OnLive? app pre-installed, which transforms the TV into an incredible gaming platform without a console. The app makes hundreds of high quality video games available instantly from the cloud. Also offering CINEMA 3D TV functionality, the LG Google TV employs FPR technology to give movie buffs and gamers a great 3D effect without the distracting flicker.

 
