
 We heard that the curved OLED HDTV prototypes LG showed at CES would be coming soon, and now it's official. A Korean press release indicates we can expect the 55EA9800 to launch in the next month, with shipments starting in June. According to the specs, its 4.3mm depth results in a weight of just 17kg, probably thanks to a carbon-fiber reinforced frame. Like an IMAX theater screen, the edges are curved towards the viewer to provide a more immersive feeling. Given the fact that we're still waiting for LG's flat OLED TVs to see a wider release we doubt it will arrive on US shelves any time soon, but until then you can check out our in-person pics from CES below, and a video after the break.
 Update: LG sent over the English press release, which confirms pre-orders start today at more than 1,400 retail locations with a price of 15 million Korean won ($13,500), a healthy bump over the standard version's $10K MSRP. Release dates and pricing for non-Korean markets are coming "in the months ahead," check after the break to read all the details first hand.
 



  Show full PR text    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  LG BEGINS SALES OF WORLD'S FIRST CURVED OLED TV  Pre-orders for 55-inch TV Starts Today in Korea, Shipping Next Month  SEOUL, Apr. 29, 2013 – LG Electronics (LG) announced that it will begin accepting pre-orders for its 55-inch (54.6-inch diagonal) Curved OLED TV (Model 55EA9800) in South Korea, with deliveries to begin next month. More than 1,400 LG retail stores in South Korea will begin taking orders today from customers for the premium TV, priced at KRW 15 million (approximately USD 13,500). The announcement makes LG the first and only company to commercialize both the flat screen OLED TV, which began shipping to Korean customers in February, and the Curved OLED TV, giving LG a sig-nificant lead in the OLED segment that is expected to grow to 7 million units by 2016, according to DisplaySearch.  "Our Curved OLED TV is not only the proof of LG's unmatched leadership in next-generation displays but also a testament to LG's commitment to bringing to market the most exciting TV technology available today," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of LG's Home Entertainment Company.  The new EA9800 model features the industry's very first curved screen ergonomic de-sign, providing an "IMAX-like" viewing experience in the home. With more than five years of research behind developing the optimum curvature, the entire screen surface is equidistant from the viewer's eyes, eliminating the problem of screen-edge visual dis-tortion and loss of detail.  Only 4.3 millimeters (0.17 inches) thin and weighing just 17 kilograms (37.48 pounds), LG's Curved OLED TV produces astoundingly vivid and realistic images thanks to its proprietary WRGB technology. The unique Four-Color Pixel system features a white sub-pixel, which works in conjunction with the conventional red, blue, green setup to create the perfect color output. What's more, LG's exclusive Color Refiner delivers even greater tonal enhancement, resulting in images that are more vibrant and natural  www.lg.com  2  than anything seen before. As in the original flat screen OLED TV, the Curved OLED TV also offers an infinite contrast ratio for optimal contrast levels regardless of ambient brightness or viewing angle. TÜV Rheinland, Intertek and VDE, three international test-ing and certification bodies, recently recognized LG's Curved OLED TV for its superb picture quality.  Finally, LG's Curved OLED TV features thin transparent film speakers in the crystal clear stand, providing high-quality sound without compromising the TV's beautiful de-sign. LG's Curved OLED TV took the top "red dot: best of the best" honor at the pres-tigious design competition earlier this year.  Timing and pricing of the Curved OLED TV in markets outside of Korea will be an-nounced in the months ahead.  # # #  About LG Electronics, Inc.  LG Electronics Inc. (KSE: 066570.KS) is a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile communications and home appliances, employing 87,000 people working in 113 offices around the world. With 2012 global sales of USD 45.22 billion (KRW 50.96 trillion), LG comprises four business units – Home Entertainment, Mobile Communications, Home Appliance, and Air Conditioning & Energy Solution – and is one of the world's leading producers of flat panel TVs, mobile devices, air conditioners, washing machines and refrigerators. LG Elec-tronics is a 2013 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year. For more news and information on LG Electronics, please visit www.LGnewsroom.com.

   

