
 

LG has been pushing its flavor of 3DTV as Cinema 3D, and now it has slipped the theater related nomenclature onto another feature, the 1mm thin LCD bezels it has dubbed "Cinema Screen". It claims this move brings the experience closer to the theater, but that's not the only new feature for 2012. LG announced it will offer Dual Play, where it uses polarized glasses to let two different players see only their perspective on the full screen at once in games that support it. Vizio demonstrated the feature last year as Versus and Sony brought it to market in the PlayStation 3D display. We'll likely get more time with those razor thin bezels once CES is truly underway, for now check after the break for the press release.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  LG'S CINEMA SCREEN DESIGN REDUCES CINEMA 3D SMART TV BEZEL TO ONE MILLIMETER		Share 		New LG CINEMA 3D Smart TVs Create Optimal Environment for Immersive		Viewing Through New 3D Technologies Led by CINEMA SCREEN Design 		SEOUL, Jan. 8, 2012 -– LG Electronics (LG) will introduce the CINEMA SCREEN Design at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. Featured in the new CINEMA 3D Smart TVs for 2012, CINEMA SCREEN Design reduces the bezel to just 1 mm, creating a more optimal and comfortable environment for immersive 3D viewing. 		"The 3D experience is still evolving and we at LG intend to push the limits of what 3D can deliver," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of LG Home Entertainment Company. "With our 2012 CINEMA 3D Smart TVs, we have been able to take a significant step forward, thanks to a series of new and upgraded 3D features led by the CINEMA SCREEN Design." 		The CINEMA SCREEN Design translates the latest advances in LG's display technology into an aesthetically superior form. Bezels that surround the new CINEMA 3D Smart TVs have been slimmed down to negligible levels, removing physical obstructions to allow greater immersion of 3D effects, reminiscent of movie screens at cinemas. 		The CINEMA SCREEN Design is accompanied by new CINEMA 3D glasses for 2012. Presented in three elegant models, the new CINEMA 3D glasses are 20 percent lighter than the previous ones, increasing their comfort to allow longer 3D viewing. 		Such optimal setting for immersive 3D viewing is complemented by a range of new 3D technologies. Using the theory of 3D TV technology, Dual Play is the solution for an ultimate gaming experience. With LG's Dual Play function and the special Dual Play glasses, players see two entirely different full images, as opposed to the traditional split screen, where each player has to focus on half the screen. Meanwhile, 3D Sound Zooming generates audio output that is synchronized with the location and movement of the various on-screen objects, so immersive sound can complement immersive visuals. 		As always, the new CINEMA 3D Smart TVs come equipped with LG's Smart TV function. Featuring over 1,200 apps, LG's Smart TV offers a variety of premium content services, including 3D World, where viewers can access a growing abundance of 3D content. Furthermore, the built-in 2D to 3D conversion engine makes 3D content practically limitless. 		All aforementioned features of the new CINEMA 3D Smart TVs will be available for viewing at CES 2012 in Las Vegas starting on January 10, 2012.
 