
 
 We stopped by The Society for Information Display's (SID) 2012 convention in not-so-sunny Boston, Massachusetts to feast our eyes upon LG Display's latest creation: a five-inch display panel with Retina-smashing specs. We're talking about a screen that sports a 1920 x 1080 full HD (FHD) resolution, 16:9 aspect ratio and 440ppi density -- not to mention the Advanced High Performance In-Plane Switching (AH-IPS) technology. The Life's Good arm states that the window, which has not yet been paired with a smartphone, will provide "Full HDTV quality" on a phone for the first time. Seeing is believing, though, so have a look at our gallery then saunter past the break to read what the company's VP of IT and Mobile Development had to say about the future of screens.



 As we noted above, LG Display was kind enough to provide us face-time with Dr. Byeong-Koo Kim, its VP of IT and Mobile Development. Although our time was short, we tried to gather as much information as we could from Dr. Kim. Here are some of the takeaways:

  The new five-inch FHD display, which has been in the works since the first half of 2011, will be on sale later this year.  Five inch devices are already extremely popular in China, Japan and Korea, and, with the explosion of HD televisions, Dr. Kim expects users from across the globe to opt for larger format screens  US consumers, at the moment, seem to be drawn to screens that are four-inches on the diagonal.  Dr. Kim strongly believes that smartphones, on the whole, will become larger -- with screens even larger than five-inches -- as HD content becomes more ubiquitous.  This display is designed for smartphones (we asked about the possibility of an LG Vu 2 and didn't get very far), but might also be appropriate in other applications -- like in-car infotainment systems.  AH-IPS is the technology to use when you have a small form-factor due to its wider viewing angles, density, outdoor readability and color characteristics.  LG Display's will be laser focused on full HD products in the future.  The other viewing technology that Dr. Kim finds extremely exciting is flexible OLED displays.  

