
The curtains on the LG G2 won't be pulled back until August 7th, but that hasn't stopped the South Korean firm from announcing a case for the smartphone. Dubbed QuickWindow, the sheath sports a slot on its front that reveals a portion of the device's screen à la Samsung's S View Cover. Just slide a finger against the exposed display and a special QuickView UI will light up the area with incoming call details, text messages, a clock, weather report, alarm or music player. Though a release date for the G2 is still MIA, the case is set to launch alongside the phone in black, blue, mint, pink, purple, white and yellow. In a world filled with case leaks for unannounced hardware, we can't help but feel strange seeing a bonafide cover before we've officially laid eyes on the device it's made for.




Show full PR textLG EXPANDS ACCESSORY OFFERINGS WITH PREMIUM SMARTPHONE CASE
Convenient QuickWindowTM Case for LG G2 Available in Seven ColorsSEOUL, July 30, 2013 - LG Electronics (LG) will be introducing a line of premium cases for its upcoming flagship device, LG G2, to be available at the same time as the smartphone. The aesthetically beautiful case, QuickWindow, is the newest addition to LG's growing premium smartphone accessory lineup, which includes cases, headsets and portable chargers.
An opening or "window" on the cover of QuickWindow allows users to glance at various information displays without having to open the cover flap. With only a light swipe of a finger, the QuickWindow UX will appear in the window which users can view while on the go. Information that can be viewed through the QuickWindow cover include a clock, weather report, alarm, music player, incoming phone call details and incoming text messages.
"LG's newest premium accessory delivers practical and stylish options while protecting the smartphone, which for many consumers is a significant investment," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, president and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "Our smartphone designers have in mind the type of case they'd like to see on their designs. So it made a lot of sense for LG designers to share with our customers their vision of the perfect accessory."
The QuickWindow case for the LG G2 will be available in seven different colors, including black, white, pink, purple, blue, mint and yellow. The cases will be available simultaneously with the launch of the LG G2.

