
 
So, there's good news and bad. Naturally, we're going to start with the former. A month after we spotted this character sneaking around at Mobile World Congress, LG has finally taken the (official) wraps off of its incoming WCP-700 Wireless Charging Pad. It's a pretty familiar design -- a slim (6.29- x 3.54- x 0.39-inch) inductive charging pad with a battery of LEDs to let you know the current status of things. We're guessing this guy is designed to work initially with the Verizon-bound Revolution, but given that LG makes no mention of what phones / cases will eventually be compatible, it'll have to remain just that for now. As for the bad news? Well, aside from not knowing what exactly this unit is for (in terms of compatibility), we're also left in the dark when it comes to pricing and a ship date. But hey, at least we've got a trio of high resolution images to gawk at. 

Update: Fulton Innovation has just confirmed that LG is using its Qi-compliant eCoupled technology for the charging pad.





Show full PR textLG MOBILE PHONES INTRODUCES REVOLUTIONARY WIRELESS CHARGING SOLUTIONLG Wireless Charging Pad Features Industry Leading Charging EfficiencySEOUL, Mar. 22, 2011 -- LG Electronics (LG) announced today the LG Wireless Charging Pad (WCP-700). Featuring a sleek and sharp design, LG Wireless Charging Pad is poised to revolutionize wireless charging as we know it. With inductive coils built into the battery doors and internal contacts, advanced wireless charging technology allows for a cord-free power source - alleviating the need for external connections that limit the phones usability.LG Wireless Charging Pad provides industry leading wireless charging and ergonomics. For easy and intuitive use, LG Wireless Charging Pad features audible and tactile feedback when a phone is placed on the pad, as well as multi-colored LED lights to indicate charging status. Taking the hassle out of charging your wireless devices, LG Wireless Charging Pad also sports a compact, sleek design to easily accommodate an on-the-go lifestyle.Key Features:- Visual, audible and tactile feedback – allows user to see, feel and hear when the phone is placed properly on the pad* Power LED - Blue = Plugged in* Battery LED - Orange = Ready to Charge* Battery LED - Flashing Green = Phone is Charging Correctly* Battery LED - Solid Green = Phone is Fully Charged- Slim and sleek design – allows for convenient storage, taking up minimal space- Effective Range – 7mm from center of placement guide- Dimensions – 6.29"x3.54"x0.39"
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

