
Two days after offering up some UK sale info (and roughly a month after making its pocket debut in Berlin), LG's 8.3-inch tablet is getting official for the US. You can pick the G Pad 8.3 online now through Best Buy's site -- and, should you actually want to see that 1920 x 1200 display before dropping $350 on the thing, it will be arriving in Best Buy stores on November 3rd. More info -- including a quick spec refresher -- can be had in the press release after the break.



Show full PR textLG Launches Perfect Companion To Your Android Smartphone, LG G Pad 8.3
LG Electronics today announced the U.S. launch of LG G Pad 8.3, a new device in the company's premium "G" line of mobile products. Now available for purchase online at BestBuy.com, and in-store at retailers nationwide starting with Best Buy on November 3 for an MSRP of $349.99, LG G Pad 8.3 is the ideal Android companion and entertainment device, offering simple connectivity capabilities, a stunning 8.3-inch Full HD IPS display and an impressive suite of powerful features.
LG G Pad 8.3 offers easy-to-sync connectivity across all your Android mobile devices, including the new LG G2, with QPair*. When enabled with LG G Pad 8.3, QPair affords users a seamless extension to their Android smartphones by providing simultaneous access to recently opened apps, incoming calls, text messages and more. LG G Pad 8.3 users can even reply to texts and use LG features like QuickMemo to capture and comment on images, making mobile sharing effortless between LG G Pad 8.3 and other Android devices.
"From its light weight to its sleek design, LG G Pad 8.3 is the ultimate complement to the Android smartphone experience," said James Fishler, senior vice president, marketing, LG Electronics USA. "LG G Pad 8.3 delivers top-notch viewing and entertainment for Android users with its impressive Full HD screen and useful, intuitive multitasking tools like those found in LG G2."
As easy to handle as it is powerful, LG G Pad 8.3 features a large 8.3-inch Full HD IPS display with 273 pixels per inch for sharp detail, clarity and high-definition imagery. A long-lasting 4,600 mAh Li-Polymer battery and quad-core processor combines with the amazingly clear LG G Pad 8.3 display for comfortable viewing of your favorite video, eZine or graphics-intense mobile game.
Designed with an intuitive, simple user interface, LG G Pad 8.3 is ideal for efficiency and utilizes LG's suite of multitasking capabilities, such as QSlide Function™ 2.0, which allows the user to float two apps over the main screen with adjustable window size and transparency. The new device also comes equipped with Slide Aside, letting users simply move between any three open applications with a swipe of three fingers, for faster and more productive multitasking.
Key Features Include:
Processor: 1.7 GHz Quad Core Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 600Display: 8.3-inch, Full HD IPS (1920x1200 pixels/273 ppi)Memory: 2GB RAM, 16 GB eMMC ROM; microSD Slot up to 64 GBCamera: 5MP AF BSIBattery: 4,600 mAh Li-PolymerOperating System: Android Jelly Bean 4.2.2.Size: 216.8 x 126.5 x 8.3mmWeight: 338g
LG G Pad 8.3 is available online now at BestBuy.com and will be available in-store at retailers nationwide beginning with Best Buy on November 3. For more information and pricing details, please visit www.lg.com.

