
 

It's a good time to be a stylus fan. Not only has Samsung debuted its handwriting-friendly Series 7 Slate and Galaxy Note tablets, but LG is also bringing the stylus into the living room with its new series of PenTouch plasma TVs. Available in both 50-inch and 60-inch varieties, each TV comes with a pair of Touch Pens that let you either control the TV and included software like a calendar and photo gallery, or simply draw on it to your heart's content. As if that wasn't enough, the top-end 60-inch model is also a 3D TV, and include one pair of active shutter glasses -- it'll run you $2,199, while the non-3D models come in at $1,699 and $1,099. Unfortunately, you'll also have to supply your own Windows PC to take full advantage of that touch-functionality.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  LG Electronics Adds Innovative 'Touch' to Plasma Home Entertainment 		New Display Combines 'PenTouch' Stylus Technology, Superb Picture Quality of Premium Plasma TV		LG ELECTRONICS USA, INC. LOGO LG Electronics logo. (PRNewsFoto/LG Electronics USA, Inc.) HILLSIDE, NJ UNITED STATES  		ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Aug. 25, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Electronics has launched "LG PenTouch TV" – an innovative series of plasma HDTVs that takes TV interaction to a whole new level – available now through specialty retailers across the United States. When connected to a personal computer* the LG PenTouch TV lets viewers use a special touch-sensitive stylus pen to interact with the Internet and to create, modify and control a variety of content directly on the screen. 		"Touch displays have become the norm in mobile phones and tablets, but remain almost unheard of in TVs," said Jay Vandenbree, senior vice president, home entertainment, LG Electronics USA. "The PenTouch TV brings all the excitement of touch displays, computers and the Internet to the world of television, with functions and programs that are great fun and really educational. Families, in particular, will have more than ever to enjoy on LG PenTouch TV plasma screens." 		Users can activate the PenTouch mode with a single click on the remote control. The interface is intuitive and easy to navigate. In PenTouch mode, users can access files created on their PCs, and work on them, edit them or move them around the screen using the stylus. The TV supports simultaneous two-pen use, and pen batteries can be recharged through USB ports on the TV or PC. 		Using PenTouch software, which is provided with the TV, budding artists can draw pictures directly onto the screen and then save the files for further editing or effects manipulation. If the PC is connected to a printer, users can print their PenTouch creations, too. More complex software features include Gallery, which comes with a built-in slide show feature; Digital Photo Frame, which lets users embellish their work with the frame of their choice; and even a Family Calendar, where you can leave notes and to-do lists for your family members to see. The LG PenTouch TV can also interact with Internet content when connected to a PC. 		The LG PenTouch TV uses a protective scratch-resistant glass screen, while auto sharpness control and color materialization technology enhance viewing. Complementing the unit's stylish TruSlim Frame design, the LG PenTouch TV incorporates a stand that has been specially designed to provide more stability when owners or their children are using the PenTouch feature. 		Three LG PenTouch models, two 60-inch (59.8 inches diagonal) class and one 50-inch class (49.9 inches diagonal) plasma HDTVs are available. The 60-inch class 60PZ850 is 3D capable, earning the coveted THX 3D and 2D Display Certification. It has a suggested retail price of $2,199. The 60-inch class 60PV490 and the 50-inch class 50PV490 both offer Full HD 1080p display capability and exclusive LG technologies, including Picture Wizard self-calibration, Intelligent Sensor automatic picture adjustment and Smart Energy Saving features. The 60PV490 and 50PV490 have suggested retail prices of $1,699 and $1,099, respectively. 		* Recommended PC system requirements to support the LG PenTouch TV include: Dual-core 2GHz or better CPU; 1GB or more of memory, 500MB or more HDD, graphics card with 1920x1080 (for PZ850 series) or 1024x768 (for PV490 series) connected via an RGB or HDMI output port. The Windows 7 (32 or 64 bit) operating system is recommended due to its support of multi-touch applications. Other supported operating systems: 32 bit Windows XP and 23 and 64 bit Windows Vista. The Windows 7 Starter Edition is not supported. 		About LG Electronics USA 		LG Electronics USA, Inc., based in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., is the North American subsidiary of LG Electronics, Inc., a $48 billion global force and technology leader in consumer electronics, home appliances and mobile communications. In the United States, LG Electronics sells a range of stylish and innovative home entertainment products, mobile phones, home appliances, commercial displays, air conditioning systems and solar energy solutions, all under LG's "Life's Good" marketing theme. For more information, please visit www.lg.com.
 