
 
Though it was technically announced back at CES, T-Mobile just barely talked about the LG G-Slate there, spending more time chatting up Dell's Streak 7 and letting Motorola's Xoom get virtually all of the Honeycomb attention. Well, that's changed today with a handful of official new details: turns out the G-Slate features a 1GHz dual-core Tegra 2 processor, 32GB of internal storage, both a gyroscope and accelerometer, and -- this is key -- stereoscopic rear-facing video cameras capable of 1080p 3D capture, one of which doubles as a 5 megapixel still camera with LED flash. There's also a third 2 megapixel camera up front for video chat over T-Mobile's HSPA+ network or WiFi. Going back to that 3D business for a moment, you'll need glasses (it's unclear if they're active or passive) to enjoy recorded or downloaded 3D content on the G-Slate's 8.9-inch display -- but you'll also be able to output 1080p video over HDMI to the external display of your choice. Pricing is still an open question, but the companies are now comfortable enough to say that we can expect it "this spring," so go ahead and start thinking about all the blooming springtime plant life you'll be filming in three glorious dimensions. Follow the break for the full press release.

Update: While T-Mobile hedges its bets with a "spring" launch, LG says that it'll be hitting US soil in March as one of the first Honeycomb tablets. The honor of being first will almost certainly go to the Motorola Xoom -- Google's in-house "dogfooding" tablet.





Show full PR textT-Mobile and LG Unveil the T-Mobile G-Slate with Google, Delivering a Premium Mobile HD Entertainment Experience on a Tablet· T-Mobile USA, Inc. and LG Mobile Phones today unveiled their Android™ 3.0 (Honeycomb)-powered tablet, the T-Mobile® G-Slate™ with Google™ by LG. With a brilliant, HD 8.9-inch 3D-capable multi-touch display, the T-Mobile G-Slate delivers a groundbreaking mobile entertainment experience, including the ability to record 3D and full HD video.· Expected to be available this spring, the G-Slate is built for speed on America's Largest 4G Network™ and is the first tablet in T-Mobile's pioneering G-series of devices, which began with the world's first Android-powered smartphone just over two years ago. The first 4G tablet from T-Mobile and LG, the G-Slate is powered by Android 3.0 (Honeycomb), the latest version of Google's Android platform, which is optimized for tablets.· In addition, the G-Slate will be among the first tablets to feature 3D capabilities including built-in support for 3D graphics, enabling consumers to capture and share their own 3D videos and experience 3D HD content right on the device with the aid of 3D glasses.· The sleek, lightweight G-Slate can easily be held upright in one hand for reading an ebook or magazine, watching streaming TV or browsing the web while on the go. Featuring a rear-facing stereoscopic video recorder with 1080p for HD video capture and a five megapixel camera with LED flash, plus a front-facing two megapixel camera. Customers can video chat with friends and family over T-Mobile's network or Wi-Fi. · The G-Slate asupports 720p HD on-device video playback and HDMI output to show 1080p content on 3D and HD displays. With a dual core 1 GHz NVIDIA Tegra 2 processor and Adobe® Flash® support, the G-Slate enables quick and seamless browsing of rich web content, multitasking and gaming. The G-Slate will also provide a superior entertainment experience when streaming live TV or downloading music and videos with lightning-fast speed over T-Mobile's 4G network.· Additionally, the G-Slate includes 32GB of internal memory and features a built-in gyroscope, accelerometer and adaptive lighting for the latest applications and the ultimate gaming experience.
 