
 As LG continues its slew of CES 2013 pre-announcements, the latest is a new display technology it's bringing to the projection arena, an ultra short throw laser projector. Capable of creating a 100-inch screen from just 22 inches (56cm) away, the "Hecto" Laser TV a 1080p shooter that can change the way owners design their home theater. If you'd like to use it as an all-in-one home theater to go (the screen is included, picture after the break), it also has a digital tuner and 10w speakers built-in, with three HDMI inputs, an RS-232 port and Smart TV capabilities controlled by LG's Magic Remote. As you can see above, it follows LG's "Dynamic Arc Design" with a max height of just 5.7-inches. It carries a 1,000,000 to 1 contrast ratio with WiDi and Miracast compatibility and LG claims the laser system will run for up to 25,000 hours without replacement. There's no word on pricing or release date, although it likely won't be value priced. We expect to get a few more details when we see it in Las Vegas, check the press release after the break for all the information currently available.



 
 
  Show full PR text   LG Announces Cinematic 100-inch Class Laser TV  'HECTO' Laser-based Illumination System Delivers Full HD Picture, Creates Brilliant, Space-Saving Home Theater Experience
    ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Dec. 26, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Electronics (LG) announced the launch of its 100-Inch class (100 inch diagonal) Laser TV featuring both Smart TV and Digital TV capabilities.   An impressive home cinema system, the 100-inch class LG "HECTO" Laser TV comprises a special screen and an external Ultra Short Throw (UST) projection unit. The unique system, which will be demonstrated for the first time next month at the 2013 International CES®, offers Full HD 1080p resolution and incredible contrast as a result of LG's advanced laser-based illumination system.

   "LG's 100-inch class Laser TV takes projection technology and makes it perfectly suitable for both the boardroom and the living room," said Havis Kwon , President and CEO of the LG Electronics Home Entertainment Company. "In the coming year, LG will continue to introduce innovative TV products to provide an outstanding productivity and entertainment experience for our customers."

   Brilliant Home Theater Experience  Between its picture quality and large screen, LG's 100-inch class Laser TV offers an uncanny theater-like experience at home, but without the difficult installation required by previous projector-based systems. A standard projector system requires a considerable distance from the screen to create a large image and typically needs to be installed on the ceiling. However, LG's Laser TV makes installation and viewing easier by allowing users to place the lens a mere 22 inches (approximately 56 centimeters) from the screen, while having the flexibility to position it near the floor or fasten it to the ceiling. LG's Laser TV offers 1080p Full HD resolution and 1,000,000:1 dynamic contrast ratio, rendering vivid and crisp images that pop out in dark as well as lighter environments.

   LG's Laser TV has a digital tuner and two 10W built-in speakers embedded in the projection unit to support virtual surround sound for a more authentic cinema experience at home. A complete complement of inputs, including 3 HDMIs, allow for connection of other source devices. An optical audio output, as well as RS-232 interface, will allow for integration into virtually any home theater environment. The device itself features LG's understated yet stylish Dynamic Arc Design, creating subtly curved surfaces that reach a mere 5.7 inches in height. The 100-inch class screen adopts LG's CINEMA SCREEN Design aesthetic which limits the bezel and makes it suitable for any interior decor.

   Smart TV Capabilities  The Laser TV supports LG's Smart TV platform, which includes a host of impressive features, from built-in Wi-Fi, premium content providers, like Netflix or YouTube, Smart World app store, to the easy-to-use Magic Remote*. The system also allows consumers to manage personal content, such as pictures, home videos and music libraries via USB or LG Cloud.  LG's Smart TV platform provides a customizable dashboard and smart connectivity features that streamline access to content from compatible smartphones, laptops, storage devices and the Internet. With built-in WiDi and Wi-Fi direct (Miracast), content from any compatible external device can be wirelessly shared with the TV. Navigation of services and external devices via the dashboard is made easy with the Magic Remote which utilizes four modes of control – voice, gesture, point and wheel.

   Better Reliability  The laser-based illumination system uses specialized lamps embedded in the projection unit, delivering superior picture quality. This system can run for up to 25,000 hours without replacement, roughly five times longer than mercury-based lamps.  *Smart TV devices include HDTVs, Blu-ray Disc Players and Network Home Theater Systems. Internet connection and certain subscriptions required and sold separately. Content and services vary by product and are subject to change without notice.  *Designs, features and specification subject to change without notice

   PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1xES9)

 
