
 



		Having raided the smartphone coffers of its parent just a few days ago, today Sprint subsidiary, Boost Mobile, is at it again. Today's plunder comes in the form of the LG Marquee -- the Now Network's version of the Optimus Black -- which we first espied in carrier grab back in September. Setting you back $279, it'll be offered in Boost Mobile stores January 23rd, followed by everywhere else come February. PR on the 4-inch Gingerbread-totin' smartphone is after the break.

 

 		Show full PR text 		Feel Svelte this New Year Without Going to the Gym with the		Ultra-thin LG Marquee Combined with Shrinking Payments from Boost Mobile 		Boost Mobile starts off 2012 by continuing to add versatility and range to its growing handset lineup 		IRVINE, Calif. – Boost Mobile, ranked Highest in Customer Service Performance and Purchase Experience among Non-Contract Wireless Providers by J.D. Power and Associates1, and LG Mobile today announced the upcoming release of the sleek and stylish Android™ smartphone, LG Marquee™. LG Marquee, previously available only with a two-year contract, will now be paired with Boost Mobile's award-winning, no-contract $55 Android Monthly Unlimited plan with Shrinkage, which includes unlimited nationwide talk, text messaging, Web, email and calls to 411. 		This ultra-thin smartphone is only 0.36 inches thick, yet it packs an aggressive list of features that quickly make other no-contract Android phones last year's news. The LG Marquee features an impressive 4-inch clear and bright 700-nit NOVA display. The 5-megapixel rear-facing camera and the 2-megapixel front-facing camera offer maximum versatility in creating and sharing photos or videos with family and friends. Equipped with a 1GHz processor and 4GB of internal storage, LG Marquee makes downloading, posting, commenting, watching and playing faster and easier than ever. 		"We are thrilled to partner with LG to add one of the best-kept secrets in the Android smartphone category to Boost Mobile's device family," said Andre Smith, vice president-Boost Mobile. "The LG Marquee demonstrates the growing evolution of no-contract device options and pairs perfectly with Boost Mobile's award-winning monthly plans where the longer you stay, the less you pay." 		LG Marquee features include:		• Android 2.3 with access to Android Market™		• 4-inch clear and bright 700-nit NOVA touchscreen		• 5MP rear-facing camera with 3x zoom and 720p video capability		• 2MP front-facing camera		• 1GHz processor with 4GB of internal storage		• GPS-enabled		• Stereo Bluetooth® technology		• Easy Access to Gmail™ and Google Talk™ 		Boost Mobile and LG present "Party Like a Celebrity" sweepstakes		To celebrate the launch of LG Marquee, Boost Mobile and LG today announce the "Party Like a Celebrity" sweepstakes (official rules at www.PartyLikeACelebrity.com). Beginning Jan. 18 through Feb. 2, consumers can enter for a chance to win two grand prizes, which include a trip to Los Angeles, an LG Marquee with two months of Android Monthly Unlimited no-contract service, a celebrity makeover, and a Hollywood shopping spree (see official rules for entry details and conditions). 		Pricing and availability		LG Marquee will be available Jan. 23 for $279.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations across the country and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. LG Marquee will be available in additional national retailers by the end of the February. 		LG Marquee customers also have the opportunity to take advantage of Boost Mobile's $55 Android Monthly Unlimited plan with Shrinkage. For every six on-time payments, the cost of Boost Mobile's Android Monthly Unlimited plan will shrink by $5, eventually getting down to as low as $40 a month for unlimited nationwide talk, text messaging, Web, email and calls to 411. Payments do not need to be consecutive to qualify for the next savings milestone. 		Customers can also protect their LG Marquee with Phone Insurance that is now available for Boost Monthly Unlimited customers. For $5 per month customers are covered if their device breaks, is lost, stolen or damaged – even by liquid. 		Mobile ID and Boost Zone		LG Marquee also comes preloaded with Mobile ID, an exclusive service from Boost that allows customers to download and install "ID packs." The packs deliver a complete mobile experience, including applications, widgets, ringtones and wallpapers, in a few simple clicks. ID packs are designed to meet a customer's individual lifestyle or interests, such as sports, entertainment or music. ID packs that can be loaded on the device include MTV Music Pack, E!, Socially Connected, Professional, Entertainment, Lo2Yo Latino, Lo2Yo Mujer and Lo2Yo Futbol. 		Additionally, LG Marquee features 'Boost Zone,' a centralized place on the device where Boost Mobile customers can access their account, pay their bill, get assistance with their phone, and stay up-to-date on Boost Mobile's products and services. Boost Zone will be coming soon to all Boost Mobile Android devices.
 