
       
Hey there, Mini GD880 -- we've seen plenty of you around here lately -- but we were beginning to wonder if you'd ever get totally, completely, 100 percent official. Well, here we are, day two of MWC, and it was definitely worth the wait. LG's latest featurephone packs a 5 megapixel cam, WiFi, 7.2Mbps HSDPA, and integrated FM radio into a frame that's just 10.6mm in depth and weighs just 99 grams -- about as thin and light as it gets. It also boasts continual over-the-air syncing via LG's new Air Sync service, making it a pretty smart phone -- for a featurephone. The Mini GD880 will be available throughout Europe beginning in March, for an as yet undetermined amount of cash money. The full press release is after the break, but if your heart is filled with desire for this beast, you can hit up the hands-on and impressions in the more coverage link for more photos.
      

 

Show full PR textLG Unveils The World's First 3 Way Sync Feature Phone At MWC 2010Seoul (Korea Newswire) February 16, 2010 -- LG Electronics (LG), a global leader and technology innovator in mobile communications, has showcased its new LG Mini (LG GD880), the world`s first feature phone to support 3-Way Sync service, at the Mobile World Congress. The mobile trade show began on the 15th of February in the Spanish city of Barcelona and will run until the 18th.Measuring 10.6mm in depth and weighing just 99g, the LG Mini boasts an array of superb features including LG's 3-Way Sync service, called LG Air Sync. This next-generation mobile technology enables users to continually sync the data on their phones with information stored on their PCs and their browser history over a wireless network, ensuring that contents such as photos, video clips, calendars and phone books can be updated and accessed at all times. As the first feature phone to support LG Air Sync, a form of the cloud computing so far available only on smartphones, LG expects the LG Mini to generate considerable buzz on the market."We live in an information-oriented society with vast amounts of data and content scattered all over the place. Because of this, one of the major battles in the future mobile market is likely to be in the data management technology industry, focusing on seamless access among different devices," said Dr. Skott Ahn, President and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "We have developed the LG Mini, which offers technological integration with its unique LG Air Sync service, in response to this trend."In keeping tabs on users' personal preferences and information, the LG Air Sync works in three ways. First, through the History Sync function, the phone's browser is updated with the 100 most recent websites users visited on their PC, allowing users to return to the exact webpage where they left off. Second, through the Personal Information Manager (PIM) Sync function, contact details and daily plans in the LG Mini can be transferred to user's PC. Even when users lose or misplace their phone, any important data will be still accessible through their PC. Finally, with the R-Click function, pictures and information on users` PCs can be transferred instantly to the LG Mini, meaning any picture on a website can become the LG Mini`s wallpaper with just a simple click of the mouse.The smallest and slimmest 3.2-inch full touchscreen phone on the market today, the LG Mini also comes with speedy web browsing and fast push email functions for even greater user convenience. Thanks to powerful SNS features, users can easily keep in touch with friends online via social network sites such as Facebook and Twitter while also getting constant updates of what their friends are up to.With its tiny frame, the LG Mini also boasts a 5.0 megapixel camera, Wi-Fi, A-GPS, FM radio and 7.2 Mbps HDSPA. The LG Mini will be available in Europe from March, followed by other markets.News Source: LG Electronics Inc.Web Site: http://www.lge.co.kr
 