
 
 The final middle piece of LG's L-style puzzle, the 4-inch Optimus L5, is pegged to arrive in the UK, Germany and France in the next two weeks. The sub-10mm phone packs the same design elements seen in the rest of the L-style series, meaning it'll also look uncannily similar to both the incoming Optimus Vu and Prada Phone 3.0. Aside from Android 4.0, the mid-ranger doesn't house that many surprises underneath those designer lines. Ho-hum specifications include a single core 800MHz processor, 4GB of (microSD-expandable) internal storage and a 5-megapixel camera. Once it's toured Western Europe, the device has plans to see the Middle East, Asia, Central and South America, although LG isn't saying whether the Optimus L5 has plans for a visit to North America.



  Show full PR text   STYLISH LG OPTIMUS L5 MAKES GLOBAL DEBUT  Elegant and Thin, Newest LG Smartphone is Slimmest in Class   SEOUL, June 17, 2012 – The LG Optimus L5, one of LG's stylish, high fashion L-Series smartphones, will make its global debut in key European markets this month. The device will be available in the U.K., Germany and France, followed by markets in CIS, Middle East and Asia before crossing the ocean over to Central America and South America.

   True to L-Style's elegant design philosophy, the LG Optimus L5 is a seamless merger of style and technology. Dressed in a sensuously slim body measuring only 9.5mm, the smartphone comes packed with intuitive and intelligent features such as dual SIM capabilities (in Asia, CIS, Middle East, Central and South America only) and NFC "Tag & Play" (in Europe and North America) for mobile commerce and peer-to-peer sharing.

   Running on the Google's latest Ice Cream Sandwich Android operating system, the LG Optimus L5 offers the best-in-class 4.0-inch display for a roomy and error-free mobile experience. The new user interface also lets you get more done with fewer finger taps. The Optimus L5 boasts LG's new User Experience (UX) with QuickMemoTM which allows users the ability to instantly jot memos or notes from any screen without having to open a separate application.

   "The LG Optimus L5 is a very balanced smartphone that offers a great combination of design, display, performance, battery life and price that many will find very attractive," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "This device, along with other products in our L-Series portfolio, will especially appeal to fashion forward users everywhere."

      Key Specifications:  - Chipset: MSM7225A (Cortex A5 800MHz)  - Memory: (up to) 4GB Internal Storage / Micro SD support (up to 32GB)  - Display: 4.0-inch HVGA  - Camera: Rear 5.0 MP AF with LED Flash  - OS: Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich  - Battery: 1,500mAh  - Size: 118.3 x 66.5 x 9.5 (mm)

 
