
 The LG Optimus G has already been confirmed to be heading to US shores, but we hadn't been given any details on specific carriers. AT&T and Sprint are the first to reveal their intent to carry the quad-core smartphone. still taking advantage of the 4.7-inch 1280x768 True HD IPS PLUS display, Snapdragon S4 Pro quad-core processor, 2GB RAM, Android 4.0, a 2,100mAh battery and 32GB internal storage (with expandable memory available). Sadly, it looks like AT&T is going with an 8MP rear camera, while Sprint will opt for 13MP. As often is the case, pricing and availability weren't announced -- we didn't even get so much as a "coming months / weeks" -- so we'll keep you posted as soon as we have it. In the meantime, have a look at the press releases below the break.



  Show full PR text  New LG Optimus G(TM) from AT&T puts PC-like Power in the Power of your Hand 4G LTE Smartphone Features Snapdragon S4 Pro Quad-Core Processor  Dallas, Texas, October 03, 2012
  ShareThis  AT&T* continues to expand its wide array of 4G LTE smartphones with its latest offering, the LG Optimus G™. Optimus G delivers a perfect combination of mobile processing performance, powerful multimedia, wireless connectivity and power efficiency all packed in a clean and elegant 8.45 millimeter thin design with a Crystal Reflection pyramid patterned back.
  LG Optimus G's cross-tasking takes multi-tasking to the next level with the ability to complete complex tasks simultaneously with features like QSlide, QuickMemo and Dual Screen Dual Play. QSlide™ allows you to text or browse the web all without navigating away from the video you are watching. QuickMemo™ allows users to write, draw, or jot a memo directly on any captured screen for sharing instantly with others as an attachment or a URL. Dual Screen Dual Play shares content with other electronic devices, such as televisions and computers, freeing up the on-device display for other activities, like browsing the web.
  Optimus G includes Qualcomm's 1.5 GHz Quad-Core CPU Snapdragon S4 Pro processor, 2GB RAM, 32GB storage memory (expandable up to 80GB with a micro SD card) and a 2100 mAh Li-Polymer battery to keep up with your cross-tasking needs.
  Shooting pictures like a pro is even easier with the LG Optimus G's 8MP camera that offers advanced imaging features like:
   Zero shutter lag,  Live Shot, to capture simultaneous video and still images, and  Time Catch Shot, which takes the perfect shot even if the shutter was pressed at the wrong time.   Both images and video appear crystal clear on the 4.7" True HD IPS Plus display. The Live Zooming feature enhances the video-watching experience, allowing you to zoom in up to five times while the video is being streamed.
  "The LG Optimus G lets our customers work and play as hard as they want with one of our first quad core processor designed to deliver a great multitasking experience," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president – Devices, AT&T. "We think customers will really enjoy having the power of a computer in the palm of their hand."
  AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network**, covering 275 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With smartphones on other carriers' networks, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.
   Show full PR text    Live Without Boundaries With The All-New LG Optimus G Coming From AT&T And Sprint  [Pin It]    Leading U.S. Wireless Operators Among World's First to Offer LG Optimus G with Quad-Core Power and Speed  LG Optimus G from AT&T. (PRNewsFoto/LG Electronics USA)  Download image  LG Optimus G from Sprint. (PRNewsFoto/LG Electronics USA)  Download image

   ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Oct. 3, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Electronics today announced that the high-powered LG Optimus G superphone will be available in the United States on the AT&T and Sprint networks. As the world's first quad-core LTE (Long-Term Evolution) smartphone with the Qualcomm SnapdragonTM S4 Pro processor, LG Optimus G is not only one of the fastest phones on the market, but also one of the most powerful.

   (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20121003/LA86399-a)

   (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20121003/LA86399-b)

   Designed to set a new standard in the industry, LG Optimus G combines LG's leading LTE, display and energy technologies with Qualcomm's Snapdragon S4 Pro processor to create an extremely fast and incredible mobile experience. Equipped with a high-density 2,100mAh battery and impressive 4.7-inch True HD IPS Plus display, Optimus G users can seamlessly multitask between personal, business and entertainment needs and go beyond the boundaries of traditional on-the-go smartphone capabilities.

   "LG Optimus G is the culmination of cutting-edge technologies provided by LG's class-leading global entities," said James Fishler, senior vice president, marketing and go-to-market operations, LG Electronics USA. "Drawing upon expertise from the LG Mobile Communications Company, LG Display, LG Chem and LG Innotek , we have carefully designed a new superphone that encourages users to step beyond everyday boundaries and explore a limitless world of power and creativity."

   The elegant yet sleek design and the imaginative user experience displayed in the new Optimus G are made possible thanks to a collection of technologies from industry-leading developers in their fields. State-of-the-art display technologies from LG Innotek and LG Display such as True HD IPS Plus and Zerogap Touch, a unibody unit that eliminates the gap between the glass and the LCD panel, harmonize to offer one of the slimmest, sharpest and clearest viewing experience yet. The new battery from LG Chem has a longer life designed for multitasking. An ultra high-resolution, compact camera is employed in the Optimus G to offer super sharp photos without pixilation.

   Sprint and AT&T will be among the first wireless service providers in the world to offer the LG Optimus G, which is powered by the new Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor – a 1.5GHz quad-core CPU processor with Asysnchronous Symmetric Multiprocessing, which enables each core to power up and down independently to increase performance while saving battery life.

   Combined with LTE technology, the impressive processor allows users to easily and quickly view a video while running other apps at the same time. All of this power and functionality is housed in a light weight, eye-catching slim body to cater to fashionable lifestyles. LG developed and patented Crystal Reflection to give the back cover the ability to display different patterns depending on the angle and lighting. The intricate pattern gives Optimus G a clean finish reminiscent of a jewel.

   The Optimus G creates the perfect combination of pleasure and functionality through a unique user experience not seen on any other device. While mobile communication, business, and entertainment are easily accommodated with the Optimus G, the all-new device can also release one's inner artist with a wide range of features including:

   The QSlide Function shows two different screens simultaneously on one display so users can quickly send an important work email while playing a graphic-intense video at the same time.  QuickMemo allows users to take notes on captured documents or photos with their fingers and instantly share with colleagues as an attachment or URL.  Live Zooming enhances viewing experiences by enabling consumers to zoom in up to five times while watching video to see small details normally hidden on the screen.  Photographs can be intensified with camera capabilities like Time Catch Shot, which empowers the user to choose the best photo among various shots taken before the shutter button is pressed.  Dual Screen Dual Play not only allows mirroring between the smartphone and a TV or monitor, it also has the ability to display different content on each screen. For example, a slide presentation can be displayed on the monitor while the Optimus G shows the accompanying speaking notes.  Creativity is also put to the test by the Icon Personalizer, which allows consumers to customize the sizes and images of their most-used apps.

   Key Features:

   Advanced 13 MP or 8 MP rear-facing camera with Time Catch Shot, "cheese shutter" and Smart Shutter and Low Light Shot Noise Reduction  Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) operating system  Qualcomm Snapdragon™ S4 Pro processor with 1.5GHZ Quad-Core Krait CPUs and LTE  32 GB of memory or 16 GB of on-board memory and microSD slot pre-loaded with a 16GB SD card that can accommodate up to 64GB of expandable memory  4.7-inch WXGA True HD IPS Plus Display (1280 x 768 pixels)  Display technologies including Zerogap Touch  2,100mAh battery  Bluetooth® Version 4.0

   Additional Features:

   1.3 MP front-facing camera  Capable of 2G/3G/ 4G LTE networks  Crystal Reflection glass finish  DualScreen Dual Play feature that wirelessly displays different content on both a TV and the smartphone  Screen Zooming allows zooming in and out of lists in music player, email, text messages and the photo gallery for increased visibility.

 
