
 
 While there's already plenty of excitement around other quad-core Android phones, LG will join the party soon when its Optimus 4X HD launches in a few European countries next month. Germany, Sweden, Great Britain, Italy and Poland are all on deck in June, where this latest Optimus variant will bring a 4.7-inch 720p HD IPS LCD, Tegra 3 CPU (benchmarked and seen in white here) and 2,150mAh battery coupled with Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich. On the software front, LG is touting its ability to take and share notes with "Quick Memo" (as seen in the Optimus Vu, now updated with the ability to include hyperlinks) as well as new "Media Plex" video playback controls. We got our hands all over this one during MWC 2012 a few months ago so until it drops in your neck of the woods, check out our gallery and video for a closer look or the press release after the break.




   Show full PR text   LG'S FIRST QUAD-CORE SMARTPHONE HEADS TO EUROPE IN JUNE  LG Optimus 4X HD with Advanced User Experience (UX) Offers  Fast Performance, Superb IPS Display and Biggest Battery in its Class
    SEOUL, May 15, 2012 –- LG announced that the Optimus 4X HD, which was first introduced at Mobile World Congress (MWC) in February, will be available next month in key markets starting in Western Europe.   Beyond the fast NVIDIA Tegra 3 processor, LG's latest Android 4.0 device boasts the biggest battery among Quad-Core smartphones at 2,150mAh and a superb high resolution viewing experience with in the 4.7-inch True HD IPS display. Since MWC, the Optimus 4X HD has been upgraded with new SiO+ battery technology, Quick MemoTM to enhance productivity and Media PlexTM for an advanced multimedia experience.   The Optimus 4X HD is fitted with NVIDIA's 4-PLUS-1™ Quad-Core mobile processor, the Tegra® 3, which utilizes a fifth core for the best power efficiency and outstanding performance. For maximum performance, Tegra® 3 runs on all four cores but when in standby mode the processor defaults to the fifth, battery-saver core. In a future upgrade, LG will introduce Eco-Mode specifically for the Optimus 4X HD which will allow users to manually shut down any of the Tegra 3's cores for even more control over power consumption and performance.   The removable 2,150mAh battery utilizes advanced SiO+ technology to provide higher energy density for more power and longer run times without adding bulk to the phone's already svelte form factor.   "Beyond the fast processor, superb display and largest-in-class battery, the Optimus 4X HD is the first LG smartphone to feature the new User Experience (UX)," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "As the smartphone segment consolidates even further, it's becoming more and more apparent that both great software and great hardware are crucial to stay on top of the game. LG intends to be a strong contender in both areas and the Optimus 4X HD is our proof."   One of the new UX features in the Optimus 4X HD is Quick MemoTM, which first appeared in the Optimus Vu:. Quick MemoTM is not an app but is integrated into the operating system of the Optimus 4X HD so that it can be activated within any application, including games or video players. It gives one the ability to jot memos or notes over a screen image for saving or sharing with others. The version of Quick MemoTM found on the Optimus 4X HD is a newer version that allows URLs imbedded in memos to directly connect to web pages.   Media Plex TM is the newest addition to the Optimus 4X HD. This is a collection of software features that take image and video playback on the smartphone to a level that until now was only possible on a PC or laptop. Some of the innovative features offered by Media Plex TM include:   • Fingertip Seek that shows a preview of any video frame simply by touching the progress bar;  • Live Zooming which allows viewers to zoom in and out by pinching during video playback;  • Video Speed Control for precise control of the playback speed of a video;  • Thumbnail List Play which enables users to view thumbnails of videos playing while watching another video full screen.   The advanced 8.0MP BSI (backside illumination) sensor camera of the Optimus 4X HD comes with a powerful new feature that allows users to select and save the best shot among the images taken just before pressing the shutter button.   And with MHL (Mobile High Definition Link) and DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance), there are multiple ways to connect the phone to TVs and other devices in the home.   The Optimus 4X HD will be rolled out in Europe followed by countries in Asia, CIS, South and Central America in the coming months.

   # # #

 
