
 
We already knew that it was coming to its home country of Korea in January. Now we know that LG's Tegra 2 Optimus 2X will bring its 4-inch display and 1080p video recording capability to the Android loving shores of Europe in the first month of 2011. The detail was hidden in a rather mundane press release touting the inclusion of 25 audio files (including 15 custom ringtones) from famed film composer Ennio Morricone, a man most recognizable for scoring those Sergio Leone "Spaghetti Westerns." While we're not sure how this oddball partnership materialized, we do know that there are two kinds of people in this world. Those with loaded guns, and those who dig. You dig? So we're not going to push it.
      

 

Show full PR textLG Electronics (LG): Legendary Composer Ennio Morricone Makes Beautiful Music For LG SmartphonesLG Focuses on Creating Original Content for Today's Mobile Entertainment DevicesLG Electronics (LG) today announced the release of an exclusive collection of music and ringtones written by movie soundtrack maestro Ennio Morricone. The first such collaboration of its kind, both newly composed pieces as well as a selection from Morricone's legendary oeuvre, including Cinema Paradiso, The Mission and Love Affair, will be included in the collection.To ensure that the beautiful music is paired with a suitably impressive platform, LG engineers have been hard at work perfecting the audio performance on its latest mobile phones. The exclusive music will be preloaded on LG smartphones starting with the LG Optimus 2X set to debut next month in Europe. LG smartphone users will be able to enjoy a total of 25 of Morricone's creations -- 15 ringtones composed specifically for LG and 10 of his best-known tunes from the world of cinema.Born in Italy, Morricone is one of the most prolific and influential film composers in the world. He has composed and arranged scores for more than 500 films and TV programs over his illustrious career."Signore Morricone is one of the best-loved soundtrack composers of all time," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "Reproducing his work with such amazing clarity on the Optimus 2X, gives smartphones a whole new level of respect as the primary device for on-the-go music."In addition to the collection of 25 ringtones and music, LG plans to develop a range of apps with Morricone-related content such as images and video clips for free downloading from the LG Application Store (www.lgapplication.com) starting next year.The partnership with Ennio Morricone is part of LG's Mobile Signature Sound Series, which kicked-off in 2006 with The Real Group, the award-winning a cappella group from Sweden. 
 