
 Today at Mobile World Congress, LG demoed a modified Optimus G that supports China Mobile's forthcoming TD-LTE network, but just as weighty as the demonstration, the manufacturer also revealed that it'll provide a full line of TD-LTE devices for the world's largest mobile operator. While LG wasn't able to nail down a specific date, it's currently shooting for the second half of this year in order to compliment China Mobile's TD-LTE rollout. Along with the Optimus G, it seems a safe bet that the two companies will be evaluating new smartphones such as the Optimus F7 and F5, along with the Optimus L7II and L5II as candidates to make the leap into the world of TD-LTE. Inquiring minds will find the full presser after the break.



  Show full PR text   LG DEMONSTRATES ITS FIRST TD-LTE DEVICE AT MWC 2013
   LG to Supply TD-LTE-capable Smartphones in China   BARCELONA, Feb. 26, 2013 ㅡ LG Electronics (LG) successfully co-demonstrated Time Division-Long Term Evolution (TD-LTE) service at Mobile World Congress 2013 in partnership with China Mobile, the world's largest mobile operator. TD-LTE is a telecommunications technology for 4G LTE networks that differs from the widely adopted Frequency Division-LTE (FD-LTE) technology. China Mobile plans to roll out the TD-LTE network in the second half of this year. The demonstration at MWC 2013 was conducted using a modified Optimus G, LG's flagship smartphone.   "TD-LTE has the potential to cover 2.7 billion people in Asia alone and today's demonstration proves that this technology is ready for consumers," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of the LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company. "LG is committed to offering a range of TD-LTE smartphones based on our unrivaled leadership in 4G LTE technologies."   LG will roll out TD-LTE-capable smartphones in China in the second half of the year when China Mobile launches its TD-LTE service.   For more informationon LG's newest mobile products, visit the LG stand in Hall 3ofFira Gran Via or visit the online newsroom at www.LGnewsroom.com/MWC2013.

 
