
 
An LTE network's not much good without some modems able to take advantage of it, and Verizon's now added a handful of new ones to its 4G option courtesy of LG and ST-Ericsson. LG has just announced its WM300 LTE module and L2000 modem chip, while ST-Ericsson has gotten official with its M700 LTE modem -- all of which are intended for use in various, as yet unnamed LTE devices. No timeline on availability for any of them just yet, but you can find both press releases after the break.
 

Show full PR textVerizon Wireless And LG Mobile Phones Come Together To Announce 4G LTE Business SolutionsNew LG 4G LTE Module on Display at 2011 CES01/05/2011BASKING RIDGE, NJ - Verizon Wireless and LG Mobile Phones announced today the LG WM300 LTE module and LG L2000 modem chip will be available on the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network. Providing high-speed, wireless connectivity, LG WM300 and LG L2000 deliver revolutionary LTE technology to consumers looking to stay connected while on the go.The LG module and chipset are compatible with Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network, and are applicable to machine-to-machine (M2M) solutions such as fixed wireless applications, including gateway devices and telematics. The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network, launched in December 2010, is the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States, providing speeds up to 10 times faster than Verizon Wireless' 3G network. Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network currently reaches one-third of all Americans, with plans to expand the network to the company's entire 3G coverage area over the next three years.The LG WM300 LTE module is the result of a three-year collaboration between LG Mobile Phones and Verizon Wireless' LTE Innovation Center. Established in 2008, the LTE Innovation Center provides an environment for diverse companies to work together to develop innovative products that leverage 4G LTE technology.LG's WM300 LTE module will be highlighted from Jan. 6-9 in Verizon Wireless' booth (#35216 in the South Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center) and LG Electronics' booth (#8205 in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center). For more information about the LTE Innovation Center and Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network, visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte.About Verizon WirelessVerizon Wireless operates the nation's fastest and most advanced 4G network and largest and most reliable 3G network, and serves more than 93 million customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 80,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.About LG Electronics, Inc.LG Electronics, Inc. (KSE: 066570.KS) is a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile communications and home appliances, employing more than 84,000 people working in 115 operations including 84 subsidiaries around the world. With 2009 global sales of USD43.4 billion, LG is comprised of five business units – Home Entertainment, Mobile Communications, Home Appliance, Air Conditioning and Business Solutions. LG is the world's leading producer of flat panel TVs, audio and video products, mobile handsets, air conditioners and washing machines. LG has signed a long-term agreement to become both a Global Partner and a Technology Partner of Formula One™. As part of this top-level association, LG acquires exclusive designations and marketing rights as the official consumer electronics, mobile phone and data processor of this global sporting event. For more information, please visit www.lgusa.com.About LG Electronics Mobile Communications CompanyThe LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company is a leading global mobile communications and information company. With its cutting-edge technology and innovative design capabilities, LG creates handsets that provide an optimized mobile experience to customers around the world. LG is pursuing convergence technology and mobile computing products, while continuing its leadership role in mobile communication with stylish designs and smart technology. For more information, please visit www.lgmobilephones.com.ST-Ericsson Teams With Verizon Wireless On 4G LTE ModemsST-Ericsson's LTE Modem to be Showcased During CES at Verizon Wireless' BoothLAS VEGAS, BASKING RIDGE, N.J. and GENEVA, Jan. 5, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- From the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), ST-Ericsson, a world leader in wireless platforms and semiconductors, today announced that its pioneering LTE modem will support Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network."We are committed to working with Verizon Wireless to provide its customers with a better, faster and unprecedented mobile experience," says Jorgen Lantto, executive vice president and chief technology officer of ST-Ericsson. "Our M700 LTE modem can download data at very high speeds, enabling consumers to enjoy demanding mobile multimedia services such as rapid file transfers, high-definition video streaming, video conferencing and online gaming."The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network, launched in December 2010, is the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States, providing speeds up to 10 times faster than Verizon Wireless' 3G network. Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network currently reaches one-third of all Americans, with plans to expand the network to the company's entire 3G coverage area over the next three years.At CES, ST-Ericsson's LTE modem will be showcased Jan. 6-9 in Verizon Wireless' booth (#35216 in the South Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center). For more information about the LTE Innovation Center and Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network, visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte.About Verizon WirelessVerizon Wireless operates the nation's fastest and most advanced 4G network and largest and most reliable 3G network, and serves more than 93 million customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 80,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, Nasdaq: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.About ST-EricssonST-Ericsson is a world leader in developing and delivering a complete portfolio of innovative mobile platforms and cutting-edge wireless semiconductor solutions across the broad spectrum of mobile technologies. The company is a leading supplier to the top handset manufacturers and ST-Ericsson's products and technologies enable more than half of all phones in use today. The company generated pro-forma sales of about USD 2.7 billion in 2009. ST-Ericsson was established as a 50/50 joint venture by STMicroelectronics and Ericsson in February 2009, with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. www.stericsson.comwww.twitter.com/STEricssonForumSOURCE Verizon Wireless
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

