
 
Still on the lookout for an affordable QWERTY dumbphone? You might be in luck, as LG's just released this eye-catching Town C300 to cater to your texting and IM addiction on the cheap. Just like its predecessor, this new handset includes Facebook, Twitter, Windows Live Messenger, and push email integration, along with FM radio, a 3.5mm headphone jack, and a 2 megapixel camera from the hardware camp. The damage? Just a mere £69 ($108) from Orange, but don't tell your friends -- keep the extra booze money to yourself.





Show full PR textSOCIALISE IN AN INSTANT WITH THE LG TOWN C300Slough, Berkshire, 22 September, 2010 - LG Electronics (LG) today launched the LG Town C300, a colourful and vibrant phone, aimed at those on the go with busy lifestyles. With ease of social networking in mind, the phone has a full QWERTY keyboard, making it ideal for texting and typing.The modern design has sleek curved sides and a 2.4 inch screen. Lightweight and the perfect palm fit, the phone is ideal for keeping in touch with friends.With push email and onboard SNS, the new handset makes it possible for users to stay in touch with their social lives 24/7, with dedicated Facebook, Twitter and MSN clients. Social Networking System (SNS) widgets provide real-time status updates directly to the home screen, so users are constantly up-to-date.The LG Town C300 features a 2 megapixel camera for those moments in life that need to be shared. The photos can be uploaded quickly onto Facebook and Twitter with the Social Networking System. The handset also contains a 3.5mm jack so you can listen to music with your own headphones.The LG Town C300 is the latest addition to the LG Town family, highlighting the needs of the current generation. Paul Trueman, Marketing Director LG Electronics UK and Ireland says "We wanted to make social networking quick and easy for busy people on the go, and the LG C300 Town with integrated SNS widgets and a full QWERTY keyboard does just that."The key features of the LG C300 are:• 2 megapixel camera• Full QWERTY keypad• Push email• Instant messaging• Facebook, Twitter and MSN clients• Wireless FM radio and MP3 playerThe phone will be available at Orange, Phones4U and Tesco shortly.
 