
 


	The LG Optimus Sol (aka the E730) received the full hands-on treatment a few days ago, and it didn't take long for the mystery device to be officially recognized by LG. Named after the Spanish word for "sun," the phone gained the title for a distinct reason: it's using a 3.8-inch WVGA "Ultra AMOLED" display, which is supposed to make the screen easier to read in direct sunlight and also offers less image quality degradation. It's powered by a 1GHz CPU, runs on Gingerbread, features a 5MP camera, and measures out at a thickness of 9.8mm. LG also uses the Sol to introduce a new power management technique it's referring to as "Dark UI" -- by utilizing less white light as the phone is idle, the company hopes to extend battery life by 20 to 30 percent. If you're interested in picking up what LG is putting down here, you'll be able to do so in parts of Europe around mid-September, followed by a release to Central and South America afterward. It'll also be available in black, titan and white color options. Want to know more? Take a look at the full press release after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  LG DIVERSIFIES SMARTPHONE LINE-UP WITH USER-FRIENDLY OPTIMUS SOL		New Phone Boasts Elegant Design, First-Class Display, Great Multimedia		Connectivity 		SEOUL, Aug. 22, 2011 – LG Electronics (LG) today announced the latest		addition to the LG Optimus smartphone series: the LG Optimus Sol		(LG-E730). Running on the Android 2.3 Gingerbread platform, the LG		Optimus Sol offers 9.8mm slimness with a brilliant 3.8-inch "Ultra		AMOLED" display. Sol is aptly named for its high clarity display which		makes content easy to see even in bright and sunny conditions. 		"The Optimus Sol stands out from its competitors as the most affordable		1 GHz Android smartphone with an AMOLED display," said Dr. Jong-seok		Park, President and CEO of LG Electronics Mobile Communications Company.		"By introducing a no-nonsense phone that boasts one of the best displays		on the market, we think we have a real winner for consumers looking for		a subtle but visually stunning phone." 		With a depth of only 9.8mm, the LG Optimus Sol boasts a sophisticated		design, solid feel and enhanced user experience. Users can enjoy a great		web browsing performance thanks to the 1GHz CPU, as well as enhanced		Flash 10.1. on a 3.8-inch WVGA Ultra AMOLED display with a superior		color gamut. The new and improved Ultra AMOLED display has a two-fold		advanced reflection rate compared to standard AMOLED displays, and		reduces image quality degradation. 		The device uses an enhanced idle-based power management system that		boosts battery life by 20 to 30 percent. With the Dark UI selected, the		Optimus Sol utilizes less white light in order to extend the battery		life performance. The phone includes a 5.0MP camera for fast		auto-shuttering, auto-focusing and shot-to-shot. Users can also take		full advantage of multimedia connectivity via onscreen links to DLNA and		Wi-Fi Direct. 		This new handset will be introduced in Europe beginning mid-September,		followed by roll-outs in Central and South America. The Optimus Sol will		be available in black, titan and white, availability depending on the		region.
 