
 LG Smart TV owners may've noticed a new application pop up today on their G2 series sets, as OnLive's cloud game streaming app is being delivered via an over-the-air update today (first announced at E3 back in June) -- it seems that LG Smart TVs are the first to get Google TV's latest update. Beyond just viewing games, the app allows for actually playing them employing OnLive's wireless controller (sold separately). Per normal OnLive service, you can demo various games before buying them, and purchases on one OnLive account transfer across its many platforms (PC, Mac, Android tablets, the Microconsole, and LG TVs). The OnLive app can be found in the "Premium Apps" area, and it'll be pre-installed on future LG sets.

 Of course, it's a question of how long any of this will last, as OnLive's had a rough 2012 -- the company lost the vast majority of its staff and its former CEO back in August. It was subsequently spun off into a separate company to keep from defaulting on its many, many overdue loans.



  Show full PR text    OnLive Builds Console-quality Gaming into LG Google TVs, No Console Required    Palo Alto, Calif.- November 15, 2012 - OnLive, the leader of on-demand cloud gaming, announced that its OnLive® Game Service has just been integrated into the LG Smart TV with Google™ TV (G2 Series), making console-quality games instantly playable as part of the TV experience. The OnLive app is the first commercial deployment of instant-response cloud gaming in a TV with no console necessary. OnLive offers something that consoles can't: the ability to continue playing your save games on the go, on nearly any PC or Mac, and many Android™ tablets.   The OnLive app was delivered over the air today to the LG G2 Series TVs that are already in homes and will be preinstalled on future LG Google TVs. With the OnLive Wireless Controller (available at onlive.com/controller), LG G2 TV owners in the United States can go to the Premium Apps menu on their TVs and play hundreds of video games on demand. The OnLive catalog includes games from more than 80 publishers, with everything from blockbuster new releases to classic franchises to family-friendly sports, racing and action-adventure games.   Uniquely, OnLive makes console-quality gaming truly portable and accessible across multiple platforms. With a single purchase, OnLive games can be played on any OnLive-compatible device-on PC, Mac, many Android tablets, TVs with the OnLive Game System, and now LG G2 TVs-anywhere there is broadband. Users can start a game on one device and continue playing on any other device, with full saved game data intact in the cloud, whenever and wherever they want. OnLive even enables cross-platform multiplayer gaming, so that an LG G2 TV owner will be able to play with (or against) friends on PCs, Macs and tablets.   Games can be demoed free and purchased or rented a la carte, or players can subscribe to the OnLive PlayPack for unlimited play of more than 200 games, with more titles added monthly. OnLive also offers free access to unique social features, such as game spectating in the OnLive Arena, recording ten-second Brag Clip™ videos of players' best gaming moments, and sharing videos and Achievements with friends on OnLive and Facebook.   "We are proud to be working with OnLive to deliver an incredible home entertainment experience with a full range of interactive viewing and gaming possibilities on LG G2 Series TVs," said Georg Rasinski, Director of Home Entertainment Brand Management, LG Electronics USA. "OnLive's premium-quality gaming service offers customers a great opportunity to test the dual-core performance of our G2 Series TVs. We think customers will be very impressed."   "Our partnership with LG has enabled us to take an important step forward in making high-end gaming accessible to everyone, across a variety of consumer electronic devices," said Gary Lauder, OnLive Chairman. "Gamers can now enjoy hundreds of amazing console-quality games with no new hardware necessary beyond an OnLive controller and LG's fast and intuitive Google TV."   Combining the power of the Google TV platform with the speed of LG's L9 dual-core chipset and a user-friendly interface, the G2 Series is LG's first TV to make OnLive cloud gaming an integral part of the consumer experience. To find out more about OnLive or to purchase a Universal OnLive Wireless Controller, visit www.onlive.com or www.onlive.co.uk.     About OnLive  OnLive is the pioneer of on-demand cloud gaming and computing services, delivering real-time interactive experiences and rich media over the Internet. With ground-breaking video compression technology, OnLive harnesses cloud computing to provide the power and intelligence needed to instantly deliver full-featured, media-rich applications and the latest, premium game titles to tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs and HDTVs via the OnLive Game System or connected TVs. OnLive is available in North America, the UK and Belgium and will continue expanding into Europe and Asia. OnLive's technology is backed by hundreds of patents and patents pending worldwide. The company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California. More information is available at www.onlive.com, www.onlive.co.uk and www.onlive.be.   # # #    OnLive and Brag Clip are trademarks or registered trademarks of OnLive, Inc., in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.   Google and Android are trademarks of Google, Inc. in the United States and other countries.

 
