
 
If you buy any of LG's latest HDTVs, you're pretty much assured it'll have a big sticker saying "Smart TV" somewhere along its fascia assuring you of its internet connectivity and compatibility. But, if you're still rocking some old school piece of visual tech that isn't yet past its "watch by" date, you'll be needing a set-top box of some kind to get on the web without leaving your couch. Naturally, LG would like to be the one to Smarten up your viewing habits there too, and so it's just unveiled its new ST600 sidekick for older television sets. It adds DLNA connectivity for some wireless media transfer fun, grants access to a "vast range" of premium content as well as local programming, throws in a web browser, and finishes things off with LG's TV Apps selection. Of course, this is the week of the pre-CES announcement, hence we've no pricing to share yet, but the way the company's talking about it, the ST600 sounds like it might make an aggressive MSRP its standout feature. Sadly, that's a bit of a distant hope for now as this Upgrader isn't expected in shops until Q2 2011. Who knows if we'll even be watching TV by that time?
      

 

Show full PR textLG Smart TV Upgrader Makes Every TV Smarter- ST600 Smart TV Upgrader Lets Users Enjoy Web Browser and Premium Content on Their Regular TV Sets(SEOUL=Korea Newswire) December 30, 2010 -- At this year's Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, LG Electronics (LG) will be unveiling the Smart TV Upgrader (ST600) that makes it easy for viewers to transform their regular TVs into Smart TVs at an affordable price. Embracing all the benefits of internet connectivity, the Upgrader gives regular TV owners access to all of LG's Smart TV functions including premium online content, Smart Share and the full range of LG Apps."The market for Smart TVs is set to take off this year, and the ST600 offers a perfect entry point," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of LG Home Entertainment Company. "With the LG Smart TV Upgrader, we're taking the excitement and convenience of Smart TV and adding in LG's trademark ease-of-use because we see a significant audience who are interested but not interested enough to buy a whole new TV."By connecting the ST600 to a regular TV set, users can access a vast range of premium content from global providers, as well as the best locally sourced shows and movies to cater to different tastes around the world. The ST600 also connects users to the growing range of LG Apps, which are custom designed for use on TVs and offer everything from language classes to games.LG makes the viewing experience more compelling still with its superb compatibility, which lets users simply and wirelessly transfer content from their Digital Living Network Alliance(DLNA)-compatible PCs and other compatible devices for viewing on the big screen.LG's Smart TV Upgrader will be unveiled at CES 2011 in Las Vegas and rolled-out to TV owners in the second quarter of 2011.Specifications:- Main CPU: BCM7615- DDR 384MB, 1GB Flash- LG Add-on Architecture + Web Browser- AC 100-240V, 50/60 Hz- Wi-Fi, Ethernet, DLNA (DMP)- USB: 1EA (USB mouse, external storage)- Input Devices: Finger Touch RCU- Premium Content- LG Apps- Size: 11cm x 11cm
 