
   We had a pretty strong hunch that the LG Spectrum, a rumored Verizon LTE handset, would stop by CES to say hello, and sure 'nuff, here it is. The new device is coming out on January 19th for $200, and has a lot to love: it offers a 4.5-inch HD (1280 x 720) IPS display utilizing RGB, a Qualcomm 1.5GHz dual-core CPU, 8MP camera in the back with LED flash and 1080p video capture, a 1.3MP front-facing cam and HDMI mirroring with MHL. Verizon's boasting the Spectrum as the first and only device that features ESPN ScoreCenter content in HD, as well as a SmartMovie HD app that lets you create and edit videos directly on the phone. What about Ice Cream Sandwich? Nope, not yet. The Spectrum sports Gingerbread for now, but it should get the upgrade sometime in the first half of 2012. Given that most top-notch 4G phones on Verizon debuted at $300 in 2011, we'd say this is a breath of fresh air for anyone who wants some good specs. Check out all the details in the press release below. 




  Show full PR text  VERIZON WIRELESS AND LG MOBILE CONTINUE LEGACY OF INNOVATION BY OFFERING A TRUE HD MOBILE EXPERIENCE WITH SPECTRUM™ BY LG  Latest LG Smartphone Boasts True HD IPS Display, Verizon Wireless 4G LTE, Dual-Core Processor and ESPN ScoreCenter App with Exclusive HD Feed  LAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J. - From the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Verizon Wireless and LG Mobile today announced Spectrum™ by LG smartphone, exclusively for Verizon Wireless. Spectrum is the first smartphone for Verizon Wireless to feature a 4.5-inch True HD In-Plane Switching (IPS) display, the same display technology used in premium LG HD televisions. Intensifying its HD capabilities, Spectrum by LG will give customers exclusive HD access to the ESPN™ ScoreCenter application. Spectrum will be in the Verizon booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, Booth #30259) and LG booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, Central Hall, Booth #8204).  ESPN's ScoreCenter app is supported by an exclusive HD video feed, giving customers the exclusive access to ScoreCenter stats, images and videos in 720p HD. Scoreboards and live game details include in-game stats, news and video. Personalization features allow fans to customize their ScoreCenter experience by highlighting their favorite teams and leagues from around the world, all in crystal clear high-definition.  Showcasing LG's True HD technology, Spectrum by LG supports 1280 x 720 resolution and offers one of the brightest and sharpest displays available on a mobile device. Spectrum's 500-nit display luminance and Real-Stripe RGB pixels offer users clear viewing in direct sunlight and accurate true-to-life color rendering.  Spectrum also features a Qualcomm® 1.5 GHz dual-core processor combined with 4G LTE connectivity for robust power, multitasking and download speeds. Verizon Wireless leads the way in 4G with the fastest and most reliable 4G network in the United States, covering more than 200 million people in 190 markets.  Key features: • 4.5-inch True HD IPS display provides natural colors and brilliant, undistorted HD images in 16:9 aspect ratio. Pictures and texts are incredibly sharp with 329 pixels per inch (PPI) screen density. • Protected by Corning® Gorilla® Glass, the True HD IPS display uses Real Stripe subpixel arrangement so images never get blurred. • Android™ 2.3 Gingerbread (Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich upgrade available the first half of 2012); support for Google™ Mobile Services including Gmail™, YouTube™, Google Talk™, Google Search™, Google Maps™ and access to more than 300,000 apps available to download from Android Market™. • Preloaded Netflix app allows Netflix subscribers to stream the latest movies in high-definition quality. • Qualcomm 1.5 GHz dual-core processor makes multitasking seamless. Customers can surf the Web, check email and update social networks effortlessly. • ESPN's ScoreCenter app offers the most comprehensive sports coverage available on an Android device whether you follow the NFL or Premier League, ICC Champions League or MLB™, NASCAR or Formula One™. Customers can follow teams from more than 500 leagues around the world with an exclusive 720p high-definition feed for Spectrum by LG while connected to the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network or Wi-Fi. • Spectrum supports Dolby® Digital Plus, which allows users to maximize their HD multimedia experience. Dolby Digital Plus can stream up to 7.1 channels of surround sound through home entertainment systems.  Additional features:  • 8-megapixel rear-facing autofocus camera with LED flash to snap beautiful pictures and 1080p video capture • Front-facing 1.3-megapixel camera for video chat • SmartMovie HD app-create and edit HD videos right on the Spectrum by LG • Mobile Hotspot capability-share 4G LTE connection with up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices • Bluetooth® Version 3.0 • 16 GB microSD™ card pre-installed with support for up to 32 GB microSD card • SmartShare-share media wirelessly to DLNA®-enabled devices • HDMI mirroring capable via MHL  Pricing and availability:  • Spectrum by LG will be available on Jan. 19 in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com for $199.99 with a new two-year customer agreement. • Customers who purchase a Spectrum by LG will need to subscribe to a Verizon Wireless Nationwide Talk plan beginning at $39.99 monthly access and a smartphone data package starting at $30 monthly access for 2 GB of data.  Customers Can Score the Game Winner LG and ESPN are teaming up to give fans the chance to score an unbelievable sports weekend, including two tickets to ESPN The Magazine's NEXT Event and a trip to the big game in Indianapolis on Sunday, Feb. 5. Customers can visit www.SpectrumbyLG.com or www.verizonwireless.com/spectrum for official rules, details and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be a part of sports history.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

