
 
  LG has hit us with its list of HDTVs for 2012, and they're channeling the design chops of that sumptuous 55-inch OLED HDTV. All of the new models, including the LM9600, LM8500, LM7600 and LM6700 all squeeze the bezel down to 5mm and a chassis pushing just over 4mm thick. The LM9600 and LM8600 arrive with dual-core processors to assist with load speeds and voice recognition through the Korean giant's Magic Remote. MHL connectivity is in attendance, as is LG's new dashboard.

 Next, the LMG850 and LMG620 are new LED offerings for this year, including a Google TV interface and a new remote that pairs together some magic remote functionality and a QWERTY keyboard. LG are going for 3D big time, with 25 new models of LED HDTVs, forgoing the active shutter route for lighter (battery-free) passive glasses. More the more artistically gifted, LG's PenTouch plasma TV (PM6900) allows input through the display panel through a new dedicated pen and will be compatible with photo-editing and PowerPoint presentations.





  Show full PR text  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  LG Unveils Future of Home Entertainment with innovative 2012 hdtv line  New Designs, Upgraded Smart TV and New Magic Remote, Enhanced LED and Plasma Technologies Deliver Uncompromised Options for the Whole House  LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9, 2012 – LG Electronics (LG) today introduced its 2012 HDTVs, led by what is believed to be one of the world's largest Ultra Definition (UD) 3D TV and an awe-inspiring 55-inch class (54.6-inch diagonal) OLED HDTV – at the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show (booth #8204). This new line of HDTVs brings the future of TV into the home today with virtually bezel-less designs, an upgraded LG Smart TV platform with a redesigned Magic Remote and touch-screen plasma.  "LG continues to innovate in the TV space, bringing to market sleek new designs with technological advances such as 3D and Smart TV," said Tim Alessi, Director of New Product Development, Home Electronics, LG Electronics USA. "This is just the beginning of another exciting year for LG as we look to deliver new products that meet the needs of consumers' growing appetite for theater-quality products in the home."  Pushing Limits, Eliminating Barriers LG exemplified its commitment to innovation and stylish design for its 2012 line with its 55-inch class OLED HDTV, which showcases precise color, absolute contrast and blazing clarity in a chassis measuring just over 4mm thick. LG applied similar design rigor to other 2012 series (LM9600, LM8500, LM7600 and LM6700) by developing CINEMA Screen technology, which limits the bezel to roughly 5mm. This design element gives these models an even more streamlined, modern look, while also providing consumers a more immersive viewing experience.  Smarter LG Smart TV* LG reaffirmed its commitment to the connected TV movement by offering an upgraded Smart TV package in 60 percent of its 2012 LCD TV line. In addition to premium content from providers like Netflix, Hulu Plus, VUDU and others, new content options this year include a one-stop-shop for 3D content (via the 3D Zone) and almost 1,200 total applications in the LG App store. LG also enhanced the user Web browsing experience by incorporating HTML 5 and Flash so it can now function as a full internet browser with video support.  Select series (LM9600 and LM8600) will feature the LG Dual Core chipset, which powers faster loading speeds and enables voice recognition technology on the new 4-mode Magic Remote**. The new Magic Remote simplifies navigation with additional functions including Voice Recognition, Wheel, Magic Gesture and Pointing (see separate release). Consumers can also access online content easily through a built-in Wi-Fi connection. With Mobile HD Link (MHL), consumers can connect (hardwire) compatible mobile devices to the TV to charge and play its content (launch apps, games or access multimedia files) on the big screen using the Magic Remote to navigate. Finally, this year's Smart TV dashboard will be customizable so consumers can navigate and personalize their interface by putting their favorite content options on the main page.  Complementing its broad Smart TV line, LG also introduced two LED series featuring LG Smart TV with Google TV (LMG860 and LMG620). Consumers can navigate through LG's TV-centric home dashboard, or via the standard Google TV interface using a special remote control that combines the simplicity of the Magic Remote with an integrated QWERTY keyboard to access the broad array of Google content, including services and TV applications from the Android Market.  CINEMA 3D is Here to Stay Due to its success in 2011, CINEMA 3D technology has been expanded to seven new series of LED HDTVs, all told 25 models. LG CINEMA 3D employs the revolutionary Film Patterned Retarder (FPR) technology to give viewers a great 3D effect and uses glasses that don't flicker like active shutter glasses. It also virtually eliminates cross-talk to help provide a more comfortable 3D viewing experience. The 3D glasses are battery-free, affordable and don't shutter open and closed so both eyes receive an image simultaneously. With new 3D Depth Control, viewers can optimize 3D content to their personal preference by adjusting the amount 3D effect applied to the content. 3D Sound Zooming offers users a maximized 3D experience with sound effect changing in accordance with the movement of on-screen objects. Upgraded 2D to 3D Conversion with improved depth effect enables any 2D content to be seen in immersive 3D.  Getting Interactive LG's Dual Play function takes gaming to new levels of excitement. Many multi-player video games rely on a split-screen to show each player's perspective. However, Dual Play enables each player to enjoy a full screen view (in 2D) simultaneously through two different sets of polarized glasses.  Also on display will be the LG PenTouch plasma TV (PM6900). Particularly useful for families and businesses, the PenTouch plasma TV allows users to draw and write directly onto the display panel. Using a newly designed touch pen, users can do so through a variety of applications, including those for illustrations, photo editing and PowerPoint presentations.  Full details on LG's 2012 HDTVs are below:   For more information and product images, please visit LG's online press kit at www.lgnewsroom.com/CES2012. # # #   *Internet connection & certain subscriptions required and sold separately. Content and services vary by product and are subject to change without notice.  **A 3-mode Magic Remote without voice will come standard with most LG Smart TV models.  Designs, features and specifications subject to change without notice. LG LED TVs are LCD TVs with LED backlighting.  For a small percentage of the population, the viewing of stereoscopic 3D video may cause discomfort such as dizziness or nausea. If you experience any of these symptoms, discontinue using the 3D functionality and contact your health care provider. 3D glasses required and sold separately.
 