
 Although the Optimus G and its Nexus 4 cousin are clearly the darlings of LG's mobile lineup, that isn't precluding the Korean company from crowing about a milestone for its more pedestrian Optimus L-Series smartphones. The company has officially passed 10 million sales of L-Series phones spread across the entire line, ranging from the tiny L3 through to the extra-large L9. LG only makes a partial attempt at keeping itself grounded, though. While it's quick to acknowledge that 10 million is a "modest" amount in the light of grander achievements, it directly credits the figure to rejecting rivals' tendencies to put "all their eggs into a one-size-fits-all phone" -- a not-so-subtle potshot at a certain competitor's approach to budget models. Whether or not that's valid criticism, we'd say a little braggadocio could be justified when most low-cost smartphones rarely get this kind of recognition.



  Show full PR text   LG L-SERIES REPORTS 10 MILLION HAPPY CUSTOMERS
  New Design Identity From LG Proves That Not All Smartphones Need to Look Alike   SEOUL, Dec. 9, 2012 – LG Electronics (LG) announced today that sales of its Optimus L-Series smartphones have exceeded 10 million units, marking a modest milestone for LG and its mobile devices business. The success of L-Series in recording eight figures in sales is proof that many consumers want attractive smartphones with distinctive -- not "me too" -- styling.
  L-Series handsets -- Optimus L3 (3.2-inch display), Optimus L5 (4.0-inch display), Optimus L7 (4.3-inch display) -- were first introduced at the 2012 Mobile World Con-gress (MWC) with the unveiling of LG's new design philosophy and followed by the most recent Optimus L9 (4.7-inch display). L-Style incorporates timeless design with fine details that further differentiates LG's mobile devices from the competition. This design philosophy is comprised of five aesthetic elements: Modern Square Style for a comfortable grip, Floating Mass Technology for a slimmer look, Seamless Layout for a more intuitive arrangement of keys, Harmonized Design Contrast utilizing metallic accents and Sensuous Slim Shape that draws one's gaze to the unique form factor.
  "This milestone demonstrates the importance of delivering smartphones with stylish design, comparative size of display and enhanced UX features," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Mobile Communications Company. "Whereas other manufacturers are putting all their eggs into a one-size-fits-all phone, our strategy is to develop mobile products for all types of customers according to their individual needs and lifestyles."
  The L-Series lineup of handsets also offered large displays and LG's proprietary UX features such as QuickMemo and QTranslator. QuickMemo allows users to capture and share a note with others using just a fingertip while QTranslator instantly and accurately translates words as well as entire sentences into 64 foreign languages.
  All the models in the L-Series -- Optimus L3, Optimus L5, Optimus L7 and Optimus L9 -- are available in over 50 markets worldwide.
 
