
 Hints that LG would bring the Optimus LTE II to Verizon have persisted since the spring, which almost led us to wonder if the smartphone was still coming: not to fear, as it's finally here under the Spectrum 2 badge. Other than the expected switch-ups in navigation keys and the mix of both CDMA with global GSM roaming, the design will feel very familiar to anyone who's been on a trip to South Korea lately. The Spectrum 2 preserves the 4.7-inch AH-IPS display, dual-core 1.5GHz Snapdragon S4, 8-megapixel camera, 16GB of storage and support for wireless charging for those who buy a charging pad. We're also expecting a relatively light tweak of the software that keeps it running Android 4.0 for now, with LG's support for Tag+ stickers and QuickMemo being the standouts. We do wish we were looking at a quad-core Optimus G instead. For the moderate $100 post-rebate price, however, we'll take the two fewer processor cores -- especially when the Spectrum 2 is already on sale online and should be in retail stores sometime in the next few weeks.



  Show full PR text   VERIZON WIRELESS ADDS FAST, POWERFUL, TRUE HD SPECTRUM 2 BY LG TO 4G LTE LINEUP   Spectrum 2 Offers an Enhanced Wireless Experience, 4G LTE Speeds, True HD Display, Advanced Camera Capabilities and Stylish Design   BASKING RIDGE and ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J. – Verizon Wireless and LG Electronics USA today announced the Spectrum™ 2 by LG. Exclusively for Verizon Wireless, the Spectrum 2 by LG will be available online on Oct. 30 at www.verizonwireless.com and will be in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores in the coming weeks for $99.99 after a $50 mail-in rebate with a new two-year customer agreement.   The Spectrum 2 by LG creates a unique wireless experience thanks to an ecosystem of features and accessories, allowing customers to avoid cables. The unique battery cover allows wireless charging, and it's included at no additional cost. Contacts, maps and websites can be shared wirelessly using near-field communications (NFC), by tapping two compatible phones together. NFC can also be used with the included reprogrammable LG Tag+ stickers to create special smartphone modes for the office, home or car by tapping the stickers with the Spectrum 2 by LG. SmartShare also makes it possible to wirelessly view pictures and watch videos on a DLNA-enabled device.   The 4.7-inch True HD display will make the Spectrum 2 by LG stand out by enhancing the viewing experience when streaming movies, playing games and browsing the Web. The HD display, paired with Corning® Gorilla® Glass, delivers vivid and accurate colors, crisp, sharp text and clear images. Apps such as viewdini, make it easier than ever to find TV shows and movies that users can enjoy right on their Spectrum 2 by LG. Football fans will also be able to take advantage of the screen combined with 4G LTE speeds to watch live games for an unrivaled viewing experience.   The Spectrum 2 by LG helps to capture precious moments with its 8-megapixel camera and then takes it a step farther with its Advanced Image Editor and Video Wiz features. With these features, customers will have an editing studio in their hands to crop, rotate and add effects to photos and other multimedia documents that they can then share with friends over 4G LTE. The 1.3-megapixel front-facing camera allows customers to video chat with friends and family to easily stay in touch from virtually anywhere. Additional camera features include 1080p HD video recording, Intelligent Panorama Shot and Time Catch Shot to take photos before pressing the shutter button.   Accessorize and Protect   * LG Premium Sleeve with Smart Display – provides protection and displays notifications on the screen to show the number of missed calls, text messages, emails and voicemails. Customers can also customize the clock styles that are displayed when the Spectrum 2 by LG is inserted in the sleeve. The Premium sleeve will be available in stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com for $24.99.   Additional Features:   * Wireless charging capabilities thanks to the unique battery cover included in the box  * 4.7-inch True HD Advanced High Performance (AH) In-Plane-Switching (IPS) display  * Global Ready™ so customers can have voice and data service in more than 220 countries  * Android™ 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich  * Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Krait 1.5 GHz dual-core processor  * Mobile Hotspot to share a 4G LTE connection with up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices  * 16 GB of internal storage (formatted capacity is less) with microSD memory card support of up to 32 GB  * QuickMemo™ allows customers to capture screenshots and add their own personalized commentary or drawings with a finger  * Bluetooth® Version 4.0   Pricing and Availability:   The Spectrum 2 by LG will be available online at www.verizonwireless.com starting Oct. 30 for $99.99 after a $50 mail-in rebate with a new two-year customer agreement. Customers receive the rebate in the form of a debit card; upon receipt, customers may use the card as cash anywhere debit cards are accepted.
 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

