
       
Now that LED backlighting has trickled down to nearly every HDTV lineup, it appears the big manufacturers will have to find new ways to differentiate their products, like LG's upcoming LEX8 television. Set to debut at IFA in Berlin before going on sale in Germany and Korea next month (no word on the US), LG claims that thanks to a 'thin film of miniscule dots positioned in front of a full array of LEDs' its Nano Lighting technology -- perhaps of the Nanosys variety it licensed earlier this year -- makes for a clearer, smoother picture, with the slimmest and narrowest outline of any LED TV, ever, at just .88cm thick with a 1.25cm bezel. Of course LG's NetCast widgets and Magic Motion remote are along for the ride as well, while we'll have to wait until the show opens later this week to get our eyes on this beauty, check after the break for a few more pictures.
      

 

Show full PR textLEX8 DELIVERS THE ULTIMATE IN PICTURE QUALITY USING NANO LIGHTING TECHNOLOGYLG's First Ever TV with Nano Technology, LEX8 Delivers Stunning Picture Quality with Alluring INFINIA DesignSEOUL, Aug. 29, 2010 – At this year's IFA in Berlin, LG Electronics (LG) will unveil the LEX8, the next generation of flat panel televisions feature NANO Lighting Technology which will redefine the meaning of "clarity" in FULL LED TVs.The LEX8 NANO FULL LED TV pushes the boundaries of viewing pleasure with its NANO Lighting Technology, which produces LG's brightest, clearest and smoothest picture yet. An extremely thin film printed with minuscule dots positioned in front of a full array of LEDs disperses light more evenly and effectively across the screen, creating pictures that are clearer, enticingly smoother and more refined. What's more, an Anti-Reflection Panel on the LEX8 screen minimizes reflection from an external light source – including sunlight -- ensuring the picture always stays crystal clear.The LEX8 boasts improved localized dimming in both 2D and 3D with its Micro Pixel Control. By manipulating individual LED blocks, Micro Pixel Control adds even greater range and life to colors, from the deepest, darkest blacks to the most natural colors. The LEX8 is further enhanced by LG's TruMotion 400Hz, which delivers super-fast processing rate for moving images making them virtually blur-free. The overall effect is a picture so smooth, sharp and realistic, it's as if the action is playing out right in viewers' living rooms."In creating our first television using nano technology, LG is continuing to set new standards in TV technology and demonstrating once again that we're pushing the envelope of home entertainment," said Simon Kang, President and CEO of LG Home Entertainment Company. "Just as difficult as it is to watch standard TV after experiencing high definition, people will resist going back to regular LED LCD TVs after viewing the LEX8."As LG's picture continues to evolve, so does its innovative INFINIA Design. Thanks to NANO Lighting Technology and FULL LED Panel, the LEX8 is still only 0.88cm thick with a bezel just 1.25cm wide, indisputably the slimmest and narrowest of any FULL LED TV in the world. With a bezel this narrow, the LEX8 leaves nothing in the way of viewing, while its elegant, understated INFINIA Design allows the LEX8 to complement any interior. Combining the ultimate picture quality with an alluring design, the LEX8 delivers perfect visual harmony.And the LEX8 delivers LG's best 3D images yet. By ensuring a uniform distribution of light from the LED backlight panels, the LEX8 illuminates the screen more effectively, for 3D pictures of unprecedented clarity and brightness.The LEX8 also comes with a raft of functions and features that provide unparalleled connectivity. NetCast™ opens the door to a world of online content, including web albums and video calling. In addition, the LEX8 can connect easily with any DLNA-capable storage device or computer, allowing users to delve seamlessly into their multimedia libraries. Making the LEX8 an even more user–friendly experience, the Magic Motion Remote Control lets viewers change TV settings and play games by pointing the remote at the screen and manipulating a cursor. With only power switch, volume control and single, all-purpose button, the Magic Motion Remote Control is the epitome of simplicity.Using NANO Lighting Technology, LG has taken its industry-leading FULL LED picture and made it even more exhilarating. Whether in 2D or 3D, NANO FULL LED TV raises the bar for television viewing with pictures that are as engrossing as they are strikingly realistic. With the exceptional picture of LG's LEX8, viewers can now see FULL LED in a whole new light.LEX8 Main Features: NANO FULL LED TV NANO Lighting Technology Micro Pixel Control Infinite Contrast Ratio INFINIA Design: 0.88cm Depth, 1.25cm Bezel TruMotion 400Hz 3D TV (Dynamic 3D) Picture Wizard II NetCastTM (Broadband TV) DLNA Ready Magic Motion Remote Control USB 2.0 (DivX HD, MP3, JPEG, etc.) Invisible Speakers (7W+7W) Infinite Sound Clear Voice II# # #
 