

LG's been none too secretive about its latest pair of wearables -- hell, the Watch Urbane and the Watch Urbane LTE were revealed before MWC even really started. Both of them aspire to be what LG calls "smartpieces," proper luxury watches that also pull double-duty as digital companions, but do they actually live up to those high-minded aspirations? I strapped both of them onto my wrists for a little test drive ahead of their launch in a few months, so let's find out together.



#fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-992064{display:none;} .cke_show_borders #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-992064, #postcontentcontainer #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-992064{width:630px;display:block;}try{document.getElementById("fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-992064").style.display="none";}catch(e){}
Sophistication sans progressAs plenty of early reports suggested, the Urbane is the simpler (and arguably the classier) of the two watches. It's all gold or silver stainless steel as far as the eye can see, with a hairline finish etched into a ring that runs around the Urbane's round face. There's no getting around it: It's a pretty, pretty piece of gear, even if the rosy gold model comes off a little too ostentatious. Guess I just don't have enough swag to appreciate it. Look past the premium finish, though, and you'll see that the Urbane is really just a very pretty spinoff of the G Watch R. The 1.3-inch P-OLED screen? The 410mAh sealed battery? The Snapdragon 400 with 512MB of RAM? All of it's been plucked off the G Watch R assembly lines and plopped into a gussied-up body. This sort of form-over-function thinking could be problematic if LG slacked on the software, but hey -- it's an Android Wear device so it operates the same way all the others do.

Now I'm not the sort who's just rolling in fancy timepieces, but I've worn enough things on my wrist to know I prefer leather straps to metal ones. That's why I'm glad the Urbane ships with a thick, comfy leather strap, though that's really just a starting point -- you can swap straps as desired and LG briefly blitzed through a few more exotic options in a slideshow. For now though, we're left with a gorgeous device




