
 
LG's booth grabbed immediate attention with their 71-inch 1080p plasma. One noticable aspect of just aboutevery product was a very clean and refined look. We weren't thrilled that LG-folks kept shutting us down from takingpics, especially in the smaller devices and cellphones, but most of those devices were either already available orminor upgrades to current products. There was a large focus on large HDTVs and home theater in general, so come join usfor a virtual tour.
 

There were plenty of 71-inch 1080p sets to get up closeand personal with. The pic was extremely clear, even with the 720p signal from ESPN-HD.The 102-incher is one inch smaller than Panasonic's, but why quibble when the picture looks this clear?We had to step back to get the full view of this full-HDset. It wasn't easy since the crowd was so large, but we took one for the team.Here we thoughtyou would appreciate the scale of the set next to a live person. The height of the woman in red is approximatelyfive-feet, four and three-sixteenth inches tall. Approximately.LG's LED backlight systemwas evidently bright on these 47-inchers.DVD upconversion is really picking up steam although othercompanies are implementing it over component. Even so, folks were drawn to the 1080i DVD players. You have to wonder whythe left HDMI-DVD unit includes a VCR. Once we looked closer at it and scratched our heads, we noticed that the LG folkswere immediately busy taking questions from other attendees.Slim continues to be in, and not juston the video side. These speakers really packed a punch but aesthetically fit nicely with the flat-panel display.It took some searching, but we tracked down the LH-Eseries HTiB. This was a very complete package: 1,000W of audio output with wireless rear speakers, 1080i DVDupconversion, MPEG-4 and DivX support, and XM-ready.Just add an XM antenna.One of the few laptops we grabbed a shot of. There were quite a few, but this Centrino Duo looked partiularlysleek, thin and fast.That wraps up the highlights; hope you enjoyed the floor show. We did get one shot offof the crowd around the smaller LG devices. Right after this last pic  the LG bouncers arrived, so we didn't getany hands-on pics of the small stuff. 
 