
 
We already got a peek at LG's Smart TV Upgrader box, but now it's revealing a bit more info about why it thinks anyone will be opting for their app-laden displays this year. Deriding the QWERTY remotes offered by competitors, LG's big idea is a simple dashboard with four elements, controlled by its Magic Motion gesture control remote. We'll still need to wait for some hands on time with its DLNA sharing and web browser to see if the simple life is the way, but if you were freaked out by all the buttons on Sony's Google TV remote then your sometime is now.
      

 

Show full PR textLG ELECTRONICS MAKES IT EASY TO GO SMART WITH NEW SMART TV OFFERINGS** LG UNVEILS TOTAL HOME APPLIANCE SOLUTION EMPOWERING CONSUMERS TO SMARTLY MANAGE THEIR HOMES [01-03]*(SEOUL=Korea Newswire) January 4, 2011 -- LG Electronics (LG) will unveil its new range of Smart TV products at the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Show (Booth #8205) in Las Vegas. With functions that make it easy to access the full array of premium online content and LG Apps, the selection includes FULL LED 3D TVs, a CINEMA 3DTM TV, and a Plasma 3D TV."LG Smart TVs embody the most advanced technology on any internet-linked TVs, providing users with endless entertainment options," said Havis Kwon, President and CEO of LG Home Entertainment Company. "By listening to our consumers, we've made Smart TV so easy and simple to use that every family member can experience the benefits of advanced TV technology today, not in the distant future."One of the features that makes LG Smart TV so easy is its simple, uncluttered Home Dashboard. With just four main sections – TV Live, Premium Content, TV Apps and Launcher Bar – the Home Dashboard ensures that viewers are never more than a few clicks from Smart TV's practically limitless content.While many remote controls have become as cluttered with buttons as PC keyboards, LG has gone the other route and stripped the remote down to its absolute basics. With the Magic Motion Remote Control, viewers just need to move a cursor onto a desired option and click to activate their choice.LG's Smart TV also provides instant access to an outstanding range of content, both from premium global providers such as Netflix and CinemaNow and specially selected regional content companies. In addition, the custom-made LG Apps offer everything from games to educational courses with a range of options that can be enjoyed by the whole family.LG's Smart Share function allows users to wirelessly stream content from their PCs and other compatible devices for viewing on their television screen. Through Smart Share, users can also take advantage of N-Screen, which lets them select their preferred viewing environment. Smart Share also includes Media Link, which provides additional information, such as cover art or liner notes, for content being streamed.Additionally, the platform includes Web Browser so users no longer need to turn on their laptop to access the internet. With this feature, news, reviews and a host of other content can be viewed on the television screen. (Web Browser available on LG Smart TV models and LG Smart TV Upgrader only).LG Smart TV is available on a range of LG's new LED, LCD and Plasma HDTVs, including: LK530, LV3700, LV5500, LW5600, LW6500, LW7700, LW9500, LW9700, PZ750 and PZ950.LG's Smart TV devices will be showcased for the first time at CES 2011 in Las Vegas, followed by a global roll-out in early 2011.News Source: LG Electronics Inc.
 