
  The original Optimus LTE caught our eye with its 4.5-inch AH-IPS display, but now LG is throwing something different into the mix: a lower-specced version that does away with that lovely 326ppi display and then attempts to make up for it with the addition of NFC. This lets the handset communicate with "special stickers" that automatically switch its settings to suit a particular location. Put a sticker on your dash and you can set it to switch on the handset's Bluetooth and GPS, for example, as well as boost the volume. It's hardly a new concept, but LG's marketing mavens reckon it merits a full relaunch in Korea under the name "Optimus LTE Tag," and who are we to tell them otherwise? Read on the full specs in the PR.
      

 

  Show full PR text  OPTIMUS LTE TAG FROM LG OFFERS NFC, BUT WITH A TWIST  Unique Tag+ Feature Allows for User Customization Without The Hassle of Fiddling with Phone Settings  SEOUL, Feb. 20, 2012 – LG today announced its newest addition to its LTE smartphone line-up for the Korean market, the Optimus LTE Tag. Coming on the heels of impressive sales of its Optimus LTE, the world's first HD LTE smartphone, the Optimus LTE Tag advances LG's vision of offering the most diverse collection of LTE devices for all types of customers.  "Our goal is to offer the widest variety of LTE smartphones in the industry in 2012," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Mobile Communications Company. "The Optimus LTE Tag isn't just a cosmetically-enhanced version of Optimus LTE, it offers a truly innovative feature which we think really makes a smartphone smarter."  The Optimus LTE Tag gets its name from a unique new feature, LG Tag+, which uses NFC (Near Field Communication) to communicate with special stickers or "tags" that can be programmed to automatically change the phone's settings. Swiping a tag upon entering the office could put the Optimus LTE Tag in silent mode and activate Wi-Fi. A tag on the car dashboard could be programmed to turn on Bluetooth, GPS and raise the volume. The options are limitless.  With Slim and sleek design, the Optimus LTE Tag is available in white. Running a 1.2GHz Dual-Core processor, Android 2.3 Gingerbread (with the option to upgrade to Ice Cream Sandwich later) and 4.3-inch IPS display, the Optimus LTE Tag is the ideal multimedia environment.  Key Specifications: o Chipset: 1.2GHz Dure-Core processor o Display: 4.3-inch (800 x 480) IPS o Memory: 16GB eMMC o Camera: 5.0MP with AF-LED Flash (Rear) & 1.3MP (Front) o OS: Android 2.3 Gingerbread o Battery: 1,700mAh o Others: LG Tag+, MHL(Mobile High Definition Link), DLNA(Digital Living Network Alliance)
 