
 
Thanks to a couple of carefully planned slips over in South Korea, hardly anything about LG's CES 2011 is apt to take you fully by surprise. But if you just so happened to disconnect over the holidays, we'll break it all down below to ensure you remain firmly in the loop.

For starters, the outfit seems pretty darn proud of its new SmartTV platform. Hinted at last month, this system enables HDTVs, Blu-ray players and other sources to access all sorts of streaming media, apps and even provides users with a way to surf the web. Four main sections are given -- TV Live, Premium Content, TV Apps and a Launch Bar -- and for TV models, owners will control things with a wave of the hand (read: Magic Remote). SmartTV picks up where NetCast left off, offering access to Vudu, Netflix, YouTube, CinemaNow, Hulu Plus, Amazon Video on Demand, NHL Gamecenter, NBA Game Live and MLB.tv. This here functionality is baked into quite a few of the outfit's 2011 HDTVs, but should own an older model...
Then there's the all-new SmartTV upgrader! The ST600 is a minuscule set-top box that aims to transform any TV into a SmartTV. So long as your set has an HDMI input, you'll be able to access the content mentioned above. But, of course, it's on you to source your own Magic Remote.
If it's an all-new TV you're after, the company is also revealing its 2011 LED and LCD HDTV line. Nary a one is different than those we heard about last week, but at least you can now rest easy knowing that the LW9500 and LW7700 Nano Full HD 3D models will indeed see a stateside release this month. The best news here is the use of polarizing glasses -- none of that headache-inducing active shutter mess. There are 13 new LED LCD models in all, with nine of 'em shipping with the SmartTV platform embedded. Unfortunately, LG's not dishing out pricing information on these bad boys just yet.
Not so keen on picking up an LCD? Plasma still lives, you know! LG's rolling out its 1080p Infinia PZ950 and PZ750 lines here at CES, with both available in 50-inch and 60-inch class sizes. Both lines come equipped with the SmartTV platform, a gesture-based Magic Motion remote andl as a free Android / iPhone app if you'd rather use your phone as a remote. The 50- / 60-inch PZ550 is saddling with NetCast 1.0, but it -- along with the PW350, PZ950 and PZ750 lines -- can handle 3D imagery. Sadly, LG's also straying from providing pricing details on these.
Wrapping things up, the company is debuting its 2011 line of networked Blu-ray players and home theater systems. The BD690 supports 3D BD playback and ships with an inbuilt 250GB HDD and the SmartTV platform. The majority of LG's line also includes WiFi, DLNA streaming support and a MusicID feature by Gracenote that enables consumers to play a song from a movie of TV show by mashing a single button on the remote. The BD670, BD650, BD640, BD630 and BD650 are also seeing the light of day, with the latter being LG's first portable BD deck.
Finally, LG snuck in an image (seen above) of a 3D mobile TV prototype. We've no details whatsoever to go on, but you can rest assured we'll be scouring the show floor in search of just that.

For more information on all of the goods here, head on past the break for the full releases. Don't expect to find any pricing information, though.





Show full PR textLG ELECTRONICS MAKES IT EASY TO GO SMART WITH NEW SMARTTV OFFERINGSUser-friendly Dashboard and Motion Control Magic Remote Provide Easy Access to Premium Content and LG App StoreLAS VEGAS, Jan. 5, 2011 – LG Electronics (LG), a global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, unveiled its new LG SmartTV platform at the International Consumer Electronics Show (Booth #8205). The unique platform provides access to thousands of movies, customizable apps, videos and the ability to browse the Web through an easy to navigate user interface and uncomplicated point and click remote system*.A simple dashboard is the gateway to the LG SmartTV experience. With just four main sections – TV Live, Premium Content, TV Apps and a Launch Bar – viewers are never more than a few clicks from a vast variety of content. For TV models, selecting features is as easy as the wave of the hand with the motion controlled Magic Remote*. The remote is operated by simply pointing it at the screen, moving the cursor to the desired option and clicking on the selection. A keyboard is not needed, but a QWERTY keyboard app is available for download on Android smartphones or iPhone. "LG SmartTV provides viewers with endless options on their television, however, if these entertainment features are difficult to access or select, consumers will not truly enjoy the technology," said Jay Vandenbree, senior vice president, Home Electronics, LG Electronics USA. "We have designed our LG SmartTV platform to be as easy and simple to use as possible, so that viewers spend their time engaging with their television, rather than navigating it."Building upon the pioneering NetCast Entertainment Access offering, LG's SmartTV platform provides access to endless entertainment options from providers including**:• VUDU– Allows consumers to buy or rent from an extensive catalog of more than 2,000 high-definition movies and TV titles without monthly fees or additional hardware. It also is the only online service to offer movies in 1080p.• Netflix – Updated with Netflix 2.0, consumers can now stream thousands of movies without a PC.• YouTube – Instantly streams millions of Web videos directly from the Internet.• CinemaNow – Allows consumers to browse from the CinemaNow premium content catalog and instantly stream purchased or rented movies and popular TV shows.• Hulu Plus – Subscribers have access to back seasons or full runs of some of TV's greatest shows.• Amazon Video on Demand – Allows consumers to view more than 75,000 hit movies and television shows instantly.• NHL Gamecenter – Hockey fans can stay up to date with player profiles, stats and live scores.• NBA Game Live – NBA fans can follow their favorite team on and off the court with live game broadcasts, stats, scores and schedules.• MLB.TV – Streams all regular season games in HD quality and provides in-game stats and fantasy tracker.The LG App Store is also populated with hundreds of applications for download. Additionally, the platform includes a Web browser so users no longer need to turn on their laptop to access the Internet. With this feature, news, reviews, and a host of other content can be viewed on the television screen. (Web browser available on LG SmartTV models and LG Smart TV Upgrader only).LG's Smart Share function allows users to wirelessly stream content from their PCs and other compatible devices for viewing on their television screen. Smart Share also includes Media Link, which provides additional information, such as cover art or liner notes, for content being streamed. LG SmartTV is available on a range of LG's new LED, LCD and plasma HDTVs, including: LK530, LV3700, LV5500, LW5600, LW6500, LW7700, LW9500, LZ9700, PZ750 and PZ950. The platform is also available on a number of Blu-ray Disc players and Home Theater offerings, including: BD650, BD670, BD690, LHB336, LHB536 and LHB976. For consumers who are not looking to purchase a new television but would like to access the LG SmartTV technology, LG also has introduced the LG SmartTV Upgrader, a set-top box that provides any television with an HDMI input the ability to access endless amounts of content including movies, sports, television programming, music and premium applications.Show full PR textNEW LG SMARTTV UPGRADER MAKES EVERY TV A SMART TVCombines Web Browser, Premium Content and LG Apps With a User-Friendly InterfaceLAS VEGAS, Jan. 5, 2011 – LG Electronics introduced its new LG SmartTV Upgrader (ST600), an easy solution for transforming any TV into a Smart TV, today at the International Consumer Electronics Show (Booth #8205). The Upgrader gives any television with an HDMI input the ability to access endless amounts of content including movies, sports, television programming, music and premium applications, all through an easy to navigate user interface*.The LG SmartTV Upgrader also offers a Web browser so viewers no longer need to turn on their laptop to access the Internet. With this feature, news, reviews and a host of other content can be viewed on the television screen."LG Smart TV is an exciting innovation and our LG SmartTV Upgrader provides an affordable option for consumers to adopt this new technology," said Jay Vandenbree, senior vice president, LG Electronics USA. "Now any TV can be 'Something Better' with virtually unlimited content options."Building upon the pioneering NetCast Entertainment Access offering, the LG SmartTV platform provides access to endless entertainment options from providers including*:VUDU– Allows consumers to buy or rent from an extensive catalog of more than 2,000 high-definition movies and TV titles without monthly fees or additional hardware. It also is the only online service to offer movies in 1080p.Netflix – Updated with Netflix 2.0, consumers can now stream thousands of movies without a PC.YouTube – Instantly streams millions of Web videos directly from the content catalog and instantly stream purchased or rented movies and popular TV shows.Hulu Plus – Subscribers have access to back seasons or full runs of some of TV's greatest shows.Amazon Video on Demand – Allows consumers to view more than 75,000 hit movies and television shows instantly.NHL Gamecenter – Hockey fans can stay up to date with player profiles, stats and live scores.NBA Game Live – NBA fans can follow their favorite team on and off the court with live game broadcasts, stats, scores and schedules.MLB.TV – Streams all regular season games in HD quality and provides in- game stats and fantasy tracker.The LG App Store is also populated with hundreds of applications for download. The user- friendly interface can be easily navigated by a remote control with finger touch pad or smart phone with an Android or iPhone QWERTY keyboard application.LG's Smart Share function allows users to wirelessly stream content from their PCs and other compatible devices for viewing on their television screen. Smart Share also includes Media Link, which provides additional information, such as cover art or liner notes, for content being streamed. The Upgrader includes built-in WiFi and uses an HDMI connection.Show full PR textLG ELECTRONICS REDEFINES HOME ENTERTAINMENTWITH BROAD LINE OF FULL-FEATURED LED AND LCD HDTVsNew LED Technology, Combined with 3D, SmartTV and Enhanced Picture Quality, Delivers Uncompromised Options for Home Theater EnthusiastsLAS VEGAS, Jan. 5, 2011 – LG Electronics today introduced its 2011 LED and LCD HDTVs – led by advanced new display technology, versatile new 3D viewing options and internet-connected "Smart TV" capabilities – at the International Consumer Electronics Show (Booth #8205).The LG LED and LCD HDTV 2011 lineup combines slim depth and bezel design with enhanced connectivity and abundant content options. Leading the way to the ultimate home entertainment experience, the LW9500 and LW7700 sets are LG's first NANO FULL LED 3D-ready models available in the United States. Setting a new standard in 3D comfort, the LW6500 and LW5600 sets will be LG's first models available for home entertainment consumers containing polarized LG Cinema 3D technology. LG's Cinema 3D offers a theater-like experience at home with lightweight glasses, crisp images and clear wide-angle viewing.INFINIA is the flagship of LG's 21-model LED HDTV* line – including nine new series of LED HDTVs and four new series of LCD HDTVs. Leading these introductions is theNANO FULL LED series that pushes the boundaries of viewing pleasure with NANO Lighting Technology, which produces bright, clear and smooth picture. An extremely thin film printed with a proprietary light dispersion pattern and combined with a full array of LEDs disperses light more evenly across the screen, creating pictures that are brighter and more uniform than conventional edge-lit LED sets. What's more, an Anti-Reflection provide a crystal clear picture.The LW9500 and LW7700 were recognized with CES 2011 Innovations Awards, including the "Best of Innovations" distinction in the Video Displays category for the LW9500.Setting Premier ExpectationsBroadening consumer entertainment options, LG's latest series of HDTVs gives consumers superior picture quality, advanced energy saving options and flexible access to content- on-demand. LG's LED HDTVs challenge consumers' current perceptions of home entertainment by illustrating what's possible with superior display technology.LG's NANO FULL LED and Full LED Slim series (models LW9500, LW7700 and LZ9700) are expected to achieve THX 2D and 3D Display Certification* – the industry standard for having the correct gamma, luminance, and color temperature. To earn THX 3D display certification, these models passed more than 400 laboratory tests evaluating left and right eye images for color accuracy, cross-talk, viewing angles and video processing performance. In addition to THX 3D Display Certification, this series had to pass THX certification for their superior picture quality in 2D, which must be achieved before passing THX 3D Display Certification. THX Certification ensures that consumers bring home an uncompromised HD experience with picture quality the way the director intended. NANO FULL LED and FULL LED Slim 3D works with the use of active shutter glasses and an RF emitter built into the television.ConnectivityNine out of 13 of the new LED LCD series boast a connectivity package with a variety of entertainment options, including the brand new LG SmartTV*. LG SmartTV is an browse the Web, all organized in a simple to use interface. And when consumers can just point and choose selections with LG's unique motion-controlled Magic Motion Remote control, it's even simpler.LG also has incorporated the Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) technology across all SmartTV-enabled HDTVs. DLNA allows consumers to access content stored on other DLNA-certified devices within the home, such as computers or an LG NAS device, making content options almost limitless.Providing easy options for connecting to the Internet, in addition to the wired Ethernet jack, all LG SmartTV-enabled sets can integrate into a wireless home network by using aUSB wireless broadband adaptor (included). All LG SmartTV models also support multi- media playback from a connected USB device including photos (JPEG), music (MP3) and video (DivX HD).Energy SavingsUnderstanding consumers' desire for products that reduce their household energy costs, most of LG's LED HDTVs have a variety of energy-saving features, such as Intelligent Sensor, to automatically calibrate and optimize brightness, contrast, white balance and color, based on the ambient light in the room, saving on energy output under most circumstances. Additionally, ISFccc calibration options allow consumers to work with a professional to set "day" and "night" levels for optimal viewing and brightness levels. All of LG's 2011 LED series also qualify for ENERGY STAR® certification.In total, LG unveiled 13 new series of LED and LCD HDTV models for consumers – creating a robust HDTV line up of advanced picture quality, wireless technology and diverse screen sizes. Full details on the series are below:INFINIA LZ9700 (72-inch class size*) – LG's largest consumer TV, Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled HDTV features Full LED Slim technology with Local Dimming, TruMotion 480Hz and THX 3D and 2D Display Certification (pending). Also includes LG SmartTV with Magic Remote, DLNA, Wi-Fi capability (adaptor included) and Smart Energy Saving features.INFINIA LW9500 Series (55- and 60-inch class sizes*) – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled HDTV features LG's thinnest design with ultra-slim bezel, NANO FULL LED technology, TruMotion 480Hz and THX 3D and 2D Display Certification (pending).Also includes LG SmartTV with Magic Remote, DLNA, Wi-Fi capability (adaptor included) and Smart Energy Saving features.INFINIA LW7700 Series (47- and 55-inch class sizes*) – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled HDTV features NANO FULL LED technology, TruMotion 240Hz and THX 3D and 2D Display Certification (pending). Also includes LG SmartTV with Magic Remote, DLNA, Wi-Fi capability (adaptor included) and Smart Energy Saving features.INFINIA LW6500 Series (47-, 55- and 65-inch class sizes*) – Provides consumers with Full HD 1080p, LG Cinema 3D, TruMotion 240Hz, and LED Plus technology with local dimming capability. With LG SmartTV, the Magic Remote and Wi-Fi capability (adaptor included), content is easier to access than ever before. LG Cinema 3D uses polarized, lightweight glasses. Four pairs of glasses are included with each set.INFINIA LW5600 Series (47- and 55-inch class sizes*) – Provides consumers with Full HD 1080p, LG Cinema, TruMotion 120Hz, and LED Plus technology with local dimming capability. With LG SmartTV, the Magic Remote and Wi-Fi capabilitywww.LG.comShow full PR textLG ELECTRONICS' FLAGSHIP INFINIA PZ950 3D HDTV HEADLINES EXPANDED 2011 PLASMA LINE New Plasma Displays Combine Top-of-the-Line Features, Amazing Picture Quality and Stylish DesignLAS VEGAS, Jan. 5, 2011 – LG Electronics announced its expanded family of plasma HDTVs for 2011 today at the International Consumer Electronics Show (Booth #8205), a stunning line-up of seven new plasma series headlined by the Full HD 1080p INFINIA PZ950.The INFINIA PZ950 – with its added online content options through LG SmartTV with Magic Motion Remote for easy navigation, THX Certified 3D display* and picture-enhancing technologies– represents the pinnacle among the more than a dozen new 2011 plasma models from LG Electronics."LG is dedicated to re-inventing the boundaries of Plasma HDTVs, and the 2011 line represents another step forward in the industry," said Jay Vandenbree, senior vice president, LG Electronics USA. "Including features that provide additional content, like LG SmartTV and 3D capability, add to the great picture quality and stylish designs that consumers have come to expect from an LG plasma HDTV." Connect, Surf, EnjoyTwo of LG's new plasma lines, PZ950 and PZ750 series (each available in both 50- and 60-inch class sizes*), come with the new LG SmartTV function. Building on the online content platform the company first introduced in 2008, LG SmartTV provides consumers access to virtually limitless content, thousands of movies, customizable apps, videos and Web browsing, all through an organized, simple-to-use interface*. Making navigation easier is LG's "magic motion" remote control. This gesture-based remote provides a simple and intuitive way to control the TV as well as LG SmartTV apps. In addition, a free app for iPhone and Android-based smart phones will provide an additional way to control the set, including a full QWERTY keyboard. The PZ550 series (available in 50- and 60-inch class sizes*) includes online media options from content partners including Netflix, CinemaNow, VUDU, Picasa, MLB.com and many more with LG NetCast 1.0. Providing easy options for connecting to the Internet, in addition to the wired Ethernet jack, all internet-capable sets can integrate into a wireless home network by using a USB wireless broadband adaptor (Included with PZ950, sold separately for other models). All LG's internet-capable plasmas have incorporated the Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) technology. DLNA allows consumers to access content stored on other DLNA-certified devices within the home, such as computers, making content options almost limitless. Eye-Popping Picture, Eye-Catching DesignFour of LG's new plasma series (PZ950, PZ750, PZ550 and PW350 series) incorporate 3D capability, working with the use of active shutter glasses and an RF emitter built into the television. They also incorporate 2D to 3D conversion, which is user-adjustable so consumers can watch almost anything with a 3D effect. The PZ950 and PZ750 have achieved THX 2D and 3D Display Certification – the industry standard for having the correct gamma, luminance, and color temperature. To earn THX 3D display certification, these models passed more than 400 laboratory tests evaluating left and right eye images for color accuracy, cross-talk, viewing angles and video processing performance. In addition to THX 3D Display Certification, this series had to pass THX certification for their superior picture quality in 2D, which must be achieved before passing THX 3D Display Certification. THX Certification ensures that consumers bring home an uncompromised HD experience with picture quality the way the director intended.All of the new plasma series include LG's 600Hz Sub-field Driving to ensure that all the action is delivered smoothly with virtually no motion blur. The flagship PZ950 also includes the TruBlack filter for enhanced black levels even in brightly lit conditions. Further, it features LG's striking INFINIA Design, with a depth of less than 2 inches and a bezel measuring just 1.18 inches wide. Real glass is paired with a hair-line aluminum highlight to create a luxurious, virtually borderless appearance, while a transparent lower panel completes the slim even-bezel look. The overall effect is to draw greater attention to the screen, making for a truly immersive viewing experience in both 2D and 3D. Other 2011 models (PZ550, PW350, PV450, and PT350) include LG's TruSlim Frame, which cut the bezel to less than 1-inch thin. Energy SavingsUnderstanding consumers' desire for products that reduce their household energy costs, most of LG's plasma HDTVs have a variety of energy-saving features, such as Intelligent Sensor, to automatically calibrate and optimize brightness, contrast, white balance and color, based on the ambient light in the room, saving on energy output under most circumstances. Additionally, ISFccc calibration options allow consumers to work with a professional to set "day" and "night" levels for optimal viewing and brightness levels. All of LG's 2011 plasma series also qualify for ENERGY STAR® certification. In total, LG unveiled 12 new plasma HDTV models for consumers, featuring advanced content options, excellent picture quality, wireless technology and diverse screen sizes. Full details on the series are below: INFINIA PZ950 Series (50 and 60-inch class size*) – LG's flagship plasma, Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled HDTV features uni-layer design with ultra-slim bezel, LG SmartTV with Magic Motion Remote, THX 3D and 2D Display Certification. Also includes TruBlack Filter, 600Hz max Sub-field Driving, DLNA, Wi-Fi capability (adaptor included), and Smart Energy Saving features.INFINIA PZ750 Series (50- and 60-inch class sizes*) – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled HDTV features uni-layer design with ultra-slim bezel, LG SmartTV with Magic Motion Remote, THX 3D and 2D Display Certification. Also includes 600Hz max Sub-field Driving, DLNA, Wi-Fi capability (adaptor required, sold separately), and Smart Energy Saving features.PZ550 Series (50- and 60-inch class sizes*) – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled HDTV features LG's TruSlim Frame, NetCast™ Entertainment Access, DLNA, Wi-Fi capability (adaptor required, sold separately), 600Hz max Sub-field Driving and Smart Energy Saving features.PW350 Series (42- and 50-inch class sizes*) – Provides mid- to large-size 3D-enabled HDTV with LG's TruSlim Frame, 600Hz Sub-field Driving and Smart Energy Saving features.PV450 Series (50- and 60-inch class sizes*) – Provides consumers with a Full HD 1080p experience with LG's TruSlim Frame, 600Hz max Sub-field Driving and Smart Energy Saving features. PT350 Series (42- and 50-inch class sizes*) – Provides mid- to large-size HDTV with LG's TruSlim Frame, 600Hz Sub-field Driving and Smart Energy Saving features.With class sizes ranging from 42- to 60-inches, LG's plasma HDTV models are all built with LG's four core technologies:• Picture Wizard: Provides consumers with an easy-to-use seven-step calibration process that allows them to change picture settings without hiring an expert.• Intelligent Sensor: Automatically calibrates and optimizes brightness, contrast, white balance and color, based on the brightness and color temperature of lighting in the room – thereby saving on energy output in most circumstances.• Clear Voice II: An enhancement to Clear Voice, this feature customizes volume settings by 12 distinct voice zoom levels, helping ensure consumers don't miss a single line of dialogue during action sequences.• AV Mode II: Includes three AV modes preset to optimize picture and sound settings based on Cinema, Sports or Game content, which can be easily set with the remote control. For more information and product images, please visit LG's online press kit at www.lgnewsroom.com/CES2011.Show full PR textLG ELECTRONICS FURTHER EXPANDS ACCESS TO CONTENT-ON-DEMAND WITH NEW BLU-RAY DISC PLAYERS AND HOME THEATER SYSTEMSKey Features for 2011 Include LG SmartTV, 3D Capability, 250 GB Hard Drive, Wi-Fi Connectivity LAS VEGAS, Jan. 5, 2011 – Continuing its leadership in digital media with vast online content options, LG Electronics today introduced its 2011 line-up of Network Blu-ray Disc Players and Home Theater Systems at the International Consumer Electronics Show (Booth #8205)Leading the line-up being unveiled this week is LG's BD690 3D-capable Network Blu-ray Disc player with LG SmartTV and an integrated 250-gigabyte (GB) hard drive, allowing for easy storage and instant playback of music, photos, personal videos and online movies from VUDU™*. Demonstrating its focus on providing consumers with convenient access to nearly endless content options, six of LG's 2011 Network Blu-ray Players and home theater systems are 3D capable and incorporate LG SmartTV. LG SmartTV provides consumers with a simple-to-use interface that allows access to thousands of movies, customizable apps and videos. For convenient navigation consumers can download a free app for iPhone and Android-based smart phones to control the unit, including a full QWERTY keyboard. "LG is committed to offering consumers easier access to more content-on-demand, which is reflected in our 2011 line of Blu-ray products with new content partners, advanced technology and unique design," said Jay Vandenbree, senior vice president, LG Electronics USA. "As the pioneer in providing content-on-demand options for consumers, LG builds on this reputation by offering full product lines designed to help consumers transform their home entertainment experience into something better."Consumers also will enjoy that most 2011 Network Blu-ray Players and home theater systems have available Wi-Fi connectivity (built-in or available with purchase of Wi-Fi adapter) that allows consumers flexibility when installing a home entertainment system by connecting directly to any existing 802.11n wireless home network. They also include Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) functionality, which expands entertainment options by enabling easier access to family videos and pictures stored on other DLNA-enabled systems, such as computers, making content options almost limitless.Also included on many products in the lineup is the MusicID® feature powered by Gracenote®, which allows consumers to play a song from a movie or TV show by simply pressing a button on their remote control. Gracenote then returns rich information on the song, such as artist and genre, along with album cover art. Designed to complement the look of today's HDTVs, LG's Network Blu-ray Players and home theater systems feature slim, compact designs that allow consumers to easily blend their entire entertainment system into any existing room environment. Network Blu-ray Disc PlayersLeading LG's 2011 portfolio of Network Blu-ray Disc Players is model BD690 – one of the only 3D-capable Blu-ray Disc player to feature an integrated hard drive, so consumers can consolidate their digital media files in a single device for exceptional high-resolution enjoyment. Its built-in 250GB hard drive allows consumers to create a Media Library that delivers easy storage and instant playback of music, photos, personal videos and movies purchased from the VUDU service. Also, digital media that may have been scattered throughout the home on PCs or digital cameras can now be simply imported via the USB or Ethernet port to create a single organized library of personal memories.To take full advantage of the Blu-ray format, LG's Network Blu-ray Players also provide convenient access to BD Live, which offers a wide variety of content, such as movie scene extras, new previews and the ability to read synopses and rate movies. Also included are Bonus View features that provide picture-in-picture access to Blu-ray Disc special features, allowing consumers to toggle between their favorite movie scenes and bonus features on the disc. For those with a library full of both standard and Blu-ray titles, LG's players utilize 1080p up scaling of standard DVDs for a near high definition viewing experience – no matter what format is being played. In all, LG introduced six new Network Blu-ray Players, featuring 3D capability, advanced content options, wireless technology and excellent picture quality. Also unveiled was its first-ever portable Blu-ray player (model BP650). Full details on the models are below:BD690 – LG's flagship Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled Network Blu-ray Player features LG SmartTV, and 250GB hard drive with MusicID®. Also includes built-in Wi-Fi capability and DLNA (server and client) functionality.BD670 – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled Network Blu-ray Player features LG SmartTV and MusicID®. Also includes built-in Wi-Fi capability, and DLNA.BD650 – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled Network Blu-ray Player features LG SmartTV and is Wi-Fi ready (adaptor required, sold seperatly), and DLNA.BD640 – Full HD 1080p Network Blu-ray Player features, connectivity to NetFlix, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube, and Wi-Fi capability (adaptor is included).BD630 – Full HD 1080p Network Blu-ray Player features, and connectivity to NetFlix, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube.BP650 – LG's first portable Blu-ray PlayerNetwork Blu-ray Disc Home Theater SystemsHeadlining LG's new line of Network Blu-ray Disc Home Theater Systems is the LHB976. Offering a sleek, stylish audio-visual solution with 3-channel wireless speaker technology, the LHB976 provides consumers with wireless access to LG SmartTV and 3D capability.With 1100 watts of output power to 5.1 channels featuring LG's silk dome speaker technology, this premium Blu-ray Home Theater System generates a dynamic surround-sound experience, creating a more immersive home entertainment experience. A sub-woofer and two wireless rear speakers complete the package, giving consumers the flexibility to place them anywhere in the room. In addition, the front tallboy speakers can be positioned as either floor-standing or detached to mount on the wall.For enhanced versatility, the LHB976 features LG's wireless rear speaker technology, which utilizes digital spread spectrum operation for better signal quality and consistent high-quality audio performance. This feature ensures that installation is quick and the consumer is not left with a tangle of wires distracting the eye from the system itself.Advanced audio format decoding is supported so users can enjoy superior audio performance with technologies such as Dolby True HD and DTS-HD Master Audio Essential. And of course, no audio system would be complete without iPod docking capabilities. The LHB976 allows for both the iPod and iPhone to be directly connected via a convenient cradle adaptor.The LHB976 caters to most consumer listening needs by playing multiple media types, from CD/DVDs to Blu-ray Discs to network streaming content, all accessible from a single home theater system. The dual HDMI (version 1.4) inputs also deliver great audio performance and convenient connectivity for devices such as cable boxes or game systems in a simple, easy-to-use format. This model is also DLNA-certified allowing consumers to easily access content on other compatible devices.Also announced was LG's first "HD Sound Bar" (model LSB316), a home theater accessory designed to complement LG's advanced flat-panel displays with elevated audio performance. The LSB316 includes six speaker drivers housed in a sleek, stylish speaker bar which can be placed directly below the TV or wall mounted. The bar is accompanied by a wireless subwoofer which can be conveniently placed out of sight while delivering deep, rich bass.In total, LG introduced four new Network Blu-ray Home Theater Systems, featuring 3D capability, advanced content options, wireless technology and excellent sound and picture quality. Full details on the models are below:LHB976 – LG's flagship Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled Network Blu-ray Home Theater System features LG SmartTV, 1100 watts of output power to 5.1 channels and wireless speakers. Also includes, built-in Wi-Fi capability, iPod/iPhone cradle, MusicID® and DLNA.LHB536 – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled Network Blu-ray Home Theater System features LG SmartTV and 1100 watts of output power to 5.1 channels. Also includes built-in WiFi capability, iPod/iPhone cradle, MusicID® and DLNA.LHB336 – Full HD 1080p 3D-enabled Network Blu-ray Home Theater System features LG SmartTV with Smart Phone App and 1100 watts of output power to 5.1 channels. Also Wi-Fi ready (adaptor required, sold seperatly) and includes iPod/iPhone cradle, MusicID® and DLNA.LHB326 – Full HD 1080p Network Blu-ray Home Theater System features connectivity to NetFlix, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube; and 1100 watts of output power to 5.1 channels. Also includes Wi-Fi capability (adaptor is included) and MusicID®.For more information and product images, please visit LG's online press kit at www.lgnewsroom.com/ces2011.
 