
 

The long wait is finally over! Joining the likes of HTC EVO 3D and Sharp SH-12C is LG's very own Optimus 3D aka Thrill 4G for AT&T, which we first got our hands on back in February and again in March. The specs for this Android 2.2 device (yeah, we know) have remained untouched since we last checked: here we have a 4.3-inch glasses-less 3D LCD with 800 x 480 resolution, a 1GHz dual core TI OMAP4430 processor, 512MB of speedy dual channel RAM, a 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera, and a couple of 5 megapixel cameras on the back that can capture 3D 1080p video at 24fps, or 3D 720p at 30fps. Other tidbits include 14.4Mbps HSPA+ connection, an HDMI-out port, and a removable 1500mAh battery, all inside a 5.93 ounce package. Alas, no date's been mentioned for the phone's US launch, but the lucky Europeans will get to pick up this phone first, followed by the rest of the world "over the next several weeks." Stay tuned while we keep our eyes peeled open for further news.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  LG ROLLS OUT OPTIMUS 3D, WORLD'S FIRST TRI-DUAL ARCHITECTURE SMARTPHONE WITH FULL 3D 		Dual-Core / Dual-Channel / Dual-Memory Device Also Delivers Amazing 3D Experience 		Seoul, June 17, 2011 – LG Electronics (LG) today officially launched the long-awaited LG Optimus 3D, an innovative new smartphone featuring second generation dual core technology and an advanced "Tri-Dual" architecture. First unveiled at Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona in February, the LG Optimus 3D offers a full 3D experience - recording, viewing, sharing - in a smartphone form factor. 		The LG Optimus 3D takes the smartphone experience into new territory with its Tri-Dual configuration – dual-core, dual-channel and dual-memory – which allows for improved performance when multi-tasking, enjoying a movie or playing graphics-intensive games. This LG smartphone is also a major step forward in the utilization of full 3D functionality in everyday life – users can record and immediately view content in 3D without the need for special glasses. 		"Tri-Dual architecture opens up a whole new world in smartphone performance," said Dr. Jong-seok Park, President and CEO of LG Mobile Communications Company. "As the latest offering in our Optimus line-up, we expect there will be significant interest from those who seek the very latest in smartphone technology and are excited about 3D as the next big frontier in mobile devices." 		Peak Efficiency and Performance Powered by Unique Tri-Dual Configuration 		LG's Tri-Dual architecture pushes the LG Optimus 3D's performance well beyond simple clock speed improvements. Other smartphones – even those with higher clock speeds and dual-core technology – suffer when it comes to actual performance because of the inefficiency inherent in a single-channel configuration. With a dual-channel configuration, data transfers take place simultaneously between the dual-core and dual-memory, resulting in noticeably faster performance. As a result, the LG Optimus 3D maximizes run-time efficiency leading to noticeably smoother, faster, and longer multi-tasking, browsing, gaming and multimedia enjoyment than ever before. 		Full 3D Experience: 3D Recording-Viewing-Sharing 		LG's full 3D concept transforms 3D technology from a novelty to a practical tool. 3D recording, viewing and sharing is faster and more convenient in the Optimus 3D and can be enjoyed without cumbersome glasses. LG's latest smartphone enables owners to capture high quality 3D content with 3D video stabilization technology and real-time misalignment correction algorithm which automatically corrects for shake during recording. And the smartphone's wide viewing angle makes watching videos and movies much more convenient and comfortable. 		The 4.3-inch WVGA display offers bright and flicker-free images in HD, up to 1080p in 2D and up to 720p in 3D. Special software allows for real-time conversion of 2D photo and video content into 3D. Free software for converting 2D games will be available for download during the third quarter, letting users enjoy a variety of multimedia content in 3D. Captured 3D content can be shared with 3D TVs via an HDMI 1.4 connection and the phone can also send content to any DLNA Certified™ device. In addition, users can upload and stream 3D content on YouTube's dedicated 3D channel (www.youtube.com/3D). 		The LG Optimus 3D also incorporates the world's first 3D augmented reality (AR) browser in collaboration with AR pioneer Wikitude. The browser will be available through an app downloadable from LGWorld (www.lgworld.com). 		The phone will be available in Europe first, and then in more than 60 markets around the world over the next several weeks.
 