
 

Libratone managed to pique our interest with its brightly-colored, cashmere-ensconced Live and Lounge AirPlay speakers this summer, and it's now finally announced that they're both available in the US. They come in at an expectedly hefty $699 for the smaller Live model and $1,299 for the larger Lounge soundbar (add an extra $100 to each for that aforementioned cashmere option -- yes, really), and they'll both be available at Apple stores and other select design retailers. Despite that sizable price difference, both units have the same 150W of total output power (coming from five dedicated amplifiers), although the Lounge promises some expanded range that's better suited for a living room -- it's also much bigger than it appears in the not-to-scale image above (40 inches wide, to be specific, while the Live is just under eight). The official press release is after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  LIBRATONE DEBUTS AIRPLAY ENABLED SOUND SYSTEMS 		Libratone's wireless AirPlay speakers boast exceptional sound and minimalistic Scandinavian design made from hand-picked materials including Italian cashmere, and chrome 		Palo Alto – November 2, 2011 – Libratone, a brand known in Europe for its high-end sound systems, makes its U.S. debut with the launch of two cutting-edge AirPlay-enabled options for the ultimate sound experience: the Libratone Live and Libratone Lounge. Apple's AirPlay® allows users to stream songs from their iTunes music libraries on Mac or PC, as well as music stored on their iPad, iPhone or iPod touch, through their Wi-Fi networks.* The Libratone Lounge system is designed to make every corner of the room the ideal spot for sound while the Libratone Live allows for versatility due to its smaller size. Another attractive feature is the gorgeous design of both systems, which is heightened with quality hand-picked materials including Italian cashmere, chrome, wood and selected acoustic materials. Libratone Live and Lounge allow you to experience big sound with minimalistic design without clumsy, clunky speakers. One is all you need. 		Liberation is a reoccurring theme for Libratone as they encourage a life without cables, without clutter and most importantly surrounded by great sound. Users can enhance the Libratone experience with the Libratone App, which allows for the customization of the FullRoom feature, enabling you adjust sound to fit any room. 		The Libratone speakers are now available in a variety of colors to compliment your spaces. The Libratone Lounge, perfect for living room spaces, is available in Slate Grey, Blueberry Black and Vanilla Beige as standard at a cost of $1,299 and as red and green cashmere in its premium offering at a cost of $1,399. The more petite Libratone Live, ideal for any room in the home, is available in grey, black and beige as standard at a cost of $699 and as premium in red and green cashmere at a cost of $799. The stylish Live also offers a chrome handle for easy portability.		Libratone Lounge and Live are available at Apple.com in US. For a full list of other retailers visit www.libratone.com/buy. 		"Music is the context in which we live our lives – a personal soundtrack so to speak. We believe strongly in simplicity and the ability to experience room-filling sound in any room without clumsy speakers and tangled wires" states Soeren Louis Pedersen, Chief Sales Officer of Libratone, "Libratone is designed to simplify and enhance any home décor with room filling, high fidelity sound". 		Libratone Live and Libratone Lounge features: 		Libratone Lounge and Libratone Live utilizes AirPlay, allowing users to stream songs from their iTunes music libraries on Mac or PC, as well as music stored on their iPad, iPhone or iPod touch, through their Wi-Fi networks.* 		Minimalistic interior design. Libratone Live is small and even has a handle for easy placement. Libratone Lounge is designed to stand alone or to fit under a TV or anywhere aesthetically all while enjoying the same exceptional sound. 		FullRoom technology. The single sound source design ensures that acoustic sound is covered from corner-to-corner. Take the experience to the next level by personalizing the FullRoom feature with the Libratone App. 		Quality raw materials and craftsmanship all from hand-picked materials including cashmere, chrome and wood. Gorgeous colors compliment every home. 		The Libratone App is available for free from the App Store on iPad, iPhone or iPod touch or at HYPERLINK "http://www.itunes.com/appstore"www.itunes.com/appstore. 		*AirPlay requires iPhone 4S, iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS, iPod touch (2nd, 3rd or 4th generation), iPad 2 or iPad with iOS 4.2 or later, or Mac and PC with iTunes 10.1 or later. Wi-Fi network is required.  		About Libratone		Libratone is a Copenhagen-based audio company that creates sound systems for today. That's it. 		Our approach is three-headed: Wireless technology, hi-fi quality, and Scandinavian design		– in one sound source. 		Our goal is to play music from iPad, iPhone and iPod touch devices worldwide and to deliver an alternative to clumsy stereo systems and the wire-havoc they wreak. All without compromising the sound experience. 		To learn more about Libratone's Lounge and Live audio systems visit HYPERLINK "http://www.libratone.com" www.libratone.com.  		Trademark acknowledgements		iTunes, AirPlay, iPod, iPhone and iPad are registered trademarks of Apple Inc.		Libratone and FullRoom are registered trademarks of Libratone A/S.
 