
 


	Been on the prowl for an audio solution with AirPlay to compliment your iDevice or Apple TV? Bid hello to Libratone's ultra-chic Lounge and Live soundbars. Last year, the company introduced its eye-catching Beat wireless speaker system back at IFA; we were intrigued by its active drivers and carry handle, but mildly disappointed that cord-cutting required pesky proprietary adapters. Apple users will be happy to know AirPlay's been fully embraced this time, along with the signature adornment of cashmere wool. First up, the Live appears to be an Airplay-enabled Beat with 50 extra watts of RMS power (150 total), and an updated -- mini TOSlink accepting -- 3.5mm input for hooking up non AirPlay-enabled gear. Next up, the sleek Lounge unit above sports a similar external design and digital 3.5mm jack, but it's svelte in comparison for wall-mounting under a TV. Under its sheep fuzz, you'll find two 1-inch ribbon tweeters, two 4-inch ceramic drivers, and one 8-inch inverted woofer, all of which are independently amplified for a combined output of 150 RMS watts.

	Poised to please audio enthusiasts, both employ DSP and Libratone's FullRoom for a "360 degree soundscape" controllable via an iOS app, while the Lounge's volume can also be handled by a TV remote. The Lounge will be available through Apple's online store this September priced at £1,099 to €,1199 (about $1,791 to $1,954), and the Live for £599 to £6,99 ($699) at Apple retail locations in the EU and US -- both in various colorways. You'll find details in the PR after the break while your next bout of Gear Acquisition Syndrome begins settling in.
 

 		Show full PR text  One is all it takes		Libratone launches all new AirPlay sound system for your living room. 		Denmark, 21st July 2011: Building on its success within the field of wireless audio, Libratone introduces a high-end AirPlay sound system for the living room. Libratone Lounge combines advanced technology and Scandinavian design to enhance movie and music experiences. The Libratone Lounge is all that's needed to replace an old hi-fi system. Driven by Apple's AirPlay technology, the system allows users to stream music wirelessly from an iDevice or Mac/PC without having to settle for mediocre sound. 		"Libratone makes sound systems for modern lifestyles. The AirPlay technology taps right into that principle with the freedom to have full control, without speaker cables, and we believe this is the future of sound. That's why we are one of the first to have embraced this technological leap," says Fritz Andersen, CEO of Libratone. 		Additionally Libratone Lounge is designed to bring out the best in TV viewing without turning the living room into a jungle of wires. Volume can also be controlled through the TV remote.		One speaker, a full room of sound 		Inside the Libratone Lounge, high-end audio components make sure that movies and music sound amazingly crisp. Five dedicated amplifiers based on technology normally only seen in far more expensive systems (up to 150W output) and a Digital Signal Processing unit provides crystal clear sound and a precise bass. However, the real gem is the patented FullRoom technology that lets the tweeters and midrange drivers disperse sound both forwards and sidewards enabling the Libratone Lounge to recreate sound like an acoustic instrument. The FullRoomtechnology reflects sound off the room's walls to provide high quality 360 degree sound, meaning that wherever the listener is in the room, they are always in the 'sweet spot'. Additionally and contrary to regular compact systems, the soundscape expands at a distance.		One app to rule them all 		Libratone Lounge is a 'made-for-Apple' product. This means it connects seamlessly with an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. By downloading the Lounge-app users, can strengthen that relationship. The app enhances the sound experience even further by allowing the sound form placement to be adjusted via the AirPlay connection. In other words, Libratone Lounge creates a soundscape that fits specifically to every living room.		Scandinavia in your living room 		Just as its predecessor, the Libratone Lounge is a product of the Scandinavian design heritage. With its minimalistic lines and high quality raw materials, it can best be described as a piece of sound furniture. Available in a range of colours, the Libratone Lounge is finished in luxury cashmere wool. 		"It's a myth that great sound comes from big, black boxes. It's a remnant of the '90s. The Libratone Lounge has the power to be the primary sound source in your home without taking over your living room with wires or a clumsy design," says Fritz Andersen. 		Libratone Lounge is available in Apple Online Stores from September 2011, and costs from £1099 and €1199. Also available in the Libratone AirPlay family is Libratone Live - a flexible sound system that adjusts to your lifestyle.		About Libratone 		Libratone creates sound systems for today. That's it. 		Our approach is a three-headed beast: Wireless technology, hi-fi quality, and Scandinavian design - in one sound source. 		Our goal is to bring new life to iPhones, iPads, iPods and computers worldwide and to deliver an alternative to clumsy stereo systems and the wire-havoc they wreak. All without compromising the sound experience. 		Trademark acknowledgements		iTunes, AirPlay, iPod, iPhone and iPad are registered trademark of Apple Inc.		Libratone and FullRoom are registered trademarks of Libratone A/S.  Soundtrack your life		Libratone introduces versatile and powerful AirPlay sound system 		Denmark, 21st July 2011: Libratone, a Copenhagen-based audio company developing innovative wireless sound solutions, today announces the launch of the Libratone Live, a versatile and powerful Airplay® sound system for iDevices and computers. With the liberation of sound having always been Libratone's mantra, the newest member of their product family offers full AirPlay support, allowing audio to flow freely, without wires or a loss of sound quality. The Libratone Live is available in Apple Stores in Europe and US from September 2011 and retails from £599, $699 and €699. 		"Our philosophy is to set sound free. The AirPlay technology in the Libratone Live means you can now stream your entire music library wirelessly, directly from your iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad or computer. It's freedom at your fingertips!" says Fritz Andersen, CEO of Libratone.		One sound source, a whole lot of sound 		The inclusion of AirPlay technology in the Libratone Live is supplemented by high-end audio components usually seen in much more expensive units. An output of up to 150W makes the Libratone Live a powerful sound source. The five dedicated amplifiers and advanced digital signal processing capabilities gives users precise bass and crystal clear treble. Additionally, the patented FullRoom®-technology provides the listener with a room-filling soundscape with the tweeters and midrange drivers dispersing 360 degree sound which makes the Libratone Live play like an acoustic instrument. 		Due to the FullRoom technology, the Libratone Live can fill even complex rooms with high quality sound. The technology also works with the room instead of against it meaning it delivers where most other systems do not. So, whether users want instant access to a complete music library in the kitchen, office or living room, the Libratone Live is up to the task.		"Regular speakers in a stereo setup push sound forward in one direction, creating a small sweet spot in the centre of the room and leaving other areas of the room with inferior sound. Our patented FullRoom technology eliminates the sweet spot by letting the sound reflect off the walls, creating a much larger area with increased spaciousness. Contrary to regular compact systems, the soundscape actually expands at a distance. We like to think of it as having your favourite band right in your living room," says Jes Mosgaard, CTO at Libratone.		The soundtrack of your life 		To further enhance the sound experience and freedom of placement, users can download an iPhone application that allows the Libratone Live to be adjusted remotely via the AirPlay connection. Based on the information users provide, it automatically calibrates the sound from the Libratone Live to fit the surroundings perfectly. 		Much more than a clumsy black box which is commonplace in the market, the Libratone Live offers a contemporary design with a Scandinavian heritage. It features a satin chrome handle for easy portability, comes in several colours, including slate grey (standard), blood orange, vanilla beige, blueberry black and lime green, and is finished in luxury cashmere wool. Libratone has developed a desirable speaker that stands out and yet blends in at the same time.		Libratone Live is available in Apple Stores from September 2011 in Europe and US, and costs from £599, $699 and €699. Also available in the Libratone AirPlay family is Libratone Lounge – a true hi-fi replacement for your living room. 		About Libratone 		Libratone creates sound systems for today. That's it.		Our approach is a three-headed beast: Wireless technology, hi-fi quality, and Scandinavian design – in one sound source. 		Our goal is to bring new life to iPhones, iPads, iPods and computers worldwide and to deliver an alternative to clumsy stereo systems and the wire-havoc they wreak. All without compromising the sound experience. 		Trademark acknowledgements iTunes, AirPlay, iPod, iPhone and iPad are registered trademark of Apple Inc. Libratone and FullRoom are registered trademarks of Libratone A/S. 
 