
 
 Japanese Skype rival Line is branching out from its iPhone and Android garden to visit Windows Phone. Whilst the app will initially arrive with free calls disabled, the company has promised to rectify that issue in the near future. Still, WP7 users can enjoy all of that free messaging as soon as they've downloaded the app, available at our source link.




  Show full PR text   NHN Japan Releases New Windows (R) Phone Version of LINE, Free-Calling and Free-Messaging App
  TOKYO, June 12, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- NHN Japan Corporation announced on June 12 the release of the Windows (R) Phone version of LINE, its free-calling and free-messaging app. Using "Metro UI" featuring an intuitive design allowing for greater operability, NHN Japan is strengthening the cross-platform integration of its services.

   LINE is a smartphone app which allows users to enjoy free calls and messages to one another, both nationally and internationally, regardless of which mobile network provider they are using. It is currently used in over 230 countries with the total number of active users exceeding 40 million worldwide (18 million in Japan).

   This new version makes use of the unique Windows (R) Phone user-interface system, Metro UI, which increases user friendliness and promotes stress-free communication by arranging text for increased clarity, as well as introducing sideways menu scrolling for ease of access, a distinctive characteristic of Windows (R) Phone. Although the release of this version will feature the all-important messaging function, it will not include the free-calling function. NHN Japan plans to add this function in the near future.

   The Windows (R) Phone version is seen as a welcome addition to the current versions of LINE which are available on iPhone, Android, feature-phones and PCs as well as a browser version for smart-tablets. NHN Japan hopes to increase the strength of its mobile messenger service by making it available across all platforms and devices.

 
