
 
Lionsgate has worked out a deal with director Francis Ford Coppola's Zoetrope Corporation that allowed it to release his most recent flick, Tetro, but the big news is what's next -- Apocalypse Now. The classic Vietnam War flick arrives on high definition for the first time October 19 in two different packages, a 2-disc set with the original cut and Apocalypse Now: Redux version and nine hours of special features, or a "Full Disclosure Edition" that tosses in a third disc with Hearts of Darkness making of documentary, collectible booklet and archived photos and marketing info. No word on a price tag for either, but after that expect to see The Conversation up next.
      

 

Show full PR textLIONSGATE and American Zoetrope Enter Into Home Entertainment Distribution AgreementCompany Obtains North American Distribution Rights To Some Of The Most Important Films In American Cinema From Francis Ford Coppola, One Of The Most Prominent And Acclaimed Filmmakers Of Our Time, Including Academy Award速 Best Picture Nominees Apocalypse Now and The Conversation as well as Coppola's newest masterpiece, TetroApocalypse Now to be released on Blu-ray for the first time ever on October 19thSANTA MONICA, Calif., July 26 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- LIONSGATE速 (NYSE: LGF), the leading next generation studio, has entered into a multi-year home entertainment distribution agreement with legendary filmmaker Francis Ford Coppola's Zoetrope Corporation, it was announced today by Lionsgate President and Co-Chief Operating Officer Steve Beeks and Francis Ford Coppola on behalf of American Zoetrope. Under the terms of the arrangement, Lionsgate obtains the North American DVD, Blu-ray, Electronic-sell-through (EST), Video-on-demand (VOD) and broadcast television distribution rights to some of the most important films in American cinema from master filmmaker Coppola, including Apocalyse Now, Apocalyse Now Redux and others, as well as the North American DVD, Blu-ray, EST and VOD rights to The Conversation. The first title to be released as part of the deal was Tetro, Coppola's most recent theatrical release and first original screenplay since The Conversation, as well as his most personal film to date. "We are thrilled to be in business with Francis Ford Coppola, one of the greatest filmmakers of our time," said Beeks. "Having directed, produced and written some of the most financially successful and critically acclaimed movies in U.S. cinematic history, Coppola is one of the masters of modern cinema. We are honored to add a selection of his most renowned and personal works to our library and look forward to releasing these titles on all formats.""With their expertise in the home entertainment marketplace, we consider Lionsgate to be the perfect partner to distribute some of my most enduring films," said Coppola. "We are excited to be collaborating with them and hope to continue to enthrall our existing fans while also reaching a whole new audience for these films by presenting them in the highest quality format available along with exceptional in-depth special features."The next release under the Zoetrope/Lionsgate partnership will come October 19th, when Lionsgate will unveil Apocalypse Now for the first time ever in High Definition. Apocalypse Now is widely recognized as one of the cinematic masterpieces of the late 20th century. An Academy Award速 nominee for Best Picture in 1979 and ranked 28th on the AFI's list of 100 Years...100 Movies, the movies features an all-star cast including Marlon Brando, Martin Sheen, Robert Duvall, Laurence Fishburne, Dennis Hopper and Harrison Ford in memorable roles.With new transfers supervised directly by Coppola, Apocalypse Now will premiere on Blu-ray in two deluxe editions: the 2-Film Set and the 3-disc Full Disclosure Edition. The 2-Film Set will include both Apocalypse Now - The 1979 Cut and Apocalypse Now Redux and will also include over nine hours of special features. The Full Disclosure Edition will include the seminal making-of documentary Hearts of Darkness, a 48-page collectible booklet and storyboard, photo and marketing archives.Another critically acclaimed Zoetrope film that Lionsgate will distribute under the deal is The Conversation. Starring Gene Hackman as a private detective who becomes obsessed with one of his cases, The Conversation won the 1974 Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival and was selected in 1995 for preservation in the Library of Congress by the U.S. National Film Registry for its cultural significance. The deal with American Zoetrope continues to build on Lionsgate's tremendous success distributing product from some of the most prominent libraries in the world. Consisting of approximately 12,000 motion picture titles and television episodes, Lionsgate has one of the largest and most prestigious libraries in the entertainment industry with titles ranging from Dirty Dancing, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Basic Instinct, Reservoir Dogs, Monster's Ball, Crash and Rambo.ABOUT LIONSGATELionsgate (NYSE: LGF - News) is the leading next generation studio with a strong and diversified presence in the production and distribution of motion pictures, television programming, home entertainment, family entertainment, video-on-demand and digitally delivered content. The Company has built a strong television presence in production of prime time cable and broadcast network series, distribution and syndication of programming through Debmar-Mercury and an array of channel assets. Lionsgate currently has nearly 20 shows on 10 different networks spanning its prime time production, distribution and syndication businesses, including such critically-acclaimed hits as "Mad Men," "Weeds" and "Nurse Jackie" along with new series such as "Blue Mountain State" and "Running Wilde" and the syndication successes "Tyler Perry's House of Payne," its spinoff "Meet The Browns" and "The Wendy Williams Show."Its feature film business has generated such recent hits as TYLER PERRY'S WHY DID I GET MARRIED TOO?, the action film KICK ASS and the critically-acclaimed PRECIOUS, which has won two Academy Awards速. The Company's home entertainment business has grown to more than 7% market share and is an industry leader in box office-to-DVD revenue conversion rate. Lionsgate handles a prestigious and prolific library of approximately 12,000 motion picture and television titles that is an important source of recurring revenue and serves as the foundation for the growth of the Company's core businesses. The Lionsgate brand remains synonymous with original, daring, quality entertainment in markets around the world.ABOUT THE ZOETROPE CORPORATIONZoetrope has been a leader in innovation and discovery of new talent ever since its inception in 1969 and has produced some of the most important films in American cinema, including American Graffiti, The Godfather Parts I-III, The Black Stallion, The Conversation, Apocalypse Now, Koyaanisqatsi and most recently, Lost in Translation, Kinsey and Marie Antoinette. Zoetrope-produced films have received seventeen Academy Awards; seventy-one nominations with four films included in the American Film Institute's top 100 American films.
 