
 

We're here at NVIDIA's CES press shindig, where we're going to see some heavy Tegra action, some tablets and hopefully a little bit more. Join us, won't you?
 

2:45PM We're out, time for some hands-on with these new tablets!2:45PM He still didn't tell us when GF100 would ship, and it's over! What a tease. At least he's aware that people are curious, very sensitive of him.2:44PM 6 million pixels at 120Hz, stretching a game across three displays horizontally. This is to set a "new standard for high performance gaming."2:43PM Introducing 3D surround. Glasses on!2:43PM The new GF100 GPU is in production, it's "ramping very hard," and will be on display here at CES.2:42PM "I want to thank all of you..." Oh wait, a one more thing? "NVIDIA is the GeForce company." Hah, we'd almost forgotten!2:41PM We gotta walk off this 3D hangover,Jen-Hsun is rehashing his talk while we regain our bearings.2:40PM Ah, here we go. It's wrap-up time.2:40PM This 3D thing is great, but it's liveblog poison: when can we have our 2D powerpoint back?2:40PM YouTube in 3D: there are already 5,000 videos up there.2:37PM A Disney trailer powered by CyberLink: "A Christmas Story." We've seen this trailer in theaters before, and it looks almost exactly the same -- though perhaps it doesn't quite pop off the screen as much. Still, pretty great, not that we'd expect anything less for the new industry standard.2:35PM Now on to Blu-ray 3D. All new NVIDIA GPUs can handle it, and NVIDIA's claiming the industries first Blu-ray 3D system, based on existing 3D Vision tech.2:33PM Announcing a special edition 3D Vision pack that includes the Avatar game.2:32PM We're checking out Avatar in 3D, and it looks pretty great.2:31PM Acer, Samsung and LG are all going to build NVIDIA-compatible LCDs.2:30PM ASUS, Clevo and MSI are going to announce laptops today with 3D Vision built-in. We're guessing these are ones we've already seen. So by "today" he means "sometime last month."2:29PM Showing what they're doing already with shutter glasses. The flashes going on in this room are giving us a major 3D headache.2:28PM Rest of the presentation is in 3D. Our very first 3D powerpoint! Glasses are on, and we almost feel like we're there.2:27PM "It's absolutely clear that 3D is a global movement across all of the industries."2:26PM Mathias is out and we're moving on to 3D. We've got our 3D glasses ready!2:26PM There's also a Cover Flow-style interface for browsing through apps. Looks pretty good, but not exactly earth shattering.2:24PM There's a touchpad next to the control knob that lets you to draw characters for text input.2:21PM They're running regular maps but with Google information tied in from the cloud.2:20PM There's a pop-up display, controlled by a central knob, and also a screen for the instruments panel.2:18PM They're going to do a little demo in a fake car interior in front of the stage.2:17PM Announcing that many of Audi's cars in America this year will be powered by NVIDIA's graphics technologies, and starting in 2011 all Audi cars will be powered by Tegra.2:17PM Why not just put a desktop-sized computer into a car? There are almost 100 computers in a car, and you have to watch out for power draw. It all makes sense, but this scripted "interview" is a little stiff... just cut to the chase!2:13PM "There are a couple hundred functions behind this, but it should look like a radio from the olden times."2:13PM Mathias wants integration, not just the independent computing that already happens in a car or some imported mobile device.2:12PM Jen-Hsun asks: "How is computer technology revolutionizing your industry?"2:11PM Bringing out Mathias Halliger from Audi, the UI designer for the company.2:10PM "Welcoming the automobile as the latest member of our computing family."2:10PM That's the end of the first item of today's keynote. Two more to go.2:09PM "There's still a lot more to do, but the pieces are starting to come together." They've got 50 designs "in-flight," working with just about everybody, including automotive companies.2:07PM Tim's gone and Jen-Hsun has the developer platform on display -- which was actually running the video demo. It's still running, and certainly seems more impressive in person than just plugged into the projector.2:05PM "As a programmer you see so much more of a GPU... which one of our PC chips would you compare this to?" Tim says it's comparable to high end desktop performance from three or four years ago. We'd say that's about fair from what we're seeing here. They can now use the same tools and assets to build cross-platform games.2:03PM The Unreal Engine has 100s of games running on it. And now it's running on Tegra. They're showing a demo. Tim keeps saying it's the "same engine" that runs on the PC, but this looks pretty last-gen. A lot like the iPhone demo we saw recently. Certainly impressive, but this isn't an Xbox 360 yet.2:02PM Tim's a little nervous, and his script didn't really answer the question. Let's try again: "What technology is necessary to get this off the ground?" Tim says that historically that mobile devices, such as the DS, have been "toys," not on par with home consoles.2:00PM Tim Started Epic in 1991 while Jen-Hsun started NVIDIA in 1993. "How would you compare what we went through in the PC industry to what is happening in the mobile industry."1:59PM "Their games are not only fun but they're beautiful, and never ever short of technological marvel."1:58PM Not much to say on the topic, now on to gaming. Bringing out Tim Sweeney from Epic Games.1:57PM Mike's gone, now we're talking Adobe Air for digital magazines.1:57PM "I can imagine one for every room. And as small as those chips are, we're going to have to sell one for every room to make it up." We love a good financial woes joke.1:56PM Time for a race. We love races! 1080p on Atom and Tegra. Atom is very stuttery, while Tegra is naturally smooth. Surprise!1:54PM Now showing a Foxconn device with a custom UI. Flashy, but a little pointless. The Notion Ink device is much more interesting. Seems to have a PixelQi display -- you can turn off the backlight of the display and just run off ambient light.1:53PM Bringing out Mike Rayfield to demo some devices. He sure brought a bunch! Demoing the Android tablet we had on Jimmy Fallon, but unfortunately neither of these guys knows how to work it. Multiple missed taps on the "browser" launch icon. Ouch.1:50PM It can do 140 hours of music playback on one charge, 16 hours of HD video.1:48PM The full amount of computer chips sits on a card about the size of a playing card, with processors on one side, flash memory on the other side. Needs no ventilation or fans.1:47PM "When you consume very little design, you can make the industrial design exquisite." Will be seeing a few tablet designs today.1:47PM 10x performance of "average smartphone," not last gen Tegra. "20x less power draw than a PC." Which PC?1:46PM Announcing the new Tegra. 8 independent processors, dual core Cortex-A9 CPU, 10x performance, 500 milliwatts.1:44PM "Until now." Announcing the tablet revolution.1:44PM "We need a device that brings the portability and mobility of the smartphone, but the power and performance of the PC."1:42PM Says that each important new device needs an enabling technology, and that iPhone doesn't cut it for things like Facebook games and YouTube -- 100 million websites, doesn't want 100 million apps. Or do we?1:41PM Jen-Hsun Huang is on stage, talking about devices.
 