
 

No, you aren't losing your mind. You're really tuned in to the second Google keynote in as many days, and if we had to guess, we'd say Chrome and / or Chrome OS will take top billing. Things haven't started just yet, but your patience (or impatience) is greatly appreciated. Have a look below to see when things get going!

06:30AM - Hawaii
09:30AM - Pacific
10:30AM - Mountain
11:30AM - Central
12:30PM - Eastern
05:30PM - London
06:30PM - Paris
08:30PM - Moscow / Dubai
12:30AM - Perth (May 12th)
12:30AM - Shenzhen (May 12th)
01:30AM - Tokyo (May 12th)
02:30AM - Sydney (May 12th)
      

 

 1:39PM And that's a wrap! We're guessing we haven't heard the last of Chrome OS news for the day, though, so keep it locked here for more coverage throughout the day. Thanks for tuning in! Drive safe, and be sure to have your pets spayed or neutered.     1:38PM We can't get them today. Drat. They'll be available on June 15th, with the rest of the world. That's cool. We'll survive. Maybe.    1:37PM Everyone here is getting a Chromebook. People are losing their minds. Literally, I see some rolling around. 1:37PM "Many of you here helped Chrome gain traction." OMG. 1:37PM Chromebook: built for the web. Good stuff! "The web is what you make of it." 1:36PM "Everything can be saved to the web. That's crazy! I could throw this into a river, and I won't lose my stuff. No need for virus protection. No annoying updates. No patches. No patches for the patches." Man, serious blow at Microsoft. But it's true. 1:36PM Here comes a Chrome OS demo. More like an advertisement. Dropping some serious bombs on Windows. "No rolling hills of green. No messy desktops."  1:35PM Available June 15th, available for schools and governments and businesses, available direct from Google in the same seven nations mentioned earlier. Hit up google.com/chromebooks for more.  1:34PM This is also useful for educational institutions. And Google knows it. "We want every student to have a computer." Chromebooks for Education is priced at just $20 per user for schools and governmental entities. Huge applause. Now *this* is a game changer!   1:33PM Whoa, $28 per user -- software and hardware and services -- as a monthly subscription. That's insane. Small businesses just hung up on HP / Dell.  1:33PM "We want to make it really easy for companies to manage. We call this Chromebooks for Business. This is a service + hardware + software solution. IBM has to be shaking in its big, lumbering boots.  1:32PM Google's noticed that not everyone using Chrome OS wants or needs to be mobile. Here comes the desktop edition?  1:32PM Whoa, what's this? A Samsung-branded Chrome access box. 1:32PM The aforesaid Acer and Samsung Chromebooks will be available for businesses as well. 1:31PM "The city or Orlando is using Chromebooks right now, and in some cases, you'll find 'em within firetrucks and on the street." Also, Mickey Mouse is now sponsored by Google.   1:30PM InterContinental Hotels and Jason's Deli have been seeing great success in using Chromebooks.  1:30PM 50,000 companies applied to test the CR-48! That's wild!  1:30PM Talking enterprise adoption now -- is Google seriously about to push Chromebooks into the corporate world? 1:29PM "Most companies spend many thousands per computer, per year." It's true. 1:29PM Computing today means high upgrade costs, and old systems, while usage patterns have shifted dramatically. Desktop leads have been swapped by laptop gains. "All of this adds up costs for companies."  1:28PM There's a "full jailbreaking mode built in, and you can play around with the kernel all you want."  1:28PM "We want this to be fully jailbreakable." Yes! They'll be hackable from the start! 1:27PM UK: amazon.co.uk; Netherlands: laptopshop.nl; Germany: amazon.de; France: amazon.fr; Italy: Pixmania.com; Spain: pixmania.com / movistar   1:27PM At the same time, they'll hit six more countries -- Spain, France, UK, Netherlands, Germany and Italy. 1:27PM $429 in the US for the WiFi Samsung model, $499 for 3G. $399 for the Acer, "and up." June 15th availability through Best Buy and Amazon. 1:26PM Acer's next! 11.6-inch machine, always connected, available in WiFi and 3G models. We're leaving it to partners to detail more.  1:26PM Comes in "two colors." Lots of laughs. 1:25PM 12.1-inch, 300-nit display. "All-day battery usage." Headphone jack. Built-in WiFi, and there's a 3G *option* from Verizon in the US, other carriers overseas.  1:25PM The first Chromebook is from Samsung! Whoa! Sexy! 1:25PM "In fact, the connectivity piece of Chromebooks -- we've partnered internationally with leading carriers to make this same built-in 3G option available overseas."  1:24PM Acer, Intel, Samsung and Verizon are being talked up.   1:24PM New York Times, Huffington Post, Angry Birds, Salon, etc. -- tons of other apps are also supporting offline mode. 1:24PM Chromebook users will have that offline access "this summer." Huzzah! 1:23PM "We've been working hard on use cases. One of those is to use Chromebooks while offline. Three of the most important apps -- Gmail, Gcal, and Gdocs -- need to be offline accessible." 1:23PM Sundar's back on stage, pretty upset about having his Angry Birds session interrupted. We can't blame him. 1:22PM "We're working with Dropbox to provide similar support. It took Box.net just a single weekend to build this." So, spreading this to other services shouldn't take too awfully long.  1:21PM Kan's talking about third-party support now. Goog's been working with Box.net for similar file handling -- nice! Now we need this for Dropbox, and pretty much everything else. 1:21PM Now we're looking at document. "Since I'm a Google Docs user, that's also registered as a file handler." Needless to say, your life's going to be a heap of a lot easier if you use Google's suite of apps. 1:20PM Three photos are selected, and an option pops up to "Send To Picasa," and he's creating a new Private album. Things start uploading the background, and there's a notification system that pops up when it's done. Good thing he's on a T1, which greatly enhances the wow factor of this demo.  1:19PM "I can preview them, view a slideshow, and get them into the cloud. I'm a Picasa user, so I've installed the Picasa web app, which is now registered as a local file handler."  1:19PM Here's a demo -- he's got an SD card, just plugged it in. "Because Chromebooks are cloud devices, we wanted people to get their data into the cloud as soon as possible for easy sharing."  1:18PM Kan noted that Google had been "working closely" with Netflix, for whatever that's worth. 1:18PM "More and more users are streaming for web services -- things like Music Beta by Google and Google Movies. All of your other favorite services -- Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, MOG, Pandora -- they all work out of the box as well.   1:17PM Now, let's a movie sample playing. Yet again, it opens in an instant in a pull-out box, so you can continue browsing if you don't want to activate full-screen mode.  1:16PM "A lot of users have music, media, etc. that they want to play on Chrome OS. Back to the file manager, looking at some of my favorite media. Let's open an MP3. It opens immediately to a newly added media player." Really simple, really basic, but hey -- it's fast! 1:16PM Mr. Liu's a zero inbox kind of guy. We like him already.  1:15PM Here comes Kan Liu, a product manager for Chrome OS. We're talking about new features within Chrome OS, not the CR-48 specifically. 1:15PM We've worked hard with Adobe for a seamless Flash experience on Chromebooks. A new CR-48 trackpad was just teased. Now, if you plug in a camera, something interesting happens... 1:14PM A million people applied to get one, and we've shipped "thousands of devices all over the world." Feedback has been great -- people have had meetups, written emails, printed shirts. Thrown raves. Just kidding on the last one.  1:13PM CR-48 is on stage! What a beaut! 1:13PM "Your Chromebooks will get faster after we publish updates. Every piece of software is encrypted, to make sure you're secure, and you're always within the Chrome sandbox. It's pretty unique." 1:13PM "The software experience is very unique as well, given that it's nothing but the web. You can have multiple Chromebooks, and each time you open them, you get the latest build. It just gets better over time, which isn't familiar to typical PC users. Most PCs degrade over time."  1:12PM Instant on, always connection, all-day battery life, access your stuff anywhere (anywhere? really? not inside Moscone West!) 1:11PM "Every Chromebook has instant turn-on. Up and running in three minutes. If you're one of the 160m Chrome users, Chrome Sync brings it all over within seconds. Each time you open the lid, you're connected before you can type a sentence."   1:11PM Chromebook! A new term! 1:11PM "We wanted to distill it down to the web. Chrome OS can be applied to various form factors, and we've focused on laptops so far because that's where the bulk of the browsing is."   1:10PM "Everytime you boot up the computer, it takes forever to boot into your computer. Once you're inside, it's up to you to manage things. You have to run anti-virus software. It's really, really complicated." 1:09PM "People spend all of their time on the web, within a browser. That's why we created Chrome OS." Here we go! 1:09PM Chromeexperiments.com/webgl is another one to check out -- have fun!  1:08PM Everything's being dubbed "a Chrome Experiement." RO.ME is the URL to check out.  1:08PM As we kid, this is seriously impressive modeling within a browser -- insanely smooth performance here.  1:07PM "I'm literally painting with geometry. I'm painting with shader effects." This is trippy. Really trippy. "You can explore various dream realities." Pretty sure Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Ellen Page are behind this.   1:06PM Here comes the experience. Aaron's applying real-time shaders as the video plays on, and it's a totally interactive 3D playground that matches up with the music. We have to say, this would've been HUGE in the '70s. 1:05PM Aaron's talking a mile a minute. Seriously, we clocked it.  1:05PM "Some of your may remember The Wilderness Downtown with the Arcade Fire. Today, we're talking Three Dreams of Black. It's a highly interactive music environment for the web, and it's based off of music from Danger Mouse and co. 1:04PM "This is what we can do on the web today, but there's a ton more to come." For a glimpse into the future, here comes Aaron Koblin from the web team.  1:04PM Now, how does Sundar top that? He isn't. He's playing Angry Birds on Chrome. 1:03PM No qualms with faking your boss out, pretending that you're browsing some important files. "Let's pop some pigs!" 1:03PM "Playing Angry Birds all day is a good thing to do." Word to the wise. 1:03PM "Everything you see here was done in Java, it didn't take us that long to port the game over. We're hosting everything on App Engine, and it should be able to cope with all of you hitting the game up after the keynote." After? Pshhh... it's looking good right now! 1:02PM As soon as in-app payments are live, we'll be supporting that. Should be available "very, very soon." Mighty Eagle will be the standout in-app purchase. 1:01PM Rovio's pumped about the five percent model. Shocker of shockers! "We're all for lower taxes." We knew Rovio was the heat.   1:01PM The birds are being flung into Chrome icons. Total geekfest. People are unbelievably elated. Like, first-time-at-Disney elated. 1:00PM "We think Chrome is a great environment for Angry Birds -- we didn't want to stop there. We wanted to offer a special treat for Chrome users. We built a few exclusive levels that are only available in Chrome: the Chrome Dimension!" 1:00PM If this liveblog suddenly stops, forgive us. We're playing Angry Birds.  12:59PM "Another really cool thing -- it's browser-based, so what if you're out flying? Since we're in the Web Store, we take advantage of caching. You can play the complete game offline." 12:59PM "We built this using Web GL -- it really rocks, as you can see. If your browser doesn't support Web GL, we support Canvas. If your browser supports hardware acceleration, you'll get an HD version."  12:58PM He's playing the first level. Performance is just about as good as on our Nexus One, but we saw just a slight, slight hint of lag. "On most modern PCs, we're seeing 60fps easily."   12:57PM It's shown as Angry Birds Beta, with a nifty Chrome logo in the top right. Let's get a demo! 12:57PM Huge announcement: Angry Birds is coming to the world's biggest platform -- the world wide web. 12:57PM "We wanted to bring Angry Birds to the web for a long, long time, but we didn't want to compromise performance. We aren't making fish in a bowl -- it's all about Angry Birds. Really, really Angry Birds. We've been so angry, because we've never been able to bring Angry Birds to the web."   12:56PM Whoa, Rovio's crew is on stage. People are going NUTS. 12:56PM Now, we're shifting over to games. Thanks to the new GPU abilities we just saw, Rovio's able to do something new and different. 12:55PM Sundar's back! He's pumped about the feature, and frankly, so are we. He just tossed out the "game changer" term. Oh, snap!  12:54PM So, Google's solution? A flat fee of five percent. Massive applause, whistling, a few cheers -- someone just did a rain dance. A make it rain dance. 12:54PM Okay, so how much? Google found that most options had complicated fee structures, but it wants to "keep it simple." They also noticed that the average fee structure was creeping up on 30 percent. Boo.  12:53PM Someone just made it rain on stage left.    12:53PM We just saw a two-click demo of making a purchase -- dead simple. Google's making this "stunningly simple" for devs to implement. How simple? Try "a single line of code."  12:52PM Graphicly Comics just got major publicity. Something tells us it's in-app purchase rate is about to skyrocket.  12:51PM The challenge is delivering this "at Google scale." Here's a demo of how it works. 12:51PM Vikas is talking in-app payments, and his team has been looking to make in-app payments "extremely frictionless, allowing users to stay engaged while making payments."  12:51PM "Today, it's hard to charge users within the app without breaking the flow. To talk about that, let's invite Vikas Gupta to the stage." 12:50PM The Web Store, as of today, will be available in 41 languages to all 160 million users of Chrome. US developers can write an app, and reach the entire user base around the world. Nice! Now, let's do something similar with Music Beta...  12:49PM Sundar Pichai returns to the stage, and he's talking Web Store. If you couldn't tell, we're at a developer conference. Developers!   12:48PM "Hundreds of new features" coming to a build near you, and with that, Ian exits stage left. He seems relieved. And he's dodging Mozilla fish. It's a bit weird, to be frank.  12:47PM Another example of a 3D application -- heading to tinkercad.com. Ian's designing some sort of fort. Maybe it's Mark Zuckerberg's new $7m house in Palo Alto.  12:46PM "But wait, there's more!" He's talking cooperation with Mozilla, which enabled a few more schools to float in without bringing things to a crawl. We've *love* to see this with 20 other tabs open and a few YouTube HD videos running, though. 12:45PM Ah, a demo of GPU acceleration within Chrome, with gobs of fish cluttering the display. Once we hit 1,000 fish, the frame rate finally drops below 60fps, representing a 10x increase in performance over prior builds.  12:45PM At this point, we're actually hoping that Translate starts popping out some politically incorrect terminology. Toss us a bone, Goog! 12:44PM By the way, this chart that Ian hates is 100 percent meaningless to everyone in the crowd. Baffled looks all around. Scoble's seeking out an interview as we speak, demanding that someone explain this. 12:43PM One of the key areas where focus is being placed, however, is graphics.  12:43PM Now we're talking Javascript speed -- things have become dramatically faster since the Beta, and Ian's saying that it's simply "not the bottleneck that it used to be." 12:42PM He just uttered "Welcome to San Francisco," and it just translated in near-real time. Hitting "Listen" allowed the browser to speak, and the handful of Chinese speakers in the crowd confirmed that the browser didn't actually curse the name of anyone's mother. Phew.  12:41PM Up pops translate.google.com within Chrome. Ian confesses that he's "terrible" at foreign language. Hear, hear!   12:41PM He just did a voice search for Emma Caulfield, and shockingly, it worked. Ian's taken aback. Is that a good thing, or an awful thing? 12:40PM "Rules of keynotes: never, ever do live speech demos. But we're going to anyway." Hah! 12:40PM He's banging out some code, a few typos, a few cheers, and boom -- up pops a microphone into the search bar! Easy enough...  12:39PM Tapping into the developer tools built into Chrome. These tools have progressed "a long way," and we're being encouraged to dig in deeper if we haven't already. Duly noted, Ian. 12:39PM Here comes a demo! We're in Chrome, looking at tv.clicker.com, looking to add Speech support. 12:38PM Talking Speech! We mean, he's literally about to talk speech. Talking. About. Speech. 12:38PM "There's been an amazing amount of new features added, and it's amazing the kinds of things you can build today. But, we're not resting on our laurels." Good to hear -- it seems Mozilla just might be...  12:37PM "Let's take a look at some of the upcoming APIs that we're excited about in Chrome." Here comes Ian Ellison-Taylor to talk more.  12:37PM "Speed is something near and dear to our heart, and we've pushed security really hard. The progress has been great. But other browser manufacturers are pushing the platform, too."  12:36PM Following that, Chrome's team moved to six week release cycles, with Chrome 12 Beta being launched just this week. 12:35PM So, what's happened between 70m and 160m? Last year, Chrome 4 (only available for Windows) was launched, and Linux / Mac support was a top priority. That obviously took a tons of resources, and Chrome 6 finally brought 'em to parity.   12:34PM The company's user base for Chrome has "more than doubled" in the past 12 months. 12:34PM A year ago, 70 million active users were relying on Chrome as "their main browser." At this year's I/O, far, far more are doing so. 160,000,000 in fact. 12:34PM "We've got a lot to cover." Talking about the open web, the pace at which it's moving. Let's get started!  12:33PM Google's Chrome team has been innovating along the way, and now, Sundar Pichai, Senior VP of Chrome, is out to take us next-level.  12:33PM Attention turns to the keynote. Talking about the "most important platform of our era," the open web, which "belongs to all of us." 12:32PM Vic's a big fan of Samsung -- he's congratulating us all again for receiving one yesterday. Today, Verizon Wireless will be handing out 4G mobile hotspots, which should be good for some fairly awesome speeds. Uh, "except in this room." Good call!   12:31PM It's on! Vic Gundotra, Senior VP for the company, is kicking things off once again. A blank Chrome browser window sits behind him. We're calling it right now -- today's focus will be on Buzz. 12:29PM T-minus 60 seconds. Music's loud, people are squirming, and somewhere, the web is being surfed.  12:28PM If you'll recall, we heard about a rumored $20-per-month student package for a Chrome laptop, and if we don't get just that today, we might just keel over. Fair warning.  12:24PM And we're in! Bit of a different backdrop today -- Chrome logos everywhere. Not that Goog's trying to foreshadow or anything... 
 