
 
We're in the fabulous Hilton Center waiting for OPK to take the stage; CES isn't traditionally a big show for Nokia, but you never know what kinds of wacky surprises the dude might have in store. Here we go!
 

9:55AM "The exciting thing is, we've only just begun." And that's it -- OPK exits stage left. Music is back on, lights are up, and we're out. Peace!9:54AM We're not sure why we were supposed to have our phones on through this, but we've definitely heard a few ring. Perhaps OPK enjoys the occasional rude interruption.9:53AM They'll announce the winner of the competition in June of this year.9:53AM He just announced the Nokia Growth Economy Venture Challenge - the app that encourages upward mobility in emerging markets the best will get a $1 million investment. "And I want to emphasize it's an investment."9:52AM Sesame Street is partnering with Calling All Innovators to create educational apps relevant to users around the world. If this means our N900 comes preloaded with Big Bird wallpaper, we're on board.9:51AM "We want to encourage our developer community to create locally-relevant applications." He's bringing back the Calling All Innovators dev competition with an emerging markets theme.9:49AM OPK's claiming they have 300,000 developers in China alone working on Symbian apps. That's a lot of devs.9:49AM "The democratization of the smartphone" -- a huge untapped market. We're thinking this drives to Nokia's apparent strategy of pushing Symbian into the low and midrange.9:47AM They've signed up over 5 million email users on Ovi Mail, more than many of the major services combined. Many of these folks are coming from India and China where PC access isn't easy.9:46AM ....aaand we have our first LOLcat of the keynote. What took so long?9:46AM Next, we've got email. "Here's another statistic that might surprise you: 75 percent of the world's population still doesn't have access" to it.9:45AM He's talking up Nokia Money, basically a bank substitute for folks who don't have easy access to branches.9:44AM "We all take banks for granted, but here's a statistic that shocked me the first time I heard it: while there are nearly 4.6 billion phone users in the world, there are only 1.6 billion bank accounts."9:43AM Here's a dilemma: how do you bring location-based services without integrated GPS? Tower triangulation, of course, which Nokia is using extensively in some of its emerging market projects. We wonder how long it'll be before GPS chipsets are cheap enough to push all the way down to the lowest segments of the market.9:41AM He's saying that a lack of 3G isn't a barrier -- in many cases, they're delivering data via SMS to remote areas.9:40AM OPK's back on stage once again.9:39AM It's not often you hear the phrase "delightful onion farmer" in a keynote speech. In fact, this might be our first.9:38AM It sounds like she had a personal revelation about how important phones are -- they're not just phones. We'd agree wholeheartedly.9:37AM Quite a few awkward pauses here this morning -- yo, teleprompter guy, you nodding off back there?9:35AM No worries, though: it seems Nokia let her do her thing and draw her own conclusions.9:35AM Uh oh... she's talking about the concerns we had about impartiality in the face of Nokia's sponsorship! The journalist's dilemma: cold, hard cash or staying factual.9:33AM "This is what attracted me about the Progress Project -- it was all about people."9:32AM And they're bringing out Lonely Planet's correspondent for the project.9:32AM And the video's over. We want Tej on our E72!9:31AM Now we're looking at Nokia Tej, a supply chain tool. Cuts some paperchasing, it seems.9:30AM They're showing an Indian farmer using Life Tools to check on weather and pesticide use. Another family in the country uses it to learn English.9:29AM Video time!9:29AM "We invited Lonely Planet to investigate mobile communications around the world for themselves. We gave them complete editorial freedom... it resulted in the Progress Project."9:28AM "Even though we are a truly global company, our roots remain in Finland."9:27AM OPK's back on the stage!9:27AM "I just returned from Afghanistan where I've been scouting new potential projects." He says that the country's sparse infrastructure makes it a ripe target for some of the tech in Nokia's labs right now.9:25AM "Once objects become small enough to fit in a pocket, they rapidly find their way around the world."9:25AM Last year, Nokia's researchers apparently came across a dual SIM hack in some rural market and were fascinated by it -- of course, many manufacturers have been doing dual-SIM phones for years.9:23AM "How do you keep your device charged if you don't have access to electricity?" We're seeing crazy charging stations in village centers.9:23AM "There are 800 million illiterate people worldwide, and many of them are our customers."9:22AM How do you conduct research while showing respect to local cultures and customs? "Over the years, we've developed methods to do this in culturally sensitive ways." He's showing a home for a family of four in Mumbai.9:21AM Talking about fringe markets. An interesting one: finding out how people who can't read or write in India use the company's phones.9:20AM He looks 15 years out. "Some people describe this as the cone of uncertainty... I like to think of it as the cone of opportunity." Either way, it's a trippy graphic.9:19AM "My job is to identify new opportunities for the company." Basically, he travels the world and embeds himself in local markets to figure out what's what.9:19AM This sounds interesting -- OPK's bringing on stage a guy described as "Nokia's Indiana Jones."9:18AM "One size does not fit all." So that's why these guys make a billion different models!9:17AM "Nokia is perhaps the most global company on the planet. Based in a Nordic country about the size of Minnesota, we had to look outside to grow."9:16AM "We think you can do good business and do good at the same time."9:15AM In emerging markets, there are a lot of people who are getting their first internet and phone experience wirelessly -- there's no legacy infrastructure.9:14AM Nilay, seated here, makes a good point: there are a lot of pictures of cows here. A lot.9:13AM "Their mobile phone is an investment in their livelihood, in a better life."9:12AM Talking about how long it takes for some folks in emerging markets to afford even Nokia's $32 handsets. "It humbles me that people save their money to buy our products."9:11AM Guess what? The Cityman didn't have Life Tools!9:10AM Nokia Life Tools -- a staple of the company's low-cost handsets. Lots of apps that we might be crushing on if we were farming in India.9:10AM He just compared the Cityman and 1616 to the Ford Model T and Mustang.9:09AM "Today, this is what we would consider a very basic phone -- the Nokia 1616."9:08AM 4.6 billion phone plans among 6.4 billion people.9:07AM "This is from 1987 -- Nokia's first handheld device."9:07AM He's got a Cityman out!9:07AM The gist of the comments so far: phones make people's lives awesome in every market segment, and they'll get more awesome as capabilities continue to improve.9:05AM "Vegas is dedicated to the pursuit of fun and games. It was designed to be an unreal world -- a city of escape. I want to take you to the real world. It's the place where most of the world's inhabitants live."9:04AM "When you get right down to it, what we do everyday is enable millions of conversations."9:04AM OPK! This is his third CES keynote.9:03AM There are more words sent in text messages on Nokia phones every 26 minutes than there are in the complete works of Shakespeare. Fact!9:03AM There are more people using a Nokia phone right now than there are people in Sweden.9:02AM Wow, lots of facts here. Fact: Nokia loves facts.9:01AM "On any given day, more than 1.2 billion people use a Nokia phone."9:01AM A CEA rep is out talking about the organization's TEC program for emerging countries -- discussions around it are running all day, and sure enough, this keynote kicks it all off.9:00AM And here we go!8:56AM All of the quotes we're seeing here have an emerging market theme -- something tells us that's where the keynote's going to go, too.8:55AM "Again, at the request of Nokia, we ask that you keep your cellphones on. Thank you." What is this all about?8:52AM "At the request of Nokia, we ask that you keep your cellphones ON during this presentation." Careful what you wish for, guys!8:52AM We've just switched from a generic CES feed on the projector to a series of phone-related quotes -- they're written in Nokia's corporate font.8:50AM The music here is decidedly more downtempo than the ravey jams we've heard earlier in the week. Honestly not what we needed this early in the morning -- especially before coffee.
 