
 

We've waited. We've watched. We've wondered. And now, by the grace of Steve Jobs and Lowell McAdam, we're supposedly going to see a reveal of the mythical Verizon iPhone. Of course, there's always a chance that Verizon just wants to reveal more details on LTE, or talk about the company's commitment to openness and Android... but according to the rumor mill, it's time for Big Red to get some Apple magic.

No matter what happens, we'll be there live, reporting on the news as it happens with the best liveblog in the business. Tune in at the times below on Tuesday, January 11th to see it all go down.

06:00AM - Hawaii
08:00AM - Pacific
09:00AM - Mountain
10:00AM - Central
11:00AM - Eastern
04:00PM - London
05:00PM - Paris
07:00PM - Moscow
12:00AM - Perth (January 12th)
12:00AM - Shenzhen (January 12th)
01:00AM - Tokyo (January 12th)
03:00AM - Sydney (January 12th)
 

11:42AM And that's it! We're racing off to get a hands-on with the new (old) iPhone.11:29AM We missed a few questions... nothing major -- some pricing talk (none of which were really commented on).Q: Experience is so paramount at Apple... GSM allows data and voice... how does that experience feel here?Tim: I think people place different emphasis on things -- I can tell you that the number one question I've gotten is when will the iPhone work on Verizon. I couldn't be happier to tell people that. They will make those sorts of tradeoffs.11:25AM Question from Ars Technica: what happens when you're on a call and need to use data?Dan: Same as a CDMA device.So... you don't.11:24AM From us: What changes if any have been made to the antenna.Tim: We had to make changes to work on the CDMA network -- it's going to work great.Dan: We do not see a problem with that. (We're assuming he means the antenna)11:23AM Q: Is the CDMA iPhone exclusive to Verizon?Tim: It's a multi-year, non exclusive deal.11:22AM Dan: We have a tremendous 3G network -- we want to be sure we can take advantage of that.11:22AM Q: Why didn't you go the LTE route?Tim: Two reasons -- the first gen LTW chipsets force design changes we wouldn't make. And Verizon customers told us they want the iPhone now. I can't tell you the number of times we've been asked 'when will it work on Verizon.'11:21AM Q: Will it be on a one year refresh cycle?Tim: We don't comment on that.11:20AM Oh, Lowell isn't on stage. Whoops!11:20AM Q: Can you address how many you'll manufacture in the 1st year?Tim: I'm not going to get into our forecast. I think it's fair to say that both of us think there's tremendous opportunity.Dan: I don't have anything to add to that.11:18AM Tim, Dan, and Lowell are doing a Q&A; now.11:18AM "We are confident that wireless consumers everywhere will welcome this device and partnership. So as I close, I'd like to thank all of the people at Apple throughout the leadership, to operations. Thank you all for being here today."11:17AM $199 for the 16GB, $299 for 32GB -- mobile hotspot included! Up to 5 devices.11:17AM "On February 3rd our existing customers will have an opportunity to pre-order... on February 10th, everyone will be able to order online, in stores, or in Apple stores."11:16AM "Our iPhone 4 customers will get a terrific wireless experience. So what happens next?"11:15AM "iPhone 4 is going to run on our network... network capacity -- we have advanced the capacity and built margin into it. We're ready for this launch." Boy, they really want us to know that they're ready. He seems to be emphasizing that the new customers will not hit the network and create the kind of situation AT&T; has right now.11:14AM "I want to spend a minute on how robust our network is. We have designed this network for customers to have an optimum experience. We have been drive testing this on our network. We're now into the thousands of devices, and we could not be more pleased."11:14AM "Wireless customers have been asking for the iPhone on Verizon -- and we're excited to offer this to existing and new customers. I want to tell you how dedicated we are to launch this. Our employees are ready, we've been scaling our shipping systems. We've been scaling our inventory systems."11:13AM "We've built our business on building the very best network -- and now our customers have a choice for the iPhone 4 on the nation's most reliable network."11:12AM "We've been working with Verizon for awhile... this is just the beginning of a relationship between Apple and Verizon. I'm very optimistic about what the future holds. Now I'd like to bring up Dan Dee to talk about the launch."11:11AM "5 megapixel camera, HD video... the custom A4 chip. But most importantly, it provides an integrated customer experience that's far beyond what anyone else is providing. From iOS, to iTunes, to the App Store -- they're all designed to work together."11:10AM "We're incredibly pleased to give Verizon's customers the choice we've been waiting for. We've designed an iPhone 4 which connects to the CDMA network -- and it has all the features that you'd expect. Like FaceTime. Features like Apple's stunning Retina Display."11:09AM "Tens of millions of customers have purchased the iPhone around the world. Customers have downloaded billions of apps. I am incredibly happy, and I can tell you all of Apple, is very very excited to bring the iPhone to Verizon's customers."11:09AM "I am incredibly happy to be with you all today. We've been looking forward to today for a long time. Since 2007 the iPhone has been a phenomenal success."11:08AM Tim Cook is out!11:08AM "I want to thank the senior team at Apple -- it has been a real pleasure to work with them. To explain more about that product, I'm pleased to introduce someone who's become a friend and colleague... Tim Cook."11:08AM There you go people. Verizon iPhone 4. It exists.11:07AM "Late in 2010 we started offering the iPad... today, we are extremely gratified to announce that the iPhone 4 will be available early next month."11:07AM "Our relationship with Apple has developed over the last two years. In 2008 we started talking about bringing the iPhone to a CDMA network. We spent a year testing."11:06AM "Today we're partnering with a giant of the industry, and that's Apple." Boom.11:06AM "As we showed at CES last week, we're building on these partnerships with LTE -- it will make broadband even richer for customers. That's including a whole new range of smartphones and tablets. One analyst said 'we displayed an armada of new devices.'"11:05AM "This is putting us at the hub of the wheel driving this industry. Collaboration is the key to innovation. We've worked with partners across the industry."11:04AM He's talking a lot about LTE -- that's surprising.11:04AM "We've built the most reliable 3G network... we recently launched LTE... now if you promise not to print this, with all the rebranding going on with old networks, we debated calling it 6G." Ha. BURN.11:03AM "We've set a new standard for home broadband."11:03AM "We've made great broadband the hallmark of our service. We have a history of pushing the envelope in network innovation. We've invested in infrastructure that will move things to the cloud for distribution to any device anywhere on the planet. We were the first to offer 100GB commercial service. We link major markets on six continents."11:01AM "The innovation in this market is mind boggling -- and today two innovators are coming together."11:01AM "Let me put today into context for you. I've just come back from CES, and it was very clear through the week in Vegas that data, broadband, and video are driving tech growth. As we move to handheld devices, users want their digital lives wherever they go."11:00AM "Okay, it looks like you're expecting a big announcement. I don't think we'll disappoint. If the press write something long enough, eventually it comes true. We're very very excited about our announcement today."11:00AM Lowell Macadam is out.10:59AM The lights are going down. Here we go.10:58AM "Good morning and welcome, please take your seats -- our program is about to begin."10:57AM We're guessing he's "reacting" to the Verizon iPhone announcement. It's pretty funny actually.10:56AM Whoa. John Oliver just screamed "F*ck yeah! Thank you!" -- Apparently he's doing a bit. Wait, he's doing it again. "Oh thank god! Thank you!" Ha!10:55AM We're seated next to the inimitable Michael Gartenberg. He keeps saying it's going to be a Kin 2 announcement.10:54AM Interesting note -- the screen is white. We're not saying that means anything. But... it could mean something.10:53AM Man this place is packed with media -- and lots of broadcast people.10:51AM There are a ton of videographers here, and for you Daily Show / Community fans -- John Oliver is here (with a script). We're sure it's just for the LTE announcements.10:47AM The small stage in front of us is stark save for a screen currently showing off Verizon's logo and the company's "Rule the Air" slogan.10:46AM Okay! We're in our seats and there's some lovely, smooth jazz on right now. The venue is really quite handsome -- lots of seating with no obstructions. Great for a live event of this type. Whatever type it is. You know, because it could be anything.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

