
 Robin Williams to Larry Page during Q&A: "Hit 'em again, Mensa-boy, it's your turn."Theentire event is after the jump ...
      

 

Thehottest ticket in town.3:54pm It's insane here at the Las Vegas Hilton.  The mob is in fullpress, even more than the older crowd of Gates groupies the other night.  But we somehow got into the second row,aisle seats (Note to Nate Tyler: Please don't come kick us out!) Jason is firing up his new Canon and we'll berapid-firing live in a few minutes.  Boy, these other journalists around us sure are takingit easy.4:07 Jason spots Nick Negroponte's $100laptop in the dark onstage and risks getting thrown offstage to get a shot of it.4:14 Gary Shapiro(president of the Consumer Electronics Association who warms up every keynote) is onstage now, so we'll be live in afew.   Gary, for those of you who don't live at CES, is now explaining how "Google is one ofthe most innovative companies of the last decade."4:15  Here it comes -- The Google logo on thebig screen is replaced with a warmup video of Google Earth.  Zooms into high-res shot of the Eiffel Tower toaudible whoooaaaaa from audience.  Now zooms out and in to a buffalo and egrets chillin' in thegrass.  Cape fur seals on Cape Frio ... the Grand Canyon ... this is real data folks ...  swooping over toVegas and in on the Hilton ... into an animated version of this auditorium to zoom in exactly onto the original screenwe saw with the Google logo ..YHEAAAHHHH Larry, in a lab coat, rides onstageon the back of Stanford's robot SUV that won DARPA's competition.  He's totally deadpan.  "Wow, I'venever seen so many cameras in my life."   Larry: "I wanted to let Stanley drive outautomatically but they refused for good safety reasons."  Inside is one of the car's developers.4:20 Larry: "Those are laser scanners on the top.  That plus GPS was enough to get it through thedesert."  Larry isn't Steve Jobs, but he's sincere.Joke product announcement: Google Fast Foodautopilot for your dashboard."Seriously we have a lot of things to show you ... we had a project withVW to do a prototype Google dashboard ...  This is Daniel, he's going to give a quick demo of going from Las Vegasto the Strip ... you can see restaurants and gas stations ... you can also see a birds-eye view ... this is all live(unlike earlier demo)Larry demos a phone version, Google Local Mobile.  There's a Blackberry versionyou can download now."    GoogleLocal Mobile4:25 Larry explains that he really geeked out his first time at CES, "but the devicesreally didn't connect to each other."  He recaps how Vint Cerf (now at Google) guided the Internet's designto connect machines together.Larry wants the two guys in the front row to be able to trade pix on theircameras without going to a computer.  "But I don't want the device manufacturers to go out and try toimplement it, because you won't think of all the cool ways to do it," etc etc.  "We should really enablesoftware people to do what they know how to do.""There's a lot of talk at this conference abouthaving TVs connected to the Internet.  Why can't you just plug your TV into whatever the nearest thing is - USB,WiFi, Bluetooth ... Why can't your bluetooth phone start your car, since it already has a bluetooth speaker built in,instead of you having to carry your keys?"As a rule as a device manufacturer, one wire should be ableto do anything possible.  It should work the same whether you plug that wire into your house, your neighbor'shouse, or all around the world..."Why is there no standard for those little screens and keypads?Now shifting to talk about electrical power.  Shows photo of power adapter clutter.  "Why can'twe just standardize the power with a really nice power supply?  (shot of happy power supply)  We really needsstandards in these areas. "Most devices can be connected through adapters.  You canbasically adapt anything to USB for like $20.  Do you really need all these ports running around?  I don'tthink it's really necessary.  Phones have been a really positive example.  You can connect any bluetoothheadset to any blue"What we really need are adapters .. standards for security, discovery, peering andforwarding to the internet .. we also needs standards for protocols ,.. audio, video, displays...  "Finally like I mentioned, you can take USB and do most of these things with it.Power supplies today ... ... andtomorrow?  " I just want to plead with you to help standardize these things.  I thought I'd throwthis out to get people thinking.  He explains how they've set up Wi-Fi all around Mountain View, Califfor the campus.  "You can email anyone, but you can't instant message anyone.  Guess whichwas developed at universities.""Our users and AOL users can message each other.  Theopenness of Google talk ..." (shows Google Talk for Blackberry and Nokia"Let me switch gears andtalk about a very serious issue.  There's about 15 percent of the world on the Internet.  If you look at apicture of the Earth from space at night .. wherever you see light there's Internet, and  there's people usingGoogle  (Africa is dark)  I think this is really sad, something to work on ... one of the initiatives is this$100 computer we've been working on with MIT  ... I think it's an important thing to get people greateraccess. "Another thing is power ... "Shows Current Internet-over-power adapter. 4:25 ANNOUNCEMENT!  "We'reannouncing Google Pack.  "It makes installing software aseasy as going to the Google home page.  And how much is it?"Us: "FREE!"Larry: "That's right, it's free."Demo. 4:45 "Another thing we want toannounce.  It's always been a dream of Sergey's to have Google implanted into your brain, and we've got someone todemo that ..."Robin Williams boots up midstage and does the funniest act he's done in years of aWeb-connected human constantly disrupted by porn spam (he's actually riffing on the Adult Entertainment Expo being nextdoor to CES, but it's funny because it sounds a lot like Googling with Safe Search turned off.)  We can't do itjustice except to quote, "Larry, do you realize you sound just like Mister Rogers?"  They putspotlight on San Francisco mayor Gavin Newsom in the audience (Robin is from SF).  Robin riffs about same-sexdivorce.4:52 ROBIN WILLIAMS WILL NOT STOP!!  He's mocked Asian CES booths ("you sit on rrraptopdancer"), gays, the porn convention next door, the auto show next door, NASCAR, the talking Mercedes-Benz(impersonates Nazi SS officer: "Are you a Jew?"  Audience winces.  Robin feigns backpedalling:"It vas just a question").  Talking Bluetooth tools  around the house.  "You want towatch movies again? I talked to your computer.  I knowwwww what youlike."   Some attendees later told us the video stream to the overflow room for the eventblacked out part of the act, supposedly because it was too controversial. 4:55 That was hiliarious andexhausting.4:56 Promo video for Google Video.  Alas, very much like all the other promo videos forCONTENT! we've seen all week.  Just waiting for them to get to the inevitable "... lets consumers controlwhat they want, when they want, where they want ..."Ok, they didn't say it, and the clip ended witha funny, creative special-effects video of two guys sort of hackey-sack dancing in mid-air.   [It's called Poop Today? ]5:01 "Today we'reannouncing Google Video Store ... cartoon classics like Rocky and Bullwinkle ... the NBAA has allowed us to downloadall their games 24 hours later.NBA commentator Kenny Smith walks down the aisle interrupting "Hey hey,wait a minute here."Larry, convincingly: "Who the heck are you?"Usual trade showbanter.5:04  CBS TV classics will be available for $1.99 each.  Including StarTrek.  You'll be able to sell your own stuff.Les Moonves from CBS comes onstage.  We'regoing to post photos.  Les: "Who would have thought thesetwo brands would appear together?" Audience member: "Not you!"  5:10 Larry bringsRobin back on for Q&AJason: "When is the Google PC and operating system coming out?"Larry: "Is there a rumor?"Paul: "What's the biggest video resolution we can download fromthe store, and what format?"Larry: "I'm not sure..."Paul: "Is it more than 320x240 foriPod?"Larry: "Yes.  It's not H264, I think it's 640x480."Doc Searls: "Willthe video only run on Windows?"Larry: "I think we've not done as good a job as we should.  We havea version for Mac that's not downloadable yet.  We have some teams working hard on getting the other things portedbut they're not out yet."Q: Will it work with non-US credit cards?Larry: "Maybe not rightaway, but eventually."Reporter from Screen Actor's Guild SAG magazine: "What parameters are inplace to prevent the unauthorized downloading of actors' images from the Internet?"Robin Williams mocks himsavagely.  "Nice to see a union man in the house!  Good to see your hands are still in someone'spocket."French reporter says content demo seemed pretty US-centric.Williams launches into long,cruel French parody: "Zey have Dizneyland - Minnie Mouse wiz armpit hair!"Reporter with Euroaccent asks intractably long question about language barriers, ends by asking if Larry will let Robin make a jokefirst.Robin mimics his accent: "I would, but you are doing so well yourself."Larry talks abouttranslation plans.  "I don't think language is the main barrier."Robin: "We have anEnglish-to-English translation for the President that's working very well."We're skipping lots of thewonky or self-promoting questions to post photos.  But the key thing about the Q&A act was that if you saidanything self-promotional or tried to pose a confrontational question to Larry, Robin would take the wind out of yoursails in front of the whole audience (who got to see your reaction on the big screen) before handing off to Larry("Hit 'em again, Mensa boy, it's your turn") to give a dry answer.5:35 Larry to audience,"If you turn around it keeps saying TIME UP in bigger and bigger fonts."  We all gotta go!General opinion around us is this is one of the best keynotes ever.  Incredibily entertaining yet sincere. Jason says,  "There was no spin.  I still don't know what Viiv is about, but I understood everything[Google] showed today perfectly."   5:38 Michael Jones (CTO Google Earth) comes up to kickus out -- no wait, he wants to tell us the team backstage has been reloading Engadget every minute while doing theshow's A/V.We're going to do Q&A with Larry in a few minutes.  We'll read your commentsfirst...6:00 from underground press room, to which we've been led down a long series of Spinal Tap-style under-the-theater corridors until we're sufficiently lost.Larry explains they move Google Video to a common codec format to prevent frustrating video problems (but, obviously,without committing to a vendor partnership to do so)Larry on the company's 20 Percent Time policy, whichlets employees work one day a week or so on their own projects or whatever they want.  "The imporant thingabout 20 percent time is it lets you say no to your manager.  That's a real change in the dynamic.  Nobodycan tell you you can't experiment.  It doesn't mean you get resources."Reporters ask aboutdetails of DRM deal with CBS.Larry: "There're a bunch of details about that; I remember some of them, butthey're not important.  What we've seen with iTunes is that having a pretty good user experience is important ...I think this was a courageous move (for CBS.)"To paraphrase a Q&A with Doc Searls about whetherGoogle is "a long term hack on the producer-consumer relationship," Larry says to remember the academicorigins of the Web, and CEO Eric Schmidt's academic background.  The cool thing about the Web when it launched, hesays, was that there was no real barrier to putting things online, "so people put up all sorts of crap.  Ithink we're trying to move that further along."Eric Schmidt on Google PC: "With all due respect,we issued a statement that we have tremendous partners in the PC space, so we have no interest in doing it.  Iguess some people don't believe it."Larry on Yahoo's lead in personalization and social networks:"The data that defines you socially isn't really that complicated, or that hard to collect."  He makessome dismissive comment about people being impressed that Yahoo has lots of people's ZIP codes.Eric says heargued with Larry and Sergey about the need to do Google Pack, but they convinced them it was necessary to make theexperience a lot better.Question about the lack of productivity software in the Pack: "There's a lotof software like Open Office out there. But we wanted to focus on keeping it simple and making the download work. We didn't think that was the right sort of thing to put in there at first until we'd debugged it."Larryon video interoperability: "Technologically, I don't think this is a complicated problem."JohnMarkoff (NY Times) pins them on whether Microsoft could use Vista and monopoly power to knock them out.  Larry:"Anything's possible.  That's possible."  Schmidt says Google really believes in user choice andopen alternatives and thinks it's a viable defense against Microsoft's leverage.Steven Levy (Newsweek)suggests that Google Pack helps Microsoft because it's basically a service pack for Windows.Larry: "Uhhmmmm,yeah!  (shrugs) A lot of people use Windows."--Photos: Jason Calacanis, CanonEOS-20DText: Paul Boutin

       

 