
 6:25pm We'rekicking back in the Engadget VIP balcony at the Hilton.  Paul is on the keys, Ryan on camera.  We've justgotten the warning that things are about to start.6:34 Still waiting! 6:36 The thumpy music isgetting louder and the big-screen graphics busier, so we must be close.6:37 Ladies and gentlemen .... GaryShapiro, president of the Consumer Electronics Association.  He's giving us the stats on the show.  IT'SREALLY BIG!6:42 The intro just keeps going.  Now there's a video about Microsoft's vision.  Seethe comments to this post for links to live video streams.6:44 Ladies and gentlemen ... Bill Gates!
      

 

 Bill is glad to be named Person of the Year along with Melinda and Bono.  But he remembers when the PC gotthe award in 1982.  Mostly straight quotes from Bill from here on ...  "We've talked about thisas the decade of digital lifestyle, the decade of digital workstyle.  It's not just one application that makes ithappen.  It's the fact that as you adopt these things, they really go together. "I thought I'dstart off and show a scenario that we think will be real in the next four years.  (demo of home paneltouch screen with family pictures, calendars, a map)"The family has decided to share their locationwith the other members of the family, so we're able to track that.  Here we've got some news that picks the itemsthat are of interest to us.  There's a storm here that's interrupting the supply chain of a lot of companiesincluding mine.  I touch the clip to say I'd like to track that video on my way to work, so it's transferred to mycellphone as I go to work."At work .. instead of using a password I use my fingerprint.  I see alot of information including that news item I've been tracking.  We set up a conference call of people who aretracking this issue.  Here's the article annoted to see how it affects us."On my tablet ... whatI'd like to do is select a chart and move it to my desktop or drag it into this video conference.  It was actuallycreated, I see, by Thomas Anderson, so I'm interested in bringing him into the conference..."Toward theend of the day I get notice that I need to leave earlier for the airport to make my flight ..."When Iget to the airport, I put my phone down on this table, and now I have my full desktop.  I put this business cardon the table.  It sees it and recognizes it.  I've got a little note I made during the conversation.  Ican see the information being downloade to my phone ... added to my contact list.(Bill gets a press releaseflashed to the screen for his fingerprinted approval)"As I work, the screen knows exactlyhow much time I have to work before I have to leave .... It's a very simple thing to have all these devicesconnected.  The phone is very different; the idea of meetings is very different ... that's because we've takensoftware and put it at the center.  We see that in so many areas.  I think five or six years ago if you'dsaid software would be so important in making phone calls, music, photos, TV better....  this really is a symptomof the great progress we have here in the digital decade.(AT THIS POINT BILL IS REHASHING STUFF YOU ALREADYKNOW - SOFTWARE WILL LET US DO MORE AND CONNECT PEOPLE ETC ETC)"It only catches up to us in the way itchanges the way entertainment gets done .. TV where we pick the news segments we want.  We find the video thatwouldn't have been available in a broadcast system.  A huge component of this is the investment we've made in theWindows platform.(BILL IS GOING TO SHOW THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE "2-FOOT INTERFACE," AKA PC,AND THE "TEN-FOOT INTERFACE" IN THE LIVING ROOM)DEMO: WINDOWS VISTA.  Aaron Woodman fromMicrosoft takes over."QuickTabs.  Tabbed browsing with a twist." LIVE PREVIEWS OF DIFFERENTTABS.  HEAVY USE OF TRANSPARENCIES AND MOTION IN THE INTERFACE.PARENTAL CONTROLS ON GAMES. "As a parent, you can decide if you're comfortable with your child playing that game on that PC." TALKING POINTS ALERT:  Aaron has usedthe phrase "putting consumers back in control" a good half dozen times in the past ten minutes.  Once nice touch: Vista never loses the original copy of a photo, video, or whatever that you've edited. Years later you can go back and get it.  (Yes, we know our iPhoto does that.)Bill is coming back withVan Toffler from MTV to talk about what they're doing.  A new venture, URGE, between MTV and Microsoft.  Vanputs up a "separated at birth" photo of Bill and Napoleon Dynamite.Van: "URGE will offer acustomized relationship to music, a sense of musical discovery ... over 100 radio stations .. a chance to learn aboutthe roots of songs and lyrics ... a chance to interact with the artists.  You can make URGE the soundtrack to yourown event.  It will be programmed by music fans for music fans.  Subscribers will tell us what sucks.  Wewill engage an army of music professionals, bloggers, musicians, etc ...  Take note, we are trying something newwith URGE, like Music Television was twenty years ago.  And it certainly needed improvement -- can you say Flockof Seagulls five times a day?"  (Hey, we still play FoS on the iPod)Justin Timberlake track isinterrupted by J-Tim himself walking onstage.  "Urge offers artists like myself a new way to reach music fanswith a ton of options to play, interact with, and buy music.  When my new album is released this year ... URGE andI will be doing some new and creative things together.  Thank you for having me, pleasure to be here."Gates back on the mic:"We've wanted to get tablet capability down to the mainstream of tabletPCs.  Gateway is making a tablet at very much a mainstream price.  It will be a simple decision to say yes, Iwant to get that on-tablet capability.  Vista ... adjusts automatically to your handwriting style, so over time itgets better and better.  Consuming it onscreen instead of on paper becomes better.  Driving that to themainstream is something we're very committed to."Another thing we're committed to is Windows Mobile ..93 operators in 55 countries ... "This one you've probably heard about - it's our partnership withPalm.  This phone is amazing for single-hand operation.  Based on the experience they had, they brought thatto the Windows Mobile platform.  This is on sale, starting tomorrow, ahead of schedule.  They got approvalfrom Verizion (EV-DO).  Any sort of attachments, images, will be fantastic because of the bandwidth."Apparently the 700w ships tomorrow, according to Gates. Hmm!"We'll have more devices coming out thisyear.  One from Motorola is called the Q.(Now Bill is showing a home VoIP phone.  Youcan scroll through your buddy list and call them.)7:30 "Let's now talk about TV.  TV is a bigactivity and one where we see software really surprising people with what it can do.  ... An individualized videostream ... ads can be target to you ... something that you won't want to skip over.  As you get into a news show,the subjects you care about, you can get more info, and skip over others.  You might have a ski resort you want tosee every time you want to sit down to watch the nightly news whenever you want."It completely blowsopen the limitations that channels used to create.  It becomes something easy for you to navigate and find. Not one TV here, and your Internet TV there.  Personalization, choice, all these things that weren'tpossible.  Last year we had very successful trials .. AT&T and Verizon are rolling out commercialdeployments.  This year these will scale up to really large numbers, and people will see it blows away theprevious video platform."As that video comes into the home it will be viewable on ... every screen inthe house.  That's where Media Center comes in.  That's the other special version of Windows, in addition tothe tablet.  We have 6.5 million copies out, but we're not stopping there."One of thepartnerships that's going to be very important is our partnership with Intel.  You're going to see another greatexample of this with VIIV.  It rhymes with five and live.  You're going to see a lot of information aboutbreaktrhough technology that Intel enables -- 7.1 surround sound right on the chip, the dual core processor enablingthat.(Bill announces that DirectTV content will be available on Windows Media portable devices.  A hugescreen of media logos -- sky, Yahoo, NPR, Kodak....)7:35 Joe Belfiore comes out to give a 15-minuteWindows Media demo.  First up: The Daily Show, as part of something called the Comedy Central Mother Lode. You can catch up on old episodes, see previews."Now I want to talk a little bit abouthardware innovation.  This is a PC from Averatec.  It's very small, very light, runs Windows Media Center,has all the remote contols built in, with or without a tuner built in."Our idea was to create an experiencethat viewers could enjoy from the couch, or take with them on a portable device.  This is the ToshibaGigabeat.  It has a 30G hard drive.  You get about 4 hours of video playback time on the battery.  (it's a Windows Portable Media Center with a widescreen mode)"This is the movie Hitch, that we justpurchased from the newly announced Starz Vongo service."Whether you get your content from broadcastand record it, or download it from the Internet, or created it yourself you have flexability..."Thisis a new LG Electronics portable media center device.  The thing about it is the killer widescreen format."The demo of Windows Live is hard to describe in words.  But we like the optional IM interface, and hey --Joe's a Galactica fan.Joe plays The Bourne Supremacy and shows how hecan pop up transparent menus over the video to, for example, get a list of recent actors in the scene.  He gets aquick bio of Franke Potente.  "Everyone in the family isn't angry at me because I stopped the movie,"and the content is up to date because it's online.  Another demo shows a popup talking head of the producerexplaining the scene.Another demo: Managed copies.  He can make a full disc image, or an HD copy or aportable movie file from a DVD. "Now I'd like to talk about Windows abilityto receive digital cable natively."He slides a cable card into a PC card slot.  "Today witha Media CEnter PC you have an analog connection or you can recieve digital content over the air.  You can't gethigh-def just by plugging a cable in.  You can't get ESPN or Showtime etc.  All that will change. Attach the cable, slide in the access card," and you can even get premium content.  Demo of Windows VistaMedia Center playing The Aviator HDTV that 'has never left the digital form""Now I'm going towrap up by giving you a look at the revised interface."  Lots of transparencies and moving interfaces thattake advantage of the HD pixel space.7:55 Peter Moore -- Mister Xbox 360 -- comes on to talk aboutgaming."It's five years ago today, from this very stage, that we used CES to unveil Xbox.  Weenvisioned a community connected through Xbox Live.  "Halo 2 recorded the greatest day in retailwith 122 million dollars in sales in one day.  We were the thought leader."Fast forward to Xbox360.  We're moving from thought leaders to market leaders."I'm pleased to announce that Xboxachieved an unprecendented global launch.(We'll skip to the bottom line: They've added another manufacturerto try to keep up with demand, and everyone's jumping on the content bandwagon.  You guys know this stuff.)HERE's THE NEWS: An Xbox 360 external HD DVD drive is coming this year!Al Bernstein comes on to talkabout Fight Night Round 3.  He brings out Bill G and Steve Ballmer to play Ali vs Frazier.  We're chanting"Developers! Developers! Developers!" from the balcony, but truth be told Ballmer has an amazing amount ofphysical energy.  It's impressive to see a guy that big bounce on his toes and shadow-box at Bill. "I've been training THIRTY YEARS for this!"  But he lets Bill win the game anyway.8:10 Billalone onstage again.  "We've seen a lot tonight, and I think a few themes stand out."  1) HighDefinition.  2) Partners.  3) "This all has to work across these devices.  It's got to beuser-centric.  Software is providing power, but software has got to provide simplicity.  Security, privacy,speech recognition .... all of this will fold into this platform.""We're all going to have a lotof fun using these systems.  Thank you."8:12 The guy behind us: "That was the longestkeynote EVER."

       

 