
 
4:40PM PST - Looks like we're all still waiting until they get the show on the road -- it's slightly behind schedule, but should start shortly. At least we've got lots of Sony recording artists to listen to over the PA in the mean time.4:45 - Sony is bringing out Joshua Bell with his violin. Look like he's going to play some top 40 fiddle. More in a few when he's done with this thang. He's hitting rather high notes -- very Shine -- while his keeper sits off stiffly to the side next to the pianist. For a second we thought he was a plasticy Sony robot.4:50 - Rick Clancey is now out, he's introducing what's what. They plan to focus on the "theme of transformations." Apparently they want to transform CES from an electronics show into an entertainment show. Huh? Sony's "Backstage theater" will be having plenty of presentations throughout CES of Sony artists. "... not one of our competitors can even come close to matching" Sony's position in the market. They're greeting Howard Stringer, but the Sir isn't here to speak on stage. What a bummer, where you at Howie?
      

 

   4:54 - "So let's kick things off with the PS3." They're bringing up Peter Dille to give a PS3 update -- you may recall Peter? He's going over the usual PS3 pimping. Their goal: to ship 1m PS3s in 2006. Their accomplishment: reaching that goal. "One of the most important consumer electronics products of the decade." Apparently the PS3 has sold 1m units faster than PS and PS2, so he sounds pretty optimistic amidst the criticism surrounding Sony of late. Their next goal: 6m by March 2007.4:56 - Going over the big talking points: "High def. Portable entertainment. Online / community content." Yes, pimping 1080p and Blu-ray, "crystal clear visuals," "vastly bigger canvas," "they look tremendous." Alright, let's get some content now, we've all heard the PS3 spiel.  5:00 - Digital living - those who want more than a portable gaming machine, it's a portable entertainment system. Going over PSP and PS3 integration, LocationFree, and accessing media content. Now we're onto more PS3 stuff: PS3 store, online network (which, they'd like to remind us, is totally free, "compared to our competitors."), text messaging, and "new online worlds" for users to integrate user-created content.  5:03 - Finally, upcoming games! Well, not really. Right now they're just showing clips of what appears to be current titles. Wait, WHAT? It was a 30-second clip and didn't show a single title. Sony, why do you tease us so? Now Randy Waynick is up on screen. "Full HD" is not only a Sony "creation," but it was a phrase they "popularized" too. You heard it here first, Sony is behind 1080p! 5:05 - According to NPD Sony was #1 in 2006 in HDTV. Not bad, Sony! Sony's introducing a 10-inch thick micro-display based HDTV -- but now on to LCD HDTVs. They announced their first 70-inch LCD HDTV with the "fastest refresh rate of any Sony LCD TV to date." They've also got an 82-inch Bravia on display here, and are claiming commitment to future production of OLED displays.  5:08 - Now the XL3 from yesterday -- their media PC with Blu-ray. They're previewing two new Blu-ray prototypes tonight, arriving in the market this year. And... ? Ah, he's moved on already, didn't even announce. Guess we'll find out in a few, but for now they're heading over to Steve Haber to discuss digital photography. "Behind the lens."  5:11 - "Sony has been digital since day one." 16 new camcorders in hard drive, DVD, and mini-DV, damn! Four new HD editions to the Handycam fam -- AVC-HD. 3 megapixel sensors, and x.v.Color, their new term coined from xvycc, "a new international standard that enables the color range to be expanded on y." Apparently Sony's captured 60% market share of the hard drive camcorder market; their new units will feature up to 60GB drives and up to 40x zoom. Going over some consumer cams; he's rocking the A100, which we all know well.  5:15 - IT product division chief: Hideyuki Furumi -- going to introduce the "hottest products" at CES. He wants us to watch out for "sound-alike / look-alike products from an ever-increasing list of manufacturers." Vaio laptops are expanding again with further die sub patterns and options. Now the UX... more stuff we know well. New products any time now guys, we're with ya.  5:19 - Here we go! W1 wireless system (we think)... stream music or internet radio for in-home use, a sexy little boombox. And now he's introducing their new media PC we covered earlier today, talking about rethinking where PCs can go and what they look like. Good, living room, respectively, thankyoumuch.  5:23 - Now the Mylo -- more review. Not quite the pow-pow-pow product introduction we were hoping for, but ah well. So, now we back to our main stage. "It's about companies and products with... a powerful entertainment vision for the future. That future starts RIGHT HERE, RIGHT NOW." Here's Prez / CEO of Sony US, Stan Glasgow. Looks like the man's about to introduce some new gear straight up -- let's have it!  5:25 - "Sony is committed to creating an environment [of] convergence." Announcing an "Internet Video system," capable of streaming HD content. Oh yes, this is what we're talking about. It's an apparently modular device that interfaces with your TV, and HD IPTV on even current future models. Bravia Internet Video Link is the name, learn it well. Now Kevin Conroy, EVP of AOL is out to discuss AOL Video content on "platforms besides the traditional PC." And now he's off. Oh nice, the interface of the BIVL is like the XMB. And now we've got Marco Boerries from Yahoo on stage. Whoops, dude almost accidentally walked right off the stage after some PR biz.  5:29 - "If you need proof of Sony expanding its entertainment horizons, here is an example." Ahh, Grouper's here -- hence user-generated content. Looks like that seemingly-random acquisition a while back is starting to add up. They're demoing user-gen content over IPTV (something tells us this is going to be "curated," like YouTube / Verizon). Plays a short art film. "The world is changing everybody!" Chuckles.  5:35 - XMB is the primary interface -- for the first time on TVs in NA. It doesn't quite look as refined as that of the PS3, but it does look good. Weather, traffic, news delivered through RSS in widget-like channels. Looks like they're wrapping up in a short few, lots more droning on about how powerful the brand is and how they're a legendary electronics company cum entertainment giant. "It's that simple." Hey, we know -- you're Sony. And here's Spiderman 3 up on screen to take us home.

       

 