
 
Sure, working with Motorola for some peacetime pico-projector development is one thing, but if you really want to rake in the bucks, you'd better jump on the military-industrial bandwagon. As a part of DARPA's Urban Leader Tactical Response, Awareness & Visualization project, Lockheed Martin has teamed up with Microvision to develop low-profile see-through eyewear displays for providing "non-line-of-sight command and control in distributed urban operations for dismounted warfighters" based on the latter's PicoP technology. The displays will be low-powered, lightweight, and will deliver real-time content for "increased situational awareness, such as real-time combat support and logistics." Sounds pretty similar to the gear they were selling the Air Force years ago, no? In unrelated news, the company's Vice President of Sales and Marketing is named Ian Brown, although we're guessing it's not the same Ian Brown we saw at the Hammerstein Ballroom four years ago. PR after the break.

 

Microvision Announces $1M Contract Award from Lockheed Martin Corporation to Develop Low-Profile See-Through Eyewear DisplaysREDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Microvision, Inc. (NASDAQ: MVIS) announced today that it has been awarded a $1,000,000 subcontract by Lockheed Martin Corporation. This subcontract is part of DARPA's Urban Leader Tactical Response, Awareness & Visualization (ULTRA-Vis) program, an advanced technology development initiative, whose objective it is to build a soldier-worn system that provides non-line-of-sight command and control in distributed urban operations for dismounted warfighters. Under the subcontract, Microvision will develop a daylight-readable, see-through, low-profile, ergonomic eyewear display.DARPA has created the ULTRA-Vis program to bring real-time tactical see-through heads-up information to ground soldiers in order to increase their safety and situational awareness in urban environments. Although tactical information is available to ground soldiers today, existing head-mounted displays and legacy system architectures have prevented this information from being delivered in a low-profile, see-through iconic mode. When integrated to an advanced information management system, Microvision's eyewear display could enable users to receive visual commands, view geo-registered iconic representations, and receive other full-color image content overlaid on their view."Microvision is very pleased to work with Lockheed Martin to advance the development of see-through eyewear displays in support of the DARPA ULTRA-Vis program," said Ian Brown, Microvision's Vice President of Sales and Marketing. "By designing Microvision's ultra-miniature PicoP® Display Engine and our thin, clear Substrate Guided Relay (SGR) Optics into a wearable display, we have the potential to bring battery operable, low-profile, see-through, full-color eyewear displays to users. This eyewear display development could enable information content to be overlaid in the user's field-of-view in operational environments, providing a critical information advantage. Additionally, this display could be used in other applications, where real-time content is needed to improve situational awareness, such as combat support and logistics."

       

 