
 
 Ever thought to yourself that those Smart Covers would be so much better if they somehow had a keyboard built in? Perhaps not, but Logitech is looking to fill the void anyway. The outfit has announced its Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for this year's iPad. On the business side of the accessory, you'll find a full Bluetooth keyboard with function keys that will last up to six months on a single charge -- that is, if you can manage to limit your use to under two hours a day. Securing your slate during those heavy typing sessions is a built-in stand that sits atop the keypad; however, it appears that you're stuck with only one viewing angle. Around back, the cover will protect that precious Retina display while providing instant on / off functionality like the original Smart Covers did, complete with magnetic clip. Don't fret, it'll also play nice with the second-gen model, just in case you haven't committed to the latest Apple tablet. Available later this month in both the US and Europe, the keyboard cover will cause you to fork over $100 before employing either of its services. Full details are in the PR below and a few press shots wait in the gallery that follows.




  Show full PR text  Logitech Delivers Protection with Style for the New, Third-Generation iPad Ultrathin Keyboard Cover Helps You Make the Most of the iPad Experience  NEWARK, Calif. - April 18, 2012 - Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) today extends its tablet lineup with its latest keyboard accessory – the Logitech® Ultrathin Keyboard Cover – made for the new, third-generation iPad® as well as the iPad 2. Leveraging Logitech's extensive heritage of high quality, reliability and design, this all-in-one solution provides an ultrathin screen protector and built-in keyboard so you can type easily and travel without worry.  "The third-generation iPad and its apps are designed to give you more control and creativity, whether you are editing photos and movies, making music or writing a novel," said Alexis Richard, director of product marketing at Logitech. "The new Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover – with its ultra-sleek, smart design and extended keyboard battery life – provides a convenient way for you to make the most of your iPad no matter what activity you are using it for."  The perfect partner for your iPad, the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover protects your screen with a stylish, slim aluminum cover that adds minimal weight to your tablet, and features a built-in keyboard that pairs through Bluetooth. When you're ready to type an email or watch a movie, the keyboard's built-in stand holds your iPad at the best angle.  Similar to a Smart Cover, the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover attaches quickly and securely to your iPad with a magnetic clip. It has an instant On/Off feature, which means your iPad automatically wakes up when you open the cover, and switches to standby when you close it. And with a six-month battery life (based on two hours-per-day usage), you can spend more time typing and less time worrying about your keyboard losing power.  With function keys for enhanced navigation, and a piano-black finish, this keyboard cover adds both functionality and style to your iPad.  Logitech also confirmed that the Logitech Keyboard Case for iPad 2 and the Logitech Tablet Keyboard for iPad from its current tablet accessories lineup are compatible with both the iPad 2 and third-generation iPad.  Pricing and Availability The Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in April 2012, for a suggested retail price of $99.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com.
 