
 
Sure, lots of mice, ok, most mice can be coddled to work on fabric. But it takes a company with a dedicated mousing portfolio the size of Logitech's to design a mouse specifically for use on the sofa. See, the Logitech Wireless Mouse M515 features a sealed bottom case that lets you mouse around on soft surfaces without snagging. That means it won't collect bits of fuzz around the sensor when dragging it across the couch, bed, or a trouser-clad thigh. Naturally, it can also be used on more traditional computing surfaces, too. The M515 boasts up to two-years of battery life thanks, in part, to a hand-detection sensor that causes the mouse to sleep anytime it's not being held. Rounding out the list of features is Logitech's Hyper-Fast scrolling wheel and Unifying USB micro receiver required for the laptop or home theater PC you wish to control. Look for the M515 to ship to Europe in April for £49.99 -- that's about $80 converted, but you'll likely find it for a lot less whenever it hits US retail.

Update: It's available in the US right now for $50 at our more coverage link.
      

 

Show full PR textLogitech Unveils Mouse Designed for Living RoomLogitech Wireless Mouse M515 Makes Browsing from the Sofa EasyLondon. - Jan. 21, 2011 -Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) unveiled the Logitech® Wireless Mouse M515, delivering easy navigation from soft surfaces like your sofa, bed or a pillow. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M515 features a sealed bottom case that makes gliding on fabric easy and worry free, and a hand-detection sensor so the mouse is only active when you want it to be."Millions of people are connecting their computer to the TV, and the M515 mouse was built to address the unique needs of this experience," said Marcus Harvey, General Manager UK & IRE, Logitech. "As technology evolves and consumers' habits change, Logitech continues to develop navigation devices that make it easier to control and access the things people love to do in the digital world." With its hand-detection sensor, the Logitech Wireless Mouse M515 is active only when you're gripping it - the mouse is only active when you want it to be, and it stays asleep when you don't. A sealed bottom - so fabric fuzz won't collect in the sensor opening - gives you cursor control no matter what surface you're using your mouse on. And the easy-gliding base makes mousing around on couches (and blankets, cushions, clothing, carpets, even desks) easy.Also featuring effortless Logitech® Hyper-Fast Scrolling, the M515 mouse lets you coast smoothly through long blogs or social networking feeds. And you can switch to click-to-click mode when you need more control. Logitech's newest mouse also offers up to two years of battery life, helping you save time and money by eliminating the need to change batteries frequently. And, you'll enjoy plug-and-forget wireless connectivity thanks to the tiny Logitech® Unifying receiver. The receiver stays in your laptop so it's less likely to be lost, and gives you a reliable connection with virtually no delays or dropouts. Plus, you can easily add other Unifying-compatible mice and keyboards to the same receiver. Pricing and AvailabilityThe Logitech Wireless Mouse M515 is expected to be available in Europe beginning in April for a suggested retail price of £49.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com.
 