
 
Logitech's big Google TV reveal is still ongoing, but the product page is live and allowing for preorders of the $299 package ($179 if you're on Dish Network) set to ship by the end of this month. For all of that dough you'll get the Revue with Google TV box, keyboard with integrated touch and directional pad, an HDMI cable, one IR blaster and a couple of AA batteries just for good measure. Also up for your browsing pleasure are a few screens of the free Logitech Harmony App for iPhone and Android. Other accessories have been announced and are available for preorder as well, a $149 webcam, and the Revue-specific version of the diNovo Mini controller for $129.99 the larger keyboard is available if you need a spare or buy a different brand of Google TV appliance for $99. The Logitech TV Cam, with Carl Zeiss autofocus lens and dual microphones, ties into a Logitech Vid HD app that communicates with other similarly equipped units plus PCs or Macs running the desktop version of the software. Beyond just the mobile apps, Logitech also showed off its own Media Player app that pulls in video from connected hard drives or DLNA sources. Check the gallery for a few pictures of the hardware and after the break for a couple quick video breaking down all the features of the Revue, and demonstrating video calling. A press release full of details is now also available after the break.





Show full PR textIf You Can Think It, You Can Watch It: Logitech Delivers Google TV to Living Rooms Across the U.S.Logitech Revue with Google TV, Logitech Controllers, Logitech TV Cam, Logitech Vid HD Video Calling Service Put You In Control of the Google TV ExperienceFREMONT, Calif. – Oct. 6, 2010 - Consumers today have access to an enormous amount of content, delivered by a range of sources and increasingly complex devices. To bring this content together through a single interface on the best screen in the house – the TV screen – Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) has worked with Google on a line of products designed to create the best Google TV experience for the millions of U.S. households with an HDMI-ready TV. Google TV brings traditional TV programming together with the entire Internet, with the ability to search across them both.Logitech today unveiled Logitech Revue™ with Google TV™, a compact, plug-and-play companion box with its Logitech® Keyboard Controller, which together provide seamless control over the Google TV experience and home-entertainment devices. The company's portfolio of products for Google TV also includes the Logitech® TV Cam and Vid™ HD service for HD video calling from the comfort of one's sofa. In addition, Logitech is offering the Logitech® Mini Controller for Logitech Revue as well as other applications designed for the Google TV platform."Just as we have done with the PC and with home entertainment systems, our role with Google TV is to give people the ability to control and interact with their content and devices with unprecedented ease," said Gerald P. Quindlen, Logitech president and chief executive officer. "With our line of products for Google TV, Logitech will help redefine the user experience in the digital living room.""Logitech Revue with Google TV makes it easy for people to use just one controller to find and enjoy content from a variety of sources – programs from TV providers; the entire Web, including Flash-based games; music, photos and videos from their personal library; and a growing selection of apps," said Ashish Arora, vice president and general manager of Logitech's digital home products group. "Logitech not only delivers the Google TV experience for any HDMI-ready TV, but we build on it with exceptional interface devices, control of living room components through Logitech Harmony® Link and enhanced experiences such as video calling in the living room.""Google TV combines the power of search, a full Web browser, and Android apps with the TV experience you know and love," said Mario Queiroz, vice president of product management for Google. "We're proud to be working with Logitech to launch the very first set of Google TV devices, helping you and me easily access great Web and TV content, all on the same HD screen.""Smart TV delivers a truly integrated experience, with broadcast and the Internet united on one screen," said Wilfred Martis, general manager, Retail CE, Intel Digital Home Group. "The Logitech Revue brings Google TV to existing televisions, and also offers video calling to provide a new dimension to home entertainment. The smart TV experience requires advanced processing performance, as well as outstanding audio/visual capabilities, and we're proud that Logitech selected the Intel® Atom™ processor CE4100 to power this revolutionary product."Logitech Revue with Google TV – Access to Endless Entertainment ChoicesWith a broadband Internet connection available, connecting the Logitech Revue to your home entertainment system is easy. Use the included HDMI cable to connect the Logitech Revue to the port on your HDTV, and then connect another HDMI cable between the Logitech Revue and your cable or satellite provider box with HDMI out. Then plug in the system to power up your Logitech Revue and follow the directions on the TV screen to complete the brief software setup. In minutes, the content available on your TV will expand beyond the day's programming to include virtually limitless Web content, as well as a host of preloaded Google TV and Logitech applications.Once set up, you can use the included Logitech Keyboard Controller to navigate and interact with the new world of content available on the biggest and best screen in the house – the TV screen. Watching your favorite videos online on your HDTV is just the start. Pick up the controller, and type in anything you want to find. Watching the big game on live TV and want to know the latest stats on your favorite player? Simply use the dual-view mode to see the stats on the Web while still watching the game.The Logitech Keyboard Controller includes everything you need to control Google TV and features a familiar keyboard layout so anyone can start searching without a learning curve. It includes a touch pad with scroll functionality for control in addition to back and home buttons for easy Web page navigation. And to give you a reliable connection, the Keyboard Controller uses Logitech Unifying wireless technology.Because Harmony Link technology is embedded in Logitech Revue – the same technology that powers Logitech's award-winning family of Harmony universal remotes – you will enjoy seamless control over how you experience Google TV. So when you search for something and then click on it, your selection will come up at the touch of one button – no manual switching of inputs required.In addition to the familiar typing and mouse experience, Logitech provides buttons to control your TV, A/V receiver and DVR. These let you power on your TV, turn up the volume on your speakers or access your DVR content without needing to use an additional remote. In addition, you can use the setup software to customize buttons of your controller and map commands for your devices.Logitech Mini Controller – Sleek and Stylish Palm-Sized ControllerWith almost three decades of experience designing devices that connect you to your content, Logitech has learned that consumers like different kinds of input devices to fit their varying needs. With that in mind, the company developed the Logitech Mini Controller for use with Google TV – a palm-sized keyboard, touch pad and remote control combo.Despite its compact size, just 6-inches by 3.5-inches, the Mini Controller offers full control over the Google TV experience. It has a touch pad that removes the need for a mouse, as well as illuminated keys that change color depending on the mode you're in: green for navigation, orange for typing and pointing. Like the Logitech Keyboard Controller, the Mini Controller provides buttons to control your TV, A/V receiver and DVR.The Mini Controller has a rechargeable lithium-ion battery that can go up to two weeks between charges.Logitech TV Cam and Logitech Vid HD – Video Calling from Your SofaThe Logitech TV Cam lets you make and receive high-definition video calls on your HDTV – no computer required. It connects easily with your Logitech Revue box using USB to deliver the crisp, clear images – thanks in part to Carl Zeiss® optics – and superior quality audio consumers have come to expect from Logitech webcams. And the TV Cam also provides a wide-angle lens that will capture your whole living room so your friends and family can relax, talk comfortably and enjoy a natural conversation. And when you want to have a more personal experience, you can use the 5x digital zoom to get close and personal.To further optimize the experience for the living room, the TV Cam includes two digital, directional microphones that help reduce noise and echoes in a living room environment and uses Logitech RightLight 2™ technology to adjust images in dim lighting situations so you look your best.Together, the Logitech TV Cam and Vid HD software enable high-definition video calls of up to 720p. To make a video call, simply connect the Logitech TV Cam to your Logitech Revue box, select the easy-to-use Logitech Vid HD app, which comes preloaded on the Revue box, and then sit back, relax and place a call to family or friends who are also using Vid. If the video call is with someone who is not using a TV Cam with Logitech Revue, they can download Vid for free onto their PC or Mac from www.logitech.com/vid.If you receive a video call using Logitech Vid HD on Google TV, the TV Cam will blink to alert you of an incoming call. If your TV screen is on, you will hear an audible ring and receive a notification and caller ID so you can know who's calling – and you have the option to answer or ignore the call. If you ignore a call or are away from your TV, you will be aware of any missed calls thanks to a call notification icon in the Vid HD interface or from an LED light on the TV Cam that lights up when you've missed a call – even when your TV is off.Logitech Google TV Apps – Limitless PossibilitiesAs an open platform, the additional power of Google TV lies in its potential to deliver new possibilities for the living room through the development of innovative applications. Want to find favorite holiday photos to show visiting friends? Preloaded on the Logitech Revue in the Applications section you will find the Logitech Media Player. The Logitech Media Player lets you access your personal content, including photos, downloaded music files and home videos that are stored on a USB drive or a DLNA-certified media server on your home network.For added control possibilities, Logitech will offer two downloadable smartphone apps: the Logitech Harmony for iPhone and the Logitech Harmony for Android. These apps allow you to use your iPhone®, iPod® Touch, iPad™, or Android device to control your Google TV experience. With just one touch of the "Watch Google TV" button, both apps can turn on your television, cable/satellite box and A/V receiver. The in-app keyboard and touch pad make it easy to search for things to watch - online or on TV - as well as navigate websites. You can use gesture control, voice searches and much more. You can use the Harmony apps in place of - or along with - the keyboard-based controller that comes with Logitech Revue with Google TV.Pricing and AvailabilityAvailable for pre-order today on Logitech.com, Amazon.com and BestBuy.com, Logitech's line of products for Google TV are expected to be available online and in Best Buy stores across the U.S. by the end of October. The Logitech Revue with Google TV suggested retail price is $299.99 (U.S.). The Logitech Mini Controller suggested retail price is $129.99 (U.S.). And the Logitech TV Cam suggested retail price is $149.99 (U.S.).In addition to being bundled with the Logitech Revue, the Logitech Keyboard Controller will be available for purchase online as an individual item to work with other Google TV systems and will have a suggested retail price of $99.99 (U.S.).The Logitech Harmony for Android app will be available for download from the Android Market for free. The Logitech Harmony for iPhone app is expected to be available for download from the Apple iTunes store for free.In a separate press release today, Logitech and DISH Network announced that Logitech Revue with Google TV and accessories will also be offered to existing and prospective DISH Network customers through both Logitech and DISH Network.About LogitechLogitech is a world leader in products that connect people to the digital experiences they care about. Spanning multiple computing, communication and entertainment platforms, Logitech's combined hardware and software enable or enhance digital navigation, music and video entertainment, gaming, social networking, audio and video communication over the Internet, video security and home-entertainment control. Founded in 1981, Logitech International is a Swiss public company listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange (LOGN) and on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (LOGI).# # #Logitech, the Logitech logo, and other Logitech marks are registered in Switzerland and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. For more information about Logitech and its products, visit the company's website at www.logitech.com.(LOGI - IR)  
 