
Many portable mice are fairly chunky, which can be tricky when you've got a slim bag packed with an Ultrabook or a MacBook Air. Logitech's set out to solve this problem with its $70 Ultrathin Touch mouse. The aluminum-clad pointing device features an ultra-svelte wedge design with a smooth top for touch gestures. A flick of a switch on the mouse lets you switch between two Bluetooth-connected devices and a one-minute charge over USB gives it enough juice to last about one hour. The Ultrathin Touch Mouse will arrive in black this September and in white come November.



Show full PR textLogitech Introduces Ultrathin Touch Mouse
Ultra-portable New Mouse Delivers Ideal Design and Functionality for Mobile Computing
NEWARK, Calif. - Aug. 28, 2013 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) introduced its first ultra-portable touch mouse. The slim design of the Logitech速 Ultrathin Touch Mouse perfectly complements today's computers, with sleek lines and a brushed aluminum body.
"Our personal technology needs are evolving rapidly, and people expect better design," said Charlotte Johs, Logitech global vice president of brand development and portfolio for PC accessories. "Whether it's a computer, tablet, smartphone or touch-navigation device, people are looking for thin, modern design that works fluidly. We created the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse to give people an ultra- portable mouse that complements today's MacBook and Ultrabook computers."
With its thin, feather-light design, the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse easily slips into any computer sleeve or pocket. Its silky-smooth touch surface is created by an invisible coating that helps you simplify Windows速 8 navigation, or take full advantage of the Multi-Touch navigation in OS X速.
Using Bluetooth速 with Logitech Easy-SwitchTM Technology, the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse can connect wirelessly to your laptop, desktop and tablet at the same time, and you can easily switch among them with the flip of a switch. The mouse is rechargeable through USB and just one minute of charge time gives you enough power to keep working for another hour (based on typical user experience).Pricing and Availability
Available in two color options, the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse T630 in black and Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse T631 for Mac in white are expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in September 2013, and November 2013, respectively, for a suggested retail price of $69.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

