
 
 We've all been there. At some point, that keyboard will build up months of our finger grime. Of course, the white-keyed peripherals are much worse for the filthy wear. For those looking to take an easier route to cleaning up their keypads, Logitech has announced the K310 washable keyboard. Capable of being submerged in up to 11 inches (about 30 cm) of water, the accessory is outfitted with drainage holes to allow for a quick dry and keys are marked with laser printing and UV coating to ensure a youthful appearance. Take note: this unit is wired, so you'll want be sure to keep that USB connector nice and dry. In addition to being able to hold its breath in shallow water, the keys are said to last for up to five million keystrokes each. The K310 will hit desks -- and sinks -- in the US later this month for $40 and is expected to cross the pond to Europe in October. Need a closer look? Dive into the gallery below to do just that.



  Show full PR text    Logitech Unveils Washable, Ultra-Durable Keyboard  Spills and Dust Are No Match for New Logitech Washable Keyboard K310   NEWARK, Calif. - Aug. 22, 2012 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) unveiled the latest in its line of PC keyboards, the Logitech® Washable Keyboard K310. From a light dusting to a rinse in the kitchen sink, this keyboard is easy to clean and easy to dry. It's also designed for a comfortable typing experience with a familiar layout and sleek, thin profile.

   The Logitech Washable Keyboard K310 can be hand washed time and time again, and can be submerged (with the exception of the USB cable) in up to 11 inches of water. Convenient drainage holes at the back of the keyboard allow for easy drying while key characters are laser printed and UV coated to help ensure the letters don't fade in the wash. Plus, the keys can last up to five million keystrokes, meaning this keyboard can take a washing, as well as a pounding.

   "We've all experienced that moment of distraction – followed by panic, when a cup of coffee or a soda spills all over your keyboard," says Sophie Le Guen, senior director of mice and keyboards at Logitech. "Because life and its messes will happen, regardless of how careful you are, Logitech designed the Logitech Washable Keyboard K310 to look and function like new, even over time."

   Durable, yet still comfortable, this full-size keyboard's contemporary design complements both your computer and your work space. It comes complete with F-keys and a number pad, and is compatible with Windows® XP, Windows Vista® and Windows® 7. With twelve hot keys for instant access to Internet, e-mail, play, volume and more, you can readily open your most-used applications with a single keystroke. To make life even easier, this keyboard requires no software for setup, simply pull the device straight out of the box, plug it in and type away.

   Pricing and Availability  The Logitech Washable Keyboard K310 is expected to be available in the U.S. beginning in August and Europe beginning in October 2012, for a suggested retail price of $39.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

 
