
 
 The cat is already well out of the bag, but we finally have some official information about the new Logitech Harmony Touch universal remote. Its first addition to the line in a while, Logitech is pushing its center-mounted 2.4-inch color touchscreen with support for control by tapping, swiping or scrolling through up to 50 channel icons as a way to "unprecedented control" of your home entertainment system. We're still not entirely sure about the transport controls being placed so far up top or the usefulness of a screen focused on direct live channel access in the DVR and streaming age (check out our thoughts on this week's podcast), but it does bring the usual control of up to 15 devices and backlit keys. Just as we saw in the stores, the price is set at $249 and it controls only via IR, not RF like the pricier Harmony 900. Check out more info in the press release after the break (along with quick demo and how-to setup videos) or on Logitech's blog, fans of the new device should be able to find them released widely in the US and Europe this month.




   
  Show full PR text   New Logitech Harmony Touch Gives You Unprecedented Control of Your Home Entertainment
  Advanced Logitech Universal Remote Lets You Swipe, Scroll and Tap Using a Color Touch-Screen and 50 Customizable Icons
   NEWARK, Calif. - Oct. 3, 2012 Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the next generation of its award-winning line of Harmony® remotes, the Logitech Harmony® Touch. This premium advanced universal remote gives you customization with an intuitive color touch-screen for unprecedented control of your home-entertainment system.

   Designed to make finding your preferred entertainment as easy as possible, the Logitech Harmony Touch lets you add, remove and re-order up to 50 favorite channel icons from your respective cable or satellite provider right on its vibrant 2.4-inch color touch-screen. After simple online setup, you and your family can access all your favorite channels with a simple tap, swipe or scroll, removing the hassle of memorizing channel numbers and scrolling through lengthy on-screen guides. You can personalize the experience to quickly and easily find all of your favorite entertainment – from TV and movies to games and music – with one touch.

   "The Logitech Harmony Touch represents the next evolution for the universal remote," said Joerg Tewes, vice president of Logitech's digital home business group. "Today, people prize convenience and want home-entertainment systems that are impressive and easy to use. With this in mind, Logitech designed a remote that makes it simple for people to customize their experience, and feel in control of their systems like never before."

   This remote's ergonomically sculpted shape and streamlined button layout present a sleek, minimalist design that enhances the look of your living room. Plus, its low-profile keys are backlit so you can easily navigate your favorite entertainment, even in the dark.  The Logitech Harmony Touch is compatible with more than 225,000 home-entertainment devices and more than 5,000 brands, and it can control as many as 15 devices. And its included charging station keeps your remote powered and within reach so it's ready to go, no matter the activity.

   Pricing and Availability  The Logitech Harmony Touch is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in October 2012, for a suggested retail price of $249.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

 
