
 

Technically, we suppose Logitech already made a play for the tablet accessories market when it launched a rebranded Zaggmate keyboard case earlier this year, but today the peripheral manufacturer's getting serious about slates with the launch of two new portable products. Lacking a Smart Cover to keep your iPad 2 on edge? You could try the $70 Logitech Tablet Keyboard pictured above, which comes with a hardshell sleeve that doubles as a tablet stand and dedicated iOS or Android shortcuts. The keyboard itself is slick, roomy and somewhat plasticky, with a definite Notion Ink Adam vibe. There's also a redesigned Zaggmate, now known as the $100 Logitech Keyboard Case, which comes with "a more intuitive keyboard layout and improved keystrokes for even more comfortable typing" -- a claim we weren't able to test -- as well as a rebranded $100 Logitech Z515 Bluetooth speaker system, and a $50 Bluetooth mouse. Pricey? Definitely. Worthwhile? Decide for yourself later this month, when they're scheduled to hit shelves.





Michael Gorman contributed to this report. 		Show full PR text   Logitech Transforms Places You Use Your iPad or Android Tablet with Lineup of Accessories 			Introduces Range of Products Including New Logitech Keyboard Case, Logitech Wireless Speaker, Logitech Tablet Keyboard, Logitech Tablet Mouse 			FREMONT, Calif. - May 19, 2011 -Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) unveiled a line of iPad and Android-based tablet accessories that enable you to make the most of your tablet, no matter how or where you use it. 			"People love their tablets - the category is growing quickly and is here to stay," said Azmat Ali, Logitech senior director for tablet products. "We've created a great lineup of products for tablet users, and it's just the beginning. Over the coming months you can expect to see additional products for iPad® and Android™ tablets that are designed to help people create, consume and communicate." 			Encompassing products for both iPad and Android-based tablets, the new lineup from Logitech features a wide range of accessories - from keyboards to speakers - that help create the perfect environment for your tablet. Whether you want to use your tablet to catch up with friends on Facebook®, post quick updates to your blog, or share your favorite music – Logitech has a product for you. 			Highlights of Logitech's new lineup of tablet accessories include: 			Logitech Keyboard Case 			Created in collaboration with ZAGG®, the latest Logitech® Keyboard Case features the same sleek aluminum cover with military-grade, high-density padding as Logitech's previously announced version. The protective case wraps around the iPad 2 to cover the screen and sides, and the Logitech Keyboard Case uses Bluetooth® connectivity to pair the keyboard quickly and easily. The new Logitech Keyboard Case incorporates a more intuitive keyboard layout and improved keystrokes for even more comfortable typing. It also adds a recess just behind the keyboard that props up an iPad 2 in portrait or landscape mode, virtually eliminating setup and packup time. 			Logitech Wireless Speaker 			When you want to share your favorite music, the Logitech® Wireless Speaker is a great choice. It eliminates cables and lets you place your speaker wherever you want - up to 50 feet away from your iPad or Android tablet depending on use, settings and environmental conditions. And you'll get rich, full stereo sound - even from across the room - with your speaker's dual two-inch drivers and plenty of bass. A rechargeable battery powers your speaker for up to 10 hours depending on your use and settings-so you can take your music with you wherever you go. And setup couldn't be easier. Just pair with your tablet using Bluetooth wireless, and you are ready to listen. 			Logitech Tablet Keyboard 			The Logitech® Tablet Keyboard, a keyboard-and-stand combo, comes in two versions, one for Android-based tablets and a second for iPads, and is designed to travel easily, set up quickly and add a touch of convenience to all the places you use your tablet. It pairs easily with your tablet over Bluetooth wireless, so you can use it on your desk, lap or anywhere within 30 feet of your tablet, depending on use, settings and environmental conditions. 			Logitech Tablet Mouse 			A perfect companion to the Logitech Tablet Keyboard for Android, the Logitech® Tablet Mouse pairs with your Android-based tablet using Bluetooth, and offers smooth, accurate laser tracking, and side-to-side scrolling. The Logitech Tablet Mouse is designed specifically to work with tablets running the recently announced Android™ 3.1 (Honeycomb) platform. 			Information about these products and additional accessories for iPad and Android-based tablets, including speaker docks, headphones, wireless speakers, keyboards and mice, is available on the tablets accessories page of Logitech's website. 			Pricing and Availability 			The Logitech Keyboard Case is expected to be available in the U.S. beginning in May and in EMEA beginning in June for a suggested retail price of $99.99 (U.S.). The Logitech Wireless Speakers are expected to be available in the U.S. beginning in May and EMEA beginning in June for a suggested retail price of $99.99 (U.S.). The Logitech Tablet Keyboard for iPad is expected to be available in the U.S. beginning May and in EMEA beginning in June for a suggested retail price of $69.99 (U.S.). The Logitech Tablet Keyboard for Android is expected to be available in the U.S. beginning in May for a suggested retail price of $69.99 (U.S.). The Logitech Tablet Mouse is expected to be available in the U.S. beginning in May for a suggested retail price of $49.99 (U.S.). Visit our blog or website for more information. 
 