
 Logitech's G-prefixed gaming peripherals have been around for awhile, but they were never part of an official gaming line. That changes today, with the introduction of Logitech G, the company's official brand for PC gaming peripherals. "The overriding principal of G is that science wins," Logitech told us. "Just as gamers are compelled to beat levels, our engineers are compelled to test scientific theories." A fancy way to say that Logitech's gaming hardware is built using the latest technology.

 The company points to its new line of peripherals as an example: eight products featuring hydrophobic coatings, Logitech's exclusive Delta Zero sensor technology and buttons capable of surviving over 20 million toggles. Headlining the new series are the G700s rechargeable gaming mouse and G19s keyboard, which promise anti-stick surfaces, more than a dozen programmable buttons apiece and $100 and $200 price tags, respectively. The company's rounding out its line up with a pair of audio devices, too -- the G430 and G230 surround and stereo gaming headsets. That's just the tip of the iceberg of course -- head past the break for Logitech's full roster of G series peripherals. 



 
  Show full PR text   Logitech Renews Commitment to PC Gaming, Introduces New Lineup  New Logitech G Line of Accessories Proves Science Wins
   NEWARK, Calif. - March 20, 2013 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the new Logitech® G line, reflecting its new approach to PC gaming. The new lineup includes six redesigned mice and keyboard favorites and two new headsets.

   "With Logitech G, we put our passion for science to work for you," said Ehtisham Rabbani, general manager of the Logitech gaming business group. "Just as gamers are compelled to beat levels, our engineers are compelled to test scientific theories. For close to 20 years the relentless pursuit of what's next has been our game – and we're pretty darn good at it. With Logitech G we will continue to push the limits of speed, precision, reliability – even intuitiveness. We do it because gamers expect us to push the limits as far as they do. Every inspired design choice and late-night engineering argument serves but one purpose, to help gamers play their best. When science wins – gamers win."

   Using infrared technology, Logitech studied the interaction between hand and device during gameplay. As a result, gamers can expect to see several advancements in the new Logitech G lineup.

   To improve durability and comfort, advanced surface materials were added to strategic tactile zones discovered through testing. For heavy contact zones, Logitech has added fingerprint-resistant coatings, while palm areas feature a hydrophobic coating to help keep your hands from sticking. Depending on the model, the mice also have a soft or dry grip for increased comfort and control. The two keyboards feature a double UV coating on the keys for extra durability and long life, and a fingerprint-resistant coating on the faceplate.  In addition, the Logitech G100s Optical Gaming Mouse and G400s Optical Gaming Mouse feature exclusive Delta Zero sensor technology. Optimized for high-accuracy cursor control, this new sensor technology accurately responds to hand movements. Plus, all of the new Logitech G mice have low-friction polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) feet, which reduce drag for faster motions, smoother cursor movements and improved accuracy.

   The lineup includes:

   Logitech G700s Rechargeable Gaming Mouse  The Logitech® G700s Rechargeable Gaming Mouse is a wireless gaming mouse with the report rate of a wired gaming mouse. In fact, it maintains a consistent report rate, whether over 2.4 GHz wireless or connected by USB, up to eight times faster than a standard USB mouse. If your game goes long, you can keep playing and recharge the mouse simultaneously by switching seamlessly to a data-over-cable connection using a standard Micro-USB cable. The mouse has a durable hydrophobic coating on the palm area that helps keep your palm from sticking to the mouse, and dry grip on the sides ensures a steady hand. You can elevate your in-game skills with 13 programmable controls that let you program single actions, complex macros with multiple keystrokes, repeating and user-defined delays, when you download Logitech Gaming Software (LGS). The Logitech G700s Rechargeable Gaming Mouse is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $99.99.

   Logitech G500s Laser Gaming Mouse  For FPS gamers, the Logitech® G500s Laser Gaming Mouse packs a gaming grade laser for precise cursor control on a wide variety of surfaces and a hyper-fast dual-mode scroll wheel. It also features a durable hydrophobic coating to help keep your palm from sticking and dry grip for a steady hand. It has up to 27 grams of customizable weight and center of gravity adjustment, meaning you can tune it to your preferred play style. You can switch from pixel-precise targeting at 200 DPI to lightning-fast maneuvers at up to 8200 DPI with two buttons sitting in easy reach near your index finger. The Logitech G500s Laser Gaming Mouse features 10 programmable controls, which require LGS. The optional software can also be used to reassign game commands or multi-command macro. The Logitech G500s Laser Gaming Mouse is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $69.99.

   Logitech G400s Optical Gaming Mouse  The Logitech® G400s Optical Gaming Mouse pushes the high standards set by the Logitech® MX518 Optical Gaming Mouse and Logitech® Optical Gaming Mouse G400. This full-feature gaming mouse is built specifically for FPS games and includes Logitech's exclusive Delta Zero sensor technology for high-accuracy cursor control. It also has a hydrophobic coating to help keep your hand from sticking, as well as soft-touch grip areas and fingerprint-resistant coatings on the primary buttons to resist fading. With LGS, you can customize the eight programmable buttons, and the mouse also features primary mechanical microswitches rated to a 20 million-click lifespan. The programmable buttons allow you to shift through multiple DPI settings to quickly select on-screen options, scan the game map, pull off 180-degree flick-shots at 4000 DPI or downshift for pixel-precise FPS sniper targeting or RTS unit selection at 400 DPI – all conveniently located above and below the scroll wheel. The Logitech G400s Optical Gaming Mouse is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $59.99.

   Logitech G100s Optical Gaming Mouse  The Logitech® G100s Optical Gaming Mouse is simple to use and specifically crafted for your favorite RTS and MOBA games. Built to extend the powerful legacy of the Logitech® G1 Mouse and the Logitech® Gaming Mouse G100, it features buttons designed for heavy clicking and the Logitech exclusive Delta Zero sensor technology for accuracy at any hand speed. While a typical mouse cannot withstand the rigors of intense gaming, the ultra-durable Logitech G100s Gaming Mouse has upgraded primary mechanical microswitches rated to a 20 million-click lifespan. The mouse also has a durable hydrophobic coating on the palm area to help keep your hand from sticking, and the primary buttons have fingerprint-resistant coating to prevent fading. Whether using claw grip or conventional, with small hands or large – the ambidextrous inverted trapezoid shape encourages a sure grip through long sessions. The Logitech G100s Optical Gaming Mouse is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $39.99.

    Logitech G19s Gaming Keyboard  The Logitech® G19s Gaming Keyboard feeds you a steady flow of intel, including vital stats, game specific apps and customizable information panels, all in full color on an integrated, adjustable GamePanel™ LCD. With custom-color backlighting, you can choose from 16 million shades and assign a specific color to every profile and profile mode in the same game. The keyboard also features advanced surface materials for durability and comfort. A hydrophobic coating on the palm rest helps keep your hands from sticking, while the durable double UV coating gives keys extra long life. With LGS, you can configure the 12 programmable G-Keys with up to 36 different functions across three different modes with three macros per key. Two High-Speed USB 2.0 ports let you transfer data to and from accessories – such as MP3 players and flash drives – while also charging battery powered devices. The keyboard also includes anti-ghosting over 26 keys so you can perform multiple complex actions without interference or ghosting. The Logitech G19s Gaming Keyboard is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $199.99.

   Logitech G510s Gaming Keyboard  To make complex actions simple, the Logitech® G510s Gaming Keyboard provides 18 programmable G-keys, which allow you to configure up to 54 different functions across three different modes, with three macros per key, when you download LGS. In addition to custom-color backlighting it features a backlit GamePanel™ LCD, so not only can you stay informed with real-time game stats, system information and VoIP communication data, you can also develop or add community-created applets to work with your GamePanel. It also has a hydrophobic coating on the palm rest to help keep your hands from sticking, and a double UV coating on the keys for extra durability and long life. The Logitech G510s Gaming Keyboard is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $119.99.  Logitech G430 Surround Sound Gaming Headset  Similar to the Logitech® G35 Surround Sound Headset and Logitech® Wireless Gaming Headset G930, the Logitech® G430 Surround Sound Gaming Headset is powered by Dolby® Headphone technology to create an immersive 360-degree sound field that gives you the advantage of hearing what you can't see in a game, from footsteps to sirens. With Dolby Headphone 7.1 surround sound, you'll hear up to seven discrete channels of audio data plus a Low Frequency Effects channel. Similar to the Logitech G230 Surround Sound Gaming Headset, this headset also provides washable ear cups that offer a soft, comfortable fit for long gaming sessions. When you want to be heard, the noise-canceling mic can be adjusted to pick up your voice alone. When the mic is not in use, you can easily fold it up and out of the way. The Logitech G430 Surround Sound Gaming Headset is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $79.99.

   Logitech G230 Stereo Gaming Headset  The Logitech® G230 Stereo Gaming Headset delivers high-quality stereo sound by using 40 mm neodymium drivers to keep you immersed in the game from start to finish for FPS, MMO or adventure-type games. And because marathon gaming yields heat and sweat, the new headset features ear pieces covered with washable performance-sport cloth for a comfortable, soft touch even after hours of use. With a flexible, noise-canceling folding mic, sound is focused on your voice, practically eliminating background noise for better audio quality. In-line audio controls for volume and microphone mute are within easy reach on the connection cable. The Logitech G230 Stereo Gaming Headset is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of $59.99.

   Availability  Each of these products is expected to be available in the U.S. beginning in April 2013 and in Europe beginning May 2013. For more information please visit gaming.logitech.com or our blog.

 
