
 When Logitech announced keyboard folios for the iPad and iPad Mini less than a month ago, it thought it had all bases covered: keyboard, stand, cover. One important group of people weren't considered in the design brief, however: so-called spillers, those with an uncanny ability to bring gadgets and beverages together. It's no wonder, then, that Logitech has been quick to come up with the FabricSkin keyboard folio to cater for this demographic. In addition to the "liquid-repellent FabricSkin surface" that coats the folio, there are a couple of new color schemes to choose from, and the Bluetooth keyboard is now without openings, similar to the Surface Touch Cover, so fluid can't work its way in between the keys. You'll be paying a premium for that peace of mind, though, as the FabricSkin folio for the iPad 2 and up (no iPad Mini version), set to launch in May, is now available to pre-order from Logitech for $149 (or £129) -- $50 more than the standard cover. Still, if there's a good chance you'd hydrate a normal folio eventually, the FabricSkin model is almost like getting a replacement at half price. We'll drink to that.



 
  Show full PR text   Suit Your Style With Logitech's Bold New iPad Folios
   The Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio and Logitech Folio Offer On-Trend Design, Sophisticated Colors and Unmatched Function

   Features First Bluetooth® Keyboard with Keys Seamlessly Fused into its Interior Fabric

   NEWARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) introduced two new products to its tablet accessories lineup with the Logitech® FabricSkin Keyboard Folio for iPad® and the Logitech® Folio for iPad and iPad® mini. Designed to complement both your style and your iPad with contrasting colors and high-end fabrics, these new folios protect the front and back of your tablet wherever you go, while letting you add personality to your iPad.

   "We've combined design cues from the world of high fashion with the unbeatable typing experience you expect from Logitech to bring a new level of self-expression to iPad protection," said Mike Culver, vice president of brand development for tablet accessories at Logitech. "The Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio and Logitech Folio give you more than just a protective case for your iPad, they add a distinctive accent to your iPad that reflects your personal style."

   Logitech worked with world-class designers to identify chic fabrics and a bold color palette and combined them with a clean design. As a result, both the Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio and Logitech Folio are offered in a range of colors from Electric Blue and Sunflower Yellow to Mars Red Orange, and in an array of on-trend fabrics from matte leather to finely woven cotton.

   "By developing color and material options that evoke our senses and speak to our individuality, Logitech has made owning an iPad unique again," said Beatrice Santiccioli, world-renowned color expert and designer. "I brought my knowledge in color and design to Logitech to help inspire the selection of materials and develop a color palette that builds a strong emotional connection to people's lifestyles."

   The Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio features the first Bluetooth® keyboard with its keys seamlessly fused into an interior fabric. Its full-size keys give you the tactile feedback you're used to in a traditional keyboard, but in a sleek new look. The keyboard folio's high-end fabrics are treated with a coating that is liquid repellent to help keep your folio looking new for longer. Hidden magnets hold your iPad in two convenient positions, snapping your tablet securely into typing mode and ensuring the folio stays shut when you're moving around.

   Designed for the iPad or iPad mini, the Logitech Folio features the same sophisticated style and premium materials on the inside and outside to safeguard your tablet while you're on the go. Magnetic closures minimize the risk of damage to your tablet and its screen while in transit. For an extra measure of convenience, its four-way flip stand allows you to view your tablet from the stand without having to hold it.

  Pricing and Availability
   The Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio for iPad is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in May 2013, for a suggested retail price of $149.99 in the U.S. The Logitech Folio for iPad and iPad mini are expected to be available in the U.S. in May 2013, for a suggested retail price of $69.99 and $59.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

 
