
  The AirPlay market doesn't seem to be shrinking anytime soon, giving Logitech ample opportunity to tread on ground already marked by the likes of JBL and Klipsch. This morning, the outfit's introducing the Logitech UE Air Speaker with AirPlay technology, enabling uncompressed audio streams to flow from one's iTunes library, iPad, iPhone or iPod touch right to the home stereo. You'll need both the boombox and your AirPlay source connected to the same WiFi network, after which you can pipe sine waves to its pair of tweeters and woofers. Users will need to download the (gratis) Logitech UE Air app for setup, which will be infinitely more useful when the speaker itself starts to ship to Europe and the US this April for $399.99. 






   Show full PR text  Logitech UE Sets Your Music Free With AirPlay Speaker that Offers Effortless Streaming  New Speaker Features AirPlay for Wireless Music Streaming from iTunes, iPhone, iPad or iPod touch  FREMONT, Calif. - March 27, 2012 -Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) introduced the Logitech® UE™ Air Speaker with Apple's AirPlay®. Now you can stream uncompressed music from iTunes or an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch connected to your home's Wi-Fi® network to a Logitech UE speaker that delivers high-quality audio with a big sound stage boosted by dual tweeters and woofers.  "There's a new breed of music fans whose iPad and iPhone devices are at the center of their listening activities," said Rory Dooley, senior vice president of music at Logitech. "We created the Logitech UE Air Speaker to give those people a great audio experience that combines effortless streaming with fantastic sound. With its stylish, modern design, easy setup and excellent sound, the Logitech UE Air Speaker looks and sounds phenomenal in any room in the house."  With Logitech UE, it's about delivering pure, undiluted music wherever you want to listen. Combining Logitech's experience in home audio with the Ultimate Ears heritage of delivering great quality sound directly into music lovers' ears, the new Logitech UE Air Speaker offers superior functionality in a stylish design. The Logitech UE Air Speaker's subtle curves and handsome piano-black finish look great in any room, while its custom-tuned acoustics deliver a big soundstage with impressively detailed stereo sound.  Setup is easy: just dock your iPad®, iPhone®, or iPod touch®, follow the on-screen instructions to download the Logitech UE Air app, enter your Wi-Fi® network password and you're ready to go. After that one time setup process, any iPhone 4s, iPhone4, iPhone 3GS, iPod touch (2nd, 3rd or 4th generation), iPad, iPad 2, or iPad (3rd generation) with iOS 4.2 or later, or any Mac or PC on your network with iTunes 10.1 or later is instantly connected. Plus with the Apple Dock Connector, you can charge your iPad, iPhone or iPod touch while you play music.  The Logitech UE Air Speaker has been named an International CES Innovations 2012 Design and Engineering Awards Honoree in the Wireless Handset Accessories product category.  Pricing and Availability  The Logitech UE Air Speaker is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in April 2012, for a suggested retail price of $399.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.
 