
 
 Earlier this May, Logitech unveiled its Solar Keyboard Folio for the new iPad and iPad 2, and the accessory maker is rounding out the month by adding another sun-powered peripheral to its stable. Like the Keyboard Folio, the just-announced Wireless Solar Keyboard K760 works with iPads, but it's also compatible with Macs and iPhones. The K760 has Bluetooth for pairing up to three devices at a time, and it features Mac-specific keys such as Brightness, Command and Eject. Users should get about three months of use after the keyboard is fully charged up via sun or indoor light. We got to do a bit of typing with the K760, and are happy to report that it's a fairly well-built little grid. The deck feels solid, and the keys have a decent depth to them when pressed. Plus, the spun metal power button and the silver flake paint job lend a premium appearance. It'll cost $80 when it goes on sale next month, and you can get a closer look at what those dollars will buy in our gallery below. Head past the break for the full PR.




  Show full PR text   Type with Light on Logitech's New Solar Keyboard for Mac, iPad and iPhone  With One Button, You Can Switch Between Typing on Three Apple Devices   NEWARK, Calif. - May 30, 2012 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the expansion of its solar offering with the new Logitech® Wireless Solar Keyboard K760 for Mac®, iPad® or iPhone®. A continuation of Logitech's solar series, which started with the Logitech® Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 and has continued with the Logitech® Solar Keyboard Folio for iPad, this new keyboard adds Bluetooth® connectivity with an easy-switching capability. It allows you to simultaneously pair multiple devices and quickly switch among them with the push of a button.

   "Laptops, smartphones and tablets are ubiquitous – both at work and at play," said Denis Pavillard, vice president of experience design at Logitech. "Because Apple devices are central to this trend, Logitech is committed to improving the way people interact with them. With its simple solar charging, familiar Mac layout and comfortable design, the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K760 will appeal to Apple users worldwide."

   The Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K760 is stylish and compact with onboard solar cells for hassle-free charging. With its easy-switching Bluetooth connection, you can pair your keyboard to as many as three devices and switch among them without having to reconnect. This means you can move from typing on your Mac to your iPad to your iPhone – and back again – with the simple push of a button.

   The perfect match for your favorite Apple device, the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K760 features a slim, minimalist design and Mac-specific keys, including Command, Brightness, Eject and more. The unique Logitech concave key design gives you more comfortable and quiet typing, and offers more speed and precision than typing on an on-screen keyboard.

   And, with its environmentally friendly PVC-free construction, fully recyclable box and onboard solar cells for charging, this keyboard is designed to minimize its environmental footprint. Similar to the existing Logitech Solar Keyboards, you can charge this keyboard in any light – low light or lamp light, indoors or outdoors. Fully powered, the keyboard works for at least three months, even in total darkness (based on average use per day of eight hours).

   Pricing and Availability

   The Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K760 is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in June 2012, for a suggested retail price of $79.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

 
