
 It was inevitable that Logitech would expand its Ultrathin iPad keyboard cover lineup to include an offering fit for the iPad mini, and the time has finally arrived. Priced 20 bucks less than it's full-sized counterpart, the $79.99 Ultrathin Keyboard mini brings tactile typing and some added protection to Apple's 7.9-inch slate. Like the bigger version, it offers full size keys to please tapping fingers, has an aluminum cover and comes in your choice of black or white. Folks looking to pick one up won't have much longer to wait, as the Ultrathin Keyboard mini will make its retail debut in the US and Europe later this month.




  Show full PR text   Logitech Introduces Award-Winning Ultrathin Keyboard Design for the iPad mini  Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini, the Other Half to Your iPad mini
   NEWARK, Calif. - Feb. 5, 2013 - Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) today introduced the Logitech® Ultrathin Keyboard mini, a slim protective keyboard cover designed to enhance the iPad® mini experience. The Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini helps you make the most of everything you do on your iPad mini – from enjoying apps, movies and photos to giving you a comfortable typing experience – while keeping your tablet's thin, light and sleek style.

   "We are excited to bring the award-winning Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover design – recognized across the industry as the best mobile keyboard for iPad – to the iPad mini," said Alexis Richard, director of brand development for tablet accessories. "Think of it as the other half of your iPad mini. Its clever seven-inch design fits perfectly with the iPad mini while offering full-size keys for easy typing, saving your screen space for content."

   Attaching securely with the click of powerful integrated magnets, the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini has a slim aluminum cover that matches the iPad mini and brings durable protection to it with minimal weight. When you're ready to use it, flip the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini around to reveal its built- in Bluetooth® EasyType keyboard,offering a traditional typing layout in a small seven-inch form factor, plus iPad mini function shortcut keys for the commands you use most often, such as copy and paste. It also doubles as a hands-free view stand so you can use your iPad mini without having to hold it.

   The Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini has an instant On/Off feature, which means your iPad mini automatically wakes up when you open the cover and switches to standby when you close it. The keyboard itself has a three-month battery life (based on usage of two hours per day) so you can spend more time exploring your new tablet and less time worrying about your keyboard losing power.

   Pricing and Availability

   Logitech Introduces Award-Winning Ultrathin Keyboard Design to iPad mini – Page 2  The Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in February 2013, for a suggested retail price of $79.99. For more information please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

 
