
 
 Logitech acquired Ultimate Ears awhile back to take advantage of its experience with professional audio, and now it's leveraged some of that institutional knowledge to create a UE line of headphones aimed at consumers. First up, there's the $100 UE 4000 on-ear model that comes in three colors: black, blue and magenta, plus a detachable cord with an in-line mic and audio controls compatible with iOS devices. The UE 6000 model takes things up a notch with an over-ear design that folds up for easy storage on the go, has an in-line remote, plus it adds active noise cancellation technology for $200. Then there's the UE 9000 Bluetooth wireless cans that also have ANC and a full suite of on-ear controls for iPhone or iPad, which can be had for $400. Lastly, there's the $400 UE 900 in-ear headphones sporting a quad-armature design and two sets braided cables -- one with in-line controls, and one without. All of the UE models start shipping in the US today, and will be available in Europe next month. We got to try on and try out all of Logitech's new gear for a brief listening session awhile back, so join us after the break for our impressions.




 The UE 4000 are a comfy set of on-ears, lightweight and robust in their design, though we're not the biggest fans of the shiny plastic look. Noise isolation was quite good for a set of on-ears, and the in-line controls were a much appreciated tool for flipping between tracks and changing the volume. Logitech's UE 6000 share that same, glossy skin, and its over-ear cups were quite cushy, though we would have appreciated a more snug fit, as we could feel them wiggle a bit while rocking out. Sound in the 6000s was good, but unremarkable: there was no noticeable distortion at high volume, and the noise-cancellation worked like a charm in a room of chatting PR folks.

 As for the UE 9000, we dug its metal accents and on-ear controls, though it took us a few tries for our fingers to remember which buttons controlled which function. Nose cancellation, once again, worked well to keep voices out and music in, and the 'phones sat well on our skull -- though their fit, like the 6000's, was not as snug as we'd like. However, for a pair of wireless headphones, they weren't as heavy as expected, and they handled high volume playback with aplomb. The UE 900 monitors had the best sound of the bunch, giving us crystal clear highs and distortion-free bass, and the in-line controls had a high-end feel -- each press resulted in a satisfying snick, as opposed to the more hollow feeling found in the UE 4000 and 6000 cable remotes. Any of those tickle your fancy? Hit our gallery of photos to get a better look, and check out the PR below for more.

  Show full PR text   New Line from Logitech UE Delivers Pure Undiluted Music, Anytime, Anywhere
   New Products Offer Wireless Freedom, Easy Discovery and Sharing of Music

   LONDON, UK. - August 29, 2012 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) responded to music fans who want pure, undiluted music wherever they go with the launch of a new line of Logitech UE™ products. The products enable people to enjoy their music when and how they want, delivering seamless wireless audio, facilitating discovery and making sharing simple with a complete line of music products that take you from morning to night. The new offering includes earphones, headphones, wireless speakers, and a smart radio.

   "Today's fans have their music with them wherever they go – they carry it with them on their tablet or smartphone," said Rory Dooley, Logitech senior vice president of music. "But no matter how or where you choose to store or access your favourite music, this line up is the best way for you to experience it. Whether you want to be completely immersed in your favourite song, to share music with friends, or to discover new favourites, Logitech UE is the clear choice."

   As people shift away from traditional methods of music consumption toward services that are easily accessed through mobile devices, they are increasingly able to surround themselves with their favourite music no matter where they go or who they're with.  Combining Logitech's expertise in seamless connectivity with UE's heritage of providing great sound in the tiniest of packages, the new line-up blends form and function to deliver the right sound for any situation.

   Highlights of the new line-up include:

   Logitech UE Boombox

   The Logitech UE™ Boombox is an on-the-go speaker that lets you use your smartphone or tablet to play and control your music from up to 50 feet (15.2 metres) away. Up to eight Bluetooth®-enabled devices can be paired with the speaker – with up to three connected at the same time – so you and your friends can take turns playing music. With eight custom-tuned drivers, the Logitech UE Boombox delivers sound that is rich, balanced and clear, with enough bass to make every song feel as real and as raw as it should. An integrated, sculptured aluminium handle makes it easy to roam – from the kitchen, to the bedroom, to a party at a friend's house or anywhere in between – with uninterrupted music at your side. With a six-hour rechargeable battery, you won't have a power outlet holding you down. The Logitech UE Boombox will be available for a suggested retail price of £199.00.

   Logitech UE Mobile Boombox

   The Logitech UE™ Mobile Boombox is an ultraportable speaker that connects to your smartphone or tablet to play and control your music from up to 50 feet (15.2 metres) away. Because two mobile devices can be connected at the same time, you can keep your two most-frequently used devices connected. Designed to give you surprisingly big sound in a portable package, the Logitech UE Mobile Boombox includes a rechargeable battery that delivers up to 10 hours of music, depending on use, settings and conditions, and can even double as a speakerphone for voice or video calls. With metal finishes, vibrant accents and a grip-action rubber casing, it is built to look good, feel great in your hand, and withstand a little rough and tumble. The Logitech UE Mobile Boombox will be available for a suggested retail price of £79.99.

   Logitech UE Smart Radio

   The Logitech UE™ Smart Radio is a dedicated music device that can play Internet radio, online music services and the music on your PC or Mac® – all through one simple, unified interface. The colour screen displays album art, track and station information. And you can save your favourite stations and playlists for one-touch access to the music you listen to most. What's more, the Logitech UE Smart Radio Controller app for iPhone®, iPad® and Android devices transforms your smartphone or tablet into a master music controller, giving you seamless navigation of your music services, radio stations and personal music collection. The rechargeable battery lets you take your music with you around the home, with up to six hours of continuous playback depending on use, settings and conditions. The Logitech UE Smart Radio will be available for a suggested retail price of £149.00.   Logitech UE 900 Noise-Isolating Earphones

   Logitech UE™ 900 Noise-Isolating Earphones deliver sound that is surpassed only by Logitech UE's professional custom in-ear monitors. Thanks to four-armature speakers and a three-way crossover in a universal fit, you'll hear a wide soundstage with soul-satisfying bass, heavenly highs and a crisp, piano-like timbre. The unique UE sound signature faithfully recreates the original recording – and adds a low-end kick. Five silicon and three Comply® Foam tips, each designed with a large-bore opening, ensure audio is delivered cleanly. Two detachable, braided cables – one with a mic and controls, and one without – let you swap out the standard cable for a cable with mic and controls. And ear loops offer a secure, comfortable fit no matter what you're doing. The Logitech UE 900 Noise-Isolating Earphones will be available for a suggested retail price of £329.00.

   Logitech UE 9000 Headphones

   With the Logitech UE™ 9000 Headphones, there are no wires and no distractions. They connect wirelessly to your favourite Bluetooth® devices, but also include an optional cable should you want to go wired or run out of power – plus, they fold flat when you're on the go. The high-resolution drivers of the Logitech UE 9000 Headphones deliver pure, undiluted audio that's distinctly UE – rich, clear and perfectly tuned – for a spacious soundstage and a remarkable level of power, punch and clarity. Powered by a long-life battery, our proprietary Bluetooth implementation provides freedom from cords without sound-quality compromises. Listen wired or wirelessly – so the music never has to stop. Active noise cancelling technology filters out ambient noise for a more immersive experience. With asymmetrical memory foam cushions, articulating joints and an around-the-ear design the Logitech UE 9000 Headphones conform to the contours of your head, so you'll be comfortable for those extended listening sessions. Logitech UE 9000 Headphones also feature intuitively, and discreetly placed controls that respond to the touch of your fingertips, so you can select songs, turn up the volume, or answer a call – naturally and easily. The Logitech UE 9000 Headphones will be available for a suggested retail price of £299.00.

   Logitech UE 6000 Headphones

   Tune in to the music and tune out everything else with your Logitech UE™ 6000 Headphones. They connect to your favourite devices, fold up like sunglasses when you're on the go and come with a splitter to make sharing simple. The distinct UE sound signature provides pure, undiluted audio with a wide-open soundstage and a remarkable level of detail in all your music. Active noise cancelling technology filters out ambient noise for an immersive listening experience. The Logitech UE 6000 Headphones feature plush memory foam cushions; breathable, soft-as-leather surfaces; and an around-the-ear design. The Logitech UE 6000 Headphones will be available for a suggested retail price of £169.00.

   Logitech UE 4000 Headphones

   The powerful, high-sensitivity drivers in the Logitech UE™ 4000 Headphones make your music come alive with depth, authenticity and emotion. You can immerse yourself in your music with these compact on-ear headphones that come with a zippered, microfiber-lined travel pouch. On-cord mic and controls let you answer calls, change tracks and adjust volume – all without taking your phone or device out of your pocket. The Logitech UE 4000 Headphones also feature plush memory foam cushions; breathable, soft-as-leather surfaces; and an on--the-ear design. The Logitech UE 4000 Headphones will be available for a suggested retail price of £79.99.

   Availability

   All of these new music products, compatible with your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch, are expected to be available in Europe beginning in September 2012. The headphones (Logitech UE 4000, 6000, 9000 and 900) will be available exclusively at Apple Store locations, whilst the Logitech UE Mobile Boombox, Boombox and Smart Radio will also be available in Apple, Currys, PC World, John Lewis and Amazon from mid-September onwards. For more information, please visit www.LogitechUE.com or our blog.

 
