
 

When Logitech first introduced wireless peripherals, we'd be lucky if our alkaline cells lasted a week, but these days the firm's low-power mice can go months on a charge. Now, the company's taken the next logical step, and made a solar keyboard. With an ultra-slim 1/3-inch profile and a full slate of laptop-style chiclet keys, the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 isn't your average rack of buttons to begin with, but the ambient light solar panels installed on the top of either side should mean you'll never need to plug it in to recharge. That's not a claim we'll be able to test easily, of course, as the company tells us its low-power integrated circuits can theoretically run for three months even if you leave it in a dark desk drawer. It uses the same 2.4GHz Nano Unifying receiver as several other Logitech wireless products, too, meaning you'll only need a single one of your netbook or set-top-boxes' precious USB ports. That's often a concern on MacBooks as well, though you can see from the prominent Windows key this particular product doesn't quite have a Mac-friendly setup. 

Though we're obviously far away from being able to tell you how the solar panels fare in normal use, we're typing up this article on one of the boards right now. So far, we're loving the flat, firm feel of the slab and rounded finger-friendly indents on each key, though the QWERTY layout's actually a little cramped for our tastes. We'll let you know how it holds up over the long haul. Find it next month for $80, though, if you're already sold. 






Show full PR textIf You've Got Light, You've Got Power: Logitech Introduces Solar-Powered KeyboardLogitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 Powered By Light - Even Indoors FREMONT, Calif. - Nov. 1, 2010 - Today, Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) introduced the Logitech® Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 - the company's first light-powered keyboard. The Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard powers itself whenever there's light, even indoors, making battery hassles a thing of the past."The keyboard is still the best input device for typing emails and IMs, updating your Facebook™ page or posting responses to your favorite blogs - and the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 is the next big innovation in keyboard technology," said Denis Pavillard, vice president of product marketing for Logitech's keyboards and desktops. "The Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard is powered by light but can work in total darkness for up to three months. Plus, with its PVC-free construction and fully recyclable packaging, it's designed to minimize its footprint." Powered by Light - Even Indoors To give you hassle-free convenience, the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard powers itself through its integrated solar panel - no power bricks or charging cables needed. The included solar power app (available for download at logitech.com/k750/solarapp) features a lux meter to help you get the necessary light, makes it easy to get at-a-glance information about battery levels, and even alerts you when you need more power. Logitech's first solar keyboard can be powered by indoor light and stays charged for at least three months in total darkness. Plus an integrated power-indicator light eliminates surprises.Only 1/3-Inch ThickBut Logitech did much more than bring solar power to the keyboard. At only 1/3-inch thick, the sleek Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard looks good. With its rounded edges and thin profile, this stylish, streamlined keyboard is a joy to hold and behold.Feel-Good TypingThe low-profile keyboard features Logitech Incurve keys™. Using a concave design, Incurve keys support the shape of your fingertips, while helping guide your fingers to the right keys. In addition, the soft, rounded edges make it easy for your fingers to glide from key to key. Powerful, Reliable Wireless Connection with Logitech Unifying TechnologyThe Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 offers Logitech Advanced 2.4 GHz wireless connectivity, keeping you connected with virtually no delays or dropouts, so you get all the benefits of a cord, with the convenience of wireless. Logitech Advanced 2.4 wireless also includes 128-bit AES encryption with the keyboard - one of the highest levels of security available. Plus, the tiny Logitech® Unifying receiver is small enough to stay in your laptop, so there's no need to unplug it when you move around. And you can easily add up to six Logitech Unifying and Unifying-ready mice and keyboards - without the hassle of multiple USB receivers.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in November 2010 for a suggested retail price of $79.99 (U.S.). To learn more about the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 please visit www.logitech.com or our blog for more information.
 