
 


Logitech's family of iDevice-friendly accessories got a little larger today, with the addition of the new Wireless Headset and Wireless Boombox. The former (pictured above) allows users to roam up to 33 feet away from their iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch or Bluetooth devices, features a noise-canceling microphone and offers up to six hours of battery life. The boombox, meanwhile, seems to share much of its DNA with that S715i portable audio dock we got our hands on last year. Aside from its similar design (image after the break), Logitech's Bluetooth-enabled system also features eight custom designed drivers (including, like its cousin, a pair of neodymium 3-inchers), boasts a rechargeable battery with six hours of endurance and can function at up to 33 feet away from any iDevice. The headset will be available sometime this month for $70, with the boombox hitting the market in October for $180 $150. For more details, check out the full PR after the break.
 

  		Show full PR text  Logitech Expands Lineup of Accessories for Smartphones and Tablets 		New Products Help You Get the Most Out of Your Entertainment Experience 		FREMONT, Calif. - Sept. 14, 2011 - Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) today unveiled two new accessories that enhance your tablet or smartphone entertainment experience: the Logitech® Wireless Headset and the Logitech® Wireless Boombox. These latest additions to Logitech's lineup of tablet-focused accessories let you extend the entertainment experience you love on your tablet, throughout your home and on the go. 		"Consumers are at the heart of all the tablet and mobile accessories we're creating," said Azmat Ali, Logitech vice president of mobile and tablet products. "We know people love their iPads and Android tablets. One of the things they do most is use them to enjoy entertainment content – whether that's watching a movie on Netflix, sharing music, or listening to an audio book on the go. Our lineup of accessories has an option for everyone that can make entertainment even more enjoyable." 		Highlights of these new accessories include: 		Logitech Wireless Headset		The Logitech Wireless Headset for iPad®, iPhone®, iPod® Touch and other Bluetooth® devices lets you roam freely without the hassle of cords so you can immerse yourself in music, videos, games and calls. The headset's laser-tuned drivers produce rich stereo sound while minimizing distortion. Whether you're all about FaceTime® or phone calls are more your speed, you'll be heard clearly thanks to the noise-canceling microphone that reduces background noise. A six-hour rechargeable battery (depending on conditions and usage) lets you listen and chat longer – whether you're hanging at home or you're on the move. 		Logitech Wireless Boombox		Use your smartphone or tablet as a touch screen player and remote control to wirelessly stream stereo audio. Built for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, the Logitech Wireless Boombox lets you place your speaker wherever you want – up to 33 feet (10 meters) away from your device, depending on use, settings and environmental conditions. Listen for up to six hours straight (depending on conditions and usage) on the rechargeable battery. Eight custom-designed drivers separate sound frequencies, so you hear crisp, clear high notes, a rich, full mid range and deep powerful bass. 		Pricing and Availability		The Logitech Wireless Headset is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in September, for a suggested retail price of $69.99. The Logitech Wireless Boombox is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in September, for a suggested retail price of $149.99. Visit our blog or website for more information.
 