
 

Yearning for the ideal keyboard to pair with your suddenly revitalized Bondi Blue iMac? Good thing you've the patience of Job. Windows users were treated to a K750 solar keyboard of their own last fall, and it's taken nearly a full year for Logi to crank out a Mac-specific edition. The Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac features the same amenities as found on the Wintel-favoring variant, but you'll find this one boasting a standard Mac key layout and a concave key cap design. Naturally, no extra drivers are required to work with your existing Apple rig, and once charged, it's capable of living it up for at least three solid months in complete darkness. You'll find onboard solar cells that power the keyboard using ambient light, and prospective buyers will be gifted with four exclusive hues (five in total). It'll ship in the US and Europe later this month for $59.99, and yes, that 2.4GHz module ensures that no wires will be needed for connectivity.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Logitech Delivers the Power of Light to Mac Users 			New Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac is Powered by Light, but Can Operate for up to Three Months in Total Darkness 			FREMONT, Calif. - Aug. 17, 2011 - Today, Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) brings the power of light to Mac users with the Logitech® Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac®. With the same award-winning design and feature set as the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750, this newest version – available in multiple colors – makes battery hassles a thing of the past thanks to its onboard solar cells that power the keyboard using ambient light. 			"We hear from consumers all the time that they want to see more Mac products from us," said Rory Dooley, Logitech senior vice president and general manager of the Control Devices business unit. "I'm proud to say we've listened, and are excited to offer one of our most innovative keyboards designed specifically for Mac users." 			Available in five colors – four exclusively for Mac users – the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac is powered by light – even indoors. It powers itself with ambient light in the room – there's no need for direct sunlight – so you'll never have to hassle with changing batteries. And on a full charge it can work for up to three months in total darkness. Plus, you can download the solar power app that gives you at-a-glance information about battery levels, and even alerts you when you need more light. 			With its PVC-free construction and fully recyclable box, this keyboard is designed to help minimize its environmental footprint. A full-size wireless keyboard, the Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac includes a number pad and features a layout designed for Mac users, so everything is where you expect it to be. Combining the best of traditional keyboards and laptops with a Logitech-only concave key-cap design, the keyboard lets you enjoy faster, quieter, feel-good typing – hour after hour. With sleek lines and a thin profile, this stylish, streamlined keyboard adds style to your workspace-whether you've got a laptop or desktop. 			The Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac comes with advanced 2.4 GHz wireless connectivity to virtually eliminate delays or dropouts, and a plug-and-forget Unifying receiver that is so small it stays in your laptop, so your keyboard is always ready to use. .			Pricing and Availability 			The Logitech Wireless Solar Keyboard K750 for Mac is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in August, for a suggested retail price of $59.99 (U.S.). To see available colors in your area or to order yours today please visit www.logitech.com or our blog. 
 