
 
Sure, that laptop you're staring out might have been purchased by your company's IT department, but who hasn't snuck on a film or game to fill the desperate void between PowerPoint presentations and time sheets? Problem is, those teeny tiny tinny laptop speakers aren't exactly immersive. That's where Logitech comes in with its new Laptop Speaker Z305 ($99.99, pictured above). A compact USB speaker that hangs off the open display to deliver 360-degree audio that will "fill the room," according to Logitech -- no additional software required. Otherwise, why not untether with Logitech's Wireless Speaker Z515 (pictured after the break) when it arrives for $59.99. The Z515 offers a range of about 50 feet (15 meters) over a 2.4GHz USB dongle with up to 10 hours of life from its rechargeable battery. Both will be available for purchase in the US and Europe beginning this month. See the pitch in the video after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTwo New Logitech Speakers Transform Laptop AudioLogitech Wireless Speaker Z515 Offers Up to 50-Foot Wireless Range, Logitech Laptop Speaker Z305 Delivers 360-Degree SoundFREMONT, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Laptop computers have dramatically changed the way you enjoy entertainment today, but laptop audio hasn't really kept pace. Because you're watching movies, shows and Facebook™ video clips on your laptop, today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the Logitech® Wireless Speaker Z515 and the Logitech® Laptop Speaker Z305. Whether you use a Mac® or a Windows®-based laptop or a netbook, the Wireless Speaker Z515 delivers great sound from your laptop, iPad™ or iPhone®, with no strings attached, while the Laptop Speaker Z305 brings you all-around sound in a compact design."The speakers built into most laptops are tiny and can't always reproduce powerful audio""The speakers built into most laptops are tiny and can't always reproduce powerful audio," said Mark Schneider, vice president and general manager of Logitech's audio business unit. "Whether you're an MP3 junkie or a movie lover, our two new laptop speakers make it easy to connect, turn the sound up and lose yourself in the things you love. There's no reason that you can't have quality audio while you're watching the latest YouTube® sensation or the newest Hollywood release on your laptop."Logitech Wireless Speaker Z515 - Great Sound, No Strings AttachedTo free you from the hassle of cords and let you place your speakers up to 50 feet (15 m) away, the Logitech Wireless Speaker Z515 uses 2.4 GHz wireless technology to deliver wireless audio. And setup couldn't be easier. Just plug the included wireless adapter into a USB port on your laptop, and you're connected in a matter of seconds. Or if you want to connect to an iPad or iPhone, you won't even need the USB dongle – just put your device into Discovery mode and the Logitech Z515 speaker will find it and connect wirelessly.But these speakers aren't just wireless - they also provide rich sound. The speaker's dual two-inch drivers give full stereo sound and plenty of bass. Plus, so you can take your music with you wherever you go, the Z515 includes a rechargeable battery that can power your speaker for up to 10 hours.Logitech Laptop Speaker Z305 - All-Around Sound from Your Laptop, To GoIf you are looking for a lightweight, compact speaker that is truly as portable as your laptop, look no farther than the Logitech Laptop Speaker Z305. Thanks to 360-degree audio, the Z305 emits sound evenly in all directions so you get a great listening experience throughout the room. The plug-and-play USB connection delivers power and pure, digital audio instantly - without the need for software or an external power supply.So you can easily use the speaker anywhere you use your computer - your office, your bed, the airport - the Logitech Laptop Speaker Z305 securely mounts behind the screen so it's out of the way. And the Laptop Speaker Z305 is also extremely lightweight - approximately one-half pound - which means you'll always be able to take it with you. As an added convenience, the USB cable tucks neatly into the back of your speaker, giving you a look that's sleek and clutter-free.When you're ready to hit the road, both new Logitech laptop speakers fit easily into the included travel case or your laptop bag.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Logitech Wireless Speaker Z515 is expected to be available in September in the U.S. and Europe for a suggested retail price of $99.99 (U.S.). The Logitech Laptop Speaker Z305 is expected to be available in September in the U.S. and Europe for a suggested retail price of $59.99 (U.S.).  
 