
 It was last week that Logitech announced two mice and a trackpad, all optimized for Windows 8. As it turns out, the outfit wasn't quite finished unveiling its Win 8 lineup: the company just outed the Illuminated Bluetooth Keyboard K810, which has a hotkey for toggling between open programs. It also features Easy Switch, a technology first introduced on the K760 that allows the device to pair with up to three Bluetooth-enabled devices at once, regardless of the OS. As for the switching bit, each paired device gets assigned to one of three function keys; just press the button to start using the keyboard with that device. In theory, then, you could have the same keyboard hooked up to your PC, tablet and phone, and be able to type on all of them from minute to minute, though that admittedly seems like an unlikely scenario.

 As the product name would suggest, the keys have a backlight glowing from underneath. The lighting will automatically turn off if you haven't been using the keyboard for a certain period of time, but thanks to proximity sensors they'll kick in again when the keyboard detects your hands hovering close by. Lastly, the keyboard has a rechargeable battery rated for a month of runtime, though given the fact that it charges over USB, we can see some people bypassing the wireless connection entirely and leaving it plugged in. The K810 will sell for $100. Look for it to hit US stores in October, with European availability following a month later. In the meantime, we've got some hands-on shots below. (Psst... the Fn key is where the app-toggling button will be on final models.)




  Show full PR text   Logitech Bluetooth Illuminated Keyboard K810 Improves Multi-Tasking Across Platforms with Easy-Switch Bluetooth Technology   New Logitech Bluetooth Keyboard Keeps You Connected to the Windows,  iOS and Android Devices You Type On  London, UK - Oct. 15, 2012 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the expansion of its keyboard line-up with the Logitech® Bluetooth® Illuminated Keyboard K810. Compatible with Windows, iOS and Android™ devices – and with a layout designed for Windows 8 – this rechargeable keyboard uses Bluetooth connectivity to pair with up to three devices simultaneously. Your keyboard can be connected to your PC, tablet and smartphone and you can easily switch among them with the push of a button.

   "It's increasingly common for people to use more than one device over the course of the day, and we saw an opportunity to help ease the transition among screens with the Logitech Bluetooth Illuminated Keyboard," said Mike Culver, vice president of brand development for consumer computing platforms at Logitech. "Using Logitech's heritage of high quality and reliability, this keyboard combines the functionality and design people expect with simultaneous multi-device pairing, which they will appreciate."

   This thin keyboard is designed to look right at home next to all your devices with its real brushed aluminium and sleek lines, regardless if you're working on a Windows 8 PC, Apple iPad® or Android smartphone.

   To increase the keyboard's usability in low-light conditions or at night, auto-adjusting illumination ensures the laser-etched key characters are always bright and easy to read. The keyboard also uses proximity detection to turn on the lighting when your hands approach it, and automatically dims or brightens, depending on the amount of light in the room.  Further addressing your need for convenience and productivity, this keyboard is USB rechargeable with 10 days of battery life on a full charge (based on varying user and computing conditions). Thanks to the easy-to-use USB cable, you can even use your keyboard while it's recharging. The keyboard also features a convenient On/Off switch, and its battery-indicator light helps you manage power so you know when it's time to recharge. The Logitech Bluetooth Illuminated Keyboard K810 has specific keys to help you easily navigate the new Windows 8 operating system, expected to be available later this month. For example, its Windows 8 Start key provides a quick and easy way to get back to your Start Screen, while the App Switching function key allows you to quickly switch among your open apps.

   Pricing and Availability  The Logitech Bluetooth Illuminated Keyboard K810 is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in October and November 2012 respectively for a suggested retail price of £89.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

 
