
 The iPad was never designed to be a laptop, but some people can't resist the urge to change a gadget's nature. For that purpose, Logitech is outing keyboard folios for the iPad and iPad Mini that double as a hands-free viewing stand for those long-haul flights. Your fingers will be hovering over a Bluetooth keyboard with membrane scissor keys, covered in your choice of colored fabric shell. The hardware is marked down to be available in the US and Europe in April, setting you back $100 for the iPad edition and $89.99 for the 7.87-inch version -- and if you'd like to learn more, you can check out the videos we've stashed after the break.




  
  
    Show full PR text   Logitech Keyboard Folio for iPad and iPad mini Combines Comfortable Typing with 360-Degree Protection
   Sleek Profiles and Refined Fabrics Upgrade Traditional iPad Keyboard Folios

  NEWARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the expansion of its tablet accessories lineup with the introduction of its Logitech® Keyboard Folio and Logitech® Keyboard Folio mini, designed to both safeguard your tablet and touch-screen while complementing it with refined fabrics and new colors to match your personal style.

   "Our goal with the new Logitech Keyboard Folio was to take the award-winning typing experience from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover and add an extra layer of protection"

   "Our goal with the new Logitech Keyboard Folio was to take the award-winning typing experience from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover and add an extra layer of protection," said Mike Culver, vice president of brand development for tablet accessories at Logitech. "To take the design a step farther, we combined Logitech's expertise and experience in keyboards with high-quality materials to bring a sense of sophistication to the functional protection people want and need for their tablets."

   The Logitech Keyboard Folio connects to your iPad through Bluetooth® and delivers the feel of familiar, traditional full-size keys with function shortcuts for the iPad, helping you overcome the limitations of typing with an on-screen keyboard.

   Marrying aesthetics and practicality, Logitech combined sophisticated materials with a clean industrial design, to evoke personal style while helping to minimize the risk of damage to your tablet. Taking protection and convenience to the next level, Logitech has included magnetic closures to further help minimize the risk of damage to your tablet while in transit, and a hands-free flip stand offers two comfortable viewing angles so you can enjoy your iPad or iPad mini in the perfect position. The Logitech Keyboard Folio also features instant On/Off functionality that wakes your tablet when you open the cover and puts it to sleep when you close it, helping to preserve your tablet's battery life.

   Pricing and Availability

   The Logitech Keyboard Folio is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in April 2013, for a suggested retail price of $99.99. The Logitech Keyboard Folio mini is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in May 2013, for a suggested retail price of $89.99. Both products feature a variety of colors, with availability differing by country. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

  
