


We've seen most of Logitech's latest products by way of press shots, but the company was clearly waiting for IFA to trot out the real deals. We caught the peripheral maker as it was in the process of setting of its booth for the show and got a quick tour of what it's working on. First up, the company's giving a little folio love to Android tablet owners, releasing a keyboard case for the Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 and protective cases for the 10.1, 8.0 and 7.0. We also got a chance to check out that beefy G602 wireless gaming mouse, which'll give you around 250 hours of gaming on a charge. Speaking of mice, the Ultrathin Touch Mouse is a pretty nice looking peripheral -- one that pairs pretty nicely with its TK820 keyboard. Images below and press info for all of the above after the break. 





Show full PR textLogitech Expands Tablet Accessories Lineup with First Protective Folios for Samsung Tablets
Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the expansion of its market-leading tablet accessories lineup with its first products for Samsung Galaxy Tab® 3. The new collection includes the Logitech® Ultrathin Keyboard Folio for Samsung Galaxy Tab® 3 10.1 and three cases: Logitech® Folio Protective Case for Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 10.1, 8.0 and 7.0. Made from water-repellant materials, these new cases provide front and back protection, yet both are ultra-thin and light. Additionally, the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Folio features a built-in keyboard for fast, fluid and comfortable typing, no matter where you are."With these new cases, we've taken Logitech's deep expertise in creating protective, aesthetically pleasing tablet accessories and for the first time brought it to the Samsung Galaxy Tab 3," said Mike Culver, vice president and general manager of mobility at Logitech. "Our goal with any tablet accessory is to perfect even the smallest details to enhance the consumers' experience. From water-repellant materials to comfortable keyboard layouts, the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Folio and Logitech Folio do just that."The Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Folio for Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 features a Bluetooth® keyboard with keys placed in the same location as on full-size keyboards, helping to ensure a fast, fluid and comfortable typing experience. Its SecureLock system keeps the corners of your Galaxy Tab firmly fastened to the frame with lightweight, low-profile clips, while powerful magnets keep the case securely closed when you're not using your tablet. This system works in tandem with the dual-view stand, which holds your Galaxy Tab in two ideal positions: upright with the keyboard exposed for a perfect typing angle, and laying flat with the keyboard hidden for easy browsing.If you're looking for everyday tablet protection without a keyboard, the Logitech Folio for Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 10.1, 8.0 or 7.0 is your answer. Covering the front and back of your Galaxy Tab with water repellant materials, these cases are designed to help protect your tablet from accidental bumps, scratches and spills without adding bulk to your tablet. They also use the SecureLock system to keep￼￼￼￼Logitech Expands Tablet Accessories Lineup with First Protective Folios for Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 – Page 2 your Galaxy Tab in place, whether the adjustable stand is placed flat, fully upright or at any angle inbetween.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Folio for Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 is expected to be available in the U.S., Europe and in select countries in Asia beginning in October 2013 for a suggested retail price of €99.99. The Logitech Folio Protective Case for Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 10.1, 8.0 and 7.0 are expected to be available in the U.S., Europe and in select countries in Asia beginning in October 2013 for a suggested retail price of €49.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.
Logitech G Delivers Unprecedented Battery Life with New G602 Wireless Gaming Mouse
Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) introduced a mouse that redefines the boundaries of wireless gaming. The Logitech® G602 Wireless Gaming Mouse combines 250 hours of non-stop lag-free wireless game play with the precision of Logitech G's exclusive Delta ZeroTM sensor technology to help players dominate boss after boss.
And, to ensure players have the best-possible surface for their particular style of game play, Logitech has also created two new mouse pads, the Logitech® G440 Hard Gaming Mouse Pad andthe Logitech® G240 Cloth Gaming Mouse Pad. These new mouse pads deliver optimized surfaces for both high- and low-DPI game play, respectively.
"When I play, I don't want to think about anything other than my game and what my next move will be. When you look at the wireless gaming mice out there though, their primary flaw is the uncertainty of having to interrupt your game to replace batteries. Not anymore," said Ehtisham Rabbani, general manager of the Logitech gaming business group. "We set an outrageous goal, and we hit it. Doubling, tripling or even quadrupling the battery life of ordinary wireless gaming mice wasn't enough. We wanted to bring gamers an innovation that would change the face of wireless gaming forever. With 250 hours of battery life, the G602 does exactly that. It's time for gamers to get real science behind them so something as fundamental as a battery doesn't get in the way of winning."
As the newest mouse in the Logitech G lineup, the Logitech G602 Wireless Gaming Mouse sets a new standard in wireless gaming. Without cords, clutter, or interference, the mouse's lag-free wireless connection and unprecedented battery life allow better, uninterrupted game play. Featuring two modes, Performance and Endurance, the G602 Wireless Gaming mouse delivers 250 hours of non-stop battery life when in full gaming mode – Performance mode – and more than 1400 hours of use in non-gaming
Logitech G Delivers Unprecedented Battery Life with New G602 Wireless Gaming Mouse
The mouse features Logitech G exclusive Delta Zero sensor technology that offers high-accuracy cursor control. Plus, it has an ultra durable build with primary mechanical switches rated to a 20 million-click lifespan. And, because it features eleven programmable controls, you can easily master your favorite games by assigning the actions you use most to the buttons you want, using the Logitech Gaming Software. The Logitech G602 Wireless Gaming Mouse is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of €79.99.
And because a game-changing mouse deserves the best possible surface to track on, Logitech G has added two new mouse pads to the lineup that are tested and proven to provide the optimal surface for your Logitech G mouse.
The Logitech G440 Hard Gaming Mouse Pad is ideal for high-DPI gaming, letting you feel the adrenaline of hitting high speeds without spinning out of control. It features a low-friction, fine-textured polypropylene surface that's kept rigid by a high-impact polymer core, giving you consistent tracking performance across the entire pad. This mouse pad was specially crafted to complement Logitech G mouse sensors to further improve their already pinpoint accuracy, enhancing your aim. And, a 3 mm, 3- layer construction keeps it in place during high-intensity gaming. The Logitech G440 Hard Gaming Mouse Pad is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of €29.99.
The Logitech G240 Cloth Gaming Mouse Pad is made for low-DPI gaming. Perfect for gamers who play first-person shooters, its heat-treated textile surface improves gliding consistency by providing just the right amount of friction to make the precise movement and control to elevate your game. The 1 mm rubber base gives the pad rock-solid stability. Like the Logitech G440 Hard Gaming Mouse Pad, this mouse pad was crafted to help you realize the full potential of your Logitech G mouse sensor, no matter which mouse in the lineup you use. The Logitech G240 Cloth Gaming Mouse Pad is expected to be available for a suggested retail price of €19.99.
Availability
Each of these products is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in September 2013. For more information please visit gaming.logitech.com or our blog.
Logitech Introduces Ultrathin Touch Mouse
Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) introduced its first ultra-portable touch mouse. The slim design of the Logitech® Ultrathin Touch Mouse perfectly complements today's computers, with sleek lines and a brushed aluminium body.
"Our personal technology needs are evolving rapidly, and people expect better design," said Charlotte Johs, Logitech global vice president of brand development and portfolio for PC accessories. "Whether it's a computer, tablet, smartphone or touch-navigation device, people are looking for thin, modern design that works fluidly. We created the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse to give people an ultra- portable mouse that complements today's MacBook and Ultrabook computers."
With its thin, feather-light design, the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse easily slips into any computer sleeve or pocket. Its silky-smooth touch surface is created by an invisible coating that helps you simplify Windows® 8 navigation, or take full advantage of the Multi-Touch navigation in OS X®.
Using Bluetooth® with Logitech Easy-SwitchTM Technology, the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse can connect wirelessly to your laptop, desktop and tablet at the same time, and you can easily switch among them with the flip of a switch. The mouse is rechargeable through USB and just one minute of charge time gives you enough power to keep working for another hour (based on typical user experience).
Pricing and Availability
Available in two colour options, the Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse T630 in black and Logitech Ultrathin Touch Mouse T631 for Mac in white are expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in September 2013, for a suggested retail price of €69.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.
Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 Streamlines Navigation with Large Built-in Touch Pad
New Space-Saving Design Seamlessly Integrates Typing and Swiping
NEWARK, Calif. - August 13, 2013 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the expansion of its keyboard lineup with the Logitech® Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820, a wireless keyboard with a built-in touchpad that lets you type and swipe comfortably together.
"We created the Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 to combine everything you need to control and navigate your computer in one sleek keyboard," said Charlotte Johs, Logitech global vice president of brand development and portfolio for PC accessories. "This keyboard offers an innovative way to navigate, letting you type, touch and swipe with a single device."
The Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 has an ultra-slim design that takes up less space on your desk because it connects wirelessly to your computer and streamlines navigation with a built-in touchpad. The touch area is significantly larger than a built-in laptop touchpad, so you can point, zoom and swipe smoothly and comfortably. The touchpad also supports up to 13 Windows® 8 multi-touch gestures with the download of Logitech SetPoint software.
In addition to its attractive design, this keyboard delivers superior typing comfort. The Logitech PerfectStrokeTM key system distributes typing pressure evenly across the key surfaces, so every keystroke is whisper quiet and feels smooth, even if you strike the edge of a key. The Incurve TM keys have softly rounded edges to help your fingers glide across the keyboard, so typing feels fluid and comfortable, hour after hour.
The Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 also comes with a tiny Logitech Unifying receiver, which uses Advanced 2.4 GHz connectivity to give you the reliability of a cord with the convenience of wireless. The wireless connection is robust and reliable, so you can place the keyboard in the most convenient position for you and still enjoy fast data transmission with virtually no delays or dropouts.
Pricing and Availability
The Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 is expected to be available in the U.S. in August 2013 and Europe in September 2013, for a suggested retail price of €99.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

