
Logitech's no stranger to Windows-optimized keyboards and trackpads, and now it's ready to show off its latest offering: the TK820 -- a compact keyboard with an adjacent touch surface. The wireless kit shares some design language with the company's Tablet Keyboard, but sweetens the deal with a generously-sized touchpad with support for up to 13 gestures (configureable via Logitech's SetPoint software). Its slightly concave keycaps feature PerfectStroke tech, which promises consistent resistance from edge to edge. It may not be much more than a modernized K400, but if it suits your fancy, $100 is what it'll cost to get it under your mitts this month. Full press release after the break.


Show full PR textLogitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 Streamlines Navigation with Large Built-in Touch Pad. New Space-Saving Design Seamlessly Integrates Typing and Swiping.
NEWARK, Calif. - August 13, 2013 - Today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) announced the expansion of its keyboard lineup with the Logitech® Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820, a wireless keyboard with a built-in touchpad that lets you type and swipe comfortably together."We created the Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 to combine everything you need to control and navigate your computer in one sleek keyboard," said Charlotte Johs, Logitech global vice president of brand development and portfolio for PC accessories. "This keyboard offers an innovative way to navigate, letting you type, touch and swipe with a single device."
The Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 has an ultra-slim design that takes up less space on your desk because it connects wirelessly to your computer and streamlines navigation with a built-in touchpad. The touch area is significantly larger than a built-in laptop touchpad, so you can point, zoom and swipe smoothly and comfortably. The touchpad also supports up to 13 Windows® 8 multi-touch gestures with the download of Logitech SetPoint software.
In addition to its attractive design, this keyboard delivers superior typing comfort. The Logitech PerfectStrokeTM key system distributes typing pressure evenly across the key surfaces, so every keystroke is whisper quiet and feels smooth, even if you strike the edge of a key. The Incurve TM keys have softly rounded edges to help your fingers glide across the keyboard, so typing feels fluid and comfortable, hour after hour.
The Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 also comes with a tiny Logitech Unifying receiver, which uses Advanced 2.4 GHz connectivity to give you the reliability of a cord with the convenience of wireless. The wireless connection is robust and reliable, so you can place the keyboard in the most convenient position for you and still enjoy fast data transmission with virtually no delays or dropouts. Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 Streamlines Navigation with Large Built in Touch Pad 
Pricing and AvailabilityThe Logitech Wireless All-in-One Keyboard TK820 is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in August 2013, for a suggested retail price of $99.99. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

