
 
We know what you're thinking: not another iPod / iPhone speaker dock. Maybe, but it's way more than that if you listen to Logitech describe it. According to the boys from Cali, the $149.99 S715i "sounds like a beast" with 8 custom-designed, laser-tuned speaker drivers that deliver "next generation," "professionally tuned acoustics" capable of "filling a room" with "bold sound." So yeah, it's just another iPod speaker dock, although that 8-hour rechargeable battery is nice. Full PR and video overview after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textHave Tunes, Will Travel: Logitech Unveils Rechargeable Speaker Dock for the iPodLogitech Rechargeable Speaker S715i Delivers Bold Sound for iPod or iPhone, 8-Hour Battery LifeFREMONT, Calif. - Aug. 4, 2010 - Today, Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) unveiled the Logitech® Rechargeable Speaker S715i, a portable speaker dock for iPod and iPhone that delivers bold sound you can carry around. Featuring eight custom-designed speaker drivers and an eight-hour rechargeable battery, the newest Logitech speaker looks like a beauty and sounds like a beast."With this system, we set out to deliver our next generation in sound quality for a speaker dock for the iPod," said Mark Schneider, vice president and general manager of Logitech's audio business unit. "The new Rechargeable Speaker S715i offers eight drivers – twice that of our previous speaker docks – and includes a rechargeable battery so you can take your tunes with you. So go ahead, lose yourself in your music – and never worry about disposable batteries again."To bring your music to life, the Logitech Rechargeable Speaker S715i delivers crisp audio thanks to two three-inch laser-tuned neodymium drivers for a rich mid range, two half-inch neodymium tweeters for crisp high notes and four two-inch passive radiators for deep bass. The result is rich, balanced audio in a compact design for iPod and iPhone.The Logitech Rechargeable Speaker S715i comes with a wireless remote control to give you command over functions such as power, volume, play, pause, shuffle, skip and repeat from up to 30 feet (10 meters) away. For your convenience, you can take the dock with you in the included travel case that also has space for the power adapter and remote.You know that the Logitech S715i will work with your iPod or iPhone since the speaker is certified through the Made for iPod and iPhone programs. In addition, the speaker's innovative dock design works with any iPhone or iPod with a Universal Dock Connector – no trays necessary.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Logitech Rechargeable Speaker S715i is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in August for a suggested retail price of $149.99 (U.S.).
 