
 

After relieving our wrists, buffeting our ears and cooling our notebook down, there was only one likely way for Logitech would update its Lapdock lineup -- add a finger-friendly digitizer to the equation. Yes, the Touch Lapdesk N600 we saw at the FCC in April has become a reality today, and it's actually a pretty simple slab of plastic all told. The hollow, fairly cheap-feeling frame houses a slide-out surface with a nice big three-finger multitouch panel measuring five inches across, a pair of giant left and right mouse buttons, and some multimedia keys as well. You pop open a panel on the rear of the unit to insert 4 AA batteries good for up to six months of use, pull out Logitech's tiny Unifying Receiver, insert it into your laptop, power on the desk, and you're good to go. Unlike its immediate predecessors, however, there's no fan or speakers to be had here -- just the extra input scheme -- for those who prefer gestures to lugging around a good old-fashioned mouse. Yours for $70 later this month, wherever such things are sold. PR after the break.





 		Show full PR text   Logitech Introduces Multi-Touch Lapdesk 			Logitech Touch Lapdesk N600 Features Large, Retractable Touchpad with Multi-Touch Pointing, Swiping, Scrolling 			FREMONT, Calif. - June 8, 2011 - So you can browse comfortably – right from your lap – today Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) unveiled the Logitech® Touch Lapdesk N600, featuring a large touchpad that makes it easier than ever to point, scroll and swipe your way through the Web. 			"We've seen people using everything from pillows to pets to shield their laps from the heat their laptops generate, " said Denis Pavillard, vice president of product marketing for laptop accessories. "Our lapdesks are much more effective and, with the addition of a multi-touch touchpad, you'll get the added capability to more easily move through your favorite content without attaching additional peripherals." 			The Logitech Touch Lapdesk N600 features a 5-inch, retractable touchpad with multi-touch navigation. You can move the pointer with one finger, scroll using two, and swipe through pages or pictures with three. 			The multi-layer, heat-shielding design of the lapdesk protects you from laptop heat so you can browse in cool comfort, and the anti-slip surface helps keep your laptop in place. To get started, you just plug the tiny Logitech Unifying receiver into the USB port and start navigating. For your convenience, Logitech's newest lapdesk offers up to six months of battery life. 			Pricing and Availability 			The Logitech Touch Lapdesk N600 is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe beginning in June, for a suggested retail price of $69.99. For more information please visit Logitech.com. 
 