
To date, home theater mavens who've wanted Logitech's Harmony Ultimate Hub have had to buy it as part of a Harmony Ultimate or Harmony Smart Control bundle -- neither kit being a bargain for viewers with existing gear. They'll have a better option soon, as Logitech now expects to ship its promised stand-alone version of the Ultimate Hub to Europe and the US in August. Those who shell out $100 will have the same IR, RF and WiFi support as the bundled hub, just without the redundant hardware. They can even rely solely on Logitech's free Android or iOS apps for input, should a dedicated remote seem archaic. The Ultimate Hub may be well-timed: when alternative remote control bridges are fading away, Logitech may snag some of those customers looking for a replacement.



Show full PR textLogitech Introduces the Harmony Ultimate Hub, Turning iPhone and Android Smartphones into Personal Universal Remotes
Company to Retain Ownership of Harmony Remote Product Line
NEWARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) today announced the expansion of its universal remote control lineup with the Logitech® Harmony Ultimate Hub, an appcessory for consolidating all of your remote controls into one simple smartphone app, giving you personalized control of up to eight devices from anywhere in the house, using the smartphone you already own. The hub has previously been offered as part of the Logitech Harmony® Ultimate and Logitech Harmony® Smart Control products, and will be a standalone product for customers who prefer to control their digital experience with just a smartphone.
Logitech also announced that it plans to retain ownership of its Harmony remote product line. The company has determined that retaining ownership is in the best interest of its shareholders. The Harmony product line has gained momentum following the April introduction of the Harmony Ultimate product, which is available in major retail locations including select Apple stores in the U.S., and has exceeded the company's expectations for customer connections.
Pricing and Availability
The Logitech Harmony Ultimate Hub is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in August 2013, for a suggested retail price of $99.99 in the U.S. For more information, please visit www.logitech.com or our blog.

