
  Didn't score a ticket to the 2012 Olympics in London this summer? If you're in the UK at least you can still catch the games live and in 3D, since even though the BBC is tape delaying its 3D coverage, there will be live action available on the dedicated Sky 3D channel from Eurosport. There's no word on what other carriers or regions may have access, but those two are promising over 100 hours of 3D action over the course of the games, with eight hours of live coverage alongside four hours of highlights. That's enough to cover events including the opening and closing ceremonies, men's 100m dash final, gymnastics, swimming, basketball and more. Also, Sky plans to open up the channel to all of its current HD subscribers during the Games instead of just the current 250,000 subscribers, so all you'll need to bring is a 3D-ready HDTV and glasses (maybe). There's a press release after the break with all the details currently available, and also Stephen Fry's introduction to the channel for no reason other than that it's Stephen Fry.
      

 

   Show full PR text  05 April 2012 Eurosport to bring Sky customers first ever Olympics in amazing 3D  Eurosport's comprehensive 3D coverage of the London 2012 Games to be available to all '3D Ready' Sky homes  Eurosport, the pan-European broadcaster of the London 2012 Olympics, will broadcast more than 100 hours of 3D action over the course of this summer's Games. And, to ensure that British viewers can enjoy a truly immersive Olympics experience, Eurosport will showcase the action on Sky 3D, the UK's first and only dedicated 3D TV channel.  Sky 3D is already enjoyed in more than 250,000 Sky homes as well as thousands of pubs nationwide. However, for the duration of the Games, Sky is opening up Sky 3D to all High Definition subscribers, so more than 4 million homes will have the opportunity to experience Eurosport's comprehensive 3D coverage. To enjoy the Olympic action like never before, they will simply need to purchase a 3D TV and then connect it to their 3D-ready Sky+HD box.  The channel will broadcast exclusive 3D action every day during the Games. This will be a mix of around 8 hours of live coverage alongside 4 additional hours of the day's main highlights and will provide the most comprehensive 3D coverage of the Games on British television.  Events to be covered include set-piece events such as the opening ceremony, closing ceremony and the men's 100m final, alongside a wide range of other events that will be broadcast in 3D for the first time, such as gymnastics, swimming, basketball and canoeing. Sky will also make a wide range of 3D Olympic highlights available on Sky Anytime, Sky's video on demand service.  Eurosport's 3D action will complement the comprehensive High Definition (HD) and Standard Definition (SD) coverage on the Sky platform that will be made available across 48 new channels created specifically to showcase every second of the BBC's coverage of the Games.  John Cassy, Director of Sky 3D, comments: "We know from our own extensive experience that sport in 3D is captivating and we expect the Olympics to be no different. It's fitting that the London 2012 Games will be the first 3D Olympics and we're delighted to partner with Eurosport to ensure Sky customers are able to become immersed in the action like never before. Whether you're enjoying the Games in High Definition or 3D, viewers will never have felt so close to the action."  Jean Thierry Augustin, Eurosport's Managing Director of Rights Acquisition, Distribution & Development said: "Eurosport has been innovating to provide fans with the best live sports experience for many years. We pride ourselves on giving a truly global view of the Olympic Games, letting supreme sporting performances drive our coverage. This opportunity to present the London 2012 Olympics in 3D to Sky customers will give British fans an unforgettable experience of their "home" Games and the international sporting heroes it will generate."  Eurosport is an official broadcaster of the London 2012 Olympic Games and will devote its entire channel to daily coverage from the event. This includes broadcasting 13 hours of live HD action alongside a breakfast news show, daily highlights and overnight replays of the best action. London 2012 will be the 12th consecutive Olympic Games broadcast on Eurosport.  END
 