
 Lovefilm has already had a streaming video selection for kids, but a new deal could patch up what few content holes are left. Amazon's UK service has signed a pact with DHX Media that gives it access to about 2,000 shows spread across the decades, including well-known back catalog titles like Dennis the Menace and more recent shows like Mona the Vampire. All of the expanded library is immediately available to watch for subscribers; that said, we'll admit to being more than a little predisposed towards Inspector Gadget as a first choice.



  Show full PR text   AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM SIGNS DEAL WITH DHX MEDIA  - Additional 2,000 premium kids' TV shows available to stream on LOVEFiLM Instant -
  LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, has partnered with DHX Media (formally Cookie Jar Entertainment), a worldwide leader in animated and live-action kids' content, giving members instant access to classic children's TV shows such as Inspector Gadget and Dennis The Menace.
  The subscription video on demand (SVOD) deal will offer LOVEFiLM - Europe's largest subscription service instantly streaming films and TV series over the Internet and sending DVD and games by post - members instant access to thousands of new, premium quality children's TV series such as Mona the Vampire, Paddington Bear and Sonic the Hedgehog, expanding the extensive catalogue of child friendly TV shows and films already available on the LOVEFiLM Instant service.
  Jim Buckle, Managing Director at LOVEFiLM, commented:  "DHX Media has created some of the best children's TV of recent years and we are pleased to bring their great content to our service. LOVEFiLM Instant is the first choice for parents who want high quality, fun and safe entertainment for their children, so naturally the addition of shows such as Mona the Vampire and Paddington Bear is an exciting prospect for us."
  Michael Donovan, CEO at DHX Media, commented:  "We are delighted to offer LOVEFiLM members access to our award-winning kids programmes. Just like LOVEFiLM we are market leaders and DHX Media's shows already air on some of the top European broadcast destinations, so this is a natural partnership."
  LOVEFiLM Instant is available on PC, Mac or via Sony Playstation®3, Microsoft Xbox 360, Kindle Fire HD and Kindle Fire, Apple iPad® and a growing number of Internet-connected TV sets and Blu-ray players, giving members immediate access to a huge range of films and TV shows from as little as £4.99 a month.
 
