
CBS may have teamed up with Netflix in the US to satisfy those of us with an Enterprising bent, but the company has taken a different tack in the UK and Germany. Instead, the firm has signed a deal with Lovefilm to bring CBS and Showtime-owned shows to Amazon's streaming network. The press release promises that users will be able to watch classic Star Trek, Voyager, The Good Wife, Dexter and Californication instantly, although a brief check of the UK site reveals that you may need to wait a short while more before you can immerse yourself in the Delta quadrant / Hank Moody's psyche.



Show full PR textAMAZON'S LOVEFiLM ANNOUNCES DEAL WITH CBS STUDIOS INTERNATIONAL IN THEUK AND GERMANY
LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, has announced today a multi-yearlicensing deal with CBS Studios International that will expand theexciting range of award-winning TV content already available onLOVEFiLM Instant streaming service.

Starting today, LOVEFiLM's UK and German members will be able tostream must-see U.S. television series from CBS and the premiumtelevision network SHOWTIME. The shows available in the UK and/orGermany include the hit CBS series The Good Wife and Blue Bloods plusaward-winning programming from SHOWTIME such as Nurse Jackie,Californication and Dexter.

The deal between LOVEFiLM.com and CBS is also great news for Star Trekfans of all ages, with the original 1960s series and Star Trek Voyagernow available to stream on-demand.

The agreement with CBS Studios Int. expands LOVEFiLM's already vastand varied catalogue of award-winning TV available to stream instantlyand follows a number of other recent high-profile content deals withwidely recognised film and TV studios.

Simon Morris, Chief Marketing Officer at LOVEFiLM said:"We're thrilled to announce this latest deal with CBS Studios Int.,and bring another great selection of hit US TV shows to our members.The quality, quantity and diversity of what we can offer our membersis absolutely fantastic which is why we're quickly becoming the firstchoice subscription service for TV fans."

Armando Nuñez, President and CEO of CBS Global Distribution Group added:"We're excited to partner with LOVEFiLM and their terrificsubscription service on an agreement that will bring their UK andGerman subscribers a range of CBS content that audiences around theworld are very passionate about. This is another example of thegrowing licensing opportunities available for CBS's world classcontent in a dynamic global marketplace."


