
  As the streaming TV wars hot up in the UK, Lovefilm is steadily strengthening its arsenal: its Instant streaming service is already available on 175 devices, and now you can add LG's April-2011-onwards Smart TVs to that list. Despite the Korean tellies already having over 250 apps, Lovefilm claims its software is the first for streaming movies and TV; and if that's not good enough for you, it even works with LG's Magic Motion remote à la Harry Potter. UK viewers who might have been tempted by Netflix's streaming-only proposition will now have a harder decision to make, especially now that the Amazon-owned service has a competitively priced (£5 to Netflix's £6) Instant-only package. Got an LG and want to know more? Then scoot on over the break for the full PR.
      

 

  Show full PR text  AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM COMES TO LG SMART TVS  Amazon's LOVEFiLM today announced it is working with global electronics company LG to bring LOVEFiLM's video streaming service, LOVEFiLM Instant, to LG's award winning Smart TV platform. This deal will give UK film fans yet another option to watch LOVEFiLM's vast range of films and TV episodes instantly on their big screen.  The LG Smart TV platform already boasts over 250 applications in the UK, with access to almost limitless content on demand via the Internet. The addition of LOVEFiLM Instant, which provides a unique offering of instantly streamed films and TV episodes, is LG's first ever film and TV subscription streaming application.  LOVEFiLM recently introduced an unlimited streaming-only package which provides access to films and TV shows via LOVEFiLM Instant for an introductory price of £4.99 per month.  LOVEFiLM members watching movies via LOVEFiLM Instant on LG TVs will have instant access to thousands of titles, with a continually growing library. Exclusive streaming access to titles such as sci-fi action sequel Terminator Salvation, RED starring Helen Mirren and Bruce Willis, Batman sequel The Dark Knight, breakout comedy The Hangover and mystery thriller Unknown, will be available from launch.  Forthcoming titles on LOVEFiLM Instant will include Source Code starring Jake Gyllenhaal and family animation Gnomeo & Juliet.  The application will also enable members to manage their movie rental list, rate movies, read reviews and search movies by cast and crew. Members can also find films within the bespoke collections via LG TVs, which will make it easier than ever to discover new favourites.  Functionality is further enhanced by LG's Magic Motion Remote, which is controlled by movements and gestures, instead of buttons.  LOVEFiLM Instant is already available on 175 devices including gaming consoles, a growing number of Internet-connected TV sets, Blu-ray players, tablets and PCs. The agreement with LG further extends LOVEFiLM's offering into the direct-to-TV market and into even more homes across the UK.  Simon Calver, CEO of Amazon's LOVEFiLM, said: "With this latest platform launch we are strengthening our penetration into the living rooms of UK consumers, bringing instant entertainment to more homes than ever before. With every new platform launch we take another step towards our goal of being available to as many people, in as many ways as possible."  Stacey Seltzer, Head of LG Smart TV, said: "We are very excited to add Amazon's LOVEFiLM to the already extensive range of content on LG's Smart TV platform. LG's Smart TV provides a powerful new offering in home entertainment and we have invested significantly in this technology. Working with Amazon's LOVEFiLM is further proof of LG's commitment to providing customers with the best possible service."  LOVEFiLM is an Amazon.com company and is Europe's largest subscription service, streaming movies and TV episodes over the Internet and sending DVDs by post.
 