
 Following Lovefilm's deal with NBC Universal to bring the latter's movie catalogue to the streaming service, the pair have hooked up again to do the same job for the studio's TV productions. Shows such as The Office (US), 30 Rock and Knight Rider will all be available for viewing, whenever your desire for some Corporate Hijinks / Alec Baldwin / talking cars takes hold. We've just checked and the shows are already filtering through -- although you can only catch the first three years of Liz Lemon's adventures so far.



  Show full PR text   Amazon's LOVEFiLM Signs New Streaming Deal With NBCUniversal International TV Distribution
  LONDON, January 16, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, has partnered with NBCUniversal International TV Distribution in a new deal that will give audiences on-demand access to hundreds of episodes of iconic American television series.

   Through this deal, which combines recent premium quality series with all-time greats and guilty pleasures, LOVEFiLM members can now watch critically acclaimed comedies like the US version of The Office starring Steve Carrell and the multiple award-winning 30 Rock starring Tina Fey and Alec Baldwin.

   LOVEFiLM will also bring popular NBCU science fiction dramas like the smash hit Heroes, in addition to David Hasselhoff's ultimate '80s cult TV classic Knight Rider, to its members.

   This is the latest TV content deal with a major US Studio to be announced by LOVEFiLM - Europe's leading TV and movie subscription service. It follows a number of high profile TV deals including ABC, BBC and ITV, which have added to the rapidly expanding collection of top TV and movie content via LOVEFiLM Instant.

   Jim Buckle, Managing Director at LOVEFiLM, said:

   "This deal with NBCUniversal strengthens our exceptional and unrivalled on-demand TV offer. Our content, unbeatable value for money and the instant nature of our service make us the first choice for people who want the best possible entertainment experience."

   Belinda Menendez, President, NBCUniversal International TV Distribution and Universal Networks International, added:

   "We're excited to announce this partnership with LOVEFiLM and proud of the NBCUniversal titles represented in this agreement. LOVEFiLM customers will now have access to the classic NBCU series they know and love, as well the opportunity to discover our other high-caliber programming."

 
