

It's only been about a week since Lovefilm struck an agreement with Viacom, but the Amazon-owned service is already preparing to add more video content to its streaming repertoire. As part of yet another deal through Warner Bros., Lovefilm's going to be distributing a plethora of animated series owned by the renowned movie studio. This means Lovefilm users will have access to "more than 15 years worth" of various Batman animated series, as well as others like Superman: The Animated Series, Justice League and Thundercats (yes, that includes the 1980s original). We're interested to hear which series you're looking forward to the most, so feel free to sound off in the comments below. Oh, and don't forget: thunder, thunder, thunder, Thundercats ho!


Show full PR textAmazon's LOVEFiLM Boosts Animated Content With Warner Bros. International Television Distribution Deal
LONDON, September 4, 2013

- ICONIC SUPERHERO SERIES ARRIVE ON LOVEFiLM INSTANT -

LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, today announced an exciting content deal with Warner Bros. International Television Distribution that brings an extensive new library of animated content for children and nostalgic adults to the LOVEFiLM Instant streaming service.

Included in the deal is more than 15 years' worth of iconic animated Batman series, from Batman: The Animated Series (1992) through to Batman: The Brave and the Bold (2011), as well as Superman, in Superman: The Animated Series- enabling fans of both caped crusaders to savour hundreds of hours of their adventures.

Other celebrated cartoon superheroes making their streaming debut on LOVEFiLM Instant as a result of the agreement include the Justice League in the series of the same name and coming soon, the more recent Young Justice. Both the original 1980s Thundercats and the more recent 2011 adaptation are also available to stream from today.

The arrival of Warner Bros. kids content is the most recent in a series of new deals signed by LOVEFiLM and builds on the already vast and varied collection of children's content available to stream, including titles from world renowned studios such as Disney, Marvel, NBC Universal Kids, Saban, Aardman and DHX Media.

Chris Bird, Director of Content Strategy at LOVEFiLM, said:

"The arrival of Warner Bros. animated content onto the service means that our offering for younger viewers is stronger and more exciting than ever before. We already have a huge range of fantastic films and TV series for junior members to watch across a variety of devices, and we believe that this latest addition cements our position as the market-leading service for families."

Jeffrey R. Schlesinger, President, Warner Bros. Worldwide Television Distribution, said:

"We are pleased to have found a new home for some of our most popular animated series on LOVEFiLM Instant as a result of this new deal. We are certain that subscribers, both kids as well as animation enthusiasts of all ages, will love having on demand access to these terrific series."

LOVEFiLM Instant offers a wide range of premium kids and family entertainment available to stream instantly on over 280 internet connected devices, including PC and Mac, Nintendo Wii and Wii U, Playstation 3, Xbox 360, iPad, Kindle Fire and Fire HD and internet connected TVs and Blu-ray players from Sony, Samsung and LG.

About LOVEFiLM

LOVEFiLM is an Amazon company and a leading European film and TV series subscription service with over two million members in the UK and Germany. For just £5.99 a month LOVEFiLM members can choose from thousands of hours of the latest and greatest film and TV entertainment from major Hollywood - and international - studios, streamed instantly through LOVEFiLM Instant directly to hundreds of Internet-enabled devices, including games consoles and tablets. LOVEFiLM also offers LOVEFiLM By Post, giving members access to more than 70,000 titles on DVD and Blu-ray, including the latest new releases, delivered straight to their door. For more information visit LOVEFiLM or follow us on Twitter and Facebook.


