
Whether you're into comedy, drama, sci-fi or Vikings, Lovefilm Instant is slowly amassing TV content across a number of genres. Today, a deal with Scripps is adding shows from the Food Network and Travel Channel to Amazon's streaming service in the UK, much to the satisfaction of sofa-based jetsetters, wannabe chefs, and those who like to watch others battling with the meat sweats on Man v. Food Nation. Hundreds of episodes are available to watch right now, should you need inspiration for your next holiday or what to cook for dinner tonight. If you're like us, though, you'll just end up ordering pizza when you find you don't have the rare selection of spices needed to do that unpronounceable foreign delicacy justice.



Show full PR textAMAZON'S LOVEFiLM GOES FOODIE
LOVEFiLM.com, an Amazon company, has today announced a deal with Scripps Networks Interactive that sees an exciting range of food and lifestyle-focused TV content from Food Network and Travel Channel become available on LOVEFiLM Instant.

From today LOVEFiLM's UK members will be able to stream hundreds of must-see foodie shows from a host of celebrated culinary enthusiasts, including British favourites Andy Bates and Reza Mahammad, and many from the US including the Emmy-award winning Barefoot Contessa, competitive food show Man v. Food Nation featuring gastronomic gladiator Adam Richman, and other popular series such as Restaurant: Impossible, House Hunters International and Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern.

The agreement with Scripps Networks Interactive marks LOVEFiLM Instant streaming services' first foray into the cooking and lifestyle genre and will add to the already varied catalogue of award-winning TV available to stream instantly. The agreement follows a number of other recent high-profile content deals with widely recognised film and TV studios. It also follows the first online-only subscription distribution deal for Scripps Networks Interactive announced in the US earlier this year with Amazon.com, airing hundreds of episodes from the Scripps family of leading lifestyle brands.

Simon Morris, Chief Marketing Officer at LOVEFiLM said:"We're delighted to announce this latest deal with Scripps Networks Interactive, which brings something very different and exciting to our members. There is no doubt that we are a nation of foodies, and it's great that this deal will enable us to meet increasing viewer demands for this particular type of content."

Kate Bradshaw, VP Digital UK/EMEA from Scripps Networks added: "We're pleased to be partnering with LOVEFiLM Instant to provide consumers another platform to engage with some of our best-loved shows, wherever and whenever they want. We are incredibly proud of the fantastic content that we work hard to create and we know that LOVEFiLM members will savour every episode."


