
  If you're living across the pond and hankering for ABC's content, it's en route. In what could be considered a response to Netflix's expansion to the UK market, Lovefilm has joined forces with Disney UK to offer members on-demand streaming access to ABC Studios' content. Available titles include Castle, Lost, Desperate Housewives, Happy Endings, Grey's Anatomy and the Ghost Whisperer, with all episodes available after their first run in the UK market. Compatible streamers include the PC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, iPad, smart TV's and Blu-ray players and the service itself starts at £4.99 ($7.65) per month. Still no news as to when the Camo Snuggie will make its European debut.
      

 

  Amazon's LOVEFiLM Signs Another Streaming Deal to Launch ABC TV on Demand in the UK   Branded Service Will Bring Top US TV Series From ABC Studios To LOVEFiLM UK Members  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, has partnered with Disney UK in a deal that will give LOVEFiLM members access to full seasons of some of the most iconic American television series ever created.  "ABC TV On Demand is home to high quality, compelling US drama, produced by ABC Studios, and launching this service with LOVEFiLM means we are able to offer viewers more choice and flexibility in how and when they can view full seasons of these gripping shows, through one easy-to-use service." The branded subscription video on demand (SVOD) service, ABC TV On Demand, will offer LOVEFiLM members on-demand streaming access to ABC Studios' library of hit network and cable series.  From this month popular series such as Castle, starring Nathan Fillion, as well as all six seasons of Lost, ranked by critics as one of the top US TV series of all time will be available to LOVEFiLM members with streaming packages.  The Golden Globe and Emmy-winning Desperate Housewives, hit comedy Happy Endings, critically acclaimed medical drama Grey's Anatomy, Ghost Whisperer – starring Jennifer Love Hewitt – and every episode of Brothers & Sisters, which earned actress Sally Field an Emmy, will also be available on-demand later in the year.  Shows will be launched as full seasons after their first run on UK pay and/or free TV. Previous seasons of some series will even be available to members before the next season airs on UK television.  This is the latest TV content deal with a major US Studio to be announced by LOVEFiLM – Europe's leading TV and movie subscription service. It follows a number of recent TV deals including BBC and ITV, which have added to the expanding collection of top TV content, together with thousands of movies, already available on LOVEFiLM Instant, from studios and distributors including Sony, Warner Bros., Entertainment One and STUDIOCANAL.  Subscription video-on-demand service LOVEFiLM Instant is available on a wide choice of internet-connected devices including the PC, Sony PlayStation®3, Microsoft Xbox 360, Apple iPad and web-enabled TV sets and Blu-ray players, giving members immediate access to content wherever, whenever.  LOVEFiLM has introduced an unlimited streaming-only package which provides access to LOVEFiLM Instant for an introductory price of £4.99 per month. Members will also continue to benefit from physical DVD rentals with the ever-growing 'LOVEFiLM by Post' service.  Simon Calver, CEO of Amazon's LOVEFiLM, comments: "LOVEFiLM members want top class TV shows, as well as movies, to watch instantly as part of their subscription. Today's deal with Disney brings them access to some of the best American TV content ever produced. LOVEFiLM's unique combination of world class movies and TV shows ensures that LOVEFiLM is the first and only port of call for those who want subscription entertainment on demand."  Catherine Powell, senior vice president / general manager, Media Distribution, The Walt Disney Company EMEA added: "ABC TV On Demand is home to high quality, compelling US drama, produced by ABC Studios, and launching this service with LOVEFiLM means we are able to offer viewers more choice and flexibility in how and when they can view full seasons of these gripping shows, through one easy-to-use service."
 