
Yearning to watch Norsemen amass loot while raiding foreign lands? If you're in the UK, you can now watch US cable show The Vikings exclusively via Lovefilm Instant. The Amazon-owned service has made all nine episodes of the historical drama -- shown in the US and in Canada on History Channel -- available for streaming. The service's subscribers in Germany won't be left out, but as the show isn't slated to go live for them until June 15th, they have a bit of waiting to do. This new addition to Lovefilm's roster is a clear effort by the service to bolster its TV show offerings, seeing as it's struggling to catch up to Netflix UK in that area. Lovefilm also inked a deal with Warner Bros in April to air popular TV titles One Tree Hill, The West Wing and Nip Tuck, although Netflix will have its own exclusive when Arrested Development season four launches tomorrow.



Show full PR text#1 NEW CABLE SERIES OF THE YEAR IN THE U.S. GOES LIVE ON LOVEFiLM INSTANT
May 24, 2013 – The critically acclaimed epic U.S. television series "VIKINGS" has launched exclusively on LOVEFiLM Instant in the UK today, making the streaming service the first and only place to watch the hit series in these countries.

From today, members of LOVEFiLM Instant in the UK will be able to feast on all nine episodes of the Norse action-drama at once in full high-definition.

Starring Travis Fimmel (The Beast, The Experiment), Golden Globe winner Gabriel Byrne (The Usual Suspects, Miller's Crossing) and Katheryn Winnick (Love and Other Drugs, Bones), "VIKINGS" chronicles the epic adventures of notorious Norse hero Ragnar Lothbrok (Fimmel), a Viking warrior who yearns to explore – and raid – the distant shores of the ocean. "VIKINGS" also stars George Blagden (Wrath of the Titans), Jessalyn Gilsig (Glee), Gustaf Skarsgard (The Way Back), and Clive Standen (Camelot).

Created and written by Michael Hirst – one of the premier historical story-tellers in the industry (Academy-Award® winning film Elizabeth; and the Emmy and Golden Globe nominated series The Tudors), "VIKINGS" is a tale of warfare, sex, bloodshed, ambition, family and brotherhood. The epic drama is the #1 new cable series of the year in the U.S. where it airs on HISTORY.

Simon Morris, Chief Marketing Officer at LOVEFiLM, said:"Today is an exciting landmark in our history and we are thrilled about the arrival of "VIKINGS" on LOVEFiLM Instant. We know that our members are going to be gripped from the opening moments of the first episode to the series finale and we can't wait to see their response. The airing of "VIKINGS" on our service before any other traditional broadcasting platforms reinforces our position as a broadcasting medium of choice for content creators."

Of all nine episodes being made available to stream at once, "VIKINGS" creator, writer and executive producer, Michael Hirst, added: "One of the things about being able to watch a show in this way is that you are inside that world consistently and emotionally and it probably has a larger impact on you. That's why people binge on shows and can spend a whole weekend watching them. It's like being transported into a different world, a different environment. And I want people to be transported. That's why I write historically based material."

"VIKINGS" will premiere on LOVEFiLM Instant in the UK today and in Germany on 15th June 2013 and is available exclusively on the streaming service in both countries. MGM Television is serving as the international distributor in all markets outside of the U.S., Ireland and Canada.

LOVEFiLM Instant is available on PC, Mac or via Nintendo Wii and Wii U, Microsoft Xbox 360, Sony Playstation®3, Kindle Fire HD and Kindle Fire, Apple iPad® and a growing number of Internet-connected TV sets and Blu-ray players, giving members immediate access to a huge range of the latest films and premium TV shows from as little as £4.99 a month.


