
 Amazon just announced a trio of Lovefilm deals, including new programming from BBC Worldwide, TV pilots from its own Amazon Studios and Lovefilm Instant HD on Sony Bravia Smart TVs. While the streaming service is already entangled with the Beeb, the deal announced today will include new shows like The Office (UK version), potboiler Jonathan Creek, sci-fi drama Primeval and others. Eleven comedy and kids pilot shows recently announced by Amazon Studios will also come to Instant Video, with execs even saying that viewer response on the platform will determine which shows stay. Finally, Lovefilm announced that it'll come to internet-connected Sony Bravia TVs in 720P (it's been in standard def on the platform since 2010), joining the likes of Xbox 360 and other Smart TVs in HD. You should see the extra pixels on your Bravia imminently, but there's no word on exact arrival dates for BBC or Amazon Studios programming. Check the PR below the fold for a full breakdown.



  Show full PR text    AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM BOOSTS BBC WORLDWIDE TV DEAL FOR 2013

   Monday February 11, 2013 -- LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, will bring even more celebrated content from BBC Worldwide's impressive catalogue of shows to its members in 2013 after announcing it is rebooting its content deal with the global distributor today.

   The ongoing partnership between LOVEFiLM and BBC Worldwide will increase the range of exciting TV content already available on LOVEFiLM Instant.

   The new-for-2013 content comprises of highly acclaimed shows including the first series of multi award-winning Luther – giving fans the chance to catch up before the next series is broadcast – cult favourite and Golden Globe winner The Office (UK version), critically-acclaimed sitcom Extras, sci-fi drama Primeval, crime-drama Jonathan Creek, plus a range of popular factual shows synonymous with the BBC including the most widely watched factual programme in the world, Top Gear (Guinness Book of World Records 2013).

   These new additions bolster an already extensive library of British TV classics on the service, encompassing shows such as the much loved Doctor Who, the critically acclaimed Ashes to Ashes, spy drama Spooks, highly-acclaimed mini-series Whitechapel, as well as must-see documentaries like Planet Earth.

   Jim Buckle, Managing Director at LOVEFiLM, said:  "The evolution of our TV offering has been unstoppable over the past year. We kicked off 2012 by announcing a new deal with BBC Worldwide and it is great to see-in 2013 by adding to that agreement. We've got some of the best British TV content ever made, and we're first choice for TV fans who want good quality shows, instantly."

   Lisa Rousseau, Head of UK, Ireland and Pan European Television Sales for BBC Worldwide, added: "Our content partnership with LOVEFiLM continues to evolve year on year. This new deal will see more gripping award-winning dramas and landmark documentaries added to the service bringing some of the very best in UK television to LOVEFiLM'S subscribers."

   Show full PR text   AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM INTRODUCES HD TO SONY BRAVIA
  February 11, 2013 -- LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, today announced the launch of its high-definition (HD) streaming service on HD ready Internet-connected BRAVIA TVs and Blu-Ray Players from Sony in both the UK and Germany.

   Members watching TV series and films through LOVEFiLM Instant on enabled Sony Home Entertainment devices will be able to enjoy crystal clear 720P HD video at no extra cost. The LOVEFiLM app first launched on BRAVIA TVs from Sony in the UK in March 2010 and in Germany in June 2011.

   LOVEFiLM Instant is now available on a complete range of living room devices including Amazon's Kindle Fire and Fire HD, iPad®, PlayStation®3, Xbox 360, Wii and Wii U, plus a growing number of Blu-ray Players and Internet-connected TVs. Unlimited streaming packages start from just £4.99 a month.

   Show full PR text   AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM TO HOST ORIGINAL PILOT TELEVISION PROGRAMMES FROM AMAZON STUDIOS
   • Amazon Studios announces production of five children's and six comedy test pilots  • Pilot episodes will be available to stream for free via LOVEFiLM in the UK and Germany  • Viewer response will help determine which series go into full-season production

  LONDON, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 – LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, has today announced that it will host 11 original TV series test pilots for members to stream for free.

   The never-seen-before children's and comedy content is being produced by Amazon Studios – the original film and series production arm of Amazon.com. LOVEFiLM members in the UK and Germany will be able to watch the content and viewer response will then help determine which series Amazon Studios take into full-season production.

   The move follows the announcement of Amazon Studios' first pilot production commitment last December (Prime Instant Video Greenlights Six Original Series Pilots for Production) which gave six original comedy shows the green light. It brings the total number of Amazon Studios pilots currently in production to 11.

   Roy Price, Director of Amazon Studios added:  "Production is already underway for the first set of comedy pilots we announced in December, and now we are excited to add even more pilots to the list – five amazing preschool children's series. Our children's series come from industry luminaries with credits such as Blue's Clues, Rugrats and Dino Dan. We think parents – and our very youngest customers – are going to love the magical combination of entertainment and learning that they'll discover in these children's series."

   Jim Buckle, Managing Director at LOVEFiLM said:  "To be able to host original pilot content, developed by Amazon Studios, and offer our members the opportunity to directly influence which of those series go into production is a major, and really exciting, development."

 
