
 Great news for UK movie lovers who just can't get enough of eccentric inventors and clever sheep: Amazon-owned LoveFilm has struck a deal to bring Aardman content to its service. The agreement adds properties like Wallace & Gromit, Morph, Creature Comforts, Shaun the Sheep and Rex the Runt to LoveFilm's offerings, letting users stream content on their computers, PS3s, Xbox 360s, iPads and more. For more information, please consult the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    AMAZON'S LOVEFiLM STRIKES NEW DEAL WITH AARDMAN
  LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, and Aardman have today announced a deal which will give UK subscribers instant on-demand access to titles from Aardman's much-loved animation series and shorts, such as Wallace & Gromit, Morph, Shaun the Sheep, Timmy Time and Rex the Runt.
  The deal will add to LOVEFiLM's already vast catalogue of kids and family-friendly films and TV shows. There is plenty for Aardman's grown-up fans to enjoy too as the deal includes popular animation Angry Kid – featuring a foul-mouthed 15 year old voiced by film director Darren Walsh – and Creature Comforts, which was conceived by Nick Park in the late eighties and famously used as part of the Electricity Board's 'Heat Electric' campaign.
  Jim Buckle, Managing Director at LOVEFiLM, said: "Aardman's stop-motion animations are loved by generations of fans and it is exciting to be able to bring their catalogue to our customers. Our deals with iconic studios like Aardman make us the number one subscription service for films and TV series. We have the best content, available on a huge range of living room devices, internet-connected TVs and tablets."
  Robin Gladman, Digital Content and Partnerships Manager at Aardman adds: "We know that viewers feel as much love for our animations as we do. This new deal with LOVEFiLM is an exciting development in our aim to embrace many digital platforms. It allows us to bring some of our best-loved creations into even more homes across the UK."
  LOVEFiLM Instant is available on PC, Mac or via Sony Playstation®3, Microsoft Xbox 360, Apple iPad® and a growing number of Internet-connected TV sets and Blu-ray players, giving members immediate access to a huge range of films and TV shows.
  
