
 LoveFilm just chalked up another rights deal, this time with Warner Bros International TV Distribution. As of today, subscribers to the Amazon-owned UK streaming service will get access to serials like One Tree Hill, all seven seasons of The West Wing as well as Nip Tuck, which should at least go some way to narrowing Netflix's advantage in TV content.



  Show full PR text   LOVEFiLM, an Amazon company, today announced a milestone deal with Warner Bros.  International Television Distribution (WBITD) that will bring yet more must-see  programming to the exciting range of top quality TV content already available on the  LOVEFiLM.com Instant.
   From today LOVEFiLM's UK members will be able to stream iconic Warner Bros.  Television shows. Just some of the great content coming to the service includes seasons  one to seven of the Emmy award-winning presidential drama The West Wing, all nine  seasons of acclaimed US teen series One Tree Hill, every season made of Golden Globe  winner Nip Tuck and sci-fi spin off Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles 1 and 2.

   The deal with WBITD bolsters an already extensive and unrivalled catalogue of  award-winning TV available to stream on the LOVEFiLM Instant streaming service  [http://www.lovefilm.com ], which is becoming known for offering the highest quality  on-demand programming following a string of high-profile content deals.

   Chris Bird,Director, Film Strategy at LOVEFiLM, said:

   "It's easy to see why we're the first choice subscription service for TV fans who  want to be able to access top quality programming on-demand. This latest content deal  with Warner Bros. is hugely exciting for TV fans as even more fantastic must-see content  goes live on LOVEFiLM Instant, including iconic titles such as The West Wing and Nip  Tuck."

   Jeffrey R. Schlesinger, President, Warner Bros. International Television  Distribution added: "This deal once again indicates that the programming we produce has  a long life after their primary exposure on network television. The addition of these  long running, serialized, addictive series to the Lovefilm service will provide its  subscribers with many hours of compelling viewing."

 
