
 

We've already seen UK movie rental service Lovefilm expand its streaming service on Blu-ray players and consoles, and now -- since parent company Amazon isn't bringing the Kindle Fire over anytime soon -- it has moved on to the iPad. While its existing Lovefilm app allows for disc browsing and queue management, the new Lovefilm Player app handles most of those functions, plus the aforementioned subscription streaming access (no VOD, yet.) Check out a quick video intro after the break or hit the source links below for the FAQ or to download on iTunes.
      

 

  		Show full PR text 		Sep 29, 2011 04:00 ET  LOVEFiLM Player Debuts on the iPad 		LONDON, September 29, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- 		- Streamed Movies at Your Fingertips - 		LOVEFiLM is proud to announce the LOVEFiLM App is now available on the iPad. The App allows users to instantly watch, pause, fast-forward and rewind their movie stream, view trailers and add to their DVD rental list on the go. 		Subscribers can instantly watch titles from leading and independent studios such as Colin Firth's A Single Man, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, the critically acclaimed drama The Wrestler, and access exclusive movies such as the global phenomenon The Twilight Saga: Eclipse and RED starring Bruce Willis and Helen Mirren. 		"LOVEFiLM's debut on iPad is a huge win for our customers as the latest platform to support the service. This is a huge leap in movie watching for the 21st Century - making LOVEFiLM more portable than ever before," said Simon Calver, CEO of LOVEFiLM. "LOVEFiLM on iPad is the latest step in giving film fans total control over their viewing schedule and our commitment to expanding the ways in which members can stream movies and TV series on a range of devices." 		Subscribers can now easily access instant movies in and out of the home by linking their account with LOVEFiLM. Subscribers on packages of £5.99 or above can use the app at no extra cost by simply entering their login details. 		The LOVEFiLM Player for iPad is available for free from the App Store on iPad or at http://www.itunes.com/appstore.
 