
 

WiFi not good enough for you? Verizon's here to give you a bit more range. Customers will be able to pre-order an LTE-enabled version of the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 starting on June 8th, but the company's playing coy about when exactly it will ship. The "coming weeks" is the best week can get, though if that wasn't vague enough for you the press release embedded below also says "this summer." Those willing to sign on to a new two-year agreement are looking at $530 for the 16GB model and $630 for the 32GB. That's a $30 premium over the WiFi edition -- not counting the next two years worth of monthly data charges, of course.

[Thanks, Bedan]
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Verizon Wireless Adds 4G LTE-Enabled Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 to Portfolio 		4G LTE-Enabled Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1, Exclusive from Verizon Wireless, Measures Only 8.6 Millimeters Thin 		BASKING RIDGE, N.J. and DALLAS, June 2, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Verizon Wireless and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), today announced the 4G LTE-enabled Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 will be available on the fastest, most advanced network in coming weeks. The slim and sleek Galaxy Tab 10.1 debuts with Android™ Honeycomb and will be available in either Metallica Gray or Glossy White. Customers will be able to pre-order the device online on June 8 at www.verizonwireless.com/galaxytab4glte. When the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 hits Verizon Wireless stores this summer, it will be accompanied by an array of optional accessories such as a full-sized keyboard dock and a multi-media docking station. 		"The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 is a great option for customers who want to enjoy the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network – the fastest network in America," said Jeff Dietel, vice president of marketing for Verizon Wireless. "Customers can also use the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 wherever they are on the nation's largest 3G network." 		Dietel added, "The tablet market is exploding as customers are discovering new uses for the technology that features a large screen, powerful processing speeds and access to Android Market™'s 200,000 applications. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 is perfect for customers who want to take advantage of Google™'s new movie rental option and view their favorite film on-the-go." 		"Samsung Mobile is excited to expand its mobile tablet portfolio with Verizon Wireless to include the 4G LTE-enabled Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Telecommunications America. "The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 is the thinnest and lightest tablet in the world that delivers a truly mobile multimedia experience on an Android Honeycomb platform." 		The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 offers full support for Google™ Mobile Services, including Gmail™, YouTube™ and more. Customers will relish the 10.1-inch enhanced display with a 1280x800 resolution HD screen, 1 GHz dual core application processor, a 2-megapixel front-facing camera and a 3-megapixel rear-facing camera. Both consumers and business customers will find a multitude of uses for the Galaxy Tab that range from video chat to business tools, including those that allow for the opening and editing of documents, spreadsheets and presentations. The Galaxy Tab 10.1 features Adobe® Flash® Player to deliver an enhanced Internet browsing experience and access to content-rich Websites. 		Verizon Wireless will offer two 4G LTE-enabled Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 models both priced with two year customer agreements: $529.99 for the 16GB model and $629.99 for the 32GB model. For more information on the Samsung Galaxy Tab, go to: www.verizonwireless.com/galaxytab4glte.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

