
     Lytro camera hands-on (video)    Lytro open to partnering with smartphone makers, executive suggests    Lytro's light field camera captures 'unprecedented' images, lets you choose focus later  Don't let that cute design fool you. Lytro, the world's first commercial light field camera, is the culmination of nearly twenty years of research -- a project that once occupied an entire wall facade, and has since been miniaturized into something that fits in the palm of your hand. An impressive feat, sure, but not as arresting as the end result: the ability to refocus pictures, even after you've taken them.  To achieve such magical endeavors the Lytro camera uses heaps of custom software (armed with a custom .lfp file format) coupled with some serious silicon to measure not just color or the intensity of light, but its direction, too. The latter is achieved with an eleven "megaray" sensor, which is bolted to an f/2.0 8x optical zoom lens, all encased within that sleek body. Seeking to save us from unfocused mishaps, the technological tour de force also unlocks some considerable creative potential. So, is the $399 shooter going to revolutionize photography as we know it? Or does the Lytro's first foray into consumer electronics fall prey to the shortcomings of 1.0 product? By now you should know the drill: rendezvous with us past the break to find out.



 Hardware   It feels as if Lytro's engineers were incapable of closing the chapter on their masterpiece until they stripped it of everything but the essentials. Despite the inherent complexity stuffed within, the Lytro camera's exterior couldn't be more simple. That's high-praise: it isn't often that we encounter a product quite this refined, so minimalist in its sensibility. It feels as if Lytro's engineers were incapable of closing the chapter on their masterpiece until they had stripped it of everything but the essentials. This seems that much more impressive, too, when you remember this is the work of a startup -- one unveiling its first piece of hardware, at that. Other CE makers just got put on notice.



  Upon firing up the desktop software for the first time, you'll realize you have to complete a one-time backup of the camera's calibration data before proceeding. After conquering that, .lfp files start copying to the disk (with previously starred images given first bidding), while the suite simultaneously begins processing each RAW-like .lfp into something the desktop suite can digest. You'll know when the processing is complete, as one by one, grayscale thumbnails give way to color replacements, which means they're ready for some TLC, courtesy of the suite's rudimentary editing chops.