
Rushing in the door with yet another way to rent/buy movies over the internet, M-GO is promising it's the "people friendliest" service we've seen so far. Backed by Technicolor and DreamWorks Animation, it's ready to stream movies PCs through their web browser, as well as connected devices preloaded with its apps including Vizio, Sony and Intel ultrabooks. To live up to that friendly moniker, M-GO promises that if you're looking for a movie it doesn't offer, it will search other stores to find it for you, Flixster style. It also builds a profile of content you like and provides suggestions, sports an "easy as pie" interface as well as support for up to 5 profiles per account to help households browse through their preferred and owned content.


On top of that it supports Ultraviolet -- and potentially other digital lockers -- to let users access the content they've already paid for, and has licensed content from NBCUniversal, Paramount Pictures, Relativity Media, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros. Digital Distribution. We couldn't pull up our Ultraviolet content just yet when we tried it, but with an Android app and plans to show up on LG and RCA devices soon we'll probably have more opportunities to test it soon. Check after the break for the press release with all the details and a preview video, or hit the source link to give it a shot yourself.



  Show full PR textM-GO OPENS FOR BUSINESS, BRINGING THE "PEOPLE-FRIENDLIEST" DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT SERVICE TO CONSUMERS IN THE U.S.
Announces New Partnerships with LG Electronics, RCA and Starz Digital

JANUARY 4, 2013, LOS ANGELES, -- M-GO, the people-friendliest, new digital entertainment service, today announced its launch into public beta. M-GO's pay-as-you-go streaming service helps people find, rent, buy and enjoy digital entertainment on the devices they use and choose - TVs, iPads, tablets, Blu-ray players, streaming players, Macs, PCs and soon game consoles and smartphones. Beginning today, consumers in the U.S. can get access to thousands of movies and commercial-free TV shows on M-GO – in standard definition (SD) and high definition (HD) – paying only for the movies and TV shows they want without needing to commit to subscription fees.

To make things even easier for consumers, the company has partnered with the world's leading consumer electronics makers for M-GO to be available as a preloaded service on the hottest new smart devices from Intel, Samsung and Vizio – with new partnerships to be brought to market in 2013 with LG Electronics and RCA. To get started, consumers simply need to open a web browser through Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer or Firefox – and type in www.mgo.com. M-GO is also available as a free download from the Google Play Android app store.

M-GO today also debuted a new licensing agreement with Starz Digital further expanding its ever-growing content library. With M-GO, consumers can catch the freshest new movies the same day as the DVD release – including such blockbusters as Dark Knight Rises, The Iron Lady and Ted. They can also buy or rent individual episodes or full seasons of hit TV shows like The Walking Dead, Glee, Modern Family and Spartacus as well as choose from a deep catalogue of hidden gems and classic favorites. The company has already landed direct content licensing agreements with the world's leading studios, content creators and distributors including DreamWorks Animation, NBCUniversal, Paramount Pictures, Relativity Media, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros. Digital Distribution - with additional content deals already in development.

Not just another media store; M-GO is an entertainment service and resource, aimed at becoming consumers' first stop for finding and watching satisfying entertainment content – whether or not they rent or buy from M-GO. With such a robust and constantly expanding library of the newest releases and deep catalogue of hits, the company is confident that it will be able to gratify even the most discerning consumer searches. However, M-GO is so committed to taking the hassle out of getting great digital entertainment quickly and easily, that it is going further - if M-GO doesn't have the content, it will help people find it on other media stores including Amazon, iTunes, Netflix and Vudu. M-GO also enhances viewing and entertainment discovery by providing movie trailers, critic reviews from Rotten Tomatoes, Cast and Crew images, filmographies and more – which provide a rich second-screen experience.

"The unfulfilled promise of 'Entertainment Everywhere' for years has left many wondering if they can get entertainment anywhere. Despite advances in technology and tons of film and TV choices, it still takes more effort than it should to find something satisfying to watch when and how consumers want it," said John Batter, CEO of M-GO. "Consumers have become used to cobbling their entertainment options together in order to get a slightly satisfying experience -- switching from DVRs to subscription services to cable to media stores take time and effort which takes away from the ability to just sit back and enjoy. At M-GO, we believe consumers deserve a better, simpler, easier, more people-friendly experience and we are on a mission to deliver it – think of us as your Entertainment Wingman."

M-GO Takes User-Friendly to a Higher Standard – "People-Friendliest"

At M-GO, being the people-friendliest way to experience entertainment means:

Unlike other streaming and media stores, M-GO goes further. Beyond delivering spot-on search results and insightful recommendations, M-GO has a stable of entertainment experts to curate the content and help cut through the clutter to get the entertainment that is just right for each person.Creating a simplified experience with our E.A.P.TM (Easy As Pie) interface – which groups genres and categories such as "New Releases," "Featured," "M-GO Picks," "Deals," and "Your Library" into a patented visual display giving viewers an easier way to discover great content to watch the same day as the DVD release for many movies or the day after programs air for most network TV shows.An "Admin" can create up to five additional profiles per account and the "Watch List" feature so that each member of the household gets tailored recommendations, set spending limits, and their own wish list of movies & TV shows they may want to watch later.Paying only for what each individual really wants to watch. M-GO does not lock people into ongoing subscription fees or require them to buy additional hardware.M-GO supports multiple digital lockers including UltraViolet, a digital rights authentication and home entertainment industry standard that lets consumers safely and securely download and stream their purchased movies and TV shows via a cloud-based entertainment collection for viewing on TV screens, personal computers, tablets and mobile phones.We've-got-your-back customer support. Real people who speak human (not tech or geek speak) available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

About M-GO

M-GO is the people-friendliest, new pay-as-you-go digital entertainment service that makes it easier than ever to browse, rent, buy and enjoy the broadest, newest and best selection of movies and TV shows on your screens. M-GO was created by people who love entertainment for people who love being entertained and is a joint venture between DreamWorks Animation and Technicolor. With both technology and entertainment in the company's DNA, M-GO's mission is to transform the world of digital entertainment on the viewer's terms. M-GO has secured content deals with Hollywood's major studios which drives its always growing library of the newest releases – the earliest it is available at retail - as well as a deep catalogue of hidden gems and classic favorites. M-GO is available on all major platforms and functions on a full spectrum of operating systems ranging from Android to iOS to Windows. M-GO is pre-loaded on Samsung's Smart TV's, Blu-ray players and Wi-Fi tablets, VIZIO's Smart TVs, Blu-ray players, Wi-Fi tablets and digital media players, and Intel® Ultrabook™ devices. M-GO is a free service available at www.mgo.com.


