
 
 If you spend more money on gaming than you do groceries each month, allow us to give you another reason to stock up on cases of ramen noodles: Mad Catz' Tritton Pro+ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset is now shipping. Priced at $200, the Tritton Pro+ is compatible with the PS3, Xbox 360 and PCs. Sporting a flexible lightweight design, this triple threat rocks individual subwoofers in each earcup and "true Dolby Digital 5.1 surround" through eight separate drivers (four per earcup). In addition to its potentially deafening output, the Pro+ features an in-line remote and Selectable Voice Monitoring, which gives users the option to hear their own voice through the headset's speakers -- in case you wanna play multiplayer with the other people in your head. Also, you might wanna see a doctor.



  Show full PR text   Mad Catz® Ships The TRITTON® PRO+™ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset Featuring Dolby® Digital Technology
  Flagship Multi-Format Headset Arrives With Advanced Speaker Separation and Upgraded Specification
   San Diego – November 1, 2012 – Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) announced today the shipping of the TRITTON PRO+ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset, an upgrade to the Company's award winning TRITTON AX Pro™. Compatible with both the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft and the PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system from Sony®, the TRITTON PRO+ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset is available for purchase today.

   "The AX Pro pioneered multi-driver Dolby Digital surround sound gaming headsets. We believe the PRO+ will be an important part of our growth and enable us to maintain our leadership position within the high-end gaming headset market," said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz. "The PRO+ innovation in audio and design further demonstrates our commitment to the category and is part of our strategy to bring market leading products to passionate gamers."

   The PRO+ is capable of delivering an authentic Dolby Digital 5.1 experience though the use of eight individual drivers (four in each earcup). Advanced speaker separation and improved bass response drive precise audio effects to the gamer, ideal for competitive gaming. The PRO+ features a redesigned in-line Remote and Selectable Voice Monitoring (SVM), allowing users to choose if they hear their own voice through the headset, as well as sporting a new lightweight and flexible design.

   Additional information and purchase options are available at: www.trittonaudio.com/proplus

 
