
​


Mad Catz CEO Darren Richardson may have already let slip about the forthcoming Android M.O.J.O. console, but now it's been made official. The firm stopped short of giving us all the specifications, but we can tell you that it supports Bluetooth 4.0, and will ship with the company's GameSmart C.T.R.L.R. wireless GamePad. Thanks to the images, we also get a clue at some of the connectivity, which includes two regular USB ports, one micro-USB, an HDMI out, headphone connector and microSD slot. The wedge-like device is out there in the wild at E3, so we'll be sure to give it the full hands-on once it's spotted in its natural habitat.



Show full PR textMad Catz® Announces the M.O.J.O.™ Android™ Micro Console
GameSmart™ Console Brings Open Platform to Mobile Gaming

San Diego – June 11, 2013 – Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) announced today the Mad Catz M.O.J.O., an Android™ Micro Console configured to harness the maximum gaming horsepower from an Android device expected to ship Holiday 2013."M.O.J.O. is basically a supercharged smart phone with no screen that plugs into your flat screen TV to bring the living room experience to mobile gaming. M.O.J.O. is designed to interact seamlessly with our GameSmart controllers, mice, keyboards and headsets, in fact, the entire eco-system of gaming peripherals." said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. "We also want M.O.J.O. to be a truly open platform. People are already comfortable buying games from Google Play™, Amazon®, TegraZone™ or any other retailer of their choice. They play those games on their phones and tablets already, and with M.O.J.O., they will be able to play them in the living room at no additional cost. The same approach applies to movies, music and any other digital media. Our focus is on providing the best hardware configured for performance, not forcing people to buy content from us."M.O.J.O. is expected to include the Mad Catz C.T.R.L.R Wireless GamePad. A true, console quality controller, the C.T.R.L.R features both Bluetooth® classic and Bluetooth Smart (4.0) technology which provides ultra-low latency, interference free gaming and exceptional battery life. In addition, the C.T.R.L.R features a 'Mouse-Mode' which allows gamers to enjoy many software titles originally designed for a touch interface in the comfort of their living room.


