
 

When Gears of War 3 lands in September you'll be able to pick yourself up a special edition Xbox 360. If you've already got an Xbox though, you don't have to skip out on the branded accessories game completely. Mad Catz has you covered with a trio licensed goodies, including a throat communicator, a stereo gaming headset and a 7.1 surround sound headset all decked out in the iconic blood-red and black of the franchise. The special edition of the surround sound set (above) is actually just a slightly updated version of the company's Tritton AX720 headgear with a new decoder box and an extra two channels of sound. Those who want to shout at their opponents without donning bulky ear-wear will likely gravitate towards the throat communicator. All three will launch alongside GOW3 on September 20 for $30, $100, and $180 respectively. You can pre-order now at the more coverage link but, before you go, there's a pair of pics and some PR after the break.
      

 

    		Show full PR text  Mad Catz(R) Announces Licensed Gears of War 3 Audio Range at Comic-Con(TM) International 2011		Range Includes Throat Communicator, TRITTON(R) Performance Stereo Headset and TRITTON(R)Dolby(R) 7.1 Surround Sound Headset 		SAN DIEGO, Jul 20, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- 		Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (AMEX/TSX: MCZ) announced today a new range of licensed Gears of War 3 audio products for the Xbox 360(R) video game and entertainment system from Microsoft(R), expected to ship alongside the launch of the game in time for the holiday 2011 season. The new product range will be previewed at the Comic-Con International 2011 exhibition and is available for pre-order today. 		"Gears of War 3 is one of the most anticipated titles arriving for holiday 2011, surpassing 1 million pre-orders to date," said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. "We are convinced that gamers will appreciate the competitive advantage achieved via our high-quality audio products and that the range will be highly sought out this holiday season." 		Products available as part of the range include the Throat Communicator, the Performance Stereo Gaming Headset and the Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound Headset. 		Additional information and pre-order information is available at http://store.gameshark.com/GW3 		Developed by acclaimed studio Epic Games, "Gears of War 3" launches worldwide on Sept. 20, 2011, and is available for preorder today in three distinct editions - Standard ($59.99 USD), Limited ($79.99) and Epic ($149.99). For additional details on the game, please visit gearsofwar.xbox.com. 		About Mad Catz 		Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. (AMEX/TSX: MCZ) is a global provider of innovative interactive entertainment products marketed primarily under its Mad Catz(R) (casual gaming), Cyborg(TM) (pro gaming), Tritton(R) (gaming audio), Saitek(R) (simulation), and Eclipse(TM) (home and office) brands. Mad Catz also develops flight simulation software through its internal ThunderHawk Studios(TM); operates flight simulation centers under its Saitek brand; operates a videogame content website under its GameShark(R) brand; publishes games under its Mad Catz brand; and distributes games and videogame products for third parties. Mad Catz distributes its products through most leading retailers offering interactive entertainment products and has offices in North America, Europe and Asia. For additional information please go to www.madcatz.com. 		Social Media 		Facebook(R) Page: http://www.facebook.com/MadCatzInc 		Twitter(R) Page: http://twitter.com/MadCatzInc 		YouTube(R) Channel: http://www.youtube.com/MadCatzCompany 		Microsoft, Xbox, Xbox 360 and the Xbox logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.Epic, Epic Games, Gears of War and Gears of War 3 are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the United States of America and elsewhere. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 		Safe Harbor 		This press release contains forward-looking statements about the Company's business prospects that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The Company assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "should," "plan," "goal," "believe," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: the ability to maintain or renew the Company's licenses; competitive developments affecting the Company's current products; first party price reductions; the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally; difficulties or delays in manufacturing; or a downturn in the market or industry. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Canadian Securities Administrators.
 