
 
 Mad Catz is, quite literally, gearing up for the Wii U's impending holiday launch. Aligned neatly with Nintendo's keynote at E3 today, the accessory maker's outing a host of peripherals intended to play nicely with the gaming titan's next gen, tablet-y splash. Prospective early adopters eyeing what the Big N's selling can look forward to a pair of Wiimote- and Wii U GamePad-compatible Power Up ChargeDocks, a FlipStand protective cover and a TRITTON Kunai headset which will also work across Sony's current gaming platforms. There's no pricing available yet for this add-on kit, but the lineup should make its market bow in step with the console's looming launch. Hit up the break to peruse the official pressers.



  Show full PR text   Mad Catz® Announces New Range of Wii U™ Products  Range Includes a New TRITTON™ Stereo Gaming Headset and Mad Catz Charging Solutions

   San Diego – June 5, 2012 – Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) announced today a full range of products compatible with the forthcoming Wii U console from Nintendo.

   The full line-up of Wii U compatible products is expected to ship in time for the launch of the console and includes the TRITTON Kunai™ Stereo Gaming Headset, PowerUp™ ChargeDock and the FlipStand™ Protective Cover.

   "We're excited to supporting Wii U with a full range of accessories including our new headset," said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. "The new range is part of our strategy to bring innovative products to passionate consumers."

   Additional information available at: www.madcatz.com/wiiu

   Show full PR text   Mad Catz® Announces New Range of TRITTON™ Kunai™ Stereo Gaming Headsets  New Headset Range Available for Multiple Gaming Platforms

   San Diego – June 05, 2012 – Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) announced today the Kunai range of stereo gaming headsets being released under the Company's TRITTON audio brand.

   The Kunai headset is expected to be available this Holiday on the Wii U™ console from Nintendo, the Nintendo 3DS™ hand-held system, the PlayStation® Vita portable entertainment system, and the PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system from Sony.

   Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. stated, "The release of the Kunai range expands our TRITTON gaming headsets to all major hand-held, console, and PC gaming platforms."

   Additional information available at: www.madcatz.com/kunai

 
