
After previewing its Android micro-console at this year's E3, Mad Catz is finally ready to attach a ship date and price to the M.O.J.O. Clearly meant to take on rival efforts like the Ouya and Shield, the M.O.J.O. is an open platform that's compatible with Tegra Zone (thanks to the Tegra 4 inside), Google Play and Amazon Appstore games. In fact, the console will come pre-loaded with both Google and NVIDIA's dedicated games portals when it ships on December 10th.


Mad Catz has also shed some light on what's going on within the M.O.J.O., revealing the aforementioned Tegra 4 CPU running Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean, along with 2GB RAM, 16GB of internal storage (expandable via SDXC to an additional 128GB), as well as support for Bluetooth 4.0 and WiFi a/b/g/n. As for ports, the M.O.J.O.'s backside is loaded up with 1x USB 3.0, 1x USB 2.0, HDMI out for 1080p support, a slot for microSD, 3.5mm headphone jack and Ethernet.


Previously, the company's site also made mention of support for PC-based streaming (see the image embedded after the break), as originally noted by Gamasutra, however any mention of said functionality has currently been stripped and Mad Catz has yet to issue a comment on the matter. Regardless, when the M.O.J.O. and its C.T.R.L.R. controller (which can be used as a standalone with supported Android phones) ships later this year, it'll only be in "limited quantities." Meaning you best plunk down $250 (or £220 in the UK) for a pre-order now or risk a holiday season without the comfort of big screen Android gaming.




Show full PR textMad Catz® Sets Price and Launch Date for Its Highly-Anticipated M.O.J.O.™ Micro-Console™ for Android™
SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT/ TSX: MCZ) announced today that it will launch its M.O.J.O. Micro-Console for Android, in limited quantities, on December 10, 2013. Mad Catz also announced that it has begun accepting pre-orders with a MSRP of $249.99.

"The M.O.J.O. Micro-Console for Android has attracted strong interest due to its high-performance hardware, open software platform and the ecosystem of accessories," said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. "M.O.J.O. is the center piece of our GameSmart™ mobile initiative and brings core gaming experiences to the mobile platform."

Confirmed specifications for M.O.J.O. include an NVIDIA® Tegra®4 T40S 1.8GHz Processor, 2GB RAM, 16GB internal storage, HDMI out capabilities with full 1080p resolution, Bluetooth, microSD™ Flash Slot with Support for SDXC™ Cards up to 128GB, Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n and the Android 4.2.2 operating system.

For additional information and to pre-order, please visit: www.madcatz.com/mojo/


