
  You don't nab the exclusive rights to create Xbox 360 branded headphones and not put some theoretical hutzpah into it: at E3 this week, Mad Catz is showing off a trio of co-branded Tritton / Xbox 360 cans, or at least a trio of fragile plastic facsimiles. These three mock-ups the Catz crew showed us represent the physical design of the Warhead, Devastator, and Detonator models of the co-branded line of headsets -- sporting wireless Dobly 7.1 surround sound, wireless analog, and USB connectivity, respectively. While all three models promise a slew of special sound features, the two wireless models have an exclusive shine: Xbox 360 microphone support without tethering themselves to the console's controller or using a chat dongle. Not that we got to hear for ourselves; the mock-ups were non-functional, and fragile enough that show staff wasn't feeling our enthusiasm for an ears-on demo. Still, we could dig ditching headset-to-controller leashes. Check out the gallery below to see all the bells, whistles, and switches, or hit the break for some meaty PR.




  Show full PR text  Mad Catz® Announces New Range of Xbox 360® Co-Branded, Licensed Headsets  First Stereo and Dolby® Surround Headsets to Support Wireless Chat and Audio for the Xbox 360  E3 Expo 2011  SAN DIEGO & LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (AMEX/TSX: MCZ), announced today a new exclusive range of co-branded, licensed audio headsets for the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system. The headsets will be co-branded under the TRITTON® and Xbox 360 brands and will include two wireless headsets and a wired headset.  Darren Richardson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz commented, "Gaming audio is an important part of our business and will be a key growth driver for our fiscal 2012. Furthermore, we believe that our audio products could account for 40-50% of our sales in the next 12-18 months."  Expected to begin shipping world-wide in time for the holiday 2011 season, the headset lineup includes:  TRITTON Warhead™ 7.1 Dolby Wireless Surround Headset for Xbox 360  The TRITTON Warhead 7.1 Dolby Wireless Surround Headset is expected to be the world's first truly wireless Dolby 7.1 surround sound headset for Xbox 360, with no wire from the headset to the Xbox 360 controller.  Truly Wireless – Utilizes Xbox 360's secure Wireless Xbox Live voice communications (no cable to the controller) 5.8Ghz Wireless Technology - Clear surround sound without interference from wireless devices (range 33ft/10m) Dolby Headphone 7.1 Surround Sound – Expands native stereo and 5.1 game and movie audio to immersive 7.1 surround sound 50mm Neodymium Drivers – Precision tuned and balanced speakers Two Hot-Swappable Rechargeable Battery Packs – Change batteries on the fly for endless gaming Selective Voice Monitoring (SVM) - Allows the gamer to enable or disable the ability to hear their own voice Audio Control - Independent voice and game volume controls with mic and game mute Built-in EQ – Gamer can choose from pre-defined equalizer settings for movies and games Designed for Extended Play – Padded adjustable headband and plush around-the-ear earcups Everything Needed to Connect to Any Xbox 360 – Supports both analog and digital audio connections and includes Digital Audio Adapter (for use with HDMI installations)  TRITTON Devastator™ Wireless Stereo Headset for Xbox 360  Similar to the Warhead 7.1, the TRITTON Devastator Wireless Stereo Headset delivers a truly wireless audio gaming experience and Selective Voice Monitoring (SVM). The Devastator specific features include: clear, balanced stereo sound, analog input, and powered by two included AA alkaline batteries.  TRITTON Detonator™ Stereo Headset for Xbox 360  The TRITTON Detonator Stereo Headset's unique wired design supports both gaming on the Xbox 360 and can be used with MP3 players and phones.  Wired Stereo Headset provides clear, stereo sound Selective Voice Monitoring (SVM) - Allows the gamer to enable or disable the ability to hear their own voice 50mm Neodymium Drivers – Precision tuned and balanced speakers Audio Control - Independent voice and game mute and volume through wired in-line remote MP3 Player and Phones Support – 3.5mm jack supports both media playback and voice communications Designed for Extended Play – Padded adjustable headband and plush around-the-ear earcups  Everything Needed to Connect to Any Xbox 360 – Supports analog audio connections and includes Analog Audio Adapter (for use with HDMI installations)  Additional information is available at www.madcatz.com
 