
 
 After introducing the world to its GameSmart crossplatform hardware initiative last week just ahead of CES 2013, Mad Catz today revealed exactly what that'll mean for consumers: several of the company's peripherals are being reappropriated for use across mobile, PC, and Mac platforms. That includes the R.A.T. mouse, the F.R.E.Q. headset, the M.O.U.S.9 wireless mouse, and the C.T.R.L.R. wireless gamepad, all of which are being branded into the GameSmart line. Beyond the PC / Mac / mobile applications of these devices, Mad Catz says "some" are also designed for console use without going into specifics -- we'll be sure to ask Mad Catz about that when we get our first hands-on with the line of GameSmart peripherals this evening. All four devices become available "in a range of distinctive colors" to the general public in "early 2013."




  Show full PR text    MAD CATZ® ANNOUNCES NEW RANGE OF MOBILE GAMING PRODUCTS FOR PC, MAC AND SMART DEVICES  First GameSmart™ Products Include R.A.T.M Gaming Mouse, F.R.E.Q.M Wired Stereo Headset, M.O.U.S.9 Wireless Mouse, and C.T.R.L.R Wireless GamePad  San Diego – January 7, 2013 – Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) announced today a new range of products featuring the Company's new GameSmart™ technology. Initial products in the range include the R.A.T.M mobile gaming mouse, the F.R.E.Q.M headset, the M.O.U.S.9 wireless mouse, and the C.T.R.L.R wireless gamepad.  In addition to delivering leading edge gaming performance on PC, Mac and in some instances consoles, GameSmart products are designed to extend the core gaming experience to supporting smart devices. GameSmart offers mobile game developers and publishers standardization, ease of implementation and scalability when enabling controller and console-like accessory functionality in mobile games. GameSmart control products will function through the Bluetooth® Smart stack, will be game and hardware independent, and will feature simplified setup, longer battery life and universal compatibility.  The R.A.T.M is the first mouse to combine Bluetooth Smart technology and a gaming grade laser sensor, providing market leading battery life, universal compatibility and the performance expected from a R.A.T. gaming mouse. Delivering up to a one year battery life, the R.A.T.M is compatible with a multitude of devices from PC and Mac through to next generation TV's and tablets. For devices that do not feature Bluetooth Smart mouse support, the R.A.T.M comes equipped with a nano dongle. For platforms running Windows® 8 with native Bluetooth Smart mouse support, the R.A.T.M can be connected directly. The R.A.T.M features an adjustable palm rest, 12 action buttons (10 of which are programmable), and a power efficient 6400DPI twin-eye laser sensor. The R.A.T.M uses an all new Windows® and Mac compatible drag-and-drop programming interface, allowing gamers to intuitively program commands with speed. In addition, the R.A.T.M is app-enabled, allowing for future configuration via a smart device app.  The F.R.E.Q.M is the first mobile headset in the F.R.E.Q. audio line, featuring rich stereo sound and a lightweight aluminum chassis which folds away for easy transport. The F.R.E.Q.M comes with two unique in-line cables, one for use with PC or Mac and the other for use with smart devices and some consoles; each providing the user with different functionality.  The M.O.U.S.9, with striking aesthetics based upon the Company's award-winning R.A.T. gaming mouse, has been simplified for everyday use and features new Bluetooth® Smart technology and a laser sensor capable of tracking on virtually any surface, including glass. Delivering up to a one year battery life, the M.O.U.S.9 is compatible with a multitude of devices from PC and Mac through to next generation TV's and tablets. For devices that do not have Bluetooth Smart mouse support, the M.O.U.S.9 comes equipped with a nano dongle. For platforms running Windows 8 with native Bluetooth Smart mouse support, the M.O.U.S.9 can be connected directly. The M.O.U.S.9 features an adjustable palm rest and uses an all new Windows® and Mac compatible drag-and-drop programming interface, allowing gamers to intuitively program commands with speed, featuring profiles for many home and office applications such as Adobe® Creative Suite and Microsoft® Office. The M.O.U.S.9 is app-enabled, allowing for future configuration via a smart device app.  The C.T.R.L.R is inspired by the Company's critically acclaimed MLG Pro Circuit Controller and will bring console-like functionality to smart devices. Equipped with dual analog sticks, triggers, media controls, shoulder and action buttons, the C.T.R.L.R connects via Bluetooth Smart technology and brings a fully featured console-like experience to any compatible device. The C.T.R.L.R is app-enabled and can be configured via a smart device app.  "Our GameSmart initiative aims to enable core gaming on smart devices, similar to the console living room or PC gaming experience. We're committed to adding smart device compatibility to our core gaming products wherever practical and to playing a pivotal role in bringing core gaming to the mobile platform," said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. "We are excited about the new range and believe it fits perfectly with our long-term strategy of designing innovative products for passionate gamers."  The R.A.T.M, F.R.E.Q.M, M.O.U.S.9, and C.T.R.L.R are each expected to be available in a range of distinctive colors in early 2013.  Additional information available at: HYPERLINK "http://www.madcatz.com/gamesmart" www.madcatz.com/gamesmart  About Mad Catz  Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) is a global provider of innovative interactive entertainment products marketed under its Mad Catz® (gaming), Tritton® (audio), and Saitek® (simulation) brands. Mad Catz also develops flight simulation software through its internal ThunderHawk Studios™; operates flight simulation centers under its Saitek brand; publishes games under its Mad Catz brand; and distributes games and videogame products for third parties. Mad Catz distributes its products through most leading retailers offering interactive entertainment products and has offices in North America, Europe and Asia. For additional information please go to www.madcatz.com.  Social Media  HYPERLINK "http://www.facebook.com/MadCatzInc" HYPERLINK "http://twitter.com/MadCatzInc" HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/MadCatzCompany"  Safe Harbor  This press release contains forward-looking statements about the Company's business prospects that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The Company assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "should," "plan," "goal," "believe," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: the ability to maintain or renew the Company's licenses; competitive developments affecting the Company's current products; first party price reductions; the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally; difficulties or delays in manufacturing; or a downturn in the market or industry. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Canadian Securities Administrators.  Source  Mad Catz Interactive, Inc.

 
