
 
If we didn't already know those cats were mad about customizable controllers, we just got a reminder: the Mad Catz Major League Gaming Pro-Circuit Controllers. These professional-grade PS3 and Xbox 360 controllers allow competitive gamers to adjust the gamepad's weight and swap out key components -- such as exchanging the controller's analog stick for a D-pad. Want your PS3 controller to have a Xbox 360 layout? No problem. If the insane kitty's ambitious Onza competitor isn't your thing, check out the MLG Tournament Edition Fightstick, featuring the same Sanwa Denshi components used in Japanese arcade cabinets. It may not have its sibling's stick-swapping action, but its 13-foot controller cable, classic layout, and left-right stick toggle mode (for emulating the missing analog thumbstick) still aims to please. The Arcade Fightstick can be had now at the GameShark store to the tune of $160, but the Pro-Circuit gamepads aren't due out until closer to the end of the year. Hit the break for a pair of extra pictures and the standard PR.
      

 

    		Show full PR text  Mad Catz Announces New Range of Licensed Major League Gaming Professional Video Game Controllers 		Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (AMEX/TSX: MCZ) announced today a new range of licensed Major League Gaming ("MLG") professional video game controllers for use with the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft® and the PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system from Sony®. The new range of premium controllers will be unveiled for the first time at the MLG Pro Circuit at the Raleigh Convention Center taking place from August 26-28, and are expected to ship in time for Holiday 2011. 		"Our new range of MLG products demonstrate our continued ability to produce highly specialized gaming products for passionate consumers" 		"Our new range of MLG products demonstrate our continued ability to produce highly specialized gaming products for passionate consumers," said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. "We are very excited to work with MLG, the world's largest competitive gaming organization on a project which continues in the tradition of our highly successful range of Tournament Edition Arcade FightSticks." 		The new range of licensed products include the Major League Gaming Pro-Circuit Controller which allows gamers to customize key components of the controller, and the Major League Gaming Arcade FightStick Tournament Edition which utilizes genuine arcade grade Sanwa Denshi™ components.
 