
Maingear's normal method of constructing a gaming notebook works something a little like this: 1. Grab a Clevo chassis, 2. Crowbar as much high-power tech it can. For the Pulse 17, however, the company has decided to follow a different path. Abandoning Clevo's hardware, the company has crafted a 17-inch laptop that'll put a dent in your wallet and your friend's egos. This self-styled "world's thinnest" gaming notebook comes with a Haswell Core i7 4700HQ clocked at 2.4GHz, but which'll push all the way up to 3.4GHz when required, in addition to a GeForce GTX 765M with 2GB RAM and a staggering 16GB RAM. Up front, your eyes will be staring into a 17.3-inch 1,920 x 1,080 widescreen display, and users will have a choice of a 1TB HDD or a pair of 480GB SSDs in a Raid 0 configuration. Systems go on sale from today and will start from $2,099 -- with prices increasing depending on your build-to-order choices, naturally.



Show full PR textTHE MAINGEAR PULSE 17: ALL THE POWER AND PERFORMANCE YOU WANT IN A THIN 17-INCH NOTEBOOK
Kenilworth, New Jersey – November 4th 2013 - MAINGEAR announced today the launch of the new Pulse 17 laptop. Following the Pulse 14, the Pulse 17 offers the worlds thinnest 17" gaming notebook with the very best in mobile hardware components packaged in an unparalleled compact form factor.

Best of the Best:The extremely lightweight Pulse 17 weights less than 6lbs and embodies the best MAINGEAR has to offer in performance and style to offer the ultimate mobile gaming notebook. This product features the Intel® CoreTM i7 4700HQ mobile processor that can be boosted from 2.4GHz to 3.4GHz using Intel Turbo Boost 2.0, a NVIDIA GeForce GTX 765M with 2GB video memory that offers stunning visuals and life-like physics, and a built-in subwoofer and surround speaker package powered by Sound Blaster Cinema that delivers the most satisfying sound stage to be found on a notebook. The Pulse 17 packs more power and performance into a thinner profile than any other notebook.

Speed Matters:Gamers can also minimize load times with a RAID 0 Solid State hard drive array that can maximize read speeds over 900MB/s and get connectivity with Killer™ Doubleshot networking optimization over wired and wireless Ethernet that offers up to 5x better latency and has the power to handle multiple data streams at once. With the Visual Bandwidth Control, gamers can control what streams are doing in real-time for superior control over their bandwidth that offers unrivalled hardware and software technology for your notebook Wi-Fi and Ethernet connections.

With all this performance, the Pulse 17 stays also cool and quiet yet efficient with a precision-tuned dual fan thermal cooling solution for optimal airflow. The automated cooler boost feature cleverly adjusts airflow during extreme gaming sessions to the system cool for those long gaming sessions.

Customize Style:The Pulse 17 is a perfect combination of functionality and design encased in a brushed aluminum shell and has a backlit keyboard that features a full range of color option with five pre-set color schemes or can be customized to over thousands of color combination so gamers can stylize to their hearts content. On the outside, there are three default choices of design with MAINGEAR's M.A.R.C. laser engraving to choose from that offers a clean and elegant design or a custom design can be submitted to get any artwork etched of their liking.

"MAINGEAR's Pulse 17 notebook with Intel's Core i7 mobile processor and Intel Turbo Boost technology is the perfect combination to offer accelerated performance for the most demanding applications such as gaming." said Chris Silva, Director of Marketing for Premium Notebooks at Intel Corporation."

"The MAINGEAR Pulse 17 is thin, fast and sexy," said Brian Choi, senior product manager for notebook GPUs at NVIDIA. 'With the power of the NVIDIA Kepler-based GeForce GTX 765M, the MAINGEAR Pulse 17 plays the most demanding games on high settings at HD resolutions, and does it in a super thin chassis."

"The launch of the Pulse 17 is the perfect thin and light gaming PC in a 17" compact form factor. We love the sleekness, performance and quality of this notebook and are very proud to be able to offer this to our customers." said Wallace Santos, CEO and Founder of MAINGEAR. "We continue to offer the best configurations options available on this notebook, and know that many gamers will love the unique features such as the control backlit keyboard and the Killer™ Gaming Nic."

Technical Specification:Video Card: NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 765MDisplay: 17.3" Full HD 1920 x 1080 - (1080p) Widescreen (16:9 Aspect Ratio) LED BacklitProcessor: Intel® Core i7 4700HQMemory: 16GB Dual Channel DDR3 - 1600MhzHard Drive: Up to 1TB HDD and 2x 480GBGB Solid State DriveNetwork Adapter: Killer™ Gaming NIC, 802.11n Wireless, optional 802.11acAudio: 2 speakers, 1 sub-wooferMedia Card Reader: Built in 7-in-1 Media Card Reader (MMC/RSMMC/MS/MS Pro/MS Duo/SD/Mini-SD)Operating System: Genuine Windows® 8 Home, Professional or Ultimate 64-BitBattery: Removable Li-Polymer Lithium-IonI/O Ports: 1 HDMI out, 4 USB 3.0, 2 mini display ports, , 1 RJ-45 LANDimensions: (W)16.47" x (H)0.85" x (D)11.29"Price: Starts at $2099Available in good, better, best configurations, gamers can choose their level, customize their exterior style and receive lifetime labor and phone support with one to three year hardware warranty. For more information about MAINGEAR's Pulse 17 notebook, go to www.maingear.com/pulse17


