
 In a move to make its desktops more palatable to the masses, Maingear is bringing AMD's integrated A-Series APUs to its F131 tower and X-Cube desktop PCs. Upon learning the news, we took a peek at the manufacturer's website and found a customizable X-Cube available with a $649 starting price, which compares favorably to its $939 Intel counterpart. Unfortunately, the company has yet to update its website with AMD customization options for the F131. Regardless, we're told that shoppers can expect to find both standard and Black Edition options for AMD's chips, the latter which should appeal to overclockers. To scope out the company's latest gear, just hit up the source link below.



  Show full PR text   MAINGEAR ADDS AMD'S A-SERIES APU TO DESKTOP LINEUP FOR AFFORDABLE PERFORMANCE   Kenilworth, New Jersey – October 2, 2012 (8:01am EST) - MAINGEAR, an award-winning PC system builder of custom desktops, notebooks, and workstations, now offers PC enthusiasts the AMD A-series CPU technology in their desktop systems.   MAINGEAR is one of the first to offer the option of choosing AMD's mainstream or Black Edition series APU solutions, which is AMD's latest multicore CPU technology that offers premium AMD Radeon™ graphics technology combined on one chip. PC enthusiasts, gamers and small businesses will be able to experience accelerated performance with the 2nd generation AMD A-Series processors without breaking the bank.   AMD's A-Series processors offer more speed and cores featuring AMD's Turbo Core 3.0 technology to give smoother and better video and takes advantage of AMD Radeon™ graphics that offers exclusive AMD features such as 1080p up-scaling, image enhancements and video stabilization with AMD Steady Video. Since the A-series takes advantage of AMD's discrete graphics cards, the new APUs also support AMD's Eyefinity monitor technology and also include full support for 16x PCI Express 2.0, which lets users install discrete graphics cards running at full bandwidth. The AMD A-Series K models processors also allow for the ability to overclock for more speed, and offers future upgrades without the expensive price.   These multi-core CPU technology solutions from AMD are available on the F131 and X-Cube MAINGEAR desktops. All MAINGEAR products are supported with lifetime labor and phone support in the US, along with one to three year hardware warranty options. For more information about MAINGEAR's desktops with AMD A-Series CPU solutions, click here. (www.maingear.com/amdAPU2)   "The AMD A-series brings a whole new dimension of price to performance options to our customer." said Wallace Santos, CEO and Founder of MAINGEAR. "With AMD's A-Series, PC enthusiast and gamers will love the multicore CPU technology performance as well as the affordable price."

 
