
Haswell-infused devices have been stepping out from behind curtains for the past few days, and now Maingear's ready to unveil its latest gaming notebook with Intel's fresh silicon: the Pulse 14. Each configuration of the rig comes decked out with a quad-core Core i7 processor clocked at 2.2GHz, a GeForce GTX 760M graphics card with 4GB of GDDR5 memory, 2.1-channel speakers and a 14-inch, 1,600x900 resolution display. As for connectivity, an SD card slot, HDMI, VGA, Ethernet and three USB 3.0 ports all come standard with the machine. Extracting $1,299 from your wallet will net you a respectable 8GB of DDR3 RAM and a 500GB hybrid drive. Ponying up $1,399 will nab you a 1TB HDD with a 32GB caching SSD, while shelling out $1,699 brings in 16GB of RAM and two 128GB solid state drives in Raid 0 backed by a 1TB hard drive. Take a gander at the laptop in the bordering gallery or hit the break for more details in the press release.





Show full PR textMAINGEAR adds a 14" laptop powerhouse delivering the best in 3D graphics for gaming on the go with the new Pulse 14.
Kenilworth, New Jersey – June 5th, 2013 - MAINGEAR, an award-winning PC system builder offering custom desktops, notebooks, workstations, is now adding the Pulse 14 high performance ultraportable notebook solution to their product line and is unparalleled in its class and size for PC gamers and PC enthusiasts who do not want to sacrifice speed or performance on the go.
The MAINGEAR Pulse 14 combines a unique laptop design featuring the latest mobile technology with Intel's 4th Generation Core processors that delivers the perfect combination of performance, power efficiency, and portability. The Pulse 14 also utilizes NVIDIA® GeForce GTX 760M graphics with 4GB of GDDR5 memory to deliver tremendous 3D gaming capabilities. All of this power and performance is wrapped up in a svelte 14" package with a 1600x900 resolution display, the perfect resolution for the included GPU to allow for high levels of detail, geometry, and texture resolution in the latest and most demanding PC games.
In continuing the trend of high performance in a tiny package, the Pulse 14 can also be outfitted with dual mSATA SSD drives in RAID 0 arrays of up to 960GB, almost twice the size and more than twice the speed of even the most expensive versions of competing laptops in this size category. In addition, a 2.5" 2TB SATA disk drive can be installed for additional storage, bringing the total number of installed drives to three, a sum previously only seen in larger form-factors. An optional optical drive can take the place of the dual mSATA drives for those gamers who still have physical media they rely on. The Pulse 14 also comes feature-packed with three USB 3.0 ports, HDMI, an SD card reader, and immersive 2.1 speakers with Creative Sound Blaster Cinema.
There are three levels of performance to choose from that flexibility in memory and hard drive options.
Not only is the Pulse 14 powerful and efficient on the inside, but MAINGEAR offers the very best in optional automotive paint finish in a variety of colors that are hand painted for flawless perfection all around. The only boutique manufacturer to own and operate its own automotive spray-booth; MAINGEAR PCs receive the same Glasurit paint found on the world's supercars. All of MAINGEAR products are supported with lifetime labor and phone support with one to three year hardware warranty. For more information about MAINGEAR's Pulse 14 custom laptop, go to www.maingear.com/pulse14.
"With the new 4th generation Intel® Core™ i7 mobile processor in MAINGEAR's Pulse 14 offers extraordinary PC performance and efficiency that gives PC gamers what they are looking for; with more battery life, more security features, better visuals in the most demanding applications." said Brent McCray, Worldwide Enthusiast Marketing Manager of Intel.
"The Pulse 14 follows our mantra of offering the very best mobile solution lineup from MAINGEAR." Said Wallace Santos, CEO and Co-founder of MAINGEAR Computers. "Offering a small but powerful laptop with the power of the latest 4th generation Intel® Core™ i7 and i5 mobile processor combined with an NVIDIA discreet mobile graphics card, this is the perfect laptop for PC gamers, multimedia users and business users."

