
Looking for your next 3D-printing project while roaming the streets just got a bit easier as MakerBot has released an iOS app for oogling creations in the Thingiverse. The free app allows users to browse the repository for featured, popular, new and recently made items. There's also the ability to like projects and add them to collections for closer inspection later. As you might expect, social media and email sharing are baked in as well as photo uploads of 3D outputs for show and tell. The app requires iOS 6 or later and is available for makers now via iTunes.



Show full PR textMakerBot Thingiverse Launches IOS AppFirst Mobile App by MakerBot Expands 3D Printing Ecosystem and Accessibility to Thingiverse.com

Brooklyn, N.Y., October 17, 2013 -- The MakerBot® Thingiverse® 3D Design Community now has a mobile app! As of today, the ability to access 3D design files from MakerBot's Thingiverse just got a whole lot easier. The new MakerBot Thingiverse IOS app available for download from the App Store. This is the first mobile app for MakerBot Thingiverse.

The MakerBot Thingiverse app is designed to allow you to easily search and explore Thingiverse, the world's largest 3D printing community, from the comfort of... everywhere! The app lets you browse featured 3D designs, and new and noteworthy items, which have been selected by the Thingiverse community based on popularity. When viewing 3D designs, the user can scroll through beautiful slideshows of detail photos. Like, collect and quickly share directly from the app to your social networks or email them to friends.

"Launching the MakerBot Thingiverse IOS app has been a goal of ours and we are pretty psyched to launch it today," said Bre Pettis, CEO of MakerBot. "We encourage everyone to download the Thingiverse app and be a part of the Next Industrial Revolution that is being fueled by 3D printing."

Some of the great features of the new Thingiverse app include uploading photos, which makes it simple to share images of your 3D prints or update your profile and cover images from your phone. A Dashboard offers a carousel of featured things and Dashboard updates. The Explore function allows you to scroll through the latest and greatest things on Thingiverse and see new and noteworthy items uploaded to the site, featured items, popular items, made items, and have the ability to like and add items to your collections, then share with your social networks. There are also Thing detail screens that have photos of items, full screen slideshows of the designs, descriptions, instructions and license information. The Use profile offers cover images, a custom avatar and description of the Thingiverse member; you can also follow other users, and see designs and made things based on profiles. Search is also included so you can find your favorite designs and search on topics or browse through the expansive Thingiverse library. When you print an item from Thingiverse, the app also provides an opportunity to take a photo, upload it and associate the image with a Thingiverse thing from your download history, collections, favorites or search. You can also add a description, then share to Facebook, Twitter and Instagram or save to your camera roll. Thingiverse settings are also accessible via the app.

MakerBot's Thingiverse is the 3D Design Community for discovering, printing and sharing 3D models. It is the best and largest place to discover and print 3D models and contains the world's largest 3D printing community with more than 120,000 members and 100,000+ and growing downloadable digital designs of free 3D models, with more than 38 million file downloads. MakerBot's Thingiverse website and app are a great place to learn about 3D printing, share ideas, customize 3D prints, remix and collaborate. There are even MakerBot Thingiverse superstar designers that share their design files, which you can download, print, share and get inspired.

To learn more about MakerBot Thingiverse and the new IOS Thingiverse app, visit Thingiverse.com or download today in the App Store.


