
 
 It's been a year since the legendary guitar amp and speaker makers at Marshall Amplification made a splash in consumer audio with its Marshall Headphones spin-off (Zound / Urbanears). In commemorence of the amplification division's 50th anniversary, both have announced the Hanwell: Marshall's first speaker rig that's made for a counter-top instead of a festival stage. The Hanwell's design essentially stems from that of a combo guitar amp / speaker, but you won't be able to plug in your guitar, however, as it's specifically made for pumping out the sounds of your music collection. Most anyone who plays guitar, or has seen the likes of Slash and Nigel Tufnel shredding it up, will immediately recognize the iconic Marshall design ethic down to its iconic plastic nameplate on the front grill and gold accents.

 There's no major tech at play inside of the system, but with looks this cool it's not like it matters -- hopefully, the sound quality will match. Up top there's a familiar panel housing a 3.5mm input, power toggle and knobs for bass, treble and volume, while internally you'll find a duo of long-throw woofers and tweeters. The cab itself is made from wood and wrapped in black vinyl tolex like its bigger JCM siblings -- heck, it even comes with a coiled audio cable. There's no specific information beyond all of that such as pricing and availability -- especially whether "these go to 11" -- but you'll find a press release and close-up shots after the break.

 Update: We've been informed that the Hanwell will be limited to a run of just 10,000 units -- expect this to be spendy when it's finally available.



 
 

  Show full PR text     FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

  HANWELL ANNIVERSARY EDITION
  Friday, August 31, 2012 - Marshall Headphones, together with Marshall Amplification proudly announces the very first home audio product to bear Marshall's legendary script logo. Named Hanwell, this active loudspeaker embodies Marshall's legacy of loud. Hailing from a line of 50th anniversary products, the Hanwell moves Marshall's heritage of big stage performance out of the arena, and into your home.
   MORE ABOUT THE MARSHALL HANWELL
  "In 1962 Jim Marshall developed the first Marshall amplifier in his shop in Hanwell, London, England after taking time to listen to what guitar players wanted and needed," says Managing Director of Marshall Amplification, Jonathan Ellery. "From that very first amplifier, history was created and Marshall became the most iconic guitar amplifier company in the world."
  We have worked in close conjunction with Zound industries to create the first Marshall home audio product, the Hanwell. Named after the birthplace of the first Marshall amp and indeed the company, Hanwell keeps alive Marshall's tradition of listening to what the customer needs, and then exceeding their expectations."
  Konrad Bergström, President of Zound Industries (parent company of Marshall Headphones) continues, "We are excited to be a part of Marshall's legendary history. From the launch of Marshall Headphones in 2010, all the way up to the Hanwell, we have worked side by side with Marshall to ensure every detail of every product we develop meets and exceeds the expectations of both Marshall Amplification and Marshall fans around the world."
  The Sound of Hanwell:  Delivering a sound that resonates with the presence and power of live music, the Hanwell is a carefully crafted machine, designed to attain that trademark Marshall tone. Its dual long-throw woofers produce super lows, and hi-fi tweeters yield sharp extended highs, rendering the sound sharp and clear, like sitting in the front row of a concert.
  How it Looks:  The Hanwell is housed in a wooden cabinet and clad in black vinyl. It features an analog power switch and controls for volume, bass and treble. The fret cloth and gold logo on the front are borrowed from vintage Marshall amplifiers. The body is outlined with gold piping for a celebratory effect.
  As a tribute to Marshall's 50-year legacy, each Hanwell is branded with a numbered anniversary edition commemorative badge.
 
