
 There are LTE modems and there are LTE modems. Marvell's latest is of the latter sort -- the kind you don't see (or lose in your bag) but are glad to have inside your device. It's also a first, packing connectivity for FDD-LTE, TDD-LTE, HSPA+, TD-SCDMA, and EDGE networks into a single-chip design that promises to lower the cost of manufacturing said devices. If Marvell has its way, you'll also be seeing this particular modem in more than just phones and tablets -- the company also sees it being used in everything from cars to TVs and set-top boxes. Full press release is after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Marvell Announces the Industry's First Single-chip "World Modem" for Global Connectivity with Support for FDD-LTE, TDD-LTE, HSPA+, TD-SCDMA and EDGE 		Marvell's LTE world modem technology is designed to provide one of the highest mobile data rates for smartphones, tablets, laptops, TVs and other connected devices anywhere around the world 		Santa Clara, California (September 7, 2011) – Marvell (NASDAQ: MRVL), a worldwide leader in integrated silicon solutions, today announced its latest breakthrough technology for global mobile communications, the Marvell® PXA1801 single-chip LTE world modem. The PXA1801 single-chip LTE world modem combines Marvell's leading communications and silicon expertise to enable the design of a wide array of high-performance, low-power Internet-connected devices including: smartphones, tablets, laptops, automotive, set-top-boxes and TVs. The PXA1801 is a true Mobile Multi-RAT design combining 3GPP R9 Cat 4 FDD-LTE (Frequency Division Duplexing Long Term Evolution) and TDD-LTE (Time Division Duplexing Long Term Evolution) with R8 DC-HSPA+ (Dual Carrier Evolved High-Speed Packet Access) for both WB-CDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access) and TD-SCDMA (Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access) standards and EDGE (Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution) delivering the highest data rate available in any given geography. 		"The world modem is another game-changing breakthrough from Marvell. As a leader in China's 3G standard TD-SCDMA technology, Marvell has enabled the delivery of a wide array of affordable, advanced consumer devices – including smartphones, tablets and mobile hot spot devices – to China, the world's largest mobile market. Building on that foundation, Marvell is now leading the way to a new era of seamless global connectivity for the masses with the industry's first single chip 2G/3G/4G modem with support for FDD-LTE, TDD-LTE, HSPA+, TD-SCDMA, and EDGE," said Weili Dai, Marvell's Co-Founder. "I envision a time soon when a truly affordable global communications network helps to bring our world closer as consumers from every walk of life enjoy uninterrupted access to all services, applications and the worldwide cloud from any device they choose anywhere they roam. I am proud of Marvell's global team of engineers for their pioneering work and I am excited by all the potential applications our customers will have to use this versatile and affordable new technology to make the world a better place for everyone." 		Marvell's solution is designed to deliver superior technical performance and extreme flexibility at a much lower cost of implementation, which is the key to mass adoption of this new standard on a global basis. Widespread implementation of the world modem should both alleviate today's overly strained 3G networks and bring unprecedented service to a potential market of more than two billion new consumers. As 3G will continue to play a prominent role in data communications for the next several years, Marvell has integrated advanced R8 WCDMA HSPA+ (42 Mbps DL) and R8 TD-SCDMA HSPA+ (8.4 Mbps DL) capability ensuring that consumers have the highest performance access to their data regardless of infrastructure availability in any one location. 		Additionally, as LTE plays a major role in allowing the cellular infrastructure to scale and meet the growing demands for streaming video and data traffic, Marvell's advanced LTE technology is designed to support the highest levels of performance available in the industry today with Category 4 throughputs of 150 Mbps DL (Down Link). Through its support of release 9 features, such as dual layer beamforming, Marvell LTE substantially enhances signal reception as seen by the users. Supporting all channel bandwidths, including FDD-LTE/TDD-LTE configurations, SISO and MIMO operation, Marvell's LTE technology is designed to provide the flexibility required to meet the worldwide needs of the growing mobile data market. 		About Marvell 		Marvell is a world leader in the development of storage, communications and consumer silicon solutions. Marvell's diverse product portfolio includes switching, transceiver, communications controller, wireless and storage solutions that power the entire communications infrastructure, including enterprise, metro, home and storage networking. As used in this release, the term "Marvell" refers to Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries. For more information, visit Marvell.com. 		Marvell and the M logo are registered trademarks of Marvell and/or its affiliates. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 