
 
 We don't have any more details yet on the 10-disc Marvel Cinematic Universe set that popped up on Amazon a month ago, but Disney and Marvel have revealed we can expect Marvel's The Avengers on Blu-ray September 25th. It will be shipping in the usual assortment of combo packs: four disc with Blu-ray 3D, Blu-ray, DVD, Digital copy and digital download or two disc Blu-ray and DVD combo for $50 / $40 MSRP (respectively, Amazon currently lists the four disc set for $35). What will arrive first this month however, is The Avengers Initiative: A Marvel Second Screen App, available on iPad and, for the first time for one of Disney's second screen apps, iPhone. Marvel is promising bi-weekly content updates until September when it moves up to weekly updates of character profiles, interactive comic books and more before the movie even arrives. Extras on disc will include 7.1 DTS-HD MA audio, a gag reel, behind the scenes looks with director Joss Whedon and cast, deleted scenes and more. Check the press release after the break for the full list, plus a new trailer for the Blu-ray.



  Show full PR text   THE RECORD-SHATTERING MOVIE  ASSEMBLES AS YOU'VE NEVER SEEN IT BEFORE ON BLU-RAY 3DTM, BLU-RAYTM, DVD, DIGITAL & ON-DEMAND, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012  And For The First Time Ever, Marvel Launches An All-New Second Screen App That Provides Fans With Unprecedented Access To Exclusive Content  BURBANK, Calif. June 29, 2012- Coming this fall, the third highest-grossing movie of all time and the #1 movie in the world, "Marvel's The Avengers" assembles as you've never seen it before on Blu-ray 3DTM, Blu-rayTM, DVD, Digital and On-Demand platforms on September 25, 2012. In anticipation of this release, Marvel is also launching an all-new App in July - "The Avengers Initiative: A Marvel Second Screen App" (available for the first time on iPhone) – that gives fans unprecedented access to exclusive content building up to the home entertainment release.  The announcement comes as "Marvel's The Avengers" crossed the incredible $600 million domestic box office threshold on June 26 – only the third film in history to do so. It has now grossed an estimated $1.44 billion globally.  Providing viewers with the ultimate in-home experience, the premium 4-Disc Blu-ray Combo Pack provides 5-unique ways to enjoy "Marvel's The Avengers" (on Blu-ray 3D, Blu-ray, DVD, Digital Copy and Digital Download of "Avengers Assembled" Music from and inspired by the film) and brings to life the Super Hero team-up of a lifetime in a whole new dimension on Blu-ray hi-def with stunning visual effects, superior sound and unparalleled bonus content.  Extras include a gag reel, a first for a Marvel Studios film, the chance to hear from the cast and Joss Whedon on their experiences in bringing these larger than life characters to the big screen, a behind-the- scenes look at the groundbreaking visual effects and stunning cinematography, the creation of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Helicarrier, Soundgarden's "Live to Rise" Music Video, deleted scenes and more!  Also for the first time ever, fans will be able to enjoy even more of the Marvel Universe via the all-new "The Avengers Initiative: A Marvel Second Screen App." By downloading this onto a secondary device, consumers will be able to gain unprecedented access to exclusive content building up to the home entertainment release on September 25. Pieces will be unleashed bi-weekly in July & August and weekly in September leading up to a full immersive experience accompanying the film on Blu-ray. Content includes special access to the S.H.I.E.L.D. database, becoming a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, invitations to "special missions" either remotely or in the field, links to character profiles, stories and scenes, interactive Marvel digital reader comic books and more. App owners will receive push notifications whenever new content is uploaded and available for their viewing.

   The full range of "Marvel's The Avengers" home entertainment offerings and bonus features are as follows:

   PACKAGING & BONUS FEATURES:  4-Disc Combo Pack (Blu-ray 3D+Blu-ray+DVD+Digital Copy+Digital Download of the "Inspired By" album) Bonus Includes:  DISC SPECIFICATIONS:  Street Date: September 25, 2012 (Direct Prebook: 7/31; Distrib. Prebook: 8/14) Suggested Retail 4-Disc Blu-ray Combo Pack = $49.99 U.S./$59.99 Canada Pricing: 2-Disc Blu-ray Combo Pack =$39.99 U.S./$46.99 Canada  1-Disc DVD = $29.99 U.S./$35.99 Canada Digital & On-Demand = please check with your television provider or favorite digital retailer for pricing Feature Run Time: 143 Minutes Ratings: U.S.: PG-13 (bonus features not rated) Aspect Ratio: Blu-ray & DVD = 1.78:1 Audio: Blu-ray 3D & Blu-ray 2D = English 7.1 DTS-HDMA, French-Canadian 7.1  DTS-HDHR, Latin Spanish 5.1 Dolby Digital, English DVS 2.0 Dolby Digital DVD = English/Latin Spanish/French Canadian 5.1 Dolby, English DVS 2.0 Dolby Digital Languages/Subtitles: English, French & Spanish

   2-Disc Combo Pack (Blu-ray + DVD) Bonus Includes:  Same as the 4-Disc Combo Pack above  1-Disc DVD Bonus Includes:  Audio Commentary-With Joss Whedon  High-Definition & Standard Definition Digital Bonus Includes:  Second Screen  Assembling the Ultimate Team  A Visual Journey  Gag Reel  Deleted Scenes  Audio Commentary-With Joss Whedon  Soundgarden Music Video-"Live to Rise"  Assembling the Ultimate Team  Second Screen  Assembling the Ultimate Team  A Visual Journey  Gag Reel  Deleted Scenes  Soundgarden Music Video-"Live to Rise"  And more!

  
