
 
The days of the shotgun modem live on with MIMO -- multiple-input and multiple-output adapters that offer numerous antennas to aggregate numerous parallel connections. Marvell just became the first to put such a solution on a tiny SoC, debuting its Avastar 88W8797 with dual 802.11n connectivity for transmission and receiving. This allows for 300Mbps transfers along with Bluetooth 4.0 and even FM transmission and reception, all built into a single chip with "advanced power management designed specifically for handheld products such as smartphones and tablets." You know what that means: shotgun WiFi in next-gen mobile devices. Yee haw!
      

 

Show full PR textMarvell Unveils Industry's First 'Mobile MIMO' Wi-Fi SolutionThe Avastar 88W8797 delivers unprecedented level of integration and power profile ideal for mobile devices like smartphones and tabletsSANTA CLARA, Calif., Feb. 10, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Marvell (Nasdaq: MRVL), a worldwide leader in integrated silicon solutions, today announced the Avastar™ 88W8797, an 802.11n 2x2 dual-band Wi-Fi System-on-Chip (SoC) designed to support high data rates for next-generation mobile devices. With Wi-Fi Tx beamforming technology, Bluetooth 4.0 low energy capabilities and FM Tx/Rx, the Avastar 88W8797 is the industry's first high-performance multiple input multiple output (MIMO) combination radio with advanced power management designed specifically for handheld products such as smartphones and tablets.(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20100719/SF36559LOGO-b)"As the promise of seamless connectivity fast becomes a reality, Wi-Fi provides a common link across many different mobile devices," said Weili Dai, Marvell's Co-Founder. "The Avastar 88W8797 represents a breakthrough for our industry: for the very first time the powerful performance of MIMO technology is now available and practical for mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. By integrating multiple cutting-edge technologies and several low-power radios into a single system-on-a- chip, the Avastar solution ushers in an exciting new era in mobile computing and communications."Poor wireless performance in first-generation tablets has been widely attributed to the limitation of single antenna design and placement. Given a tablet's unique industrial form factor, device designers and manufacturers have little flexibility in the physical location of the antenna on the device. Marvell's new Mobile MIMO technology alleviates this challenge by adding a second transceiver in a true MIMO configuration. Offering Wi-Fi data rates up to 300Mbps, the Avastar 88W8797 can double the performance available on today's mobile products, enabling new, high-bandwidth media applications regardless of the device's spatial orientation. By allowing flexibility in the placement of two antennas on the device, robust performance is ensured even if one antenna is partially or completely obstructed. The Avastar 88W8797 comes equipped with Tx beamforming technology, enabling a far more expansive network range when compared with existing 11n 2x2 products. The Avastar 88W8797 also supports the Bluetooth low-energy ecosystem, allowing communication with a new breed of mobile devices, including body sensors for personal health monitoring and remote controls for home automation and other applications. The Avastar 88W8797 is also well-suited to other products that require MIMO Wi-Fi performance such as home media servers, notebook computers, set-top-boxes, and digital televisions. Marvell will be demonstrating the Avastar 88W8797 in Barcelona at Mobile World Congress (Courtyard CY15) and is already sampling the device to customers.About MarvellMarvell (NASDAQ: MRVL) is a world leader in the development of storage, communications and consumer silicon solutions. Marvell's diverse product portfolio includes switching, transceiver, communications controller, wireless and storage solutions that power the entire communications infrastructure, including enterprise, metro, home and storage networking. As used in this release, the term "Marvell" refers to Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries. For more information, visit Marvell.com.Marvell and the M logo are registered trademarks of Marvell and/or its affiliates. Avastar is trademark of Marvell and/or its affiliates. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 