
Earlier this month, Warner Bros. announced its roadmap for DC Comics movies through 2020, and today, Marvel Studios revealed its plans as well. Basically, if you're into superhero/comic book movies, you're set for the next seven years. Need a quick rundown of all that's coming? No worries, we've got you covered. All of the box office favorites are on the list, including Avengers and Guardians of the Galaxy 2, alongside the debuts of Wonder Woman, Captain Marvel, Doctor Strange, Black Panther and more. In addition to the officially outed titles, DC Comics says that standalone Batman and Superman films will also be released during this timeframe. For the list of upcoming films, jump on past the break.


Update: Not enough for you? There's also a decent-sized preview from The Avengers: Age of Ultron that aired during Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D..





 Of course, in addition to the titles for the big screen, DC Comics has the Arrow, Constantine, Gotham and The Flash TV series with Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. in its second season on ABC. And the latter outfit has a deal in place with Netflix for "multiple original series" that will chronicle the likes of Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist and Luke Cage starting in 2015.

2015: Avengers: Age of Ultron (May 1st - Marvel) Ant-Man (July 17th - Marvel - starring Paul Rudd)2016: Batman vs. Superman: Dawn of Justice (March 25th - DC Comics - starring Ben Affleck, Henry Cavill, Amy Adams and directed by Zack Snyder) Captain America: Civil War (May 6th - Marvel - co-starring Robert Downey, Jr. as Iron Man and Chadwick Boseman as Black Panther) Suicide Squad (August 5th - DC Comics) Doctor Strange (November 4th - Marvel - rumored to star Benedict Cumberbatch)2017: Guardians of the Galaxy 2 (May 5th - Marvel) Wonder Woman (June 23rd - DC Comics - starring Gal Gadot of Fast & Furious series) Thor: Ragnarok (July 28th - Marvel) Black Panther (November 3rd - Marvel - starring Chadwick Boseman of 42) Justice League (November 17th - DC Comics - starring Ben Affleck, Henry Cavill, Amy Adams and directed by Zack Snyder)2018: The Flash (March 23rd - DC Comics) Avengers: Infinity War, Part I (May 4th - Marvel) Captain Marvel (July 6th - Marvel) Aquaman (July 27th - DC Comics - starring Jason Momoa (Khal Drogo) of Game of Thrones) Inhumans (November 2nd - Marvel)2019: Shazam (April 5th - DC Comics) Avengers: Infinity War, Part II (May 3rd - Marvel) Justice League 2 (June 14th - DC Comics)2020: Cyborg (April 3rd - DC Comics - starring Ray Fisher) Green Lantern (June 19th - DC Comics)
