
The roster for Super Smash Bros. just grew a little larger. Nintendo announced today that Street Fighter icon Ryu and Fire Emblem's Roy are joining the fight on Wii U and 3DS. They're available for $3.99 on either system, or across both for $4.99 each -- Ryu's pack also comes with a Suzaku Castle stage, if you're struggling to decide which to buy first.



Footage of both characters leaked on YouTube recently, so neither is a huge surprise. However, they're arriving today alongside the previously announced Lucas from Mother 3 and a host of new Mii fighter outfits. These include Mega Man and Zero, Isabelle from Animal Crossing, an inkling boy, girl and "squid hat" outfit from Splatoon, Heihachi from Tekken, and Jacky and Akira from Virtua Fighter. All eight costumes are available for $6, or $9.20 across both the Wii U and 3DS versions. Alternatively, you can fork out $0.75 for individual costumes on your preferred system, or $1.15 if you want them on both.

That's a ton of new playable characters -- and a huge nod to classic fighting games -- but Nintendo isn't stopping there. In its pre-E3 presentation, Smash Bros. director Masahiro Sakurai also showed off a new Dreamland stage from Kirby, as well as two retro-styled levels taken from the original Smash Bros. on the Nintendo 64. The Kirby-inspired stage is coming out today and will set you back $1.99, or $2.99 across both systems. If you fancy all of the new content, Nintendo is offering a complete DLC pack (including Ryu, Roy and Lucas) for $21.96 on either 3DS or Wii U, or $29.16 across both game versions. If that sounds a little expensive, fear not. Nintendo is also rolling out a free Miiverse stage today which shows a selection of community-created Miiverse posts in the background.


In terms of gameplay, Nintendo is planning an August update that will introduce two new tourney modes: regular tourneys and community tourneys. In the future, the company will also patch in YouTube support so that you can easily upload and share your replays. Finally, Nintendo is promising that every playable Smash Bros. character will eventually have a corresponding Amiibo figure. The next wave will arrive in September with the Mii Brawler, Mii Swordfighter and Mii Gunner, alongside R.O.B, Duck Hunt and Mr. Game & Watch. Falco will debut this holiday season, followed by Mewtwo, Lucas, Roy and Ryu some time in the future. If you're a Nintendo fan, E3 just got off to a pretty good start...


