
 We've written a few love-notes about Matias' mechanical keyboards before, which is why its CEO had to take out a restraining order. But even the threat of legal action couldn't prevent us from sharing the news that the company has updated its coveted Tactile Pro and swelled the range to include the Mini Tactile Pro. Both units come with a three-port USB 2.0 hub, while the portable version now has a secondary connector cable that you can keep stowed in your laptop bag for satisfyingly noisy typing on the go. The flagship will cost $150 and is available today, while its dinky equivalent will be available later this month for $130. Interested in learning more? Join us down town after the break. 




  Dana Murph contributed to this report.
  Show full PR text    Matias updates award-winning Tactile Pro Keyboard and releases Mini Tactile Pro

   TORONTO, Canada - Today, Matias released version 4 of its award-winning Tactile Pro Keyboard for Mac, and expanded the line with a compact model: the Mini Tactile Pro.

   Both the Tactile Pro and Mini Tactile Pro are equipped with premium ALPS mechanical keyswitches, similar to those used in the legendary Apple Extended Keyboard - widely viewed as the best keyboard Apple ever made.

   "If you long for the days when keyboards weren't flat and wafer-thin, you will love a Tactile Pro. The keys are curved to fit the tips of your fingers, they click when you press them, and you can feel the click. It's the best typing experience," said Edgar Matias, CEO of Matias.

   The Tactile Pro 4 closely matches the layout of a standard Mac keyboard - complete with an Fn key and special function keys that work just like those on an actual Apple keyboard. You can control Screen Brightness, Volume, iTunes, and more, without installing any drivers.

   "We're also really excited to have the new Mini Tactile Pro. It has all the features of the original Tactile Pro, but in a smaller package, so it takes up much less space on your desk. It's even small enough to fit in your laptop bag - if you want to take it with you - and we've made it very easy to do that. The keyboard unplugs from its cable, and we provide an extra cable that you can keep in your laptop bag, specifically for travel. You can just unplug and go," added Matias.

   Both keyboards feature a built-in 3-port USB 2.0 hub, convenient for connecting your mouse or trackball, flash drives, and other accessories.

   Price & Availability

   The Tactile Pro 4 is available now for $149.95 (US) from www.matias.ca and authorized resellers.

   The Mini Tactile Pro is $129.95 (US). Pre-order now and get FREE shipping, for delivery in January.

 
