
 Startup Matterport's just closed a round of investor funding to bring its 3D mapping camera and "interactive viewing platform" one step closer to commercial production. The company, founded in 2011 and backed by the likes of Qualcomm Ventures, aims to let consumers build virtual, cloud-based maps of their homes, offices or other sites of interest -- using a special camera rig -- for eventual viewing on laptops or tablets. It's an ambitious project that's managed to raise nearly $6 million in funding so far. But despite that investment, details on the specifics of the system, as well as a visual of the actual hardware used are scarce. So this could all very well smack of vaporware. For now, though, Matterport's site is selling the dream -- literally, as you can sign-up to pre-order now. So if you want to take a gander at what those 3D indoor maps may look like, hit up the source below.



  Show full PR text    March 07, 2013 08:00 AM Eastern Time  Matterport Unveils $5.6 Million Funding to 3D Capture Everything, Even the Kitchen Sink

   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Matterport, the leader in rapid 3D scanning of spaces and objects, announced today that it raised a $5.6 million Series A financing round to create immersive experiences with interior spaces, starting with your home. Lux Capital led this latest investment round, with participation from Felicis Ventures, Red Swan Ventures, Greylock, Qualcomm Ventures, as well as a number of prominent Silicon Valley angels.

   "We welcome the participation of these investors," said Matt Bell, inventor of the camera and Matterport co-founder. "Together we are transcending limitations of the physical world by allowing people to communicate in 3D."

   "Matterport makes the extraordinary look easy," said Peter Hebert, Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Lux Capital. "Using advanced hardware and algorithms, Matterport helps consumers and businesses create accurate, photo-realistic 3D models – quickly, easily and automatically. Beyond initial markets in housing and interiors, the range of end applications is bounded only by the creativity of the Matterport community."

   Matterport will soon launch the first-ever 3D camera and interactive viewing platform – allowing its community to create virtual models of any indoor space and access the resulting 3D image from a web browser or iPad – anytime, anywhere.

   Matterport's cloud engine changes the way we understand and view spaces by allowing users to post and share them with the world. Users can freely navigate, measure, tag objects, and pin notes to anything in the 3D image, unlike conventional static photographs. Anyone will be able to explore homes, vacation rentals, or local restaurants remotely, as well as plan and visualize remodels.

   Founded in 2011, the Silicon Valley company launched out of Y Combinator, and raised a $1.6 million Seed financing in 2012 to develop initial versions of the camera hardware and software. The Series A will enable Matterport to scale production to meet market demand.

   Matterport has begun taking pre-orders for their 3D camera. For more information and to join the Matterport community, visit www.matterport.com.

 
