
 

Whoa, news about two Max Payne games in one day? Will that ever happen again? Buried within a press release about Max Payne 3, Take-Two announced that the first Max Payne game is coming to mobile devices.

You'll be able to see Max's squinty face in "full HD" wherever you go, with Rockstar Games Social Club features and, Take-Two says, support for wired controllers. Maybe now you'll have something new to play in your iCade, or your Xoom.

That is, if those are indeed among the devices receiving this port. Take-Two didn't specify, and didn't mention a release date either. It's only appropriate for there to be an air of mystery around the noir-style Max Payne.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Rockstar Games Announces Max Payne 3 Coming March 2012 		New York, NY, September 8, 2011 - Rockstar Games, a publishing label of Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (NASDAQ: TTWO), is proud to announce that Max Payne 3 is expected to launch on the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system and PC in March 2012 in North America and Europe. 		"Max Payne 3 gave us an amazing creative opportunity to evolve one of our most iconic characters," said Sam Houser, Founder of Rockstar Games. "We're excited to show fans a modern version of Max that pulls them back into his dark and twisted story." 		Max Payne 3 continues the tale of former New York City detective, Max Payne. Still haunted by the memories of his traumatic past, Max begins a new life working private security protecting a wealthy industrialist and his family in Sao Paulo, Brazil. When gangs target the family under his protection, Max is forced to fight to save his clients and clear his name, in a bid to, once and for all, rid himself of the demons that have tortured him for far too long. 		Picking up where the release of Max Payne 2 from series creator Remedy Entertainment left off, Max Payne 3 is a true cross-studio collaboration between Rockstar Games' global development teams. The game utilizes cutting edge technology for a seamless, cinematic action experience, incorporating the latest advances in Natural Motion physics and a brand new iteration of Rockstar's own Rockstar Advanced Game Engine. The result offers highly-refined gameplay, with an extensive range of realistic weaponry, an intelligent cover system and sophisticated Bullet-Time mechanics. 		In addition to an expansive single-player campaign, Max Payne 3 will be the first title in the series to introduce an addictive multiplayer experience. Max Payne 3's multiplayer aims to deliver a compelling experience that dynamically alters maps and mode progression for all players in a match. Along with traditional multiplayer modes, Max Payne 3 will also include a deep reward and leveling system, persistent clans and multiple strategic load-out options. 		For fans looking for a new way to enjoy the classic Max Payne, Rockstar Games is happy to announce that Max Payne will receive the full HD treatment for mobile devices. Available for the first time on mobile, Max Payne will have connectivity to the Rockstar Games Social Club and boast the same features as its PC counterparts - including HD graphics and high-resolution textures that take advantage of the latest mobile technologies, including incredibly customizable controls and support for wired controllers. 		Max Payne 3 promises to delivers a dark, gritty action experience that is sure to satisfy newcomers and fans to the historic franchise.
 