
MediaTek told us to only expect its tablet-focused SoC in the summer, but it's clearly something of a keener: we're already looking at the part today. The new MT8125 builds on the familiar formula of a quad-core Cortex-A7 processor and PowerVR Series5XT graphics, with most of the improvement coming from a higher 1.5GHz clock speed. That extra grunt helps the chip handle up to a 1,920 x 1,200 display on top of earlier support for 13MP cameras and 1080p videos. Focusing on tablets gives MediaTek some freedom in configurations, too -- it can offer the SoC with basic EDGE cellular data, full HSPA+ or WiFi alone. Customers won't have to wait long to try the MT8125 when tablets like Lenovo's IdeaTab S6000 series should be using it now, although there's no word on how much of that hardware will reach the US.



Show full PR textMediaTek Introduces New Quad-Core Application Processor for Fast-Growing Tablet Market
The new Application Processor completes MediaTek's multi-core processor product portfolio, delivering a significant difference in computing and multimedia performance
HSINCHU, Taiwan, May 28, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- MediaTek Inc., a leading fabless semiconductor company for wireless communications and digital multimedia solutions, today announced the availability of the new quad-core application processor -- MT8125 designed for the fast growing global tablet markets. The new tablet platform is an extension of the company's highly successful quad-core portfolio. It integrates a power-efficient quad-core Cortex™- A7 CPU subsystem with speed up to 1.5GHz, PowerVR™ Series5XT Graphics that delivers compelling multimedia features and sophisticated user experiences. To simplify product design and speed time-to-market, the MT8125 supports 3G HSPA+, 2G EDGE and Wi-Fi versions, all of which are pin-to-pin compatible, allowing device manufacturers to easily expand their portfolios with a full range of tablets by leveraging the existing or planned design requiring no additional rework.
Inheriting MediaTek's technology breakthrough of quad-core SoC platform and high-end multimedia capabilities, the MT8125 incorporates premium multimedia features, supporting up to Full HD 1080p video playback and recording, 13MP camera with integrated ISP and Full HD (1920 x 1200) displays. The new tablet SoC also delivers ground breaking visual quality powered by the leading picture quality technology -- MiraVision™, derived from MediaTek's extensive experience in the Digital TV market.
The MT8125 includes full support for MediaTek's leading 4-in-1 connectivity combo that converges Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS and FM, bringing highly integrated, best-in-class wireless technologies and expanded functionality to high-performance multimedia tablets. The MT8125 also provides support for Wi-Fi certified Miracast™ which makes multimedia content sharing between devices easier.
"During the last two years, application processors used in tablets have taken a fast evolution from single-core 1GHz to quad cores, clocking over 1.5GHz. Competition will force chipset vendors to maintain pace -- by implementing more advanced features while reducing the system cost by increasing the level of integration*," said Gartner Research Director Roger Sheng.
"MediaTek's team has worked closely with Lenovo to integrate their solutions into our design process, helping us accelerate the development and introduction of new, innovative tablets. In turn, this allows us to fulfill our commitment to delivering the outstanding user experience our customers demand. The tablet market is moving fast, and Lenovo aims to be at the forefront of tablet innovation. MediaTek helps us do that," commented Wayne Chen , vice president and head of mobile business unit for Lenovo.
"We're confident that our comprehensive reference designs will be the industry benchmark, particularly benefiting the mid-to-high-end tablet market. It is an innovative, cost-effective and definitely faster time-to-market solution," said Joe Chen , GM of Home Entertainment Business Unit, MediaTek. "By taking advantage of our strengths in the multimedia field, mobile communications and multi-screen technologies, we offer a complete multi-core processor family for smartphones and tablets, enabling a significant difference in performance and power efficiency - all while ensuring seamless streaming performance across the array of devices when users are consuming entertainment and information."
The MediaTek quad core tablet SoC is now being widely adopted by MediaTek's global customers including Lenovo IdeaTab S6000 series.
*Source: Gartner report "Competitive Landscape: Application Processor Providers for Tablets, Worldwide" Roger Sheng , Amy Teng , Mark Hung 19 April 2013

