
As glad as we are that MediaTek ushered in affordable, quad-core SoC designs with the MT6589, even that silicon can only go so far in making smartphones accessible. The company's new MT6572 might be frugal enough to lower some of those few remaining barriers. The all-in-one part mates a cheaper dual-core, 1.2GHz ARM Cortex-A7 processor with HSPA+ 3G, China-focused TD-SCDMA, Bluetooth, GPS and WiFi, dropping the construction costs beyond what even the chip's quad-core sibling can manage. While the MT6572 can only handle up to a qHD display, a 5-megapixel camera and 720p video, that's more than enough to improve baseline features in a category where many recent entry-level phones still tout single-core CPUs and WVGA screens. Its rapid arrival in the marketplace may be crucial, too. MediaTek expects the first phones based on the MT6572 to roll out in June -- just in time to keep the world's transition to smartphones moving at full steam.



Show full PR textMediaTek Launches the World's First Integrated Platform for Entry Smartphones featuring Dual-Core HSPA+ SoC with Integrated 4-in-1 Connectivity
MT6572, delivered in 28nm technology, also supports advanced multimedia features,leading performance and power efficiency at affordable prices with 4-layer PCB
TAIWAN, Hsinchu – 2 May, 2012 – MediaTek Inc., a leading fabless semiconductor companyfor wireless communications and digital multimedia solutions, today announced the launch ofits next-generation, dual-core smartphone platform – the MT6572. MediaTek's MT6572 is theworld's first dual-core SoC with integrated Wi-Fi, FM, GPS and Bluetooth functions targeted atthe entry segment and also enables a cost-effective 4-layer PCB design. This cost-optimized,system-level design greatly reduces the e-BOM cost, simplifies the product development andenhances time to market. Leveraging the technology breakthrough and market momentum ofthe flagship MT6589 quad-core HSPA+ platform, the new MT6572 integrates a power-efficientdual-core Cortex™-A7 CPU sub-system with speeds up to 1.2GHz in the leading 28nm processtechnology.
The mobile market continues the accelerated pace of transitioning to smartphones, withquarterly shipments already exceeding features phones for the first time. Most of the growthin smartphones is coming from the entry segment – both for emerging markets as consumersincreasingly switch to entry Android devices and also for developed markets as operatorsdrive deeper smartphone penetration and reduce device subsidies.
The new MT6572 also integrates MediaTek's advanced multi-mode Rel. 8 HSPA+/TD-SCDMAmodem, 3D Graphics, support for up to HD 720p video playback and record, 5MP camera andup to qHD (960x540) displays. Supporting the leading picture quality technologies (MiraVision)inherited from MediaTek's extensive experience in the Digital TV market, the MT6572 deliversan innovative solution that offers the finest visual quality and outstanding user experiencedesired by high-end smartphone owners.
"Smartphone adoption is rising across the globe as the price of entry-level smartphonescontinues to fall. By simplifying system design, MediaTek is a key driver of this trend,"commented Linley Gwennap, principal analyst of The Linley Group. "MediaTek's new dualcore smartphone platform brings features and performance that were recently associatedwith premium smartphones to mainstream devices. This product will accelerate the shift todual-core processors in entry-level smartphones."
Jeffrey Ju, GM of the smartphone business unit at MediaTek, said, "MediaTek will continue topioneer the democratization of smartphones and will re-define the entry smartphonelandscape with the launch of the MT6572. As smartphones move to a baseline of dual-coreprocessing and with worldwide operators looking to reduce device subsidies, enabling highperformance, multi-core platforms with easy-to-adopt reference designs will be key to enable our customers to rapidly address the fast-moving mobile market opportunity. The launch of the MT6572 will further expand MediaTek's highly-differentiated product portfolio and allowour partners to offer a complete range of smartphones targeting all segments."
The MediaTek MT6572 is being widely adopted by MediaTek's leading global customers;consumers around the world can expect hundreds of commercial models powered by theMT6572 beginning in June.

