
 
If you'd have asked us back in 2008 to predict what new features a successor to Meridian's Ferrari co-branded F80 compact entertainment system would have, things like HD video playback in the form of an HD DVD or Blu-ray player, an HDMI connection and iPod integration would have been no-brainers. So forgive us if we're less than impressed now that the M80 has arrived, sporting what appears to be only a minor exterior make-over and the companion i80 iPod Dock packaged in as a bonus. Is it nice to get both products for less than its Italian sports car-taxed predecessor? Sure. But we'd really like to see more from Meridian than a few pieces of hand-tooled English leather supporting its still bankruptcy-inspiring $2,995 MSRP. 






Show full PR textMeridian M80 Compact Entertainment SystemMeridian's M80 Compact Entertainment System with i80 iPod Dock (included)Includes 2.1 DSP Loudspeaker System; CD and DVD Player; FM/AM Radio; i80 iPod Dock; and Multiple Analog and Digital InputsMeridian Audio has announced the introduction of the new M80, a complete, high-performance compact entertainment system that shares all the technical features and sonic distinction of its predecessor, the F80. The curved arch of the M80 houses a refined yet powerful loudspeaker system, finished in a range of carefully selected British hand-stitched leathers – Obsidian Black, Chestnut, and Ivory.Discreet enough to find a home in any living space, the M80 includes a host of internal sources, including CD, DVD and FM/AM radio, as well a mix of analog and digital input connectivity, offering the opportunity to listen to a range of music sources, including iTunes® via AirPort Express®, personal computers or a Meridian Sooloos Digital Media System.The i80 iPod Dock included with every M80 offers the perfect way to both listen to – and charge – an iPod. The special i80 link also allows the choice of music from an iPod to be selected via the M80 front panel – or from across the room using the M80 remote control.Containing a powerful Meridian 2.1 DSP Loudspeaker System in its unique, mineral-doped composite body, the M80 can fill a large room with sound; alternatively, thanks to its DSP capabilities, it can be enjoyed at low levels and at close range from a desk or tabletop.Suggested Retail Price $2,995 USD (includes i80 iPod Dock)About Meridian Audio LimitedMeridian is based near Cambridge, UK, and was founded in 1977 by Bob Stuart and Allen Boothroyd. With over 30 years' history of innovation and development of uncompromised consumer home entertainment systems offering exceptional performance, this award-winning company is widely recognized as a world leader in high-quality audio and video reproduction. Meridian developed the first audiophile CD player, the world's first consumer digital surround controller, and developed the MLP lossless packing system included in Blu-ray Disc. The company's optical disc players, DSP-based loudspeakers, video projectors, and scalers are unique in the industry, maintaining a super-quality digital signal throughout the path from the studio to the home, using advanced digital signal processing to deliver both a sweet, natural sound and smooth, crystal-sharp images with true cinematic realism. With the acquisition of Sooloos, Meridian now brings its expertise to the Sooloos Media System, the world's most innovative, functional and easy-to-use networked home entertainment system. Meridian Sooloos systems effortlessly combine spectacular quality, rich metadata and the industry's leading user interface to change forever the way we enjoy and interact with music.
 