
 
MetroPCS was quite serious when it said it wanted to have commercial LTE up and running in 2010 -- and indeed, it has made good on its word today with an official launch in Vegas. Of course, you need hardware to go along with a new network, and that's not much of a surprise either: the long-discussed Samsung Craft becomes not just MetroPCS' first 4G handset, but the first LTE phone to launch commercially anywhere in the world. It's not a smartphone, but it's got a 3.3-inch AMOLED display, 3.2 megapixel camera, and a full QWERTY slide. Interestingly, MetroPCS is not offering tethering (or any modems) at this time, which means the only way you're going to be able to enjoy those blazing speeds is on the handset itself. The carrier is offering basic unlimited service for $55 for a month, while another $5 will net you unlimited on-demand video streaming from 14 networks. The Craft, meanwhile, runs $299 contract-free -- and since it's dual-mode, it'll work just fine on MetroPCS' CDMA network once you leave the blackjack tables. Follow the break for Samsung's press release.
      

 

Show full PR textSAMSUNG MOBILE LAUNCHES THE SAMSUNG CRAFT™, THE WORLD'S FIRST COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE 4G LTE HANDSET, AND SUPPLIES INFRASTRUCTURE FOR METROPCS' FIRST U.S. COMMERCIAL LTE SERVICE LAUNCH IN LAS VEGASSeptember 21, 2010Samsung Supplies World's First Commercially Available 4G Multi-Mode Handset and Las Vegas LTE Infrastructure for MetroPCSDALLAS– September 21, 2010 - Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. . 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S. 1 and MetroPCS Communications, Inc., the nation's leading provider of unlimited, no annual contract, flat-rate wireless service, today announced the commercial launch of the world's first 4G LTE-enabled, multi-mode, CDMA handset, the Samsung Craft™ (SCH-r900). Samsung Mobile also supplied the LTE infrastructure for MetroPCS' commercial launch of 4G LTE service in Las Vegas, the first in the United States.The Samsung Craft is available at MetroPCS stores and online in the Las Vegas metropolitan area for $299, after a $50 instant rebate, plus tax. The Samsung Craft boasts a brilliant, 3.3-inch AMOLED touchscreen display and sliding QWERTY keyboard. Powered by 4G LTE technology, the Craft provides a faster HTML Web experience, full-track music downloads and video streaming."It is extremely gratifying to introduce the Samsung Craft as the world's first commercially available LTE-enabled handset operating on infrastructure by Samsung as part of the first LTE commercial network and services to be offered in the U.S.," said Omar Khan, chief strategy officer for Samsung Mobile. "The Craft combines 4G speed and a multimedia device packed with full Web, entertainment and productivity features."The Craft's built-in 3.2 megapixel camera with flash and camcorder with auto-focus features single, multi, panorama, mosaic and frame shot to capture photos instantly on the go. Additionally, the Craft includes a 2GB microSD card, preloaded with the Paramount Pictures' hit movie "Star Trek". The handset's full feature set is completed by a music player, Wi-Fi connectivity, Stereo Bluetooth® capabilities and microSD memory storage up to 32GB. Along with the Craft, Samsung Mobile supplied LTE infrastructure for MetroPCS' Las Vegas LTE network. Samsung Mobile's advanced commercial LTE network products allow wireless operators like MetroPCS to provide advanced services using the world's first LTE-compatible handsets as well as new and innovative network solutions. LTE makes services possible, including real-time streaming video, music downloads, 4G enhanced Web browsing capabilities and access downloadable applications.Samsung Mobile's commercial LTE network products leverage years of 4G orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) commercial network experience with flexible bandwidth support of 1.4 to 20 MHz standards. Samsung Mobile's network infrastructure solutions support a wide portfolio of Enhanced Node B (eNB) products, including rack types, remote radio heads, picocells, femtocells and distributed antenna system (DAS) hosts.Samsung Mobile has been a driving force to accelerate the LTE service and standardization by active participation of various working groups at 3GPP and LSTI (LTE/SAE Trial Initiative). Samsung Mobile ranked at the top place in the number of contributions and obtained most of essential IPRs.Visit MetroPCS' website at www.metropcs.com for specific locations or to purchase the Samsung Craft and sign up for service plans. To find out more information on the Samsung Craft, please visit www.samsungwireless.com or www.samsungusanews.com.
 