
 Regional carrier MetroPCS is ticking three more checkboxes today as it keeps pushing its ongoing LTE network rollout, and they're big ones: on top of Sacramento, they've added Boston and none other than New York City. That makes the carrier second to launch LTE in the Big Apple -- Verizon's already there -- but you can't take away from the fact that MetroPCS beat the big guys with their first live commercial markets by several months. As for hardware, it's the same as usual: the Samsung Craft dumbphone is your only option, which means that if you're looking to blaze on your notebook with a next-gen USB stick, you're still going to have to head to Verizon anyway. Follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textMetroPCS Launches 4G LTE Services in the Boston, New York City and Sacramento Metropolitan AreasNew Network and Entertainment-Rich Handset, the Samsung CraftTM, Offer Unlimited Affordable 4G Services for All in Three Additional MarketsDALLAS – (Dec. 15, 2010) – MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) today announced the expansion of its unlimited, no annual contract 4G LTE services into the Boston, New York City and Sacramento metropolitan areas. Accessible on the Samsung Craft™, the world's first commercially available 4G LTE handset, MetroPCS' 4G LTE network allows consumers to do more with unlimited talk, text and enhanced entertainment and web browsing features for an affordable price starting at $55 per month including taxes and regulatory fees."As the only no annual contract, pay-in-advance wireless service provider offering 4G LTE services, we continue to build our network to allow more customers to experience our unparalleled value and flexible, affordable service," said Roger D. Linquist, president, CEO and chairman of MetroPCS. "By offering customers the ability to do more with easy access to their social networks, exclusive MetroSTUDIOSM content and expanded web browsing capabilities, we are giving our customers what they need – a way to stay connected, without sacrificing time or money."The Samsung Craft is available in-store or online for $299 plus tax after a $50 instant rebate, while supplies last. Customers can take advantage of all MetroPCS 4G LTE has to offer with the Samsung Craft, including:- MetroSTUDIO, powered by RealNetworks and available on the $60 service plan, delivers full-track downloads, ringtones and ring-back tones, as well as premium video content from NBC Universal, Black Entertainment Television (BET) and Univision, available on-demand from one easy-to-use application.- A social networking and instant messaging application which harnesses notifications, friends and content from Facebook, MySpace and Twitter and AIM, MSN and Yahoo! IM clients into a single interface that's accessible with one click.- Upgraded MetroNavigator® feature includes new voice-activated GPS and turn-by-turn directions.The Samsung Craft features a brilliant 3.3 inch AMOLED (active-matrix organic light-emitting diode) screen for a better video experience and comes with a 2GB MicroSD card pre-loaded with Paramount Pictures' hit movie "Star Trek - The Future Begins." The Samsung Craft also contains a combination touch screen, slide-out QWERTY keyboard, Samsung's TouchWiz™ user interface to surf and text message, 3.2 megapixel camera with flash, a camcorder and is Wi-Fi capable.With today's launch in the Boston, New York City and Sacramento metropolitan areas, MetroPCS' 4G LTE services are available in nine metropolitan areas, including Dallas-Fort Worth, Detroit, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and San Francisco. MetroPCS has plans to expand its 4G services into more metropolitan areas later this year and into early 2011, including Atlanta, Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando and Tampa.
 