
 

It's easy to get caught up in the wireless major leaguers legal kerfuffles, but let's not forget the little guy. MetroPCS is shipping out a "chic," second LTE handset to surf along its contractless radio waves -- LG's Esteem. Formerly codenamed Bryce, the phone is pretty much the carrier's repackaged version of Verizon's Revolution -- specs, and all that 4G jazz -- but let's not be the debbie downer at this network's party, the handset's packing some solid internals. In case you needed a refresher, the phone runs Android 2.3 with a sprinkling of LG's custom UI atop a single-core 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor, and includes 512MB of RAM, 8GB of storage, a 1.3 megapixel front-facing / 5 megapixel rear shooter (capable of 720p video capture) and a micro-HDMI port. Your untethered hands can snatch this one up now for $250 after taxes and a mail-in rebate, of course, you still have to opt-in for one of those 4G LTE service plans. Official PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  MetroPCS Unveils the LG Esteem, the latest 4GLTE Android Smartphone for Entertainment-Minded Consumers		Feature-rich smartphone and 4GLTE services combine to deliver extreme value with no contract 		DALLAS, Sept. 28, 2011 		MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS), and LG Mobile today introduced the latest addition to MetroPCS' line-up of 4GLTE - enabled smartphones with the entertainment-packed LG Esteem(TM). Available this week in stores and online, the chic new LG Esteem 4GLTE Android smartphone delivers an incredible entertainment experience for customers including music and multimedia applications like Rhapsody Unlimited Music and MetroSTUDIO(TM). Powered by Android 2.3 (Gingerbread), LG Esteem features a sleek, modern design for style-conscious consumers looking for the latest smartphone technology. 		"Our customers want more entertainment services and multimedia, and the LG Esteem delivers all of the multimedia they desire right at their fingertips with the easy access afforded by our 4GLTE network," said Tom Keys, president and chief operating officer of MetroPCS. "By pairing a premium handset with the latest features and our unbeatable service offerings, we are providing our customers with a tremendous value. We're the only no-annual contract, pay-in-advance carrier providing 4GLTE service today, and with our latest 4GLTE smartphone, consumers can take full advantage of our network and the exploding array of Android market applications available today." 		At about half the cost of other 4G smartphone service plans today, consumers can truly have it all with MetroPCS' $50 and $60 4GLTE plans, which include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees. For just $60, consumers can choose between unlimited music with Rhapsody or video entertainment with MetroSTUDIO - on top of unlimited Internet access, voice and texting services. With the vast music library provided by the new Rhapsody Unlimited Music service, music lovers can play, download and store or stream as many songs as they want, free from the per-track charges that come with most other music download services. 		"LG Esteem is the ideal device for entertainment savvy consumers looking for on-the-go content and the latest Android technology," said Tim O'Brien, vice president of marketing for LG Mobile. "Together with the MetroPCS 4GLTE network, LG Esteem provides users with a wide variety of features not previously accessible to no-annual-contract mobile consumers and delivers a truly enhanced user experience." 		Capturing and sharing personal multimedia has never been easier with a front-facing camera and 5MP rear camera with flash, 720p HD video recording, allowing users to watch videos and view images directly from the handset's brilliant 4.3" WVGA screen or use the micro-HDMI port and DLNA streaming capability to transmit HD content directly to home entertainment units, as well as face-to-face video calling using the Esteem's pre-loaded Google Talk Application. In addition, LG Esteem is equipped with a 1GHz processor, 8GB of internal memory and Dolby® Mobile Surround 7.1 and a Corning® Gorilla® Glass Screen Protector. Combined with MetroPCS' 4GLTE service, LG Esteem provides an unparalleled Internet and entertainment consumer experience. 		LG Esteem will be available for $249 plus tax, after mail-in rebate, through January 1, 2012. Plus, customers purchasing the LG Esteem will receive Rhapsody Unlimited Music FREE for 90 days through a limited time promotional offer when they activate the $50 4GLTE service plan. Consumers interested in purchasing the LG Esteem can visit their local store or go online to purchase the phone and sign up for service.
 