
 
 Well, that didn't take long. Shortly after showing up in some leaked shots, Samsung's Galaxy S Lightray 4G is with us yet again, save for this time around it's an official appearance courtesy of MetroPCS. The underdog carrier's announced the Lightray 4G will be the latest addition to its lineup of LTE-equipped handsets, with this new Galaxy also said to be the first one to offer speedy hotspot capabilities within the network. Additionally, Sammy's Lightray features a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED screen, an undisclosed 1GHz processor and access to Dyle Mobile TV's on-the-go entertainment service -- that said, don't expect an Ice Cream Sandwich here (better yet Jelly Beans), as all you'll be getting is a taste of Mountain View's popular Gingerbread. MetroPCS has the Lightray 4G up for grabs now on its site at $460, and for those interested, there's a photo gallery down below as well as the official presser from the carrier.




  Show full PR text   MetroPCS Dials In Unique Entertainment Experience with the Samsung Galaxy S Lightray 4G Smartphone   Latest Smartphone Offers 4G LTE Performance and is First to Offer Dyle™ mobile TV to US Smartphone Users

   DALLAS (August 3, 2012) – MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) today announced the launch of the Samsung Galaxy S® LightrayTM 4G*. The latest in MetroPCS' expanding 4G LTE Android™ smartphone lineup – and the first Samsung Galaxy S device for MetroPCS – allows consumers to browse the web and applications, download exciting content plus stream videos and music in a flash. Available today, this powerful smartphone offers 4G LTE service with no annual contract and tax-and-regulatory-fee-inclusive service plans starting at just $40 per month.   The Samsung Galaxy S Lightray 4G will be also the first smartphone in the U.S. to offer live, local broadcast television with Dyle™ mobile TV. Dyle mobile TV keeps consumers informed and entertained while on the go and allows them to watch local and national sports, news and entertainment broadcast programming on their mobile phones. Access to the Dyle mobile TV service will be offered in select markets and at no additional charge to customers on a MetroPCS 4G LTE service plan. More information about Dyle mobile TV is available at http://www.dyle.tv/ and the Dyle coverage map is available at http://www.dyle.tv/using-dyle/coverage-map/.   Powered by Android 2.3 (Gingerbread), the Samsung Galaxy S Lightray 4G features a crystal-clear 4.3-inch Super AMOLED™ touchscreen and a speedy 1GHz processor. Its 8.0 megapixel rear-facing camera with LED flash and 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera are great for capturing photos and video chatting with friends and family.   Additionally, the Galaxy S Lightray 4G will be MetroPCS' first smartphone to feature 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot, allowing customers to share their MetroPCS 4G LTE connection and data with multiple Wi-Fi®-enabled devices. MetroPCS will also offer 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot on future 4G LTE Android smartphones.   The Samsung Galaxy S Lightray 4G is available in MetroPCS stores and online at www.MetroPCS.com for $459 plus tax. More information about 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot is available at http://www.metropcs.com/4GLTE-mobile-hotspot.

 
