
 All signs point toward the T-Mobile / MetroPCS merger becoming a formal thing pretty soon, but the Wireless for All carrier isn't wasting any time and is now welcoming yet another budget smartphone with LTE to its hefty mobile arsenal. And while the newly announced Huawei Premia 4G might not be amongst MetroPCS' better-specced handsets, its 4-inch (800 x 480) display, 1.5GHz dual-core CPU, 1GB RAM and 5-megapixel rear shooter will certainly make this Ice Cream Sandwich slab a relatively solid option at $149. So, those looking for some LTE love without having to break the bank, someone's calling your name -- and, starting today, you can snag one of these Huawei Premia 4Gs in-store or via the MetroPCS site linked below.



  Show full PR text   MetroPCS Continues to Deliver Value and Versatility with the Huawei Premia™ 4G
   MetroPCS' second Huawei 4G LTE smartphone packs high performance and design into affordable package

   DALLAS, March 21, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) and Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider, are giving consumers another great option to keep up with friends and family with a new powerful, yet affordable, 4GLTE smartphone – the Huawei Premia™ 4G – available for only $149.

   This latest addition to MetroPCS' extensive lineup of 4GLTE smartphones includes all the features for an exceptional mobile experience, including:

   4.0-inch Corning Gorilla Glass™ screen displays a crystal-clear picture  1.5GHz dual-core processor and 1GB RAM for effortless multitasking  5.0 megapixel auto-focus camera with rear-facing LED flash for improved pictures  Video recording and playback to capture life's special moments  Android 4.0 operating system (Ice Cream Sandwich)  joyn™ by MetroPCS capability delivers a unified and intuitive way to communicate and share with friends and family with enriched services like video calling and Wi-Fi calling, integrated instant messaging or chat, image, video and file sharing. The official joyn app can be downloaded via Google Play and the @metro App Store™ and is included with any 4G LTE rate plan.

   MetroPCS offers consumers unmatched value when pairing the Premia 4G with any of the simplified 4GLTE rate plans, which begin at $40 per month and offer unlimited talk, text and data – all applicable taxes and regulatory-fees included. Great services like MetroPCS 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot and Rhapsody unlimited on-demand music are available for low additional monthly charges, with Rhapsody offered at the best deal in town for just $5 per month.

   The Huawei Premia 4G is available in stores and online beginning today.  For more information, please visit:

   Details on rate plans and service features: www.metropcs.com/plans  MetroPCS Terms and Conditions of Service: http://www.metropcs.com/metro/tac/termsAndConditions.jsp?terms=Terms%20and%20Conditions%20of%20Service  Press resources: www.metropcs.com/presscenter  Follow MetroPCS on Twitter: www.twitter.com/metropcs  Become a fan of MetroPCS on Facebook: www.facebook.com/metropcs  View MetroPCS' latest videos: www.YouTube.com/metropcs

   About MetroPCS Communications, Inc.  Dallas-based MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) is a provider of no annual contract, unlimited wireless communications service for a flat rate. MetroPCS is the fifth largest facilities-based wireless carrier in the United States based on number of subscribers served. With Metro USA(SM), MetroPCS customers can use their service in areas throughout the United States covering a population of over 280 million people. As of December 31, 2012 MetroPCS had approximately 8.9 million subscribers. For more information please visit www.metropcs.com.

   About Huawei Device  Huawei Device believes that everyone can be the center of information and that the world would be a better place if access and information barriers were knocked down. Its strong suite of mobile phones, mobile broadband devices and home devices is testimony to Huawei Device's focus on customers and its commitment to providing user-friendly mobile internet experiences through ongoing innovation. Based on more than two decades of success in the information and communications industry, and with our own channel expertise, operational capabilities and global partner resources, Huawei Device is transforming from a company that sells millions of devices in single transactions to large businesses, to a "Business-to-People" (B2P) brand that also sells individual devices directly to millions of people. As at the end of 2011, Huawei Device serves more than 500 operators all over the world. For more information, visit Huawei Device online: www.huaweidevice.com

   For regular updates on Huawei Device, follow us on:  Facebook: www.facebook.com/HuaweiDevice  Twitter: www.twitter.com/HuaweiDevice  YouTube: www.youtube.com/user/HuaweiDeviceCo  Flickr: www.flickr.com/huaweidevice

 
