
 
 LTE doesn't have to mean premium pricing -- just ask MetroPCS. The budget carrier, notable for its recent launch of VoLTE, has announced the availability of a limited time promo service bundling unlimited voice, text and data dubbed Wireless for All. And to help give that initiative a proper public splash, the company's tossed in some new kit: LG's Motion 4G. That handset, a humble 3.5-incher, is actually the first Android 4.0 device to bow on the company's lineup and bears a familiar dual-core CPU setup clocked at 1.2GHz, HVGA display, 5GB of internal storage (expandable to 32GB via microSD), a 5-megapixel rear camera capable of 1080p video and 1,700mAh battery. As ICS handsets come, it's certainly no big leaguer, but at $149, plus the addition of that all-you-can eat $55/mo plan, it's hard to find fault with affordable. Skip on past the break to peruse the company's official presser.



  Show full PR text   MetroPCS Delivers 4G LTE for All with Even More Affordable 4G LTE Android Smartphone and Unbeatable Unlimited 4G LTE Data Plan
   At $149, LG Motiontm 4G brings affordability and strong performance to MetroPCS' 4G LTE smartphone line-up

   DALLAS – (August 21, 2012) – MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) now offers more choices for those consumers who want to have it all from their wireless service at unparalleled value with a new even more affordable addition to its 4G LTE smartphone portfolio – the LG Motiontm 4G. The powerful AndroidTM smartphone puts a feature-rich handset experience and exceptional 4G LTE service within reach for value-conscious consumers – starting at just $40 per month – taxes and regulatory fees included.

   Building on its vision to provide the best deal in town for 4G LTE, MetroPCS also today unveiled a promotional 4G LTE service plan that is only available for a limited time but offers benefits that can last a lifetime – unlimited talk, text and 4G LTE data for only $55 per month for a single line. Families can get this unbeatable offer for just $50 per month on the account's second, third and fourth lines. Even though the promotional service plan is available for a limited time only, customers will continue to receive service at the promotional price for as long as they maintain service with MetroPCS. The $55 service plan can save individuals up to $2,200 over the course of two years in service costs alone when compared to similar competitor offers.

   MetroPCS is celebrating the launch of this new handset and unlimited 4G LTE promotional plan launches by offering consumers a mail-in rebate on the second of any two 4G LTE smartphone purchases. The rebate offer applies to all MetroPCS 4G LTE phones, including the newly launched LG Motion 4G, meaning customers can get a feature-rich 4G LTE smartphone for as low as $99 plus tax and unlimited 4G LTE wireless service for as low as $50 per month.

   As MetroPCS' first smartphone powered by Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich), the LG Motion 4G has everything consumers need to fully utilize the benefits of one of the most advanced Android versions available. Its 1.2 GHz dual-core processor makes multi-tasking easy while consumers use the phone's 5MP still camera, 1080p HD video recorder and browse the web and multimedia on the 3.5" touchscreen.

   Additional features include:  • Simultaneous voice and data on 4G LTE  • LG QuickMemo™ gives users the ability to personalize messages and share comments across a wide range of content including web pages, digital magazines, photos and more – all with a simple swipe of a finger  • Fun camera features like Cheese Shutter, which allows users to take a photo using just the sound of their voice, and Time Catch Shot which takes multiple photos at once and allows users to pick the best one  • The ability to take still pictures while recording video at the same time  • Corning® Gorilla® Glass touch screen

   The LG Motion 4G supports MetroPCS' 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot service, for additional charge, and is offered at $149 plus tax. Consumers interested in purchasing the device can visit their local MetroPCS store or go online to purchase the phone and sign up for service beginning later this week.

 
