
 

MetroPCS whipped out a pair of new smartphones at CES today, with the Samsung Galaxy Attain 4G and the LG Connect 4G. Powered by a 1GHz CPU, the Gingerbread-coated Galaxy Attain (pictured at left) features a 3.5-inch display, 1.3-megapixel front-facing shooter, and a three megapixel camera 'round back, along with an LED flash. The latest addition to Samsung's growing Galaxy family is also the latest 4G LTE-enabled to hit MetroPCS's roster, and it'll be available "for a limited time only" at $200 (on a $50 or $60 plan). As for the Connect 4G, it becomes MetroPCS' first dual-core offering, on the strength of its 1.2GHz processor. The device also features a four-inch display accompanied by a Corning Gorilla Glass screen protector, boasts a five megapixel rear-camera and supports 720p HD video recording. No word yet on pricing, but MetroPCS plans to bring the Connect 4G to market sometime next month. For more details, check out the full press releases after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  MetroPCS Reaches New Heights with Latest 4G LTE Android, the Samsung Galaxy Attain 4G 		Attain Brings Improved Performance, Stellar Looks and Features to MetroPCS' Expanding 4G LTE Android Portfolio 		DALLAS and LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- MetroPCS Communications, Inc. (NYSE: PCS) and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) today announced the Samsung Galaxy Attain™ 4G, a multi-tasking smartphone with the power of 4G LTE and the kind of flair to help consumers manage their busy lives -- without digging deep into their pocketbooks. Available online and in MetroPCS in the coming weeks, this mobile powerhouse is MetroPCS' latest addition to its 4G LTE Android™ handset lineup, with no annual contract and tax and regulatory-fee-inclusive service plans that start at just $50 per month. 		"We are committed to delivering the latest smartphones that fit our customers' needs and provide unmatched value with our 4G LTE service," said Tom Keys, MetroPCS president and chief operating officer. "We believe that the Galaxy Attain 4G fills a sweet spot within our growing 4G LTE portfolio, packing all of the Android features that consumers have come to expect and that allow them to do more." 		The Galaxy Attain 4G, armed with a 1GHz processor, keeps consumers' lives moving forward and helps them stay in the loop. Powered with Android 2.3 (Gingerbread), it is designed to handle everything in consumers' day-to-day lives. Equipped with a 3MP rear camera with LED flash, users can capture and share photos quickly and easily. The 1.3MP front-facing camera and pre-loaded Google Talk application makes it simple to video chat face-to-face with loved ones on the device's 3.5" screen. In addition, users will be able to take advantage of the Android Market with quick access to more than 300,000 applications, games and tools. 		"The Samsung Galaxy Attain 4G is designed to meet the needs of consumers who manage their lives on the go and we're excited to provide another feature-rich 4G LTE Android handset to MetroPCS and its customers," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "Since the device is versatile, users can easily transition between personal and professional usage, with features that make the Galaxy Attain 4G the perfect 'everything' phone." 		The Galaxy Attain 4G is available on MetroPCS' $50 and $60 smartphone plans, which include all applicable taxes and regulatory fees. On the $60 plan, consumers can choose between Rhapsody Unlimited Music or MetroSTUDIO™ to fulfill all of their entertainment needs – on top of unlimited talk, text and web. With Rhapsody Unlimited Music, music lovers can access more than 12 millions songs, within Rhapsody's extensive music library. With MetroSTUDIO, entertainment enthusiasts have access to rich multimedia content, including Video On Demand, providing instant access to the latest TV shows, news, sports and entertainment right from their phone. And to give customers even more entertainment options, MetroPCS recently added content from Disney/ABC Television Group and ESPN to MetroSTUDIO. 		The Galaxy Attain 4G will be available for $199 plus tax, after a $50 mail-in rebate, for a limited time only. Consumers interested in purchasing the Galaxy Attain 4G can visit their local MetroPCS store or go online to purchase the phone and sign up for service.   MetroPCS and LG Mobile Bring Incredible Entertainment and Exceptional Value with Launch of New LG Connect 4G 		LG Connect 4G Delivers Multitasking Magic with 1.2 GHz dual-core processor and 4G Connectivity on Nation's Only No Contract 4G LTE Provider 		DALLAS, LAS VEGAS and SAN DIEGO, Jan. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- MetroPCS Communications, Inc. PCS -0.62% and LG Mobile today announced the latest addition to MetroPCS' 4G LTE-enabled smartphone line-up with the powerful LG Connect(TM) 4G. Available within the next month, LG Connect 4G is powered by Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) and is MetroPCS' first handset to feature a 1.2 GHz dual-core processor, giving consumers a powerful multi-tasking tool for their daily needs and entertainment. 		"Our customers demand a stellar service and device experience and we're excited to provide another option that allows them to enjoy entertainment, handle business and stay connected at an incredible overall value," said Tom Keys, president and COO of MetroPCS. "We're committed to meeting our customers' changing needs and offering a full spectrum of handsets that fit every budget and lifestyle." 		LG Connect 4G packs features and performance into a sleek, modern design that is big on style but not on bulk. Its brilliant 4-inch NOVA display with patented technology from LG, together with a Corning® Gorilla® Glass Screen Protector, provide consumers with unparalleled viewing pleasure and durability. And with a 1.2 GHz dual-core processor and 720p HD video recording, the LG Connect 4G delivers a tremendously responsive user experience when browsing the web and capturing or viewing video. The phone's Dolby® Mobile feature offers a high quality sound experience for all stored music and users won't miss out on streaming all their favorite tunes thanks to the pre-loaded Rhapsody Unlimited Music service. LG Connect 4G is also equipped with a 5MP rear camera with flash and a front facing camera. 		"LG Connect 4G provides MetroPCS customers with a fast and affordable 4G LTE device that delivers a powerful multimedia experience," said Tim O'Brien, vice president of marketing for LG Mobile. "LG Connect 4G users will never miss a beat while on-the-go and can create, share and view photos or images on one of the brightest displays on the market." 		Consumers interested in LG Connect 4G can choose between MetroPCS' affordable smartphone plans of $50 and $60, taxes and regulatory fees included. Both plans feature unlimited talk, text and 4G LTE web browsing, with the $50 plan offering 1GB of multimedia streaming access (streaming video, audio and game content) and the $60 plan offering unlimited multimedia streaming access. 		LG Connect 4G will be available in MetroPCS stores and online at www.metropcs.com within the next month.
 