
 
Who needs clothes when you can ring in the new school year with a phone? That's the vision MetroPCS is aiming to instill in the hearts of parents everywhere, as the carrier has officially introduced the Samsung Admire as part of its Back to School promo. It packs some quality midrange specs, such as an 800MHz CPU, 3.5-inch HVGA display, 3.2 megapixel camera and Android 2.3 preloaded without a trace of TouchWiz UI. Hunting for the next superphone? Move along, nothing to see here -- first-time smartphone users and students are more likely to find the budget-friendly device right up their alley. No release date or pricing has been announced, though it's expected to hit shelves sometime next month in red and gray. Just remember, kids -- make sure it's put away when the teacher is looking, okay?
      

 

 		Show full PR text  MetroPCS to Launch Samsung Admire for Back to School 		METROPCS SAMSUNG ADMIRE Introducing the Samsung Admire from MetroPCS. (PRNewsFoto/MetroPCS) DALLAS, TX UNITED STATES 		DALLAS, Aug. 9, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Students and parents who are gearing up for back to school will have an affordable and stylish new touchscreen smartphone choice with a new Android™ smartphone, the Samsung Admire™, coming soon to MetroPCS Communications, Inc. and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile). 		In a recent study among parents by the National Retail Federation it was found that for this year's Back to School season that half of respondents report that they will hunt for sales and almost 44 percent admit they will be spending less money in general. 		The Samsung Admire is a perfect choice for first-time smartphone users or for budget-minded students looking for an advanced phone with all the features, apps, entertainment and organizational tools they need to excel. The Samsung Admire is powered by Android 2.3 and comes in a choice of two colors, red and gray. Students can customize five fully-customizable homescreens and access to thousands of apps on the Android Market™, allowing them to personalize their phones and to access homework help, GPS or social networking. 		With MetroPCS' affordable, no-annual-contract rate plans starting at $40 per month with unlimited talk, text and Web access – all taxes and regulatory fees included – MetroPCS offers unmatched value all year long. 		"The Samsung Admire is the latest device in our growing Android smartphone lineup and delivers the right set of features at the right price for students as they head back to school. And the best part is that customers will continue to save money year-round with MetroPCS' affordable, unlimited service plans," said Tom Keys, president and COO, MetroPCS. 		MetroPCS is also offering special back to school deals on the Huawei M835, Samsung Freeform™ III, Kyocera Torino, Samsung Galaxy Indulge™ and LG Optimus M, and through September 30, MetroPCS is also offering a BOGO promotion, allowing new customers who buy one phone to get one free, to help families save even more money. Please visit a MetroPCS store or go to www.metropcs.com to learn more.
 