
 
 Hoping to compete with the Siris of the world, Micromax has announced its new Superfone A50 Ninja alongside a novel feature dubbed AISHA -- which is short for Artificial Intelligence Speech Handset Assistant. Similar to Cupertino's personal secretary, AISHA vows to help folks with every-day elements such as making calls, setting up calendar events and even reporting what the weather looks like. Much to our disappointment, however, the A50 Ninja runs a not-so-new flavor of Android -- Gingerbread to be exact -- and Micromax left out any mention of Android 4.0. On the specs front, the dual-SIM Superfone sports a 3.1-inch display (mum's the word on the resolution), a two-megapixel shooter, Bluetooth 2.0 capabilities and an unspecified 650MHz processor. All in all, thanks to its 4,999 rupees (around $95) budget price, we can't imagine you'd complain too much. Be sure to hit up the Micromax link below if you're interested in grabbing one of these.



  Show full PR text    Micromax Informatics Limited ("Micromax"), the 12th largest handset manufacturer in the World (According to Global Handset Vendor Market share report from Strategy Analytics) today announced the launch of A50 Ninja, which comes with an Artificial Intelligence Speech Handset Assistant, "AISHA".

   Priced at Rs. 4,999/- the Micromax A50 Ninja makes an effort to provide an affordable smartphone solution for the masses who have longed for a phone which is not just smart but an intelligent device. In succession to A85, A75, A73 and A78, Micromax intensifies its Superfone portfolio by introducing A50 and thus offering handsets ranging from Rs. 4,999 to Rs. 12, 500.

   A50 runs on Android version 2.3.6 (Gingerbread) with a processor speed of 650 MHz .The phone features a 7.9 cms multi touch capacitive screen to provide ease to the users. It's another dual SIM Android powered offering from Micromax. However, with A50 Micromax offers a new innovation to the user in form of AISHA. Through the voice recognition tool, Users can initiate a Google search, view stock market details, Know phone status, movie reviews, make calls, read news of desired locations, know horoscopes, make language translations and also view recipes through AISHA. This is not just enough, AISHA helps you to inquire your missed calls, send message, inquire date and time, weather conditions, pose knowledge questions and a number of jobs to count on.

   For the smooth functioning of AISHA to provide an intelligent and immediate response, Micromax has back-end tie up with Indian portals such as Timesjob.com, Simplymarry.com etc

   Through AISHA, the users can update their status on Facebook and Twitter. A50 comes on the Gingerbread platform and the users can discover a hub of apps that awaits them at the Google Play Store ranging from entertainment to music apps. Micromax A50 sports a 2.0 MP camera.

   Superfone A50 Ninja is available at an attractive price of Rs. 4,999. This model will be available across all leading retail outlets in India. For more information, please visit www.micromaxsuperfone.com.

 
