
We get the sense Microsoft wants to distance itself from the original Surface RT. After taking a $900 million hit on unsold inventory, the company held a press event where it saved the Surface 2 for last and billed it as a major redesign. "Surface 2 is not subtle, but a revamp," Panos Panay, Corporate Vice President of Surface, said that day. "It is not the simple changes that everybody wants, but it's the changes people need." Those changes include a thinner, lighter body; a sharper 1080p screen; a faster Tegra 4 processor; an improved webcam that fares better in low light; and a dual-stage kickstand that makes it more comfortable to use in the lap. It even looks different: The Surface now comes in silver, not black, so that you'll never mistake it for the original. 

If you need even more evidence that Microsoft is embarrassed by the first Surface, consider this: The new version doesn't even have "RT" in the name. The thing is, of course, the Surface 2 does, in fact, run Windows RT, and it has many of the same software limitations as the original -- namely, that it won't run traditional desktop apps. Given that, is it possible that all these hardware tweaks are enough to reverse Microsoft's fortunes?




HardwareWhen the Surface 2 was first announced, we said it basically looked like the original -- at least from a few feet away. And that's still true, except for one obvious difference: The Surface now only comes in pale silver. That's right, if you want a serious black tablet, you're gonna want to check out the Surface Pro 2, which is being offered exclusively in that familiar carbon shade. Still, the new Surface's more playful color aside, the chassis here is a fairly modest upgrade over the first edition. As ever, it's made of matte magnesium-alloy, which does a superb job of repelling both scratches and finger smudges. The shape is also the same: a rectangle with blunt edges, rounded corners and angling around the sides. This time, however, the Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2 are made from two pieces of metal instead of three -- a change so subtle you might miss it even if you were inspecting the device closely. 
What you won't notice from a few feet away is that the Surface 2 has gotten slightly slimmer -- and a tiny bit lighter, too. This time, it measures 10.81 x 6.81 x 0.35 inches, weighing in at 1.49 pounds. That's ever-so slightly smaller than the original, which measured 10.81 x 6.77 x 0.37 inches and came in at 1.5 pounds. Still, that doesn't mean the change isn't noticeable. Between the slightly thinner frame and that infinitesimal weight loss, the Surface 2 feels more compact than I remember the original feeling. To put all this in context, the Surface is just five-hundredths of a pound heavier than the 9.7-inch iPad, which has a smaller screen to begin with. It's slimmer too, despite having a full-sized USB port in tow. At any rate, without belaboring the inevitable iPad comparisons, we're trying to say this: The Surface 2's weight feels appropriate for what it is. 
Another thing you won't catch at first glance: Microsoft retooled the kickstand on both the Surface and Surface Pro so that you can stand it up in either an upright position, or a wider stance with the screen facing up a bit more. In particular, Microsoft is billing this as a two-stage kickstand. We'd say that's an accurate description: The kickstand stops at that classic, upright position, so that if you wanted to extend it even farther you'd need to apply a bit of pressure. Not too much, mind you: The hinge mechanism here doesn't feel at all stiff or creaky. But it's not flimsy, either; even if you tried to push the kickstand farther than it was capable of going, you'd never have to worry about it snapping off. All in all, the kickstand here feels painstakingly designed, and it goes a long way toward making a well-crafted tablet feel even more premium. Our only complaint: It'd be nice if there were notches on both sides of the tablet for lifting the kickstand out. With the notch on the left side only, it can be difficult to open when cradling the tablet in two hands.


As you can imagine, there are a few benefits to having a more versatile kickstand. One of them is better viewing angles, though really, the original already had a low-glare screen that was easy to read under harsh light. No, what Microsoft was really after here was to make the Surface easier to use in the lap. Indeed, thanks to that wider stance, the Surface feels less precarious when you rest it on your legs. That's not to say using it in your lap was impossible before; just a bit clumsy. What's especially nice is that not only does the Surface feel more stable now, but the kickstand also digs into your legs less because the blunt metal edge is coming in at a less direct angle. Take it from me: If I can comfortably use the Surface on my legs while wearing tights, you all will do just fine with pants on.

Taking a tour around the edges, you'll find a familiar selection of ports: the power/lock button up top; a USB 3.0 port, video-out socket and proprietary charging connector on the right; and a volume rocker and headphone jack on the right. On the bottom, of course, are the magnetic connectors that allow you to click in one of the optional keyboard covers. As with the original, the connectors are so strong that they just suck the keyboards toward them when they're nearby -- you never have to go through the trouble of locking them in, or lining them up alongside the magnets. And once they're in, they stay in. You could dangle the 1.49-pound tablet from that thin plastic keyboard cover if you wanted; it's absolutely not going to fall off. (While we're on the subject of satisfying "clicks," by the way, the kickstand makes a crisp, satisfying sound when you close it, but you already know that if you've been paying attention to Microsoft's Surface ads.)

Rounding out the spec list, the Surface 2 has a 3.5-megapixel camera on the front, and a 5MP main shooter on the back, both of which have been improved with better low-light optics. We'll of course return to that in just a moment. Before we do, a quick note on the wireless connectivity here: You've got a choice between 802.11n WiFi and Bluetooth 4.0. An LTE version is also coming to AT&T in the US and Vodafone in Europe sometime in early 2014. No details on pricing or an exact on-sale date, though.

Keyboard covers
It wouldn't be a Surface without a keyboard. OK, fine, it would -- the keyboard covers are still sold separately -- but you wouldn't be making the most out of your tablet, that's for sure. In addition to coming out with some new hardware, Microsoft also refreshed its accessory lineup with two new keyboards, the aptly named Touch Cover 2 and Type Cover 2. Starting with the Touch Cover (that's the one with the flat keys), it's still priced at $120, but it's marginally thinner than last time (2.75mm vs. 3.25) and the keys are backlit. Both keyboards are backlit, in fact, but the effect is far subtler than on a proper laptop; it's not like light pours out from beneath the buttons or anything. Rather, the lettering on the keycaps will glow a bit brighter as the light around you starts to dim. It's a very handy feature to have -- though you might forget it's there until you actually need it.

Getting back to the Touch Cover for a moment, though, Microsoft also added a matrix of sensors underneath the keys that allows you to perform some touch gestures by swiping certain keys. For instance, you can swipe the spacebar to select from spelling suggestions when you make a typo. Or, you can swipe two fingers across the number row to highlight text (to delete that text, just remove your fingers). In both cases, you need to apply a good deal of pressure, which is a good thing, in a way -- it means you'll never do any of these things by accident. Still, don't get discouraged when you try it once and nothing happens; these tricks take a little practice.







