
 

The Xbox 360's most recent dashboard update changed everything around again, but its ultimate effect will continue to be felt over the next few weeks and months as more apps trickle out and add more functionality. A few more selections just went live today, and include highly anticipated options like UFC's PPV app, and access to Vudu (pictured after the break -- also, there's no HDX support yet, just HD) movie streaming. That's not all however as they're also joined by 4 on Demand (UK), ABC iView (Australia), Dailymotion, Demand 5 (UK), plus M6 and MSN Video (France). Also recently announced are plans to bring Orange TV in France to the Xbox 360 in the spring with live streaming of thirty TV channels and VOD access later. For its part, Vudu is trying to entice new customers with a $4.99 credit towards their first rental or purchase, plus a few other promotional pricing incentives. Check the press release after the break for more details, or just power on your console to see the channels that are available in your neck of the woods.
      

 

  		Show full PR text  VUDU Launches on Xbox 360 and Announces End-of-Year Savings on		Top Movies and TV Shows. 		New voice-controlled experience on Xbox 360 allows customers more interactive options to search and browse VUDU's expansive catalog. 		SAN BRUNO, Calif. – Dec. 20, 2011 – Walmart (NYSE: WMT) today announced the launch of its popular VUDU entertainment service on Xbox 360. Xbox LIVE customers can now shop VUDU's library using new, interactive features such as voice search, voice control and Kinect gesture commands to rent or own the latest Hollywood hits, TV shows, cinema classics and independent gems in standard or high definition. To encourage customers to try VUDU on Xbox, VUDU is offering a $4.99 credit toward their first rental or purchase. Also, through today only (11:30 p.m. PST) at Walmart.com, customers can get free shipping to home on Microsoft Xbox 360 consoles, games and accessories and still receive in time for Christmas. 		Kinect for Xbox 360 offers customers the ability to become the controller, using their body and Bing voice search to browse VUDU's expansive catalog, and their voice to play, pause, fast forward or rewind content. Because VUDU is a cloud-based service, content purchased via the Xbox LIVE service is viewable on other VUDU-enabled devices or platforms including game consoles, Internet-connected Blu-ray players and HDTVs, tablets, computers, Walmart.com and more. Also, content purchased on any of these platforms can be viewed on the Xbox LIVE service. 		"VUDU on Xbox 360 brings more fun into finding, watching and buying your favorite movies and TV shows," said Edward Lichty, general manager, VUDU. "With the new, interactive features on Xbox 360 to browse VUDU's library, along with special savings like 99-cent VUDU rentals, we hope to make the holidays even more entertaining and affordable for families." 		"Our partnership with VUDU marks a significant milestone in our vision to bring you all the TV entertainment you want, shared with the people you care about, made easy," said Pete Thompson, General Manager, Xbox LIVE. "By bringing VUDU to the Xbox LIVE service and adding the magic of Kinect, we are transforming the way consumers experience entertainment forever." 		VUDU End-of-Year Savings		As families gear up to watch their favorite movies and TV shows together this holiday, VUDU is offering big end-of-year savings and digital exclusives. Examples include:		· 99-cent rentals including Jingle All the Way starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints starring Robert Downey, Jr. 		· Early digital availability of Moneyball starring Brad Pitt and Abduction starring Taylor Lautner. 		· 50%+ savings on holiday favorites like Christmas with the Kranks, The Holiday and This Christmas. 		· Season 1 episodes (to date) of Pan Am free 		· Every first episode from all BBC America seasons for just 99 cents each. 		Free Shipping on Xbox 360 Consoles, Games and Accessories		At Walmart.com, customers can save more on Xbox 360 with free shipping to their home, local Walmart store and participating FedEx Office locations. More is available at www.walmart.com/freeshipping.		· Home Free – through today only (11:30 p.m. PST), customers can order online and receive free shipping to home on Microsoft Xbox consoles, games and accessories in time for Christmas. 		· Site to Store – order online and receive free shipping to a Walmart store within 5-10 days. 		· FedEx Site to Store – order online and receive free shipping to participating FedEx Office locations. This service in now available in more than 650 FedEx Office locations in New York City, Los Angeles, Washington DC, San Diego, San Francisco, San Jose, Portland, Seattle, Minneapolis, Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Denver, Miami, Cincinnati and Columbus. 		· Pick Up Today – order store items online for same-day pickup at a Walmart store   		Expanded VUDU Library		VUDU's recently expanded catalog features newly added TV shows from CBS, Comedy Central, HBO®, MTV, National Geographic, Nickelodeon and SHOWTIME® as well as blockbuster movies, Hollywood classics and independent films. Now, more than half of VUDU's library is available in high definition, and VUDU also delivers a cinema-like experience with vibrant-streaming HD and rich Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 and 7.1 Surround Sound. 		Customers can access VUDU using their Xbox LIVE Gold subscription as well as their existing Xbox billing credentials without the need to enter a separate credit card. For more information, go to www.walmart.com/vudu or www.vudu.com.
 