
 It may have "Windows" in the branding, but Windows Phone 7 is not the desktop PC experience shoehorned into a cellphone. Microsoft tried that with Windows Mobile... and we all know how that turned out. Today, eight months after the Windows Phone 7 OS unveiling in Barcelona, we're finally seeing the official launch of the retail hardware: nine new WP7 handsets, some available October 21 in select European and Asian markets and others from early November in the US. The phones will find their way to over 60 cellphone operators in more than 30 countries this year. Microsoft tapped Dell, HTC, LG, and Samsung to deliver the Snapdragon-based handsets with a carrier list that includes AT&T, T-Mobile USA, Vodafone, TELUS, América Móvil, Deutsche Telekom AG, Movistar, O2, Orange, SFR, SingTel, and Telstra. And that's just for the first wave -- Microsoft has even more handsets coming in 2011 including the first for Sprint and Verizon in the US. Here's the lineup of 480 x 800 pixel (WVGA) phones announced today:

HTC 7 Surround -- The 3.8-inch T8788 with slideout speaker for AT&T and Telus
HTC HD7 -- Schubert comes of age as a 4.3-inch HD2 cousin for T-Mobile and beyond
HTC 7 Trophy -- the 3.8-inch Spark headed to international carriers
HTC 7 Mozart -- another heavily leaked int'l player with 3.7-inch display
Dell Venue Pro -- 4.1-inch portrait QWERTY slider for T-Mobile we broke as Lightning
Samsung Focus -- AT&T's 4-inch Super AMOLED slate we broke as Cetus
Samsung Omnia 7 -- the i8700 is a 4-inch Super AMOLED jobbie for Europe
LG Optimus 7/7Q -- the E900 is the official 3.8-inch global workhorse
LG Quantum -- AT&T's 3.5-inch landscape slider first seen as the C900


HTC 7 Pro -- a 3.6-inch QWERTY slider for Sprint (2011)

"Glance and Go," is the slogan Microsoft is using to differentiate itself from an already crowded smartphone market. Something we've already seen alluded to in that leaked AT&T ad. As Ballmer notes, "Microsoft and its partners are delivering a different kind of mobile phone and experience - one that makes everyday tasks faster by getting more done in fewer steps and providing timely information in a 'glance and go' format." He's referring to WP7's customizable Live Tiles, of course. Xbox Live integration is another biggie with EA Games just announcing its first Xbox Live-enabled wares coming to Windows Phone 7 in the fall including "Need for Speed Undercover," "Tetris," "Monopoly," and "The Sims 3." The other big differentiators are the slick Metro UI, integrated support for Zune media and Zune Pass subscriptions, Bing search and maps, Windows Live including the free Find My Phone service, and Microsoft Office Mobile.

Now quit stalling and jump past the break for the full list of handsets per carrier and country.

Update: Added the official WP7 overview videos after the break.
      

 

   North AmericaAT&T • HTC Surround, United States• Samsung Focus, United States• LG Quantum, United States T-Mobile USA • HTC HD7, United States• Dell Venue Pro, United StatesTELUS • HTC 7 Surround, Canada • LG Optimus 7, Canada América Móvil• LG Optimus 7, Mexico EuropeO2 • HTC HD7, United Kingdom, Germany Orange • HTC 7 Mozart, including France, United Kingdom• Samsung Omnia 7, including France, United Kingdom SFR • HTC 7 Trophy, France • Samsung Omnia 7, France Movistar• LG Optimus 7, Spain• HTC HD7, Spain• Samsung Omnia 7, SpainDeutsche Telekom AG• HTC 7 Mozart, Germany • Samsung Omnia 7, Germany Vodafone • HTC 7 Trophy, including Germany, Spain, United Kingdom • LG Optimus 7, including Germany, Italy, Spain, United KingdomAsia PacificSingTel • HTC HD 7, Singapore• LG Optimus 7, Singapore Telstra • HTC 7 Mozart, Australia • LG Optimus 7Q, Australia Vodafone• HTC 7 Trophy, AustraliaShow full PR textOct. 11, 2010Microsoft and Partners Unveil Windows Phone 7 Global PortfolioFirst phones available soon from leading mobile operators around the world.REDMOND, Wash. - Oct. 11, 2010 - Microsoft Corp. today joined its partners in revealing nine new Windows Phone 7 handsets that will be available this holiday season from leading mobile operators in Europe, North America, and Asia Pacific. With more than 60 mobile operators in over 30 countries worldwide committed to bringing Windows Phones to market, the millions of people around the world looking for a phone that plays as hard as it works will have a variety of phones from leading device-makers to choose from. "We have a beautiful lineup in this first wave of Windows Phone 7 handsets," said Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer at Microsoft. "Microsoft and its partners are delivering a different kind of mobile phone and experience - one that makes everyday tasks faster by getting more done in fewer steps and providing timely information in a 'glance and go' format."Global Portfolio Microsoft and its partners have worked together closely to create a different kind of phone with new experiences that bring together what people care about most. Windows Phone 7 will be available in a variety of sleek form factors from device-makers such as Dell, HTC Corp., LG and Samsung, and from mobile operators including América Móvil, AT&T, Deutsche Telekom AG, Movistar, O2, Orange, SFR, SingTel, Telstra, TELUS, T-Mobile USA and Vodafone. All Windows Phone 7 phones will include the high-performance Snapdragon™ processor from Qualcomm. A broad selection of phones will begin shipping in holiday 2010 with more arriving in 2011, including phones from Sprint and Verizon. In addition, select models will be available at Microsoft Store locations and from Amazon. Windows Phone 7, Glance and GoIn today's busy world we are spending more time heads-down on our phones than interacting with the people we're sitting next to and missing out on important life moments. Windows Phone 7 was designed to deliver a mobile experience that has the phone working better for people, bringing together the things they care about most and helping them to get things done faster. Windows Phone 7 breaks the current smartphone convention to help people quickly and easily find and consume data, information and services from the Web and applications. The new phones are distinguished by unique design and integrated experiences built from Microsoft's deep portfolio such as Xbox LIVE, Microsoft Office Mobile, Zune, Windows Live, Bing and more.For example, the customizable Start screen with Live Tiles is a personal experience, showing people their own content. The Live Tiles come to life with real-time updates from the Web such as news, appointments or the status of friends. New Live Tiles can be easily created from whatever content a consumer wants, such as applications, websites and music. Fueling New ExperiencesWindows Phone 7 marks a new era in mobile gaming as the first phone1 to put the power of Xbox LIVE into the palm of people's hands with a blockbuster lineup of game titles from award-winning publishers. In addition to the titles already announced earlier this year, Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) today announced the first wave of EA games coming to Windows Phone 7 this fall. As part of Microsoft's managed portfolio of Xbox LIVE titles, all EA games for Windows Phone 7 will be Xbox LIVE-enabled. EA will deliver a portfolio of titles that offers something for every mobile gamer, from casual to core, including "Need for Speed™ Undercover," "Tetris®" and "The Sims™ 3." Windows Phone 7 is also the first to offer the Zune music experience on a phone: People can play their music collection, synced wirelessly from their PC, or stream or download new tunes from Windows Marketplace. An optional Zune Pass subscription is available. Search is made easier with a dedicated button to help people find what they need, whether in contacts, in Marketplace, in e-mail or on the Web. From the Start screen, the Search button delivers Bing for mobile, delivering Web results, local information, maps, directions and more. The Windows Live solution helps people manage pictures, Windows Live calendar, Office OneNote Mobile and more. The free Find My Phone service new on Windows Live can remotely ring, lock, erase and show the location of your phone on a map. Complete information about Windows Phone 7 features and capabilities can be found at http://www.windowsphone.com.
 