
 

A few years ago we were happy just to get a few trailers in high definition from the E3 videogames conference on our Xbox 360s, but this year Microsoft and Spike TV have teamed up to bring the company's entire briefing in HD (via video on-demand) to the console. It will air live on Spike TV June 6th at 12:30 p.m. ET, with streams also available on GameTrailers.com (in high definition), Facebook, MTV.com, Spike.com and Xbox.com as well as being broadcast in Times Square. You can bet we'll be back to liveblog the proceedings yet again but if you want to get your own eyeful of Xbox 360: The Future Revealed (hint: Gears of War 3, Forza Motorsport 4 and Kinect) there will be plenty of ways to do it.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  SPIKE TV AND XBOX TO TRANSFORM THE FUTURE OF GAMES AND ENTERTAINMENT AT E3 2011 		XBOX 360: The Future Revealed to Exclusively Air Live and Commercial Free Across a Record Number of Platforms on Monday, June 6 at 12:30 PM ET / 9:30 AM PT 		New York, NY, May 16, 2011 – Spike TV, the #1 network for video game programming, has renewed its partnership with Microsoft Corp for exclusive broadcast coverage of the company's Xbox 360 E3 Media Briefing at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), the game industry's leading trade show. A blockbuster 90-minute look at the biggest and best games and entertainment set for release later in 2011 and beyond, Xbox 360: The Future Revealed telecasts live and commercial free on Spike TV on Monday, June 6 at 12:30 PM ET / 9:30 AM PT. 		"Spike continues to be the leading partner for the video game industry year-round, and our ongoing relationship with Xbox at E3 is a key part of that success," said Kevin Kay, president, Spike TV. 		In addition to airing in high-definition on Spike, MTV Networks and Xbox will make the program available across a record number of digital platforms and screens. MTV Networks' GameTrailers.com will provide a live, high-definition video stream on the Internet, powered by the global Akamai HD Network platform. In addition the briefing will air live in Times Square, and be available for live streaming on Facebook, mobile platforms, MTV.com, Spike.com and Xbox.com/E3. For the first time, viewers will also be able to watch the full HD briefing on-demand on Xbox LIVE. 		"We are excited to be back again this year working with Spike TV and MTV Networks to broadcast our E3 Media Briefing to millions of consumers around the world," said Don Mattrick, president, interactive entertainment business at Microsoft. "We encourage everyone to tune-in Monday as we world premiere our exclusive line-up of leading blockbuster games, showcase the next wave of innovation for Kinect and demonstrate new ways to experience the entertainment you love." 		Xbox 360: The Future Revealed, hosted by GTTV's Geoff Keighley, will air LIVE from the USC's Galen Center in Los Angeles. During the 90-minute showcase, Microsoft will reveal its plans for the future of the Xbox 360 platform. This year viewers will be treated to a never-before-seen demo from September's Xbox 360 exclusive, Gears of War 3, one of the most highly anticipated games of 2011. Viewers will also see an exclusive new look at Forza Motorsport 4, the latest release in the acclaimed Xbox 360 exclusive racing series. The special will also reveal the latest in innovation for Kinect, the groundbreaking new entertainment platform launched last November. 		The exclusive live broadcast of Xbox 360: The Future Revealed is a key component of Spike's unprecedented commitment to video game coverage at E3. Spike, home to the annual Video Game Awards, the biggest night of the year for the game industry, plans to deliver more than 20 hours of live E3-related programming across multiple platforms – including television, online, Facebook, and mobile – from a new, state of the art HD studio at L.A. Live in downtown Los Angeles, Spike and GameTrailers.com will unveil the biggest games of E3 before any other network with breaking news, live demonstrations, world premiere trailers, in-depth interviews and expert analysis. 		Spike TV is available in 99.4 million homes and is a division of MTV Networks. A unit of Viacom (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B), MTV Networks is one of the world's leading creators of programming and content across all media platforms. Spike TV's Internet address is www.spike.com and for up-to-the-minute and archival press information and photographs, visit Spike TV's press site at http://www.spike.com/press. Follow us on Twitter @spiketvpr for the latest in breaking news updates, behind-the-scenes information and photos. 		# # #
 