
We could debate all day about whether the original Surface Pro was supposed to be more of a tablet, or a laptop with a detachable keyboard. Either way, we think we can agree on this: The original wasn't perfect in either role, not with its short battery life, heavy build and kickstand that wasn't designed to be used in the lap. Now, less than a year after it came out, we have the Surface Pro 2, which addresses many of the shortcomings we complained about on the original. In particular, it moves to a two-stage kickstand that sits less precariously on people's legs. A Haswell CPU, meanwhile, should take care of the battery life problem. Even the keyboard covers have received mild upgrades, though unfortunately, they're still not included in the $899 starting price. But does all of that add up to a real improvement?




HardwareWith the exception of that dual-stage kickstand, this is basically the same hardware as the original. Sure, it's now made of two pieces of magnesium alloy instead of three, but the difference is so subtle you might not spot it even if you tried. For all intents and purposes, though -- and in all the areas that count -- the Pro remains unchanged. Chiefly, the dimensions are exactly the same as they were last year: 10.81 x 6.81 x 0.53 inches (27.45 x 17.3 x 1.35cm). And at two pounds, it's as weighty as the first edition. In some ways, it even feels heavier than we remembered. That's partly because the accompanying Surface 2 is noticeably lighter than its predecessor, the original Surface RT. But even the Pro now finds itself competing against some skinnier, lighter-weight rivals. Namely, Sony's 11-inch Tap 11 tablet, which comes in at 1.7 pounds and measures a much thinner 0.39 inch thick (and that's also with a USB port!).

Thankfully, its build quality hasn't changed either. If a thin-and-light design is the main reason you'd want to buy the Tap 11, then top-notch craftsmanship is one reason you might still want to go with the Surface Pro 2. Once again, Microsoft's design team went with black magnesium alloy, and it's as tactile as it is minimal. Turned off, the tablet's metal surfaces feel smooth, cold and... expensive. Fortunately, it's also durable: The Pro emerged from my week of testing scratch-free, and with only a light dusting of fingerprint smudges. And that's even after I carried it around in a tote bag with other objects, like a wall charger and the included stylus.


There are other nice touches. The magnetic connectors on the bottom edge instantly catch hold of the optional keyboard covers, so that you never have to guide them in. And once they're in place, you can dangle the tablet from the Type Cover if you want -- that thing is staying put. The kickstand, meanwhile, still makes a soft, satisfying "click" when you pop it back into place. As a bonus, Microsoft painted all the certification information and identifying specs (64GB, et cetera) underneath the kickstand, so that you rarely see it. With the tablet closed, all you'll see around back is some faint lettering spelling out the "Surface" logo. We told you it was minimal.

Similar to the hinge that allows the Lenovo Yoga's screen to fold all the way back, the two-stage kickstand here stops naturally at that first position, so that you have to push a bit harder to get it to extend all the way out. At no point does it ever feel flimsy, though; you can try to push the kickstand past its limit, but you'll never worry it's going to break. At the same time, it doesn't offer too much resistance. It's not an easy balance that Microsoft is going for here, that mix of smooth and sturdy, but its engineering team absolutely pulls it off. Our only complaint is that even after all this time, the kickstand can still be a pain to open, since there's only a notch on one side of the tablet (the left side). Having a notch on each end would make it easier to open the kickstand when we're cradling the device in two hands.

So, about that two-stage kickstand: It's a pretty handy feature. I'll go on record here and say that I never thought the Surface was that uncomfortable to use in the lap, but I know many folks would disagree. Clearly, Microsoft heard their complaints, as this second kickstand setting was expressly designed so that the Surface would rest more comfortably on people's laps. There are a few things going on here. For one, as promised, it feels a little less precarious when the kickstand has a wider stance. In addition, the viewing angle is a little more pleasant, as it's no longer sitting quite so upright. Depending on how tall you are, and how high above the tablet you're sitting, you might really appreciate the option of arranging the screen at a slightly more face-up angle. Equally important, the kickstand digs into your legs less at that angle. It's still not as comfy as the Tap 11's kickstand, which has a rubber seal at the end, but it's an improvement nonetheless. Even wearing tights, I was able to comfortably set the device on my legs, which means all of our jeans-wearing readers should fare just fine.

Drag your finger along the angled edges toward the back, and you'll be interrupted by a thin gap separating the sides and the rear cover. That would be the discreet ventilation system, which takes the place of traditional fan openings. This is also where sound escapes from the stereo speakers, which are hidden inside the chassis. The audio, as you'd expect, doesn't exactly go heavy on the bass notes, but the quality is generally pleasant enough. Its biggest crime? The volume isn't very loud, even at max settings. If you intend to do more than have a video conference or listen to music by yourself, you might want to pair it with a Bluetooth speaker.

On the other side of the gap, you'll be met by all the usual ports: a full-sized USB 3.0 socket on the left, along with a volume rocker and standard headphone jack. Over on the right, you'll find the same Mini DisplayPort, along with the same proprietary charging connector and the same microSDXC slot. As before, the included pen has matching nubs allowing you to click it into the charging port. Lining it up against the tablet can sometimes be a practice in trial and error, but once it's in, it at least stays put. The all-important power/lock button, meanwhile, still sits on top, along with the solitary microphone. (Microsoft told us last time that the use of one mic, as opposed to two on the RT, was to keep it from picking up too much fan noise.) Rounding out, you'll find twin 720p cameras: one on the front, and one on the back. If you're curious about quality, you can revisit our Surface Pro review from earlier this year: Both cameras are essentially unchanged (which is to say they aren't very good).

As far as wireless connectivity goes, the Pro offers a mix of 802.11n WiFi and Bluetooth 4.0 LE (the Surface 2 also has BT 4.0, but it's not Low Energy). On the inside, meanwhile, it brings TPM security for the enterprise -- something you won't find on the more consumer-focused Surface 2.

Keyboard covers
In addition to the Surface Pro itself, both the Touch and Type keyboard covers have received modest updates. Starting with the $120 Touch Cover 2, it's slightly thinner than the original (2.75mm vs. 3.25mm) with a more rigid design and subtle backlighting that you'll only notice in dim conditions. More importantly, the flat keys promise greater keystroke accuracy, and can now support a few gestures they didn't used to, like sliding two fingers across the numbered keys to highlight text (you can delete the selected text by then taking your fingers off the keyboard). There's also a new space bar gesture that lets you quickly choose from spelling recommendations when you make a typo. Note: Neither of these gestures is for the dainty-handed. You'll need to exert a good deal of pressure to make either of them work.

Speaking of typos, I don't necessarily buy that the Touch Cover 2 is more accurate than its predecessor. The learning curve is as steep as always, which is to say you'll probably start off typing slowly and deliberately to avoid making mistakes. You'll get the hang of it, I promise, but you'll also make your share of mistakes along the way. Even now that I've learned to trust the Touch Cover and let myself type at a faster clip, I still have trouble capitalizing letters using the Shift key. The Touch Cover 2 doesn't really help there. Microsoft is correct, though, that the keyboard is more rigid -- it's definitely less bendy than I remember it feeling. That should come in handy when you're using the device in your lap; on a flat surface, less so. Really, unless you're wild about the backlighting or those keyboard gestures, you could probably get away with buying the last-gen Touch Cover for $80 while it's still around.






