
 Mo apps, mo couch entertainment, right? Well, in order to boost the attributes of its mature gaming console and Xbox Live, Microsoft today announced it's bringing some additional content to the ever-evolving platform. To go along with the recent inclusion of Redbox Instant, Redmond this week -- and just in time for the new season, shall we say -- will welcome an MLB.tv app with a redesigned interface and other undisclosed features that, according to the company, should "make watching baseball on Xbox better than ever." What's more, Microsoft didn't just have MLB lovers in mind, and is also giving film buffs, both young and old, something to look forward to with a few new applications, such as IndieFlix, PopcornFlix and Toys R Us movies -- oh, and for those who fancy internet-based TV shows, there's a Revision3 app, to boot. As is often the case, the countries in which they can each be enjoyed will depend on where you live (and a Gold subscription, of course), so now may be a good time to peruse the PR after the break to find out which of these you can expect to see on your Dasboard.



  Show full PR text    Major Nelson announced a handful of new and exciting Xbox LIVE apps launching this week and gave a sneak peek at the anticipated Game of Thrones SmartGlass companion experience for HBO GO. Here's a snapshot of the new apps on Xbox LIVE this week.*   · Xbox SmartGlass for Game of Thrones Season 3 (United States)  Discover even more of Game of Thrones with HBO GO and Xbox SmartGlass for your Windows 8 tablet or iPad. As the story unfolds on your TV, Xbox SmartGlass allows you to use your tablet as a companion guide to unlock exclusive content – including interactive maps, detailed character guides, cast and crew commentaries, behind-the-scenes extras and more – right at your fingertips. Now, you can control your Game of Thrones viewing experience like never before.   · MLB.TV Refresh (United States, United Kingdom, France, Australia, Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico, Japan, Ireland, New Zealand, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, Brazil, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, Singapore, Russia, Poland, Colombia, Chile, South Africa, Czech Republic)  MLB.TV on Xbox 360 is refreshing, including a new look and adding some new features that make watching baseball on Xbox better than ever. With MLB.TV, access more than 1,430 Major League Baseball games live or on-demand, follow your favorite teams and get the best highlights and game recaps instantly. The updated MLB.TV includes a full view of game progress with base-runners and pitch-count, all without leaving the game you're watching. Also, it allows you to get a quick view of the day's MLB action with game progress including scores, base-runners and upcoming games. The refreshed app is more personalized and once you pick your favorite teams, the app will instantly start up with what you care about most – live games, clips and highlights, and game recaps of your favorite teams.   · IndieFlix (United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand)  IndieFlix on Xbox 360 brings the Film Festival home. Award-winning independent movies, shorts, documentaries, animation and web series from around the world. Discover films that launch careers, blaze new trails, and that actors and directors make for the love of the craft. Try it free at indieflix.com/xbox. Every great film deserves an audience.   · Revision 3 (United States, Australia, Canada)  With Revision 3, watch the best TV shows from the internet right on your Xbox 360. Access tens of thousands of Revision3 videos, including all original weekly and daily episodic and community driven programs. And with Kinect for Xbox 360 you can control your shows with a wave of your hand or the sound of your voice.   · PopcornFlix (United States)  With Popcornflix on Xbox 360, stream hundreds of films instantly at no additional cost with your Xbox LIVE Gold subscription. Watch a wide range of genres including comedy, action, thriller, romance, family and many more. New films added every day. Get your popcorn and enjoy.   · Toys "R" Us Movies (United States)  Watch the movies and TV shows kids love, instantly on your Xbox 360! Toys"R"Us Movies gives you instant access to thousands of family-friendly digital movies and TV shows for rental and purchase. Find the hottest new movie releases and TV shows selected just for your family and you can shop by age or your favorite characters! Watch at home or on the go - available on hundreds of devices and now on Xbox 360!

 
