
 Microsoft's aging Xbox 360 console still has some pep in its proverbial step, moving more than 750K consoles last week in the US alone, rounded out by Black Friday. Between November 18 and 23, 360 sales bucked internal forecasts -- no doubt bolstered by the release of Halo 4 a few weeks prior, as well as holiday bundles -- helping Microsoft's game box to best Nintendo's new Wii U by more than double (during the Wii U's launch week, no less). Of course, the Xbox 360 now exists in a variety of flavors, from the $99 subscription model to the $300 S model; this makes Nintendo's $300 minimum for a Wii U a somewhat unfair comparison with the variety of Xbox 360s out there.

 Regardless, Redmond's assuredly hoping these sales numbers will keep Xbox 360 in the top of NPD's monthly sales charts (October was the 360's 22nd consecutive month on top), though we have a few more weeks before we'll hear for certain which console maker moved the most units during one of the year's most crucial sales months. Despite a new PlayStation 3 model and the launch of the Vita this year, Sony's yet to announce its Black Friday numbers.



  Show full PR text    Xbox 360 concluded another successful Black Friday holiday sales period, selling more than 750,000 consoles in the U.S. during the week of Black Friday*.   Sales highlights in the U.S. during the week* of Black Friday include:  · Xbox 360 sold more than 750,000 consoles in the U.S. alone –exceeding internal forecasts. (Source: Microsoft Internal data)  · "Halo 4" exceeded expectations with impressive sales the week of Black Friday. (Source: Internal data)  · Xbox LIVE Gold Subscription card sales increased more than 50 percent compared to last year's Black Friday week. (Source: Microsoft Internal data)  · We saw incredible activity on Xbox over the weekend. For example, on Sunday alone we had more than 14 million people on Xbox LIVE across the world, racking up more than 72 million hours of use in just one day. (Source: Microsoft Internal data)  · Compared to 2011, we've seen a 43 percent increase in U.S. entertainment application usage taking place on Xbox LIVE during the week of Black Friday. (Source: Microsoft Internal data)   Xbox is providing fun for everyone this holiday season with exclusive blockbuster games like "Halo 4" (which generated more than $220 million worldwide in the first 24-hours of its release), "Forza Horizon," "Dance Central 3" and "Fable: The Journey," as well as new family friendly titles such as "Kinect Nat Geo TV," "Kinect Sesame Street TV," and "Nike+ Kinect Training."   Xbox 360 will also continue to offer consumers great value throughout the holiday season with a variety of special offers and pricing plans. A $50-off pricing promotion on select Xbox 360 consoles and three holiday bundles that include everything your family will need to experience all Xbox 360 has to offer are available now at participating retailers through Jan. 5, while supplies last.** Finally, get the best all-in-one entertainment experience starting at $99 with a two-year Xbox LIVE Gold commitment at $14.99/month. The Xbox 360 Entertainment For All Plan offers access to the best entertainment experiences including TV, movies, music, and sports, plus the hottest blockbuster games – all in one package. ***   It's never been a better time to own an Xbox 360, and consumers agree – October marked the 22nd consecutive month as the top-selling console in the U.S. (Source: NPD Group, October 2012).   * Note that the official retail reporting calendar runs from Sunday, Nov. 18 – Friday, Nov. 23, so these sales do not reflect Saturday and Sunday retail sales  **Savings based on estimated retail prices. Actual retail prices may vary.  ***Applicable taxes extra. Early termination fee and other restrictions apply. See retailer for offer terms. Prices are Estimated Retail Prices. Actual retailer prices may vary.

 
