
 So it won't arrive in January as originally planned, but better a little late than never, right? Microsoft just announced that its Surface Pro tablet will go on sale February 9th in the US and Canada, with wide retail availability beyond just Microsoft.com and Microsoft Stores. As you may have already read, the device will start at $899 for the 64GB model, and $999 for the 128GB version. Whichever you choose, a pressure-sensitive pen comes in the box; the keyboard does not (that'll be $120 or $130, depending on whether you get the Touch or Type Cover).

 Also on February 9th, Microsoft is going to start offering a 64GB standalone version of Surface for Windows RT for $599 (the 64GB model is currently sold as part of a $699 bundle with the black Touch Cover). That's good news, we suppose, for folks who prefer the tactile feel of the Type keyboard. Or, you know, who have their heart set on cyan. Additionally, Surface RT will soon be available in 13 more markets: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. All told, that more than doubles the number of a countries where the Surface RT is sold. So, Western Europe should pretty much be set now.

 Finally, in addition to those two tablets, Microsoft is introducing a bunch of accessories, also slated to land February 9th. These include three limited edition Touch Covers with funky patterns drawn on (we don't know about you, but we especially dig the skulls). It's not unlike the way Microsoft already sells artsy versions of its computer mice; indeed, a Microsoft rep told us the company intends to release even more special editions, the same way it keeps swapping in new mouse colors. Finally, Microsoft also announced the Wedge Touch Mouse Surface Edition, which is basically the regular Wedge mouse, just done up in the same finish as the Surface tablets. That will cost $70, while the limited edition keyboards are priced at $130 a pop. Hopefully we'll be hitting you back soon with a full review but for now, we've got shots of both the tablet and the new accessories waiting just past the break.






