
 What better time to announce a smartphone than in the lull between CES and MWC? Micromax is using the occasion to reveal another five-inch handset, the Canvas HD. The display packs a 1,280 x 720 resolution, and inside you'll find a MediaTek MT6589 1.2 GHz quad-core processor and a 2100mAh battery. The phone's also got an 8-megapixel rear camera and expandable storage up to 32GB. All of that's powered by Android 4.1. The Canvas HD is coming to India the first week of February, carrying a Rs. 15,000 ($279) price tag. Assorted additional information can be found in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text   Micromax launches Canvas HD to strengthen phablet leadership
  Micromax, India's leading handset manufacture today announced its partnership with MediaTek, the leading chipset manufacturers for the launch of their first quad core processor phone –A116 Canvas HD.
  Designed for comfort and convenience, the Canvas HD is powered by MediaTek's MT6589 1.2 GHz quad core processor and run on Android Jelly Bean. With an HD IPS screen with a HD resolution of 1280x720 and a color depth of 16.7 million, the phone comes with superb graphics and HD viewing experience. Supported by a 2100mAh battery, it is the ideal phone for the young generation who is always on the lookout for better, faster and savvier smart phones on the go!
  Commenting on the launch and association with MediaTek, Mr. Deepak Mehrotra, Chief Executive Officer, Micromax said, "At Micromax, we constantly strive to innovate and develop great technological experiences for our consumers. Today's launch marks our association with MediaTek to bring forth our first quad core phone in this segment, offering consumers a great user experience with latest features and added functionality." He further added, "We are excited with the success of Canvas 2, which has clearly established Micromax as number one player in the new 5" phablet category in India. We are looking forward to similar success with the new phone being unveiled today."
  The A116 Canvas HD promises superior quality graphics, multi-tasking and improved application performance. The phone sports an 8MP rear camera with LED flash and multiple camera settings such as night mode, 4X zoom - to further enhance the superiority of the memorable moments. 3G enabled A116 will help users in faster browsing, downloading attachments and watching streaming videos with excellent quality. The users can download HD quality videos and watch them on their phone without compromising with the quality. Users now can get to keep all their downloaded music by storing them in the phone's external memory which is expandable up to 32GB.   Speaking at the occasion, Dr. Finbarr Moynihan, General Manager - Business Development at MediaTek, said, "In less than 2 years of launching our first smartphone chipset, MediaTek's shipments in this category have grown more than ten times, with 110 million units in 2012. As the world's first commercialized quad-core Cortex-A7 SoC, the MT6589 is an innovative solution that accelerates product development, simplifies differentiation, and offers the best possible experience that mid to high-end smart device owners desire. Micromax shares our core philosophy of pushing the bar on innovation and bringing it within the reach of the masses. We are delighted that India's leading youth mobile brand has chosen MediaTek to power its top-end mobile smartphones."
 
