

Well, look at that -- Microvision's SHOW WX, the diminutive PicoP-based projector we first laid eyes on at Macworld some nine-plus odd months ago, is finally going to get a release. The device's laser display system (which works by combining light from red, blue, and green lasers) boasts 10 ANSI lumens, a 5000:1 contrast ratio, WVGA (848 x 480) resolution, and never needs focusing. Out "in a matter of weeks" for an unspecific price point, though according to About Projectors past reports have listed this "somewhere around $500" retail.

[Via About Projectors]

Show full PR text

Microvision Announces Commercial Launch of SHOW WX Laser Pico Projector

REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sep. 15, 2009-- Microvision, Inc. (Nasdaq:MVIS), a global leader in innovative ultra-miniature projection display and image capture products for mobility applications announced the commercial introduction of the world's first laser-based pico projector, called SHOW WX™, based on its proprietary PicoP® display engine technology.

The Company plans to distribute its accessory pico projector product through three sales channels: OEM branded products, Microvision branded products sold through international distributors and Microvision direct sales through its on-line store. Microvision has signed several marketing and distribution agreements with international distributors in Asia and Europe to launch Microvision branded and private labeled versions of the laser pico projector. Microvision expects to begin product shipments in the next several weeks.

The Microvision pico projector uses the revolutionary laser-based PicoP display engine that delivers large, colorful, bright, and vivid images that are always in focus, regardless of projection distance. The accessory product is a simple plug-n-play pico projector for people on-the-go who want to spontaneously view and share mobile TV, movies, photos, presentations and more. Users can take the pocket-sized projector anywhere, plug it into their portable media players, mobile phones, notebooks and other portable mobile media devices with TV-Out or VGA functionality and share a big screen experience with friends, family or business associates. Depending on the ambient light, the projected images range in size from 12" to 150"

About Microvision, Inc.

Microvision provides the PicoP display technology platform designed to enable next-generation display and imaging products for pico projectors, vehicle displays, and wearable displays that interface with mobile devices. The company's projection display engine uses highly efficient laser light sources which can create vivid images with high contrast and brightness. For more information, visit the company's website (www.microvision.com) and corporate blog

 