
 

Micron may think it's simply "bolstering user security" but, if you ask us, it seems like the company is providing the machines with a tool to protect their plans for insurrection. The RealSSD C400 SED has a special, security-focused firmware and hardware-based AES-256-bit encryption that keeps all of its precious data safe from prying eyes. The hardware self-encryption solution also frees up a computer's processor to focus on more important tasks (like planing the enslavement of mankind), rather than waste precious resources on protecting sensitive information. The C400 SED will ship sometime during Q4 in 128GB, 256GB and 512GB varieties. Price has yet to be announced, but we're not sure that Skynet really cares what the cost is. After all, it can just tell Micron's order-processing system to send a bunch out free of charge.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Micron Bolsters User Security With New Solid-State Drive Featuring Self Encryption for Laptops and Desktops 		- C400 SED Offers Extreme Stability and Robust Protection 		BOISE, IDAHO--(Korea Newswire) September 21, 2011 -- Micron Technology, Inc. (Nasdaq:MU), today introduced a new version of its popular RealSSD™ C400, featuring self encryption for unmatched data security. The C400 SED (Self-Encrypting Drive) is based on the Trusted Computing Group (TCG) Opal specifications and provides a hardware-based answer for the increasing wave of data breaches that continue to impact computer users and enterprises worldwide. 		Security breaches caused by malicious attacks are on the rise, according to the recent Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report. While it's notable that the increase in small-scale external attacks doesn't rely on highly sophisticated approaches, encryption is widely credited as the first choice for the most affordable security solution for deterring such intrusions. 		"Self-encrypting drives represent the future of data protection," said Dr. Joerg Borchert, 2011 president and chairman of the nonprofit Trusted Computing Group. "Hardware encryption provides the strongest security and best performance, and solid-state technology like Micron's will provide even quicker data access." 		The C400 SED's encryption capabilities are delivered through a hardware-based, AES-256-bit encryption engine and advanced security firmware. Micron's firmware is designed to comply with the TCG Opal specification. TCG Opal is an open industry standard that provides a verifiable path for companies who need to prove they're compliant with tough data security regulations when devices or drives are lost or stolen. 		Like all hardware-encryption, the drive works in conjunction with an encryption management system. Micron's C400 SED solution was built in partnership with leading encryption management provider Wave Systems (Nasdaq:WAVX). Wave's EMBASSY® management software provides policy-based access controls, comprehensive reporting, directory services integration and end-user access recovery that allows IT to cost-effectively implement and administer endpoint encryption. Importantly, Wave's management software gives IT confidence that data is protected in the event that a computer-or the drive itself-is lost or stolen. 		"Micron is a true innovator in the field of flash-based storage devices and we applaud their decision to incorporate Opal-based encryption on their new C400 drives," said Steven Sprague, CEO and President of Wave Systems. "By incorporating self-encryption in the C400 SED, Micron provides not only outstanding performance, but also the peace of mind that confidential information stored on a laptop is secure. Wave is excited about this new partnership with Micron and we look forward to providing our customers with a high performance SSD with strong data protection capabilities." 		The security and reliability of Micron's C400 SED was designed for large corporations, government systems and other multiple-user networks that require maximum security without cumbersome workflow interruptions or decreased performance. 		The C400's encryption key is protected within drive hardware-separate from the host. This is one reason why hardware-based encryption is superior to software encryption (an alternative solution that stores the encryption key in the computer's memory, where it's vulnerable to attack). Micron's SED offers stronger security because the encryption key never leaves the drive. User authentication is performed by the drive prior to starting the operating system, ensuring independence from the operating system. Another disadvantage of software-based encryption is its dependence on the computer's processor, which can degrade performance. In contrast, Micron's C400 SED performs all encryption inside the SSD's controller, ensuring no system performance degradation. 		"The C400 SED will help users and IT teams alike to sleep better at night. We've leveraged our popular client SSD and partnered with the leading encryption management vendor to create a product that provides a solid defense against data theft," said Justin Sykes, Micron's general manager of client SSD solutions. "With security breaches increasing for every type of user, this solution scales without sacrificing high performance or reliability." 		The C400 SED SSD is available in 128-, 256-, and 512GB capacities, a SATA 6Gb/s interface, and 2.5 and 1.8-inch form factors. The drive's sophisticated NAND management delivers sequential read and write speeds of up to 500 MB/s and 260 MB/s respectively – the same high performance as Micron's popular C400. The drive will be sampling and in production in the fourth quarter of this year and will be available through Micron's global distribution network. 		Relevant Links 		Stay up-to-date on Micron news with these easy tools: 		Micron		· Micron Innovations Blog: www.micronblogs.com		· Micron on Twitter: http://twitter.com/microntechnews		· Micron Pressroom: www.micron.com/media 		About Micron 		Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets a full range of DRAM, NAND and NOR flash memory, as well as other innovative memory technologies, packaging solutions and semiconductor systems for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, embedded and mobile products. Micron's common stock is traded on the NASDAQ under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit www.micron.com. 		©2011 Micron Technology, Inc. All rights reserved. Information is subject to change without notice. Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 		This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the production of Micron's new P400e SSDs. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents Micron files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically Micron's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for Micron on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
 