
   Warner Bros. has busted out an iOS flavored compilation of Midway's classic arcade games. For 99 cents you can re-live the experience of pumping coin after coin in the cabinets of your childhood. The app comes with emulated versions of Spy Hunter, Rampage, Joust, Root Beer Tapper, Defender, Arch Rivals, Air Hockey, Arcade Basketball, Pool and Roll Ball. Once you've finished reacquiring your square-eyes from all that gaming action, two expansions are available as an in-app purchase. One includes NARC, Total Carnage and APB, whilst the other packs both Gauntlet games and Wizard of War. All the company needs to do now is make sure it works in perfect harmony with the iCade and we may never leave the house again.
 

  Show full PR text  NO TOKENS REQUIRED: Midway Arcade App Now Available for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch  Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment Releases Compilation of Classic Titles Including Spy Hunter, Joust, Rampage on the App Store  BURBANK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment announces its Midway Arcade App for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch – a collection of 10 classic arcade titles – is now available on the App Store for $0.99.  "Longtime arcade fans can reconnect with their early favorites, and new players can fall in love with these groundbreaking arcade classics."  Midway Arcade provides the ultimate arcade experience with a virtual showroom equipped with 10 classic arcade games, tickets and virtual prizes. The app allows players to take their favorite arcade games, such as Spy Hunter, Joust, Rampage and more, along with four skill-based games, including Pool, Air Hockey, Roll Ball and Basketball, with them on the go.  Players also have the option to purchase additional Midway classics through In-App Purchase. The extra fun in the Fantasy Game Pack includes Gauntlet I, Gauntlet II and Wizard of Wor, while the Action Game Pack unlocks APB, NARC and Total Carnage. Players compete against their friends, earn achievements and dominate online leaderboards.  "The games featured in Midway Arcade helped define the arcade gaming space and the App Store is the perfect platform to deliver these legacy games to the current generation of gamers," said Greg Ballard, Senior Vice President, Digital Games, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. "Longtime arcade fans can reconnect with their early favorites, and new players can fall in love with these groundbreaking arcade classics."  The complete Midway Arcade virtual showroom includes the following titles:  Spy Hunter: Race down a freeway in an armed sports car and destroy enemies while protecting civilian vehicles; Rampage: Reduce the city to rubble as gigantic monsters George (a King-Kong-like gorilla), Lizzie (a Godzilla-like dinosaur/lizard), and Ralph (a giant werewolf); Defender: Defeat waves of invading aliens while protecting astronauts in this 2D shooting game; Joust: While riding a flying ostrich, fight to defeat enemy knights riding buzzards; Root Beer Tapper: As the bartender, serve beer and collect empty mugs and tips without letting the thirsty patrons' patience expire; Arch Rivals: In this Basket Brawl, outscore opponents as a crowd pleaser, rebound king, a defensive giant and more; Skill-Based Games: Beat your friends' top scores in Pool, Air Hockey, Roll Ball and Basketball.  The two additional game packs, available through In-App Purchase, include:  Fantasy Game Pack  Gauntlet I: Hack and slash through monsters as they try to exit the dungeon maze; Gauntlet 2: The monsters return in this acclaimed sequel, with all new levels, and challenges; Wizard of Wor: "Worriors" must make their way through monster-infested dungeons to destroy the Wizard of Wor.  Action Game Pack  APB: Playing as Officer Bob, a rookie police officer, pursue law-breakers, cite and arrest criminals – and pick up donuts along the way; NARC: Arrest and kill drug offenders, confiscate their money and drugs, to defeat Mr. Big; Total Carnage: As a member of the Doomsday Squad, invade evil dictator's General Akhboob's base and destroy mutants, rescue hostages and capture Akhboob.  The Midway Arcade App is available for $0.99 from the App Store on iPad, iPhone and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore. The Fantasy Game Pack and Action Game Packs are available for $0.99 each through In-App Purchase.  For more information on Midway Arcade, please visit us on Facebook at http://Facebook.com/MidwayArcade or follow us on Twitter https://twitter.com/#!/MidwayArcade.
 