
Well, you've been asking for it and DICE is delivering: a new Mirror's Edge is coming in 'when it's ready!' Even though we've got little detail to run with, it's a safe assumption that it'll be coming to both PS4 and Xbox One when it does arrive. We don't even have a launch window, but we'll say this: we're excited and so too was the audience. Of all the games powered by Frostbite 3, this much anticipated sequel got the biggest cheers. Now all we've got to do is wait, ever so impatiently, for EA to deliver the goods next year -- check after the break for the preview trailer and details.



 Show full PR textDICE Heralds the Return of Mirror's EdgeCategory:EA Games LabelMonday, June 10, 2013 2:30 pm PDT

LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--DICE, an award-winning studio of Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) and developer of the blockbuster Battlefield™ franchise, today announced that fan-favorite Mirror's Edge™ is in early stages of development. Mirror's Edge was first introduced in 2008 and fans quickly elevated the game's heroine "Faith" into a videogame icon. Gamers and critics worldwide praised its unique characters, highly stylized world and fresh take on first person action adventure. The new Mirror's Edge reboots the franchise for the next generation with advanced visuals and an all-new origin story for Faith. Powered by DICE's proprietary Frostbite™ technology, the game will be heading to Xbox One®, the all-in-one games and entertainment system from Microsoft, the PlayStation®4, and PC.

"We introduced Mirror's Edge and Faith to gamers five years ago, and we've waited for the right moment to reunite them," said Sara Jansson, Senior Producer, DICE. "Thanks to the Frostbite engine and a new generation of platforms, we are now able to deliver a richer world that players will be able to explore with a new level of freedom in both movement and action."

To view the Mirror's Edge teaser trailer, please visit www.mirrorsedge.com, where fans can also sign up for the official Mirror's Edge newsletter. Join the conversation at www.facebook.com/mirrorsedge and follow us on Twitter® at www.twitter.com/mirrorsedge and #MirrorsEdge. Press assets are available at http://info.ea.com. To follow all of EA's news during E3 and watch the replay of the Mirror's Edge unveil, visit www.ea.com/e3.

About Electronic Arts

Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: EA) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company delivers games, content and online services for Internet-connected consoles, personal computers, mobile phones and tablets. EA has more than 285 million registered players and operates in 75 countries.

In fiscal year 2013, EA posted GAAP net revenue of $3.8 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for a portfolio of critically acclaimed, high-quality blockbuster brands such as The Sims™, Madden NFL, FIFA Soccer, Need for Speed™, Battlefield™ and Mass Effect™. More information about EA is available at www.ea.com/news.

Mirror's Edge, The Sims, Need for Speed, Mass Effect, Battlefield, Frostbite and Origin are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. and its subsidiaries. John Madden, NFL and FIFA are the property of their respective owners and used with permission. PlayStation is a registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.


