
 
Not impressed by the Mission One? We'd bother to ask when your last mental health checkup was, but at this point, it probably doesn't even matter. If there's an ounce of warm blood left in your body, chances are you'll be at least partly invigorated by Mission Motors' latest cycle, the Mission R. Hailed as the outfit's latest electric racing superbike, this slice of highway heaven packs 14.4 kWh and 141 horsepower in a package smaller than a modern 600cc sportbike, and for the gearheads in attendance, you'll be pleased to know that the liquid-cooled 3-phase AC Induction motor conjures up 115 ft-lbs of torque at the crank from 0 to 6400 RPM. Tim Prentice of Motonium is responsible for the chassis, and the entire bike is expected to make its debut early next year in the TTXGP racing series. As for a consumer price and ship date? Keep dreaming. On both fronts.
      

 

Show full PR textMission Motors Unveils Mission R Electric Racing SuperbikeNew factory racer features latest MissionEVT technology, will race in TTXGPLong Beach, California -- December 17th, 2010 -- Today at the Long Beach International Motorcycle Show, Mission Motors unveiled the Mission R, the company's new electric racing superbike. Featuring the company's latest powertrain technology and an entirely new race-ready design, the motorcycle will lead the company's upcoming 2011 racing program."We are excited to announce the Mission R, our compact and powerful factory electric racebike," said Mission Motors' Founder Edward West. "This bike represents the culmination of all the company's learning in both electric powertrains and motorcycle engineering."The Mission R features the latest components from MissionEVT, the EV powertrain technology arm of Mission Motors. MissionEVT components are powerful, intelligent, and efficient. The Mission R packs 14.4 kWh and 141 horsepower in a package smaller than a modern 600cc sportbike. The liquid-cooled 3-phase AC Induction motor creates 115 ft-lbs of torque at the crank from 0 to 6400 RPM, propelling the Mission R to a top speed of over 160mph in a singe gear. The MissionEVT 100kW motor controller, with customizable regenerative braking maps and throttle maps, allows the rider to tune the bike to his or her preferences.The Mission R chassis, designed by James Parker, features an entirely new design for integrating and balancing the weight and volume of a large EV battery pack into a motorcycle chassis. The chassis is wrapped in a new and aerodynamic industrial design by Tim Prentice of Motonium, with a small frontal-area and aggressive ergonomics.The Mission R will hit the track in early 2011 and will compete in the TTXGP racing series along with other races, events, and demonstrations."Racing is in our DNA," West said. "Mission Motors participated in the historic first Isle of Man TTXGP in 2009. Later that year, we went to the Bonneville Salt Flats and set an AMA Speed Record for electric motorcycles in 2009. With the help of our sponsors, including Texas Instruments and Pectel/Cosworth, we are excited to be returning to the track in 2011 with the phenomenal Mission R. The crucible of the racing circuit is one of the key ways we advance our technology. Pushing the envelope for what is possible with electric drive shapes not only the future of motorsports, but the future of transportation."Learn more about Mission Motors and the Mission R at http://RideMission.com.About Mission MotorsMission Motors is an electric vehicle company creating the most advanced production electric motorcycle in the world while developing leading EV powertrain technology through its MissionEVT division. Headquartered in San Francisco, California, the company's elite team of engineers draw from expertise in the powersports, automotive, robotics, battery and software industries to develop technologies that maximize the potential of the electric drivetrain. The concept is simple: Redefine the world of electric vehicle performance.Mission R SpecificationsMotor141 horsepower liquid-cooled 3-phase AC inductionTorqueCrank: 115 ft-lb (0 – 6400RPM)Top Speed160+ mphEnergy Storage• MissionEVT battery modules with integrated Battery Management System• Carbon fiber casing with dielectric liner• Swappable architecture• 14.4 kWh total energy storagePower Control:MissionEVT 100kW controller with integrated Vehicle Management System• Adjustable throttle mapping• Regenerative braking• WiFi & 3G data connectivityTransmissionSingle speed, gear-driven primary reductionChassisRADD-designed Quad-Element Frame• Billet aluminum and• Chrome-moly• Power-Unit as fully-stressed member• Battery box as semi-stressed memberFront Suspension• Öhlins FGR-000 TTX25 Gas Charged Fork• Adjustment for preload, ride height, high and low speed compression andreboundRear Suspension• Single-sided billet aluminum swingarm with linear wheelbase/chain adjustment• Öhlins TTX36 Shock and progressive linkage system• Adjustment for preload, ride height, high and low speed compression and reboundWheelsMarchesini forged magnesium 10-spoke.• Front: 17" x 3.5"• Rear: 17" X 6"Front Brake• 2 Brembo 320 mm narrow-band racing stainless rotors• 2 Brembo 2-piece billet 4-piston 30/34 mm differential bore radial-mount calipersRear Brake• 245 mm stainless rotor• Brembo HPK 2-piston 34 mm caliper
 