
 
As we mentioned in our 3D roundup, the advantage of Mitsubishi sticking to DLP technology for its HDTVs is easily seen in square inches per dollar spent, and they're going to push that even further by introducing a 92-inch HDTV in 2011. We should get our eyes on the monster and its new "Clear Contrast" screen at the CES Unveiled event tonight, but you'll excuse us if we're slightly distracted by the 155-inch OLED that will apparently be on hand from its business division. No word yet on price or release date for the 92-incher, check out another picture and all available details in the press release after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textMitsubishi Digital Electronics AmericaPredicts 2011 to be a Very Big Year for TelevisionMitsubishi Narrows the Gap between Cinema and Home with an Impressive 92-inch ScreenIrvine, CA – January 4, 2011 – Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc. (MDEA), the leader in large screen television and a U.S. affiliate of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, today announced the addition of a massive 92-inch model to its 2011 line up of theater-sized 3D Home Cinema TVs. This new giant will join the array of large-screen Mitsubishi TVs, which include 60, 65, 73 and 82 inch screen sizes.3D is an immersive, large screen experience, and in 2010, Mitsubishi brought 3D entertainment home in a big, big way. Mitsubishi’s success can be attributed in part to its broad line up of large theater-like screen sizes, coupled with the fact that its 3D TVs are driven by the same core DLPTM technology used by the vast majority of 3D movie theaters.“3D TV has formally arrived, and unit sales in 2010 certainly underscore this fact. 3D dominated box office numbers, as consumers flocked to the cinema to lose themselves in the fully immersive experience that large screen 3D delivers,” says Max Wasinger, executive vice president, sales and marketing, Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America. “Our focus at Mitsubishi is to replicate the cinematic 3D experience in the home, and our broad offering of very large screen 3D Home Cinema and 3D LaserVue TVs do just that.”Mitsubishi will showcase its new 92-inch 3D Home Cinema TV at CEA’s “Unveiled” press event from 4pm to 7pm at the Venetian on Tuesday, January 4th, and on the floor in booth 9021 in Central Hall at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, January 6th through 9th.The 92-inch 3D Home Cinema TV is packed with a comprehensive list of features including: Fully integrated 3D TV with built-in emitter, StreamTV™ Internet Media, Multi-speaker Immersive Sound Technology (IST), Center Channel Mode w/Center Channel input, Rear Channel Pre-outputs, Sub-woofer Output, Bluetooth Streaming Audio, 4 HDMI input, ISFccc, USB Media player, Advanced Calibration Mode, Universal Remote Control, 120Hz Sub-Frame Rate, Jade User Interface and New Clear Contrast Screen. *At CES 2011, Mitsubishi will also showcase its first 1080p full HD 3D home theater front projection system, targeted to consumers with dedicated home theater or media rooms and a desire for high-definition 3D images larger than 100 inches. In addition, some of Mitsubishi Electric’s commercial divisions will highlight their respective technologies, including the super high contrast 155-inch OLED display** geared for the digital signage market and a new Mitsubishi Mini Photo Album Printer which offers the ability to design and instantly print personalized pocket-sized photo books.“Mitsubishi Electric has consistently delivered big, bright, technologically-advanced displays from one of the world’s largest HD video screen at Cowboys Stadium in Dallas, and now to our super-sized 92-inch 3D Home Cinema TV,” says Frank DeMartin, vice president, marketing at Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America. “With our new 92-inch 3DTV Mitsubishi will continue to fuel the home 3D market, where size does matter to consumers looking to create an immersive 3D home entertainment experience for movies, sports, games and all sorts of new and exciting 3D content.”#About Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc.Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc., manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of premium quality 1080p 3D DLP® Home Cinema TVs and Unisen™ Immersive Sound LED TVs, along with the world’s first laser TV: LaserVue®. Recognized as the world leader and innovator of large display high-definition televisions, Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America builds products that lead the industry in quality, performance and ease-of-use. For additional information about MDEA, visit www.mitsubishi-tv.com.For additional information about Mitsubishi projectors or imaging products, visit www.mitsubishi-presentations.com and www.mitsubishi-imaging.com.LaserVue is a registered trademark of Mitsubishi Digital Electronics America, Inc. DLP is a trademark of Texas Instruments.* Features, specifications and dimensions are subject to change without notice.** 155 inch OLED display will be sold through Mitsubishi Electric’s US subsidiary Mitsubishi Electric Power Products, Inc.For support of all 3D formats, Mitsubishi 3D-Ready TVs will require the use of a 3D source device that outputs the 3D checkerboard format or a 3D source device coupled with the Mitsubishi 3D adapter. In all cases an emitter and matching 3D active shutter glasses or DLP Link active shutter glasses are required in order to view 3D content.Mitsubishi 738 series and 838 series 3D televisions (the “TVs”) will no longer require the use of an adapter when loaded with the software version of 012.06 (the “Software Update”). After the Software Update, the TVs will support the mandatory HDMI 1.4a 3D signals intended for the United States. Specifically, the TVs will support the 3D signals known as Frame Packing 1080p/24Hz and 720p/60Hz (primarily from Blu-ray players and gaming consoles), Side-by-Side in 1080i/60Hz, 1080p/24Hz/30Hz/60Hz and 720p/60Hz, Top/Bottom in 1080p/24Hz and 720p/60Hz, and Checkerboard 1080p/60Hz. However, there may be some 3D sources that are not compatible with the TVs even after the Software Update. In all cases: (1) 3D sources must connect to the TVs using the HDMI inputs; and (2) Active Shutter 3D glasses with matching synchronization emitter or DLP Link Active Shutter 3D glasses are required in order to view 3D content.
 