
  
 For some, the change of the season is marked not by calendars or climate changes, but by the beat of sports fandom. Rest easy, baseball fans: spring is finally here. Naturally, Major League Baseball is heralding in the weather by updating its MLB At Bat app for 2013 spring training, touting new features for Android and iOS users alike. The apps updated team pages, retooled navigation and classic games library are universally available to both Android and iOS users, but the iPhone will score an enhanced and searchable video library and an exclusive home screen customization feature. MLB promises to pipe in more functionality before the season opens, however -- including mobile access for BlackBerry 10 users. What hasn't changed? The price, of course: Android subscribers will need to pony up $20 for the year, while iOS retains its $3 monthly subscription plan. Of course, MLB.tv Premium subscribers get full access, gratis. Slide past the break for the official press release.


  Show full PR text   MLB.com At Bat 13 Reports For Spring Training; #1 Sports Mobile App Ever Back For Its Fifth Year
   Introduces Gameday Audio universal portability for At Bat 13 subscribers; MLB.TV Premium subscribers again receive At Bat 13 premium features for free

   NEW YORK, Feb. 21, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- MLB.com At Bat, the top sports mobile application in each of the past four years, has been updated today with the launch of At Bat 13 and its suite of new features across iPhone, iPad, supported Android smartphones and tablets and Kindle Fire. As announced in January, At Bat will debut on the new BlackBerry 10 by Opening Day.

   MLB.TV Premium subscribers again may upgrade to At Bat 13 for free, unlocking all premium features. Fans also may subscribe to MLB.com At Bat 13 for the one-time annual fee of $19.99, covering the entire season through the World Series. iOS users may pay $2.99/month with the recurring billing offering.

   NEW FOR 2013 (Spring Training update only; Opening Day update coming soon)

   Multi-platform live audio access for At Bat 13 subscribers, offering account portability to listen to live games on Mac/PC desktops and laptops  Universal iOS and Android support for At Bat 13 subscribers, full feature accessibility across all supported smartphones and tablets  Sortable batting, pitching and fielding statistics (iPad and Android tablets)  Re-designed individual team pages (iPhone and Android phones)  Updated news section interface (iPhone and Android phones)  Expanded video highlight integration (iPhone and Android phones)  Classic games video library archive (all devices)  Re-architected app navigation (all devices)  Additional push notification options (iPhone)  Favorite team enhancements (iPad and Android tablets)  Searchable video highlight library expansion to include access to complete video archives (all devices)  In-app annual subscription purchase (Google Play)  SPRING TRAINING FEATURES

   Watch live streaming of more than 200 available Spring Training games with a subscription to MLB.TV Premium (iPhone, iPad, select Android phones & tablets)  Listen live to available Spring Training radio broadcasts (all)  Track league-wide scoreboards and batter-by-batter action for every game (all)  Breaking news, schedules and interactive rosters and players stats for every team (all)  Full-season schedule calendars (all)  At Bat is the official application of Major League Baseball. For more information, visit MLB.com.

   SOURCE MLB.com

 
