
 With the 2013 season looming just around the corner, it's only natural for Major League Baseball to make sure its various applications on different platforms are all ready to go come this weekend. And as it did with MLB.tv on Xbox Live a couple days ago, MLB's now also updated the At Bat Android and iOS apps, leaving behind the spring training features from last month and making room for ones that are tailored for this year's Opening Day and forward. For subscribers, this means things such as multi-platform live audio, more video highlights, a virtual archive of classic games and a revamped news section within the apps. What's more, MLB has kept its promise of bringing At Bat 13 to the BB10 crowd, giving BlackBerry Z10 owners the ability to download the app starting today. Clearly, it's that time of the year again, that time where your Yankees-cheering friends tell you all about how A-Rod, when fit, is the best player in the game. Or, if they're Giants fans, how they really, really, hope the tale of Samson's hair won't apply to Tim Lincecum.


  Show full PR text   Opening Day App Updates Available Today
   Updates Available for At Bat & At The Ballpark for iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Android; Beat The Streak Presented by Dunkin' Donuts for iPhone & iPod touch

   MLB.COM AT BAT 13 DEBUTS ON BLACKBERRY Z10

   NEW YORK, March 29, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- MLB Advanced Media, the interactive media and Internet company of Major League Baseball and an award-winning mobile app developer, today announced the Opening Day updates to its suite of mobile applications, including the highest grossing sports app of all-time, At Bat, will be available across their respective supported devices. The list of apps includes At Bat, At The Ballpark and Beat The Streak Presented by Dunkin' Donuts. In addition, MLB.com At Bat 13 is making its debut on the new BlackBerry Z10 smartphone with features including MLB.TV live video streaming.

   MLB.com AT BAT

   MLB.TV Premium subscribers again may upgrade to At Bat 13 for free on iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Android devices, unlocking all premium features. Fans also may subscribe to MLB.com At Bat 13 for the one-time annual fee of $19.99. iOS users may pay $2.99/month using the recurring billing option available through the App Store.  MLB.com At Bat 13 for the BlackBerry Z10, available only for a one-time annual fee of $19.99, will give fans access to the app's features, developed and optimized for the device's mobile computing system. Those include: the Free MLB.TV Game of the Day; MLB.TV Premium subscriber login to watch every out-of-market game live and on-demand; home and away radio broadcasts; in-progress highlights; Gameday pitch tracking with realistic ballpark renderings; Condensed Games; Classic games library; league and team news, schedules and statistics; standings; and favorite team selection.

   AT BAT FEATURE HIGHLIGHTS – OPENING DAY 2013

   Multi-platform live audio access for At Bat 13 subscribers, offering account portability to listen to live games on Mac/PC desktops and laptops  Universal iOS and Android support for At Bat 13 subscribers, full feature accessibility across select supported smartphones and tablets  Sortable batting, pitching and fielding statistics  Re-designed individual team pages  Updated news section interface  Expanded video highlight integration  Classic games video library archive  Re-architected app navigation  Additional push notification options  Favorite team enhancements  Searchable highlight library expansion to include access to complete video archives  Closed captioning for live video

   MLB.com AT THE BALLPARK

   The ultimate mobile companion when visiting any of the 30 Major League Baseball ballparks. MLBAM has built the app to be customizable for each ballpark from a foundation of interactive features, including mobile check-in, social media integration, offers, rewards and exclusive content.

   AT THE BALLPARK FEATURE HIGHLIGHTS – OPENING DAY 2013

   Re-architected My Journal section  Manually input all ballpark visits, dating back to 2005  Upload and share personal photos from all ballpark visits, dating back to 2005  View team statistics and watch video highlights from games attended  Ballpark and player entrance music  Social media clubhouse, including social rewards for select clubs  Updated tickets section, featuring special offers by club  Seat and experience upgrade functionality (select ballparks only)  Passbook integration for digital ticket delivery and storage (select clubs only)  Re-designed user interface

   MLB.com BEAT THE STREAK PRESENTED BY DUNKIN' DONUTS

   Maybe season #13 will be the lucky one. Entering its teenage years without a grand prize winner, Beat The Streak Presented by Dunkin' Donuts, free-to-play, gives fans the opportunity to achieve fantasy baseball immortality by surpassing the legendary consecutive games hitting streak record of 56 and claiming a $5.6 million grand prize in the process. Tens of millions of streaks started. No grand prize winner. Yet...

   BEAT THE STREAK FEATURE HIGHLIGHTS – OPENING DAY 2013

   Get pick results by push notification as well as improved reminder notifications  New 2013 game rule: A streak won't end if a user forgets to make a pick  Easily follow live game scoring for your picks in MLB.com At Bat  For more information on app and feature availability by platform, visit MLB.com.

 
