
 Companies like Cisco have tried lending Major League Baseball a hand in its quest to serve better internet connectivity to game attendees, but Bud Selig & Co. know that a little more has to be done if the proper results are to be achieved. Now, through its own MLB Advanced Media branch, the league is teaming up with Qualcomm Technologies (a subsidiary of the chip-maker) to launch a collaboration that'll "survey, plan and optimize network connectivity for fans at supported MLB parks." According to the terms of the partnership, Qualcomm engineers will provide a detailed plan and assessment on how to improve wireless access at baseball fields, and that's taking into consideration 3G, 4G and, of course, WiFi. Here's to hoping the MLB / Qualcomm alliance plays out well for the sake of those who enjoy an IRL version of America's national pastime -- because we all know how important it is to be able to quickly share that "I can see Rudy Giulani from where I'm sitting" tweet.



  Show full PR text   Qualcomm, MLBAM Announce Technology Collaboration
   -Multi-year Agreement Provides for Ballpark Connectivity Engineering Study and Optimization-

   NEW YORK, April 4, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (QTI), a wholly owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM), and MLB Advanced Media (MLBAM), the interactive media and Internet company of Major League Baseball, today announced a multi-year engineering and technology agreement, establishing a collaborative effort to survey, plan and optimize mobile network connectivity for fans at supported MLB ballparks. In association with the program, Qualcomm has been named as an official technology partner of MLBAM, which is unique in that network engineers from QTI will be working directly with a major professional sports property to address these connectivity challenges.

   As part of the agreement, an engineering team will provide in-ballpark assessment and planning for wireless access including Wi-Fi, 3G and 4G. Select ballpark reviews are underway and will continue over the next two years. QTI engineers were selected for having the technical and connectivity expertise to assess and recommend solutions. These engineers also will conduct extensive tests to ensure connectivity is optimized.  Qualcomm Incorporated and, more recently, QTI have been providing operators with consulting and network optimization services for high-density venues, such as stadiums, convention centers, and airports for more than a decade. These services have been used to help enhance connectivity at premier events like the Super Bowl, Olympics, national conventions, and NCAA championship games.

   "Mobile data traffic is exploding, particularly in high-traffic areas such as Major League Baseball ballparks," said Anand Chandrasekher , senior vice president and chief marketing officer, Qualcomm. "Qualcomm has been preparing for an astounding 1000x increase in data demand, and we are leading the charge with MLBAM to provide passionate baseball fans with access to digital content, resulting in unparalleled in-ballpark experiences."

   "Collaborating with an industry leader such as Qualcomm is a critical step in understanding and executing on the engineering challenges to achieve scalable, reliable in-venue connectivity," said Joe Inzerillo , MLBAM senior vice president, content technology and chief technology officer. "Consumer demand continues its ascension as the majority of MLB.com traffic comes from mobile devices, a line our fans first crossed in July 2010. Qualcomm's experience and expertise will be a valuable resource in this process."  For more information, please visit mlb.com/qualcomm.   About Qualcomm Incorporated

   Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) is the world leader in 3G, 4G and next-generation wireless technologies. Qualcomm Incorporated includes Qualcomm's licensing business, QTL, and the vast majority of its patent portfolio. Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of Qualcomm's engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of its products and services businesses, including its semiconductor business, QCT. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of digital communications, linking people everywhere more closely to information, entertainment and each other. For more information, visit Qualcomm's website, OnQ blog, Twitter and Facebook pages.

   About MLB Advanced Media

   Established in June 2000 following a unanimous vote by the 30 Major League Baseball club owners to centralize all of Baseball's Internet operations, MLB Advanced Media LP (MLBAM) is the interactive media and internet company of Major League Baseball. MLBAM manages the official league site, www.MLB.com, and each of the 30 individual Club sites to create the most comprehensive Major League Baseball resource on the Internet. MLB.com offers fans the most complete baseball information and interactivity on the web, including up-to-date statistics, game previews and summaries, extensive historical information, online ticket sales, baseball merchandise, authenticated memorabilia and collectibles, fantasy games, live full-game video streaming and in-progress and on-demand highlights, live and archived audio broadcasts of every game, Gameday pitch-by-pitch application, around-the-clock hosted and specialty video programming, complete blogging capabilities and the award-winning suite of At Bat mobile applications. MLBAM powers more live events on the Internet than any other website in the world.  Qualcomm is a trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the United States and other countries. All Qualcomm Incorporated trademarks are used with permission. Other products or brand names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

 
