
 
Ready for the smartbook revolution? Too late, cause here they come -- and the first officially-announced product we've got is the Mobinnova élan netbook, a NVIDIA Tegra-powered machine that weighs in at just two pounds but can pump out 720p video on its 8.9-inch screen. It's not at all clear what OS this guy's running, but we're told that it has an "innovative 3D graphical user interface," supports hardware-accelerated Flash video -- which is huge freaking deal, if you ask us -- has WiFi and 3G, and can play video for five to ten hours on a single charge. That's pretty impressive, but we'll wait to see what pricing looks like -- if it's cheaper than the sub-$300 10-inch netbooks that are starting to arrive we'd say it could be a huge winner. That's not all for Mobinnova's Tegra announcements either: there's also the T8 tablet, which repackages the élan in a 10.1-inch tablet form factor with GPS and HDMI out. Definitely interesting -- check the full presser after the break.





A NEW ERA IN MOBILE COMPUTINGMOBINNOVA UNVEILS THE "élan" WITH HOURS OF HD MULTIMEDIA AND INTERNET POWER "ON THE GO"---COMPUTEXThe Book-Size élan Powers Up Easily, Provides 5-10 Hours Continuous HD Video Playback, 24 Days Audio Playback, Internet Browsing And Graphics Never Seen On A Mobile Computing DeviceJune 2009, Taipei, Taiwan-A mobile computing revolution arrives June 2, at the Computex 2009 show in Taipei, where content providers, carriers and consumers get their first look at what may be a whole new category of high performance communication devices. The élan is first in Mobinnova's line of ultra-portable computing devices powered by the NVIDIA® Tegra™ Computer-on-a-Chip. The 2 lb. élan is like a netbook in that it's small, has a keyboard, and offers easy access to the Internet. However that's where the similarities end. The élan powers up instantly, connects directly to a 3G wireless network, offers hours of continuous use, full page web browsing, and delivers graphics performance never seen before on a mobile computing device--all packaged in Mobinnova's stylishly thin design. "This truly portable device is a pleasure to hold and to use. It offers 720p high-definition video playback, full Internet browsing and an impressive battery life," says KC Kuo, Chairman and CEO of Mobinnova. "We like to say it 'runs on fun'. It's a real game changer."The size of a hardback book and weighing less than 2 lbs., the Mobinnova élan is compact, quiet and cool. "It's the most powerful mobile Internet device you can easily pack in your purse, backpack or briefcase. You can use the élan for hours, even days between charges," says Mike Holland, Vice President of Business Development for Mobinnova. You can also use it anywhere--on a plane to Nepal, at a café in Paris, on the sidelines of a soccer game, in a college dorm room, or sitting in bed. "The élan's advanced power management means hours of viewing pictures, HD videos, Internet browsing, and reading and responding to email," says Holland. The Mobinnova élan offers: 5-10 hours of continuous HD video playback on a single charge (dependent on screen usage). Up to 24 days of continuous audio playback on a single charge (if screen not in use while listening to audio). 8.9 inch screen size provides a rich viewing experience and full page web browsing. Ultra-light, compact design at 1.84 lbs (836g), 9.1 inches (232mm) x 7.3 inches (186 mm) x .8 inches (20.5 mm). NVIDIA Tegra-based platform that supports accelerated Adobe® Flash® animations and 720p high-definition video playback. Both Wi-Fi and 3G wireless connectivity, enabling you to check your email, social networking accounts, and do internet searches wherever you are. An innovative 3D graphical user interface. QWERTY keyboard and touchpad. Ability to view Microsoft® Office® and Adobe® documents. A webcam for sharing video. Fast, high resolution photo rendering, upload, and download. Fanless operation for a quite, cool experience. Advanced power management, allowing the élan to draw as little as 50mW during typical operation and 150mW during video playback, a fraction of most devices on the market today.Mobinnova's élan is the first in a family of mobile devices based on the Tegra platform from NVIDIA, the inventor of the GPU. Also being shown at Computex is the Mobinnova T8, which combines the same powerful platform with a 10.1" touch screen, GPS, and HDMI and VGA video output. "Mobinnova has designed several interesting Tegra-based, mobile Internet devices that will surprise the market with their sleek, lightweight design and long battery life," said Mike Rayfield, General Manager Tegra Business at NVIDIA. "Tegra adds the secret sauce to deliver a desktop-like Internet experience and cell phone-like battery life in these new designs." "The Mobinnova élan and T8 answer the portable communications challenge," says Mobinnova's Chairman and CEO, KC Kuo. "We are honored to partner with NVIDIA to create products that make people's lives easier, more productive, and more enjoyable."

       

 