
 And just like that, it's confirmed. We'd heard through the grapevine that AT&T may be fixing to certify a third-party to sell an iPhone insurance program, and now it looks as if Asurion has been given the green light by Ma Bell, and not a moment too soon. According to the company, MobileProtect is the "only iPhone (and iPhone 4) insurance to protect against loss or theft (the reason for nearly 50% of phone claims), while also covering water or other liquid damage, accidental damage, and out-of-warranty failure." Of course, you'll have to shell out a borderline-ridiculous $11.99 per month for the coverage (and yeah, there's still a deductible), which is made even more outrageous by the fact that the iPhone 4 and its Gorilla Glass is nigh indestructible. Er, wait...

*Claims of "everything" are subject to interpretation, as anyone who has ever dealt with an insurance company will attest.

P.S. - SquareTrade still works on the iPhone 4, and it's probably worth considering. Take a look at the price breakdown after the jump. Also, Worth Ave Group has an option that looks even more acceptable. The bottom line? You can insure everything.
 
 

   		One device failure (drop, breakage etc) in two years:  			AT&T - $487 			SquareTrade - $149 			Difference = $338   		Two device failures in two years:  			AT&T - $686 			SquareTrade – $199 			Difference = $487       iPhone(R) Customers Can Now Enroll in a Comprehensive Insurance Plan 			MobileProtect™ is the first product to cover loss and theft in addition to water or other liquid damage, accidental damage, and out-of-warranty failure for your iPhone. 			NASHVILLE, Tenn., June 23 /PRNewswire/ -- Asurion, the global leader in technology protection services, recently announced the launch of MobileProtect, the most comprehensive insurance program available for the iPhone -- including the iPhone 4. With Asurion MobileProtect, iPhone users who lose their phone, have it stolen or damaged -- including water or other liquid damage -- or who experience a failure after the warranty has expired can receive a replacement iPhone as quickly as the next day. 			"Nearly 50 percent of claims we see are filed for lost and stolen phones," said Cindy Christy, Asurion President. "MobileProtect is the first product to include loss and theft coverage in addition to protection for damage and failures after the warranty expires. Plus, it provides the added convenience of next day replacement in most cases." 			Consumers need a comprehensive solution when faced with a lost, stolen, damaged or failing iPhone. The cost of replacing their coveted iPhone can leave consumers responsible for paying the replacement price of up to $699 out of pocket. MobileProtect provides customers with a single point of contact for total peace of mind and total protection for their iPhone while helping customers avoid costly replacements. 			iPhone customers may enroll in MobileProtect up to 30 days after activating their new iPhone. Enrollment is simple: Customers simply visit the App Store(SM), download the Asurion MobileProtect App on their iPhone, click "get started" and follow the guided process. 			Filing a claim is just as easy. MobileProtect subscribers may visit www.MyMobileProtect.com 24 hours a day, seven days a week to report a lost, stolen, damaged or faulty iPhone. 			"In our conversations with customers we often heard how valuable iPhone protection would be," said Mike Dolezal, Asurion Product Manager. "To a growing number of consumers, the iPhone is central to their work and home life. If something happens to their device, MobileProtect customers don't have to be without their iPhone, their direct connection to family and friends, for long." 			Pricing and Availability 			MobileProtect is now available for the iPhone, including the iPhone 4. To get started, consumers simply download the app from the App Store within 30 days of activating their new iPhone. Rather than large up-front fees, MobileProtect customers will be charged $11.99 monthly and there is a one-time deductible for each approved claim of $99, $149 or $199, depending on the iPhone model. To learn more, visit MyMobileProtect.com. 			*Next Day Delivery not available in all areas. 			About Asurion 			Asurion is the global leader in Technology protection services. From lost, stolen and damaged wireless handsets to malfunctioning computers or HD-TVs, Asurion provides more than 90 million consumers worldwide with best-in-class, next day device replacement. The company can also protect user content and software. Asurion is the exclusive provider to many of the world's premier telecommunications and retail companies. Asurion is privately-held with more than 5,000 employees and operates in six countries across three continents. 			For more information, visit www.asurion.com and MyMobileProtect.com 
 