
 
 Not all mobile news is destined for the front page, but if you're like us and really want to know what's going on, then you've come to the right place. This past week, Samsung introduced its first Windows Phone for China and both HTC and Samsung each chimed in about Android 4.1 -- the sweet treat better known as Jelly Bean. These stories and more await after the break. So buy the ticket and take the ride as we explore the "best of the rest" for this week of June 25th, 2012.



 LG Optimus L5 to arrive at Bell Mobility on July 10th
 
 Looks like Bell in Canada will have a new smartphone come July 10th. An internal leak suggests that LG's Optimus L5 is next on deck, which will play in the entry-level lineup. The phone combines Android 4.0.3 with an 800MHz CPU and a 4-inch, 480 x 320 display. Also included is a 5-megapixel camera, a 1,500mAh battery and NFC. No word on pricing yet, however. [Mobile Syrup]

 Waterproof LG Optimus It L-05D arrives today in Japan
 
 NTT DoCoMo is adding a new addition to its summer smartphone lineup today, which is known as the L-05D or the LG Optimus It -- just take your pick. It combines Ice Cream Sandwich with a dual-core 1.5GHz Snapdragon S4 processor from Qualcomm and a 4-inch, 800 x 480 IPS display. A waterproof handset, other significant specs include an 8-megapixel rear camera, a VGA front-facing cam, 1GB of RAM, 8GB of built-in storage and a microSD slot. A 1,650mAh battery rounds out the equation for the Optimus It, which is available in white, black, pink and purple. [Unwired View]

 Samsung Galaxy Ace Q arrives at Telus in Canada for $200 outright
 
 Another entry-level smartphone has taken up residence at Telus this week, but this one has a sliding QWERTY keyboard. Available for just $200 outright, the Samsung Galaxy Ace Q combines Android 2.3 with an 800MHz CPU and a 3.2-inch, 480 x 320 display. Other relevant specs include a 3-megapixel camera and a 1,300mAh battery. The Galaxy Ace Q is also available for just $30 on a three-year contract. [Mobile Syrup, Telus]

 Samsung Omnia M announced for China as company's first Windows Phone in the country
 
 First revealed for European availability back in May, this week, Samsung announced that its Omnia M Windows Phone will soon come to China. Two handsets have been marked for availability: one through China Mobile and another for China Unicom. Both feature typical Windows Phone specs, which include a 1GHz CPU, a 4-inch, 800 x 480 display and a 5-megapixel rear camera. As with the European model, both phones are limited to 384MB of RAM. The handset for China Mobile will feature only 4GB of internal storage, whereas the China Unicom version will offer a full 8GB. [Unwired View]

 HTC and Samsung respond to Android 4.1
 Naturally, no discussion of Google's newly announced Jelly Bean update would be fully complete without remarks from two of the most significant Android phone manufacturers. For HTC's part, it is "excited about Android Jelly Bean" and plans to support the OS "across a variety" of its devices. Unfortunately, HTC has nothing solid to share yet in relation to a time frame, but said, "We are reviewing the software to determine our upgrade plans and schedule." Similarly, Samsung's comment should come as no surprise, which chimed in, "Samsung will soon announce which additional devices are eligible for the Jelly Bean update." [Android Central, PocketNow]

 Other random tidbits
  The Nokia Lumia 610 is now available from Vodafone in New Zealand for $449 outright. [Geekzone]  Nokia has announced the availability of its Mail for Exchange app, which is compatible with the Asha 302 and 303 handsets. In addition to email, the application supports synchronization of calendars and contacts. [MobileBurn]  Foursquare 5.0 was released for BlackBerry smartphones this week. The social check-in app brings a new interface that includes an improved friends tab and explore screen. [CrackBerry]
