
 
 Not all mobile news is destined for the front page, but if you're like us and really want to know what's going on, then you've come to the right place. This past week, C Spire Wireless activated its first LTE networks and we discovered strong indication that Isis will leverage the GSMA's SIM-based NFC standard for its mobile payments system. These stories and more await after the break. So buy the ticket and take the ride as we explore the "best of the rest" for this week of September 10th, 2012.



 C Spire Wireless brings its first LTE networks live
 
 C Spire Wireless flipped its first LTE networks live this week. Formerly known as Cellular South, the carrier currently offers its 4G service to residents of Brookhaven, Greenville, McComb and Meridian, Miss. With respect to LTE devices, customers may snag the Motorola Photon Q for $200 or place a pre-order for the Galaxy S II, which is available at the same price. The carrier has also announced an LTE USB modem, the Franklin U772, but has yet to reveal pricing or availability. [Android Central, C Spire Wireless]

 Custom Isis SIM cards for T-Mobile hint at SIM-based NFC implementation
 
 Latest news suggests that Isis won't meet its targeted September arrival for test cities in Austin and Salt Lake City, but that hasn't stopped T-Mobile from its preparations. A leak courtesy of TmoNews reveals that specialized SIM cards will be necessary for the mobile payment service, with the only other requirements being that individual handsets are compatible with the Isis payment app. Isis has previously committed to the GSMA's SIM-based NFC standard, which strongly suggests this is the implementation we'll see when it comes time to test the system. [TmoNews]

 Advanced calculator and clock apps teased for CyanogenMod 10
 
 In addition to SMS pop-up and quick reply features, two new apps are on deck for inclusion in CyanogenMod 10 that will bring a more advanced calculator and clock to the custom Android ROM. With respect to the calculator, it'll feature graphing capabilities on the x and y axis, along with the ability to perform advanced functions such as cos, log and sin, and as for the clock app, users will find both countdown and stopwatch features. [Android Police 1, 2]

 WhatsApp inks first carrier roaming deal with Three in Hong Kong
 WhatsApp has entered into a deal with Three in Hong Kong that represents a first of its kind for the messaging company. Here, users will be able to sign up for the WhatsApp Roaming Pass for $48 per day ($6 USD), which offers unlimited use of the app's messaging features in 78 counties. Similarly, domestic subscribers may purchase unlimited access to WhatsApp Messenger for $8 per month ($1 USD). In all cases, usage won't count toward a user's data allotment. [The Next Web]

 Xperia S Boot Manager teased for ROM lovers
 
 Much like dual-booting on the desktop, a boot manager has been teased for the Xperia S handset that will allow users to switch between ROMs -- both stock and custom -- at their whim. The utility also offers quick access to recovery, although it's yet to be officially released by its creator. For a sneak peak of what's in store, just peep the above video. [Ubergizmo]

 Other random tidbits
  The HTC One S made its arrival at Wind Mobile this week, which is available for $499 outright or between $99 and $299 with a three-year agreement. Wind also managed to pick up the BlackBerry Bold 9900 in white. Like the black model, it sells for $549 outright or between $99 and $349 with the WindTab three-year agreement. [MobileSyrup]  Like we hinted at last week, the LG Optimus L3 is now available at Rogers Wireless for $125 without contract. [MobileSyrup]  The Motorola RAZR M Developer Edition is now available for $550 direct from Motorola. Unlike the subsidized version on Verizon Wireless, owners of this handset will be able to unlock the bootloader with Motorola's utility. [Android Central, Motorola]

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

