
 If you didn't get enough mobile news during the week, not to worry, because we've opened the firehose for the truly hardcore. This week, two of the best cameraphones out there were pitted against one another in a shootout rematch and a very handy widget was added to the latest nightly builds of CyanogenMod. These stories and more await after the break. So buy the ticket and take the ride as we explore the "best of the rest" for this week of December 31st, 2012.



 Samsung Galaxy Discover to arrive at Bell on January 15th 
 MobileSyrup has revealed the impending arrival of the Samsung Galaxy Discover at Bell Mobility. The budget-oriented smartphone contains a 3.5-inch HVGA (480 x 320) display, a single-core 800MHz CPU and a 3-megapixel camera. The Galaxy Discover also features a near-stock implementation of Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich). Pricing was speculated to be in the ballpark of $200, which seems unrealistic, as Telus currently sells the phone for $79 outright. [MobileSyrup]

 Shootout rematch: Lumia 920 with PR1.1 update pitted against 808 PureView 
 Hopefully you've already taken the opportunity to examine our sample shots that detail the camera improvements that Nokia blessed upon the Lumia 920 with its PR1.1 software update. Now, Steve Litchfield of All About Symbian has taken a different approach with an in-depth comparison between the Lumia 920 (PR1.1) and the 808 PureView. While Nokia's 41-megapixel shooter retains its crown -- with sharper images, less noise and more accurate colors -- Steve concludes that the Lumia 920 is more likely to deliver satisfactory results for typical users. [All About Symbian]

 CyanogenMod introduces Chronus widget in latest nightly builds 
 David van Tonder took New Years Eve to announce a new hybrid clock / calendar / weather widget for CyanogenMod 10.1. Known as Chronus, the widget is functional on both the home screen and the lock screen, and is available within the latest nightly builds. Since the original reveal, David has added options to hide all day events and customize the thickness of fonts. Up next for Chronus, he promises the addition of an analog clock option. [Android Central]

 Other random tidbits  AT&T announced the arrival of its LTE network in several areas within Michigan. New recipients include Ann Arbor, Beverly Hills, Birmingham, Monroe County, Kent County and Ottawa County. [Android Central]  Nova Launcher was updated to version 2.0, which brings the ability to crop wallpaper, scroll infinitely through the app drawer, sort the drawer alphabetically and make dock icons smaller. Paid users can customize the size of app shortcuts and perform swipe actions on desktop icons. [Phandroid] [Mobile Miscellany photo credit: Thristian / Flickr]


