
 
The name may sound like something out of a Final Fantasy game, but we hear it stands for Music On the Go, and today MOG is doing the name proud by bringing a wide swath of streaming music to Android and iPhone. $10 a month gives you access to over 8 million songs, and during a completely unscientific impromptu testing session, that number actually included a reasonable amount of most everything we'd want. Of course, you don't get to keep any of the 320Kbps MP3 files, merely store local copies on your phone for as long as you pony up, and even on Android (where we take task switching for granted) the merest jump to web browser stops those tracks cold. (MOG says it's working on it, at least for the iOS 4 version.) We were also disappointed to find out the MOG Radio feature is nothing like we were told -- rather than a Pandora you can tune to specific artists, the feature just seems to filter your existing queue. Playback options were also lacking in this early version (like volume and jog sliders) but at least MOG's got a slick, robust discovery mode, and with this many songs to choose from that's a very good thing. Both versions should be live immediately with three-day, no commitment trials, and there's a press release after the break if you still need more info.

Update: It turns out our difficulties with MOG Radio were due to a buggy preview build; downloading a fresh version of the app this morning, the Pandora-like functionality worked just fine.
      

 

Show full PR textMOG MOBILE MUSIC APP NOW AVAILABLE FOR iPHONE AND ANDROIDMOG Delivers the Ultimate Mobile Listening Experience with Unlimited DownloadsBERKELEY, Calif. July 20, 2010 – MOG (www.mog.com), the Web's best on-demand music listening service, today announced that its mobile streaming music application is now available for download through Apple's App Store and on Android Market. The MOG mobile app is free to download and users can enjoy a free three-day trial with no sign-up or credit card required. For $9.99 per month, subscribers get access to more than 8 million songs with unlimited listening and all-you-can-eat downloads, as well as MOG's desktop service which can be accessed using any PC and any browser. MOG is the first mobile service that lets users download any song or album directly to their iPhone or Android phone for a low monthly fee.MOG brings to mobile devices, for the first time, true "artist only" radio stations. Users can listen to uninterrupted music from their favorite artists for as long as they want since there is no limit to the number of tracks that can be played in a row. Listeners can also discover new artists by using the player's unique slider control to introduce similar artists into the mix. The slider is powered by "MOG Mobius," a patent-pending music discovery engine."Today's music lovers want the ability to listen to their favorite music wherever they want without having to pay for each individual track," said David Hyman, founder and CEO of MOG. "With the launch of our mobile app, we're getting that much closer to making MOG ubiquitous and making it easy to access the world's music collection on-demand for a low monthly fee."MOG Mobile features include:·Unlimited downloads: Download any song or album directly to your phone and continue to listen to music even when out of cell or WiFi range.·On-demand streaming: Unlimited listening to any artist, album, or song at any time.·MOG Radio: Only MOG offers the patent-pending "MOG Mobius" music engine, which enables users to control the mix of similar artists, from true "artist only" radio up to a full mix of similar artists.·Playlist access between website and mobile: Make playlists on MOG.com and access them on your phone. Favorite tracks that are bookmarked using the mobile app are then integrated into a user's personal library.·High quality audio: Songs can be downloaded at the standard rate of 64 kbps or users can turn on HQ downloads (up to 320 kbps) to save the song as a larger file with higher audio quality. This gives users the option of receiving high quality downloads for maximum audio fidelity.·Multi-tasking: In the coming weeks, MOG will add multi-tasking for iOS 4 users that will allow listeners to continue to play music with MOG while using other applications.
 