
 

Monsoon Multimedia is again advancing its Vulkano line of set-top boxes with a feature not found on Sling, TiVo or Roku, adding the ability to make DVR recordings directly to iPad, iPhone or Android devices. While users can still watch TV from anywhere in the world using the Vulkano, the new DVR-to-mobile feature is restricted to WiFi and will only work with the Vulkano Flow and eventually the Blast. Sure you could store your shows on a hard drive and move them over or stream later, but this way fans of The Killing on AMC can be disappointed by the season finale later on even while offline. Updates for the platform-appropriate $13 apps should arrive shortly, while Blackberry users are assured the feature is on the way soon for them too.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Monsoon Announces Direct Recording of TV Content on iPad, iPhone and Android Phones and Tablets 		$99 Vulkano Flow First to Allow Direct Recording of Your TV Programming to Smartphones and Tablets 		SAN MATEO, CA – June 21, 2011 – Monsoon Multimedia, a leading provider of video convergence products, today announced the addition of Direct to Mobile Recording for its Vulkano line of products. The Vulkano line of devices now offers direct mobile recording via Wi-Fi for iPhones, iPads and Android devices. Content is encrypted to avoid copyright infringement. 		The Vulkano Flow gives consumers the freedom to watch their TV anywhere in the world using smartphones, tablets and computers. Vulkano users can now instantly begin recording their favorite television programming so they never miss historic news or memorable sporting moments. 		"The Vulkano line of devices has been created to offer consumers the ultimate flexibility in entertainment and we are proud to be the first to offer direct recording to mobile devices," said Colin Stiles, EVP Sales and Marketing at Monsoon. "Consumers are making smartphones and tablets an essential part of their every day lives and are expecting to view and browse the TV content that they pay for at their leisure, no matter where they are in the world." 		Direct to Mobile Recording also offers time-shifting features, including pause, rewind and fast-forward. 		Summary of Direct to Mobile Recording Features on Vulkano Devices:		• Direct to mobile recording supports iPhone and iPad now, Android and Blackberry devices coming soon		• iPhone/iPad recording in mp4 formats containing H264+AAC		• Android recording in mp4 formats containing H264+AAC		• BlackBerry recording in ASF formats containing WMV3 and WMA		• iPhone/iPad recording in D1 or 640x480 or 352x240 resolutions		• Android recording in D1 or 640x480 or 352x240 resolutions		• Insufficient memory alert 		Pricing and Availability		The Vulkano Flow ($99.99) is now available at Fry's Electronics, Amazon, MicroCenter, other leading retailers and etailers as well as at www.myvulkano.com. Android, tablet and additional smartphone applications can be purchased for $12.99 each in their respective app stores. 		About Monsoon Multimedia		Monsoon Multimedia provides advanced, standards-based multimedia products and convergence technologies for the PC, Mac, iPad and major smartphones. Founded by the founders of Dazzle and Emuzed, the company has offices in California, India, Russia and Singapore. For more information, please visit www.monsoonmultimedia.com. 		For regular Vulkano updates follow us at www.Twitter.com/MyVulkano 		Become a Fan on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/MyVulkano
 