
 
Early last year, Monsoon Multimedia announced that the HAVA Mobile Player would be coming to S60 handsets; here at CES, we've learned that the same software is headed to Apple's iPhone. For those unaware, HAVA Player for iPhone allows HAVA customers to view and control their home television and services, including satellite and TiVo, from anywhere in the world. An on-screen remote enables users to change channels, browse the EPG and pause / view recorded shows from most any cable / satellite DVR in real time. Furthermore, iPhone users can also export their HAVA DVR recordings to iTunes (pictured after the break) to watch later, but those looking to take advantage will have to wait until sometime next quarter. Ah well, at least it'll be free. Full release is after the break.
      

 

Monsoon Multimedia Offers Compatibility with Apple iPhone and iTunes  Watch and Control Your Live Home TV from Your iPhone and Record TV Shows to Your iTunes Library  Las Vegas [CES] – January 9, 2009 – Monsoon Multimedia, an innovative digital video solutions provider, today announced the HAVA Player for Apple Inc.'s iPhone. The HAVA Player for iPhone allows HAVA customers to view and control their home television and services, including satellite and TiVo, from anywhere in the world.  An on-screen remote lets viewers change channels, browse a program guide, pause, view recorded shows, and more with virtually any TV source, including cable, satellite receiver, or DVR, in real time via the iPhone touch screen interface. The HAVA Player for iPhone provides the same television place-shifting experience offered by Monsoon's PC, Windows Mobile and S60 Symbian mobile players.  Monsoon has also added the capability for users to export their HAVA DVR recordings to iTunes to watch their recorded content on their iPod and iPhone, enabling HAVA owners to take their recorded television content with them on airplanes or other places where a connection can be lost.  "HAVA support for iPhone will allow TV enthusiasts to enjoy their home television, with full touch screen control, wherever they go," said William Loesch, CEO of Monsoon Multimedia. "Our mobile player for iPhone along with integration with iTunes, opens a new realm of television and entertainment for iPhone and iPod owners."  Monsoon's HAVA features unique video multicasting capabilities which allow users to broadcast their home television to multiple devices within their home network while simultaneously place-shifting video to a connected PC or mobile phone anywhere in the world. Now, these features are available to iPod and iPhone users.  Pricing and Availability  Monsoon export to iTunes will be available as a free direct download in Q1 of 2009. The HAVA Player for iPhone will also be free and is expected to be available in Q2 of 2009. The HAVA product line is available nationwide through Best Buy, direct from Monsoon at www.myhava.com and through select etailers and retailers nationwide.  About Monsoon Multimedia  Monsoon Multimedia provides advanced, standards-based multimedia products and technologies for the PC and Consumer Electronics industries. Monsoon licenses highly optimized multimedia solutions comprised of applications, drivers, frameworks, middleware and reference designs. Our customers and partners are semiconductor companies, PC manufacturers, software suppliers and consumer electronics companies. Founded by the founders of Dazzle and Emuzed, the company has offices in California, India and Russia. For more information, please visit www.monsoonmultimedia.com.
 