
 Do you recall those fancy business cards that took a design cue straight out of your adored Facebook Timeline? Well, the company behind such neat idea is now working on bringing cards equipped with NFC technology, which will allow folks to add things like email address, URLs and even pinpoint locations for easy access via any maps application. Of course, most of this information can already be shared using typical business cards, but one of the biggest pros with the Near Field Communication method will be the ability to change this info at any given time without having to purchase a whole new set. Moo plans on having the NFC-ready cards available to the masses by 2013 -- that said, the startup's currently running a beta program where it will allow 150,000 lucky folks get a complimentary card with their order of a traditional sheet. There's a video demo down below for you to check out, and you should probably act fast if you're looking to get one for yourself ahead of the extensive rollout.



 
  Show full PR text   MOO.COM Unveils Business Cards With NFC-Open Beta Test This Year, Full Roll-out in 2013
   Brand Identity Leader Embraces the Future of Networking –

   Connecting Businesses Offline and Online

   EAST PROVIDENCE, R.I. & LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Committed to cutting-edge design and technology, MOO.COM (www.moo.com), the award-winning online printer and branding resource, today announced plans to release near field communication (NFC)-enabled business cards. The cards will be available in early 2013, but 150,000 MOO customers will have the opportunity to participate in an open beta test later this year for free.

   "The business world is constantly evolving and adopting new technologies that streamline communication, and we at MOO believe the digital printing market should adapt to bridge the gap between online and offline identities"

   This innovative communication tool will combine MOO's impeccably designed Luxe Business Cards with the frictionless technology of NFC to create a tangible, yet digital way to share marketing content via any NFC-enabled smartphone.

   MOO's new Business Cards with NFC create a unique "Third Side" to the business card, allowing companies to go beyond just sharing contact information to showcasing their brand in an innovative way both offline and online. With NFC technology, users have the ability to write and rewrite the URL on the chip to direct people to whatever digital properties they choose. A real estate agent could highlight different listings daily; a local retailer could highlight seasonal sales and promotions, limiting the need to create costly marketing materials, as well as provide a map to its location; and a jewelry designer at a street fair could link to a product catalogue.

   "The business world is constantly evolving and adopting new technologies that streamline communication, and we at MOO believe the digital printing market should adapt to bridge the gap between online and offline identities," said Richard Moross, CEO and Founder of MOO.COM. "For the past six years MOO has been dedicated to helping businesses, both big and small, create an offline identity and curate a brand that is as unique as its people. With the roll-out of our NFC cards, and our recent acquisition of Flavors.me, a design-led personal identity site, we are showing our commitment to expanding online personal and professional identity creation."

   MOO Business Cards with NFC are made using MOO's Luxe Business Cards, which were introduced earlier this year as the company's premium business card offering. Combined with the innovative NFC technology, MOO NFC Business Cards seamlessly bring together online and offline networking.

   "Our goal for NFC is to allow businesses to expand the possibilities of face-to-face networking to include their digital identities," said Moross. "We have such creative customers; we can't wait to see their ideas for using this technology."

   Invested in the growth of NFC, MOO is rolling out a plan to share this new technology with customers at no cost. Starting today, the first 150,000 customers to place a business card order will receive a complimentary MOO Business Card with NFC as part of an open beta test. The embedded NFC chip will be programmed to link to a landing page that features the user's contact information.

   "This year will be crucial for our NFC cards," said Moross, "As we're going to be gathering feedback from our customers on how they're using their cards. It will be invaluable in rolling out additional solutions for them in 2013."

   In the future, MOO Business Cards with NFC packs will be available for purchase and provide avid networkers with the ability to customize the content of their cards. To learn more, please visit www.moo.com/nfc or watch a demonstration video at bit.ly/MOO_NFC_Cards.

   About MOO.COM

   MOO is an award-winning online print business that is passionate about great design and the difference it can make to its customers and the world. Launched in 2006, MOO aims to disrupt the $640 billion global print industry by combining the values of professional design with accessibility and reach of the web; making great design available to all. By applying Web 2.0 principles to a 500 year-old market, MOO has become one of the fastest growing print businesses in the world, with triple digit annual growth and a global reach since launch. MOO prints millions of cards a month and has served customers in over 180 countries. MOO also empowers companies of 10 or more employees with MOO for Business, offering volume discounts and easy order management for entire organizations. For more information, visit www.moo.com

 
