
 
You're probably wondering why Mophie has apparently crafted a device that's not also a case. Believe it or not, you actually aren't living in a parallel universe, and this is -- in fact -- the outfit's first product made compatible with other USB devices. The Juice Pack Powerstation is most obviously targeting heavy iPad users, but the beastly battery pack is quite capable of rejuvenating your PND, PMP or smartphone provided you have the necessary cabling. Most interesting, however, is this unit's ability to automatically switch between desired mAh charges, including 500 mAh, 1A and 2.1A, while a standby toggle switch ensures no drainage when it's idle. There's also a USB pass-through so users can charge a device and the Powerstation simultaneously, and if you're interested, all 3600mAh can be yours starting today at $99.95.
      

 

Show full PR textmophie Launches Juice Pack PowerstationQuick Charge External Battery Delivers On-the-Go Power to the iPad, iPhone and iPodSANTA ANA, Calif., Sept. 15 /PRNewswire/ -- mophie™ today announced the availability of the juice pack powerstation, marking the company's first innovation for the iPad accessories market. The powerstation is the third quick charge external battery in its new juice pack universal line, designed to deliver a portable power solution to on-the-go Apple device users. The most powerful of the three universal line rechargeable batteries, the juice pack powerstation boasts up to 2.1 amps of charging output with a 3600 mAh capacity, making it one of the most powerful external power sources available for the iPad on the market.The juice pack powerstation was engineered to provide super-high output charging in a compact design and to be compatible with most commercially available USB devices in the world, including the iPad, iPhone and iPod. The quick charge powerstation gives users the opportunity to go for days without a power outlet, and its lightweight and portable design makes for easy carrying so consumers never have to go without a battery charging solution. In addition to the powerstation's 2.1 amps charging capabilities, the advanced battery cell also automatically switches between desired mAh charge, including 500 mAh, 1A and 2.1A, while a stand-by toggle switch ensures no drainage when the powerstation is not in use. "The powerstation has allowed us to innovate in new ways and for new devices, and we are excited to continue pushing mophie's design and product development forward," noted Ross Howe, vice president of business development. "This is our first foray into engineering a compact battery with such high charging output as well as creating a product that works with the iPad and virtually any other USB device. We will continue to expand our product lines to meet the market's need for new product accessories and look forward to exploring new market spaces."The powerstation is available now for $99.95 in Apple stores or on www.apple.com and www.mophie.com. Key features and benefits of the powerstation include:* The Most Power on the Market – 2.1 amps of high-density, high-output charging replenishes iPads faster than traditional batteries on the market* Advanced Battery Cell – Special high-output battery is capable of switching between a 500mAh, 1A and 2.1A charge* Waste Not, Want Not – Stand-by toggle switch ensures that there is no drainage when the powerstation is not in use* iPad and USB Device Compatible – Quick charge the iPad, iPhone, iPod and virtually any other USB device or smart phone* Compact and Ultra-Portable – The powerstation features a two-tone metallic and soft touch finish in a compact form factor making it easier to carry on-the-go* 6 Light LED Battery Status Indicator – Invisible when not in use, the integrated LED status indicator tells you exactly how much "juice" is left and also functions as a super-bright flashlight, ensuring you're never out of juice or left in the dark* Pass-through USB Charging – Enables users to simultaneously charge an iPhone or other smart phone while also charging the powerstation itself when using a 2.1 amps iPad charger adapterThe powerstation is the first of several anticipated iPad accessories that mophie will develop, with additional products to be announced later this year and in 2011. It is also the first product developed by the company that is compatible with other USB devices (such as GPS units) and mp3 players. The universal line was first introduced in June 2010, with the juice pack reserve released first, followed by the juice pack boost in August 2010, and now the powerstation. Each of the external rechargeable batteries incorporates the latest advancements in portable power and is available in Apple stores, at www.apple.com or www.mophie.com. For additional information regarding the mophie suite of products, please visit http://www.mophie.com.
 