
 Who needs blue lasers? Not New Medium Enterprises or Beijing e-world, as theyhave announced they will be showing off a combo EVD/VMD player at next year's CeBit in germany. Amazingly, whileBlu-ray and HD-DVD continue to fight in the streets over who has the birthright to the high definition throne, a littlecollaboration could be a big boost to two other formats.EVD(Enhanced versatile disc) is a Chinese backed format that has produced verylittle since being originally announced in 2003, but promised high definition DVD's with standard red lasertechnology.VMD (Versatile Multilayer disc) is a new formatpushed by NME, where they say they can increase the storage of a standard red-laser DVD, by adding additional layers,all the way up to 100GB storage (theoretically).Could all this Blu-ray/HD-DVD posturing be for naught? Ifthese companies can get any studio support and cheap but high quality (MPEG-2 apparently) high definition DVD's onstore shelves before the big guys get traction.......2006 will be an interestingyear.  Read on for the full press release.
      

 

NME and Beijing E-World Technology Co., Ltd To Launch Total Red Laser HD Solution - EVD/VMD High DefinitionPlayers As Well As VMD Discs At CeBIT 2006 in Hanover, Germany, in MarchLONDON --(Business Wire)-- Dec. 29, 2005New Medium Enterprises (OTCBB: NMEN) and Beijing E-World Technology Company, Ltd., today announced the spring launch ofthe VMD-EVD-HD player at CeBIT in March 2006. Beijing E-World CTO Mr. Xu Xiang said "The two companies haveachieved total compatibility between the EVD -HD player and VMD discs. All parties involved are very satisfied withthis prototype and are confident to start commercial production in early spring."As an important showof support for the cooperation between NME and Beijing E-World, a leading Bollywood (Indian) film distributor Eros willrelease 5 titles in HD on VMD together with the EVD - HD player at the CeBIT exhibition in March.NME andBeijing E-World technological teams have been cooperating with each other extensively during the past several months.The two companies had launched their VMD-EVD-HD player prototype before Christmas in 2005, and plan to launch thecommercial production in the first quarter of 2006. "We believed it was important to continue the integration ofour two technologies, as well as gain strong assistance, technical support and input from Chinese DVD manufacturersprior to the launch of our products. We now believe that we have all the necessary support from the Chinese DVD playermanufacturers to launch the HD solution at the CeBIT show in March 2006," said Mahesh Jayanarayan, CEO of NME.About New Medium Enterprises, Inc. (NME):NME is aimed at positioning itself as a technology leaderin the field of High Definition (HD) digital storage. NME is offering the film, entertainment, video gaming and storageindustries a total solution including thwarting video piracy. The Company has developed the Versatile Multilayer Disc(VMD), a technologically advanced red laser optical storage disc that has capacities ranging from 20 to 40GB. Thetechnology has the capability of up to 100GB of data storage, which is 20 fold the capacity of existing DVD discs. Foradditional information about NME, please consult the Company's website at: http://www.nmeinc.comAboutBeijing E-World Technology Co., Ltd. (E-World):E-World, a Chinese publicly listed company, is engaged inthe development of electronic chip and board technology. E-World is also the developer of the Enhanced Versatile Disc(EVD), which is currently selling in China, and one of the world's HD optical storage discs. For additional informationabout E-World, please consult the Company's website at: http://www.davworld.net

       

 