
 
 The app devs over at Sky Sports are having a busy year, and after improving their iPad offering for the F1 season, they're back with a "second screen" update for football (soccer) fans. Just in time for the start of the UK Premier League season, the new Football Match Centre adds a content bar alongside your chosen stream showing team and player info, in-depth stats of the match in progress and a hand-picked Twitter feed for related musings. You might think the devs deserve a break, but sadly there's no time -- next on the agenda is a similar update for the Champions League tournament, then they're bringing the second screen to golf fans before the Ryder Cup starts next month.



  Show full PR text   NEW FOOTBALL SECOND SCREEN EXPERIENCE ADDED TO SKY SPORTS FOR iPAD APP 
  NEW FEATURE RELEASED FOR THE BEGINNING OF THE NEW BARCLAYS PREMIER LEAGUE 2012/13 SEASON
   Today, the popular Sky Sports for iPad app sees the addition of a new football second screen experience.

   The update enables fans to receive in-depth information and statistics about matches, teams and players, providing an even richer experience around Sky Sports' coverage of the new Barclays Premier League season, which starts on Sunday 19th August with Wigan vs. Chelsea at 1.30pm.

   Content and information on all aspects of the game and players involved will be housed in a new 'Football Match Centre' area within the Sky Sports for iPad app, which is available at no extra cost to Sky Sports customers. The Football Match Centre will accompany Premier League matches broadcast live on Sky Sports, enabling Sky Sports customers to enjoy Barclays Premier League football like never before.

   Features within the new Football Match Centre area of the Sky Sports for iPad app include:

   · Team and player profiles: In-depth player stats including full squad listings, team line-ups, formations and profiles with appearance statistics and Sky Sports Fantasy Football points

   · Match day stats: Number of shots on and off target, yellow and red cards, passing success rates

   · Team form: Team line-ups and match stats for each team's last six matches

   · Social media streams: Curated twitter feed with aggregated football fan commentary

   David Gibbs, Director of Sky Sports Digital Media commented:

   "We know that Sky Sports customers want the latest stats and facts about their favourite teams and players, and the new Football Match Centre within the Sky Sports for iPad app does just that. With over half a million downloads since launch, we hope that the addition of a football second screen experience to the iPad app will continue to excite fans, providing an intuitive and innovative way to follow the match included as part of their Sky Sports subscription. The update builds on the success of the Formula One and Masters second screen experiences which add more depth to a viewer's enjoyment of our linear channels. "

   The new football companion experience follows the successful launch earlier this year of the F1™ "Race Control" second screen experience within the Sky Sports for iPad app, which offers Sky customers additional live video feeds, a customizable split screen, race highlights, social networking feeds and live race data. The companion app experience will soon be extended to accompany Sky Sports' Champions League football coverage, with a further update to follow which will introduce a new second screen experience for golf fans ahead of the Ryder Cup in September.

 
