
 

So far the appcessories -- yeah we said it, APPcessories -- we've seen include some good ideas, and some less so. The Bluetooth LE 3D-Sport and Weather offerings from Mosoro fall into the former category (if they make their way into a shipping product that is). The 3D-Sport is a motion capture device you attach to sports equipment. The on-board accelerometer, gyroscope and magnetometer beam motion data to your iOS device, where it can be analyzed by Rocky-style Russian coaches to see where your throw or golf swing is going wrong. The latter is a mini weather station that reads temperature, humidity, elevation, and barometric pressure to tell you the conditions where you are right now. More usefully, it nabs your GPS location and uploads it all to Mosoro's aptly named "Cloud" Server that presumably maps out some crazy real-time crowdsourced weather report. Both also use Bluetooth 4.0's low energy technology so they won't need to see a charger for a long time. Now we just need a company that likes collating personal data, perhaps with a weather service, to snap this one up... any takers?
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Mosoro Announces Bluetooth LE Appcessories for iOS and Android Smartphones		New Mosoro Weather and 3D-Sport Bluetooth Low Energy Sensors, For Use With iOS and Android Smartphones, Available For License/Cobranding. 		Email Contact Email PDF Version PDF Printer Friendly Version Print 		Golden, Colorado (PRWEB) October 24, 2011 		Mosoro (http://www.mosoro.com), a company that creates Bluetooth accessory solutions, also know as Appcessories, for smartphones, today announced availability to licensing/co-branding partners their first round of Bluetooth LE sensors for iOS and Android smartphones. 		The first two products that are currently available for licensing/co-branding are: 		Mosoro 3D-Sport - a miniature USB thumbdrive sized motion capture product that contains an accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, and Bluetooth LE. 3D-Sport works by physically attaching the hardware to a piece of sports equipment and, over Bluetooth, the hardware "pairs" to a smartphone app that records how the piece of equipment moves in 3 dimensions during use (for example the ability to monitor how a golf club moves precisely during a swing). This data is then overlaid on a 3D model within corresponding smartphone app that shows the equipment moving. 		Mosoro Weather - a miniature USB thumbdrive sized Weather fob that allows a user to see their actual local weather displayed on their smartphone. The Weather fob measures temperature, humidity, elevation, and barometric pressure and sends it to the smartphone, over Bluetooth, for the user to view their actual local weather. The Weather data is combined with the GPS position of the smartphone and sent to the Mosoro Cloud Server allowing for the first solution of it's kind for crowd-sourced weather. 		"We are very excited to have some of the first Bluetooth LE consumer products for iOS and Android ready to go to market," says founder Mike Stemple. "We are already in talks with some outstanding brands for a variety of our products and together we are creating some killer apps. When the public sees what we have built, they are going to love it!" 		Additionally, Mosoro is announcing their Appcessory Design Services for companies and brands. Do you have an idea for a brilliant Appcessory for either iOS, Android or Windows Phones? Mosoro provides Appcessory design services for companies and brands and is a specialist at working with the latest Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) technology on all the top smartphone platforms. 		More information about Bluetooth LE can be found here: http://bit.ly/pilc5d 		About Mosoro		Mosoro creates Bluetooth accessory solutions, also know as Appcessories, for smartphones. The company designs Bluetooth hardware and corresponding smartphone apps in-house, partners with well known consumer brands, bundles the branded hardware and apps together, and takes the products to market through their distribution and sales partners. The company was founded by successful serial entrepreneurs and the founders of nReach, Skinit, Original Wraps, and Odojo. Mosoro is a developer partner of numerous carrier/handset providers, an Adopter member of the Bluetooth SIG, and an approved Apple MFi Licensee. To learn more visit http://www.mosoro.com. 		###
 