
 
Need a tablet PC that'll last all day, do ya? Care for one that you can also see whilst outdoors? Look no further than Motion's brand new J3400, a rugged (albeit sleek) new tablet that comes equipped with dual battery compartments and an outdoor-visible LCD. Other specs include an Intel Core 2 Duo processor, 1.8-inch shock-mounted HDD (a 64GB SSD is a worthwhile option), 2 megapixel camera, GPS, a biometric sensor, multicard reader, Bluetooth 2.1, Qualcomm's dual-mode Gobi WWAN chip, WiFi and a chassis that's IP-52 rated and meets MIL-STD-810F specifications. In other words, a three foot tumble onto plywood won't even faze it. This beauty can be yours to ruin in the field for the low, low starting price of $2,299, and yes, it's ready to ship this very moment. Full release is after the break.
      

 

Motion Launches the J3400 Rugged Tablet PC with All Day Battery Life and an Industry-Leading Bright Outdoor DisplayIdeal for mobile workers the J3400 is a rugged, lightweight device with a dual battery design for all day computingAUSTIN, TX – March 16, 2009 – Motion Computing®, a leader in mobile computing and wireless communications, today announced the latest in its line of rugged tablet PCs. Maximizing performance and flexibility, the J3400's lightweight package, superior ergonomics and integrated features allow it to adapt easily to a broad range of demanding work environments. Ideal for mobile workers that compute while walking or standing, the J3400 extends the computing day with a dual battery design and shines with an industry-leading, bright outdoor display. "The J3400 was developed based on more than seven years of tablet PC experience, and feedback from customers across industries," said David Altounian, president and CEO, Motion Computing. "It is a mobile computing device with the capabilities our customers are demanding – a powerful processor with a compact rugged design that supports users who must be productive whether in the field or in the office."The J3400 joins Motion's family of proven tablet PCs that meet the needs of mobile users across a variety of markets including healthcare, construction, field sales and service and government. Balancing performance, weight, durability and integrated features, Motion tablets have significantly enhanced mobile productivity by enabling users to take technology directly to the point of service."Motion is recognized for innovative solutions that can improve productivity with the ability to take technology to the point of service," said Brian Tucker, business marketing manager, Mobile Platforms Group, Intel Corporation. "Intel's Centrino 2 processor technology is the backbone in many thin and light concepts like the J3400's innovative design with long battery life."Cianbro, a construction and service solutions provider, has significantly improved job site productivity with the use of Motion tablet PCs. The company plans to deploy the J3400s at Destiny USA, a first-class destination being built to operate 100 percent free of fossil fuels."At Cianbro, we're excited about the advancements Motion has made with the J3400. The new features fit in well with our mobile computing needs," said David Fay, Cianbro's job site technology manager. "The bright screen, ruggedness and integrated camera will help us further improve productivity as we work to enable innovation in the construction industry through advanced technology." Rugged, Lightweight and Ergonomic Equal All Day ComputingMotion's J3400 offers all of the durability and functionality of a rugged PC, without the extra weight and price associated with traditional fully rugged devices. The tablet PC features a hot-swappable dual battery feature for all day computing performance. Additionally, with its balanced design, integrated shoulder strap attach points, rounded corners and slip-free grip surface, it is easily carried throughout the day.Motion's unique design and internal frame that protects internal components without adding weight or thickness allows for the J3400's rugged design and light weight. The tablet PC is IP-52 rated and meets MIL-STD-810F specifications – able to withstand a three-foot drop on plywood over concrete as well as the occasional bumps, dust and moisture associated with mobile working environments. A variety of features create a reliable, rugged device: • 1.8 inch hard disk drive (HDD) that provides extra shock protection • Shock-mounted display and HDD with DataGuard™, an accelerometer that protects data during drops or other events that could potentially damage the hard drive  • Optional low cost 64GB SSD for extreme shock and vibration protectionIntegrated Features and Custom Peripherals Optimize Usability The J3400's available integrated features improve field productivity while reducing the number of devices that must be carried, while a host of custom-designed peripherals optimize usability: • 2.0 megapixel camera for seamless, in-the-field documentation • Smart card reader and biometric fingerprint reader for enhanced security • GPS for real-time mapping, location tracking or the geo-tagging of digital photos • FlexDock with full input/output connections, a convenient charging bay and mounting compatibility with any VESA device • J-Series Work Anywhere™ kit to give users a comfortable option for carrying the device throughout the workdayImproving Mobile Productivity with the Latest TechnologiesThe J3400 is available with a variety of technologies that improve productivity, whether computing indoors or out. It is the first tablet PC to combine Motion's View Anywhere® technology with the Hydis AFFS+ wide screen display, creating an industry-leading, bright outdoor viewing experience. Other available features include: • Intel® Centrino® 2 processor technology, which includes the Intel® Core™2 Duo processor to provide high performance and optimal battery life • Speak Anywhere® technology that intelligently switches between two of three microphones for high-fidelity voice and sound input • Intel® WiFi Link 5300 Series 802.11 a/b/g/draft-n, CSR BlueCore™ Bluetooth® 2.1, and integrated Gobi™ mobile broadband for a variety of communications optionsPricing and AvailabilityThe Motion J3400 is now available at a starting price of $2,299. Motion tablet PCs are sold by authorized Motion resellers and distributors worldwide. For more information or to find a certified Motion reseller visit www.motioncomputing.com/products/tablet_pc_J34.asp. About Motion Computing Motion Computing is a mobile computing and wireless communications leader, combining world-class innovation and industry experience so professionals in vertical industries such as healthcare, field sales and service and government can use computing technology in new ways and places. The company's enhanced line of tablet PCs, mobile clinical assistants and accessories are designed to increase productivity for on-the-go users while providing portability, security, power and versatility. Motion combines those products with services and unique vertical market knowledge to deliver robust solutions – platforms, peripherals, services and wireless – customized for the needs of a particular industry. For more information, visit www.motioncomputing.com.Motion Computing and Motion are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motion Computing, Inc, in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

       

 