
 
It's been a solid tick since Motion Computing overhauled its F5 Slate PC, but all that's changing (seriously) today. As you can tell, the device now sports a freshened look with a black exterior to "better withstand dirty and dusty mobile work environments." Additionally, the C5 tablet is joining in for the rest of the upgrades, which include inbuilt support for Verizon Wireless' EV-DO network, Intel's WiFi Link 5300 series 802.11a/g/n, Core 2 Duo CPU options, improved battery life, a 64GB SSD option and an external battery charger for hardcore field users. The Motion F5 gets going at $2,699, while the C5 starts up at $500 less; both machines are shipping now to the company's network of resellers and distributors, and the release can be peeked in full just after the break.





Motion's F5 Rugged Tablet PC and C5 Mobile Clinical Assistant Now Available with Integrated Access to Verizon Wireless' Mobile Broadband Network  The highly mobile devices also feature improved performance, expanded WiFi capabilities and a new solid state drive upgrade  AUSTIN, Texas and LAS VEGAS – April 1, 2009 – From CTIA Wireless 2009 - Motion Computing®, a leader in mobile computing and wireless communications, today announced that the F5 rugged tablet PC and the C5 Mobile Clinical Assistant (MCA) are available for use on the Verizon Wireless mobile broadband network. Additionally, Motion is announcing upgrades to the devices including enhanced performance, the latest WiFi technology and a new 64GB solid state drive (SSD) option.  Verizon Access Enables Broad Coverage  Motion's C5 and F5 tablets are compliant under the Verizon Wireless open development program, which is designed to offer businesses and consumers the ability to use wireless devices, software and applications not offered by the company on its nationwide wireless network. With access to mobile broadband from Verizon Wireless integrated into the Motion C5 and F5, users can access email, download files and browse the Internet at broadband speed.   "Motion Computing is recognized for solutions that improve productivity for highly mobile users by creating devices that are designed to work the way the users do," said Anthony A. Lewis, vice president of open development at Verizon Wireless. "Now with anytime access to the Verizon Wireless network, Motion tablet users, from hospitals to construction sites, can be more productive when away from the office."  Tablet Upgrades Provide Improved Performance, Flexibility  Upgrades to the C5 and F5 include expanded communications capabilities with the Intel® WiFi Link 5300 series 802.11 a/g/draft-n, Intel Centrino® technology with the Intel® Core™2 Duo processor for improved performance and battery life, and a new 64GB SSD upgrade. An external battery charger is also now available for the C5 and F5, which enables users to quickly charge additional batteries for use throughout the workday.  The C5 Mobile Clinical Assistant Delivers Quality Care  The C5, the industry's first MCA developed in collaboration with Intel®, is a hospital-grade device that is proven in healthcare environments. Now deployed in more than 4,000 healthcare organizations worldwide, the C5 has proven to enhance clinician satisfaction, improve point of care documentation, increase clinician productivity and improve clinical documentation accuracy. For more information visit the Motion C5 product page.   The F5 Mobile Field Tool Ideal for Rugged Working Environments  The F5, now with a black exterior to better withstand dirty and dusty mobile work environments, is a rugged tablet PC that provides electronic clipboard functionality and is an ideal solution for field workers who compute and enter data while standing or walking. Mobile professionals across construction, field sales and service and government are using the F5 because it provides the durability and functionality of a rugged PC without the extra weight and price associated with traditional, fully rugged devices. For more information visit the Motion F5 product page.   "Motion's tablet PCs, used in combination with the Vela Systems construction field software, are significantly improving documentation processes by enabling access to important information on the jobsite," said Josh Kanner, founder and vice president of Vela Systems. "Motion is continually improving and adapting their technology specifically to the needs of their users, and we're excited about these recent enhancements that will help our clients further improve field productivity."   Available Now  The F5 and the C5 with enhanced features and the external battery charger are available today through Motion's network of resellers and distributors worldwide. For more information or to find a Motion reseller near you, visit Motion's products and services page.   About Motion Computing  Motion Computing is a mobile computing and wireless communications leader, combining world-class innovation and industry experience so professionals in vertical industries such as healthcare, field sales and service and government can use computing technology in new ways and places. The company's enhanced line of tablet PCs, mobile clinical assistants and accessories are designed to increase productivity for on-the-go users while providing portability, security, power and versatility. Motion combines those products with services and unique vertical market knowledge to deliver robust solutions – platforms, peripherals, services and wireless – customized for the needs of a particular industry. For more information, visit www.motioncomputing.com.   Motion Computing and Motion are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motion Computing, Inc, in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.  # # #

       

 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

