
 
Things are getting real with Motorola -- it's just announced the LTE-equipped Droid Bionic which, like the Xoom tablet introduced alongside it, will be headed to Verizon. The phone packs a dual-core processor with each core humming along at 1GHz, a 4.3-inch QHD screen, 1GB 512MB of RAM, a front-facing VGA camera, an 8-megapixel on the rear, HDMI out, and a Mirror Mode that will let you do simultaneous streaming of video to the TV and on the device. Head on past the break for the complete press release, and hit up the link below for the product page.

Update: The press release states 512MB of RAM, while Motorola's product page lists 1GB, one of which is probably right.







Show full PR textVerizon Wireless and Motorola Mobility Announce DROID BIONIC on Nation's Fastest, Most Advanced 4G NetworkNew Android Device Combines Dual-core Processor with Fastest 4G Network for Unrivaled Mobile Internet ExperienceJan. 05, 2011LAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J. – Verizon Wireless and Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI), today unveiled DROID™ BIONIC, a powerful new Android™ smartphone.Packing a dual core processor with each core running at 1GHz, delivering up to two GHz of processing power, and 512 MB RAM, the sleekly designed DROID BIONIC smartphone with 4G LTE delivers a mobile Internet experience that's up to 10 times faster than 3G. This means consumers can stream their favorite music and the latest TV shows with unparalleled quality experience. DROID BIONIC also races through loading of complex web pages and media that take advantage of Adobe® Flash® Player and HTML5, rendering graphics faster than previous generation single-core devices.Motorola's DROID BIONIC gives new meaning to the word "socialize" by delivering multiple ways for customers to stay connected. With the device's front-facing VGA camera and See What I See video feature, consumers can share experiences – either via Wi-Fi or 4G – with family, friends and co-workers. A rear-facing 8-megapixel camera also allows consumers to capture their favorite pictures and videos.DROID BIONIC's multiplayer gaming capabilities allow consumers to challenge friends to live peer-to-peer gaming, viewed through the device's 4.3-inch qHD quality screen that delivers console-quality graphics. DROID BIONIC's HDMI connectivity also enables consumers to connect the device to their HD televisions to experience their favorite games, as well as purchased HD content, in full 1080p. And for multi-taskers, DROID 4G's Mirror Mode function enables simultaneous streaming of video to the TV and on the device.As a fully featured work device, DROID BIONIC comes equipped with corporate email, remote wipe and data security and encryption capabilities IT departments appreciate. DROID BIONIC also features productivity tools such as Quickoffice® for document review and editing, full calendar management, one-click access to conference calling, and a full suite of Google applications and services."DROID BIONIC brings to life the speed and power of Verizon's 4G LTE network, giving consumers an unrivaled mobile experience," said Marni Walden, vice president and chief marketing officer for Verizon Wireless. "Whether downloading movies in minutes, connecting with friends or co-workers through video conferencing, or blazing through the Internet, Motorola's DROID BIONIC is what the 4G LTE experience is all about.""DROID BIONIC is the epitome of speed, providing consumers with instantaneous access to their personal and work content, anytime and anyplace," said Alain Mutricy, senior vice president of portfolio and device product management, Motorola Mobility. "By combining such a powerful mobile device with the performance and capabilities of Verizon's 4G LTE network, we're empowering consumers to define how they want to live their mobile lifestyles."The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network, launched in December 2010, is the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States, providing speeds up to 10 times faster than Verizon Wireless' 3G network. Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network currently reaches one-third of all Americans, with plans to expand the network to the company's entire 3G coverage area over the next three years.For more information about Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network, visit www.verizonwrieless.com/lte and for more information about Verizon Wireless at CES please visit www.verizonwireless.com/ces or follow us on twitter at www.twitter.com/verizonwireless.For more information about Verizon Wireless products and services, visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com.About Verizon WirelessVerizon Wireless operates the nation's fastest and most advanced 4G network and largest and most reliable 3G network, and serves more than 93 million customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 80,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.About Motorola MobilityMotorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

