
 


Bluetooth headsets are normally the province of businesspeople so important they can't spare the energy to hold a phone to their ears or, perhaps, folks who just want to play CIA agent. If you find yourself in either category, Motorola's newest offerings will put what passes for a smile on your serious businessperson face. The outfit just took the wraps off two Elite series headsets, both equipped with NFC pairing, so one tap 'twixt phone and earpiece will have you ready to simultaneously drive and talk. You'll also get integration with My Motospeak, now capable of dictating text messages as well as hearing them read to you, HD-Audio, CrystalTalk noise cancellation and a roaming distance of 300 feet. While the Flip looks the part of your typical earpiece, the Sliver (above left) has decidedly more futuristic digs. Both will be available on October 24th with the Flip costing $100 and the Sliver fetching an extra $30 for its avant-garde design.We've got PR after the break along with a demo video -- because who doesn't love watching cartoon characters explain how NFC works?
 

   			Show full PR text  Motorola Mobility Introduces the World's Most Advanced Wireless Headsets With Bluetooth® Technology			Discreet design, My MotoSpeak™ hands-free texting and unparalleled audio performance achieved through exclusive software solution  LIBERTYVILLE, Ill – Oct. 14, 2011 – Motorola Mobility, Inc. today announced the arrival of two new ground-breaking Bluetooth headsets, Motorola ELITE SLIVER and Motorola ELITE FLIP. The innovative Bluetooth headsets boast unmatched sound quality and features, including Near Field Communication (NFC) technology, HD Audio Plus and three times greater connection range than the leading competitors. 			Motorola ELITE SLIVER and Motorola ELITE FLIP feature NFC technology, which allows you to pair either headset with your phone with a quick tap. The inclusion of HD Audio Plus in both headsets increases clarity and provides richer sound for all your conversations with true wideband audio and CrystalTalk™ dual-microphone noise cancellation technology. With an extended roaming range of up to 300 feet from Class 1 Bluetooth technology, you can walk away from your phone without disconnecting your conversation. 			The Motorola ELITE SLIVER and Motorola ELITE FLIP also work with the My MotoSpeak application to read, dictate and send text messages hands-free. The new My MotoSpeak application adds the capabilities for users to initiate and send text messages without touching or holding their phone. 			"Seamless integration of elegant design and new ground-breaking technology make Motorola ELITE SLIVER and Motorola ELITE FLIP, the obvious choices for consumers from the tech savvy to the fashion conscious," said Yossi Cohen, senior vice president, Companion Products, Motorola Mobility. "In designing these headsets, we built custom software to deliver new user experiences. Multiple technology advancements such as NFC, HD Audio Plus featuring wideband audio and My MotoSpeak provide an additional layer of superior and innovative functionality."  Barely noticeable, impossible to ignore			Weighing in at just under half an ounce, Motorola ELITE SLIVER can hardly be seen but it certainly can be heard. The headset is perfect for those who want discretion but don't want to sacrifice great audio or advanced features. In addition to the aforementioned features, Motorola ELITE SLIVER offers more than twice as much talk time as the leading competitors. The stylish protective charging case recharges the headset for a total of up to 15 hours of talk time without needing to search for a power outlet.  Keep talking... and be heard			Motorola ELITE FLIP lets users talk through almost anything. In addition to the rich and clear audio of HD Audio Plus, the TrueComfort™ design let you choose the most comfortable way to wear the headset. Motorola ELITE FLIP provides the unique capability to choose from three wearing options first seen on the Motorola HX550.  My MotoSpeak integration			Both headsets work with My MotoSpeak, the ultimate hands-free texting application for an increasingly hands-free world. The latest generation of Motorola's MotoSpeak application, My MotoSpeak allows you to initiate, dictate and send a text message without touching your phone. The free application reads incoming text messages aloud through the headset and lets you reply hands-free, including interpreting common acronyms such as 'asap' or 'l8r.' The smart button feature on Motorola ELITE SLIVER and Motorola ELITE FLIP makes sending a text easier than ever. With one simple touch of the smart button on the headset, you can initiate a text message and simply talk aloud to dictate the message. In addition, My MotoSpeak can also easily customize headset settings like noise cancellation, equalizer and smart button function.  Motorola ELITE SLIVER Key features and specifications:			- HD Audio Plus with true wideband audio and CrystalTalk™ dual-mic technology enable increased clarity and richer sound			- NFC technology pairs device to NFC-enabled phones1 in one tap			- Extended roaming range up to 300 feet			- Integrated with My MotoSpeak to hear incoming messages, speak outgoing texts and send without ever touching your phone			- Up to 15 hours of talk time4 when combined with the included charging case			- Weighs less than half an ounce and can barely be seen when worn  Motorola ELITE FLIP Key features and specifications:			- HD Audio Plus with true wideband audio and CrystalTalk™ dual-mic technology enable increased clarity and richer sound			- NFC technology pairs device to NFC-enabled phones1 in one tap			- Extended roaming range up to 300 feet2			- Integrated with My MotoSpeak to hear incoming messages, speak outgoing texts and send without ever touching your phone			- TrueComfort™ with three distinct wear styles			- The unique RapidConnect™ feature lets you simply flip open to turn on and talk, flip closed to turn off and save power			- Battery provides up to six hours of talk time, 12 days of standby time4  Pricing and Availability			Starting Oct. 24, 2011, both headsets will be available online at www.store.Motorola.com. Motorola ELITE SLIVER will be $129.99 and Motorola ELITE FLIP will be $99.99. 			My MotoSpeak is a free download from Android Market™. 			About Motorola Mobility			Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility. 
 