
 
  More Info   Motorola ICS UI review  Motorola Photon Q 4G LTE available August 19th for $200  Photon Q 4G LTE is coming 'very soon'  The future of Motorola post-acquisition may still be a mystery, but the manufacturer has managed to stay quite active over the last few weeks: it unveiled the Atrix HD, its first smartphone with an HD display and native ICS build, and there's already much anticipation around Verizon's Droid RAZR HD ahead of the holiday season. For the here and now, however, it's Sprint's turn to soak in the Moto love with the Photon Q 4G LTE. (Say it five times fast.)  Naturally, the name of the phone doesn't leave a whole lot to the imagination. As you'd expect, it's a follow-up to last year's Photon 4G that trades WiMAX for LTE and adds a full-sized QWERTY keyboard. What the name doesn't tell you, though, is that this phone costs a lofty $200 on contract, and features a qHD ColorBoost display (not to be confused with the Atrix's 720p screen, which uses the same branding). In other words, it's gotta be pretty good to have any success at that price point. How does the latest Googorola device hold up against the rest of Sprint's LTE lineup? Is it worth the premium? Follow us southward to find out.




 Hardware 
 Sprint is one of the most brand-centric carriers in the US (with the exception, perhaps, of Verizon's ubiquitous Droid franchise), so it isn't too surprising Dan Hesse & Co. chose to keep the Photon name with its latest flagship. A quick glance at the device would seem to confirm that its overall design aesthetic is indeed similar to the original Photon 4G, a WiMAX-enabled slate phone released this time last year. Here you'll find the same diagonally cut corners, though the Q's backside looks quite different, as we'll discuss shortly.  For this year's entry to the series, the Now Network has shed the old "4G" (or "faux-G") in favor of a 1900MHz LTE radio. Additionally, this is the first LTE device on Sprint that has global roaming enabled, sporting tri-band (850 / 1900 / 2100MHz) HSPA+ 21Mbps / quad-band EDGE to help keep international travelers connected. The catch? The SIM card isn't accessible -- something we've seen on both the Samsung Galaxy S III and HTC EVO 4G LTE. This means that you'll have roaming capabilities around the world, but there's no way around paying the hideous per-minute charges. If you were able to unlock the phone and swap the SIM, this could be avoided. Needless to say, you'll want to get used to finding WiFi and calling through third-party services such as Skype, Google Voice and so on.

    This is Sprint's first LTE device with GSM roaming enabled.  Diving into the Photon Q's dimensions, the phone measures 126.5mm (4.98 inches) long, 66mm (2.6 inches) wide and 13.7mm (0.54 inches) thick. Realistically, this is exactly what we've come to expect from QWERTY devices -- you'll be looking for a while if you're hoping to buy an über-thin phone with a full slide-out keyboard. They're a lot harder to come by than you may realize; the thinnest device to fit these criteria is Verizon's Pantech Marauder, which registers at 12mm exactly. The Photon also weighs 6.0 ounces (170.1 grams), which, again, isn't as huge a disappointment for QWERTY fans as it is for someone thinking of switching over from a candybar touchscreen device.  At 4.3 inches, this display is the largest we've seen on a phone with a slide-out keyboard. And despite the handset's heft, we found ourselves feeling at home whenever we cradled the Photon Q -- it's narrower than the Droid 4 and the original Photon 4G (which, by the way, is only 1.5mm thinner than this year's model). What's more, the edges taper inward slightly, creating a comfortable resting place for your fingers. Indeed, we didn't mind the size of the phone at all.

 
 Gone is the fancy kickstand on the back. In its place you'll notice a speaker grille and an 8-megapixel camera with 1080p video capture and LED flash, all hanging out on a non-removable access plate fashioned out of textured plastic. Remember the sealed hatch in season one of "Lost"? Your memory will definitely be jogged when you start fiddling around with the Photon Q's version. Presumably, this contraption hides a 1,785mAh battery, rear speakers, camera module and embedded SIM card, none of which would be of any use to you without a serious removal effort.  Surrounding that eyesore is a layer of grippy soft plastic that may help prevent accidental drops. We'd prefer to see this same material across the whole back, although the entire body of the phone feels quite solid regardless. But for all of our criticisms of the device's rear, there's one redeeming quality which gives the phone major brownie points: no carrier logo can be found anywhere. Sprint's signature watermark isn't on the back, nor on the front -- without turning the device on, you may not even be able to tell that it's a Sprint-branded device. No matter how many times anyone tries to convince you otherwise, this is truly the way every phone and tablet should be marked.

    The Photon Q 4G LTE is missing something: a Sprint logo.  Motorola's logo is still stamped on the front of the device, right next to the 1.3MP front-facing camera and below the internal speaker grille. On the left side, you'll notice the signature Webtop connection setup (read: a pair of micro-USB and micro-HDMI ports). Up top there's a 3.5mm headphone jack and a power / standby button located squarely in middle -- a compromise for the lefties who might be interested in this phone. Moving to the right side, there's a volume rocker closer to the top, a microSD slot below that and a single-stage camera shutter button at the bottom.  We were disappointed to learn that a $200 LTE device like the Photon only comes with a paltry 8GB storage built in, which translates to just over 4.5GB of user-accessible space. That doesn't leave a lot to work with, and you'll find yourself in need of a microSD card if you want enough room for high-res pics and videos, not to mention your movie or music collection.  Rounding out the spec list, the Photon Q offers NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 LE + EDR, 802.11b/g/n, DLNA connectivity and a noise-cancelling mic. We asked Motorola to confirm that the screen is covered with Gorilla Glass, but given the company's strong history with Corning -- not to mention the fact that the original Photon was scratch-resistant -- there's a strong chance Gorilla Glass is included here as well.

 Display
 
 Like many of its competitors, Motorola is now attaching its own special brand (i.e., ColorBoost) to its new smartphone displays. But don't let the name distract you -- in reality, this particular screen uses a qHD (960 x 540) non-PenTile TFT panel which, given its 4.3-inch size, translates into a density of 256ppi. Before we even saw the display, we were already disappointed to hear about the choice in resolution. Not that it's terrible for the typical user, but these days a premium device should have 720p if it wants to be competitive.  Before we turn our attention to the viewing experience, we have one small, but important detail to nitpick. While the screen has qHD resolution, your apps will run at 888 x 540. Why? It's all courtesy of the virtual navigation bar at the bottom of the screen -- the black bar that features the back, home and multitask buttons. In this case, a grand total of 72 pixels -- which translates into 7.5 percent of the available vertical pixels on the 4.3-inch screen -- are lost as a result. (As it happens, this is the same percentage lost on the Samsung Galaxy Nexus.) End of the world? Of course not. But love or hate the idea of a virtual bar, it's still costing you more real estate on the screen.  We were also leery of testing another ColorBoost display, since the one on the Atrix HD not only adds a boost of color, but it misses the mark completely and causes every photo and video to appear oversaturated. Fortunately, the Photon Q isn't quite as saturated -- in fact, the video playback experience was better than what we'd expect from a qHD display. Viewing angles are also surprisingly good, offering the ability to see the screen just shy of edge-on. The screen is also easily viewable in direct sunlight when cranked to full brightness.

 Keyboard 
 Anyone looking to purchase a handset in this category is willing to sacrifice thinness for the ability to type comfortably, accurately and quickly with tactile feedback. If it doesn't perform to expectations, the rest of the phone's selling points are swiftly rendered moot. Fortunately, the Photon Q holds steady, proudly flaunting one of the nicest Android slide-out keyboards we've had the opportunity to play with in recent memory. In fact, it brought back pleasant memories of our precious time with the Droid 4, also made by Motorola. The keys aren't too large or too small. They're raised, offering a decent amount of travel, and they bulge out ever-so slightly. What's more, they're reasonably spaced out so as to prevent your fingers from mashing neighboring keys -- at the same time, they're not so far apart from each other that you're slowing down your WPM rate.

    This is one of the finest physical keyboards we've used on an Android device in quite some time.  We also appreciate the layout of the Photon board. Motorola has opted to use the five-row setup, which means you'll get a dedicated number row rather than being forced to become good friends with the shift key. These buttons are laid out in identical fashion to the Droid 4, again choosing to eschew the usual Android navigation keys for other useful functions.  The edge-lit keyboard utilized on the Photon Q isn't a new concept, but Motorola's added a little flourish to the functionality to make it even better: the ability to adjust the backlight brightness to your own desired level. You can also opt for automatic mode, if you prefer, which will change your keyboard's brightness to fit your current lighting. To change your preferences, you can find the adjustment options in the settings menu under Language & Input > Keyboard backlight.

 
 As for the slider mechanism, it feels fluid, but not too loose. There's just the right amount of resistance when you push the slider out with your thumbs, and the automatic opener catches just about halfway to escort the keyboard the rest of the way. It feels slightly loose when we close it, but not to the point of concern.  Lastly, how fast do our free-flying fingers go when using the Photon's QWERTY? To answer this question, we downloaded a third-party app that uses a standard test to measure words per minute and we compared our results between the stock virtual keyboard (autocorrect turned off) and the physical one. We also gave our fingers a few days to become accustomed to the latter, just to make sure we were able to work out all the jitters. Our best scores were 40WPM on the QWERTY (with 92 percent accuracy) and 28WPM on the virtual keypad (with 84 percent accuracy). As a disclaimer, it's likely yours truly isn't the fastest typist out there, and we may have achieved better results with a third-party virtual keyboard like SwiftKey, but we wanted to at least demonstrate the difference between the two major input methods in terms of general speed.

 Software 
 Like the Atrix HD before it, the Photon Q comes loaded with Android 4.0.4. This particular build of Ice Cream Sandwich doesn't offer many surprises (click here for our full review of Moto's ICS skin), but that doesn't mean it lacks a distinct personality. After all, this is the first time we've seen the UI used on a Sprint device, and this was also our first opportunity to try it on a QWERTY phone.  When using the device in portrait mode, you likely won't see much of a difference between the Photon Q and the Atrix HD -- both offer a virtual bar of navigation buttons at the bottom and utilize the same Moto skin. It even uses the same circles widget we saw on the Atrix, which displays the time and date, customized weather preferences and battery life.  It's in landscape mode where the experience starts to feel different. You're still presented with a 4 x 4 grid for your icons and widgets, but the quick access bar shifts to the right side, while the embedded Google search bar is on the left, although it turns into a set of two buttons here instead. We also have one minor quibble: if you're on a panel other than the main home screen, sliding the keyboard in or out will not only change your orientation -- it will throw you back to the primary home panel regardless of what you had been doing prior.



  Just like the Atrix HD, several of the Photon Q's stock icons (e.g., phone, text, mail and people) have tiny up / down arrows to the right. This indicates that you can swipe up or down on the icon and a special widget will pop up. For example, the phone reveals your recent call history, the text widget shows your latest messages and the people widget opens up your favorites list. It's a clever touch, especially if you already have too many other apps and widgets clogging up your screen.  Motocast is nowhere to be found here, but Motorola is still investing heavily in its Smartactions feature -- and for good reason. Since its debut on the Droid RAZR, we've been proponents of this automation service, which lets you set up rules for certain situations and locations. What settings need to be changed when you walk into the office? How do you want your phone to behave when you plug your headphones in? What should the Photon Q be doing when it's time to go to sleep? There are plenty of scenarios to choose from, and a host of rules are applicable each time. Automation services add a splash of convenience to the daily grind, and Motorola has done a fine job implementing its own version into its flagship products.  This wouldn't be a true software section without discussing the usual US carrier bloatware that comes pre-installed. As time goes by, it turns out that this section of our review gets shorter and shorter -- Sprint committed to dramatically reducing its app count last year, and other companies have followed suit. Sprint ID, Sprint Zone, Quickoffice and Voicemail are essentially the only programs contributed by the Now Network, and only one of the four can be disabled.  Speaking of which, we found our daytime images to be decent, but they're still nothing to write home about. Colors are slightly washed out, especially compared with samples taken with the Galaxy S III. Additionally, while tap-to-focus and continuous focus are both available, we wish Motorola had also added the opportunity to lock focus and exposure.  Overall, the rear-facing camera is an average shooter that appears unwilling to take any sort of limelight away from the Photon Q's other selling points, and quickly becomes one of the most forgettable elements of the entire experience. But what about the front-facing version? Essentially, it's more of the same -- images we took with the 1.3-megapixel camera up front actually turned out pretty well, with minimal loss in detail and color.