
 
Clearly, introducing one Bluetooth headset in a single day just isn't enough for Motorola. In addition to the Oasis, the outfit has also let loose the new S10-HD, a wraparound set that is marketed as Bluetooth headphones rather than a BT headset (though it's fully capable of acting as either / both). As expected, these guys are designed to withstand all sorts of sweat beads, enabling fitness junkies to keep on rockin' in the free world regardless of how steamy the conditions may be. We're also told that the speakers are recessed in their housing with a new ear cushion interface and hydrophobic acoustic mesh (fancy!), and silicon seals are in place around all of the electrical components. Should you receive a call while streaming tunes, it'll gently pause the music until your call is done, and afterwards it'll resume automatically. The S9-HD's proper successor will be landing in Best Buy locations starting October 24th for $79.99.
      

 

Show full PR textMotorola Introduces S10-HD: Bluetooth Headphones that Keep Your Music MovingThe smarter way to take your music with you, wherever life may take youSeptember 27, 2010LIBERTYVILLE, ILL. – September 27, 2010 – Motorola, Inc., the world leader in Bluetooth® headsets, today announced S10-HD, the only Bluetooth® stereo headphones designed to keep your music moving with you. S10-HD provides rich, high-definition sound quality in a comfortable, sweat proof design. S10-HD will be available starting October 24 through Best Buy."Motorola created S10-HD to accommodate an active lifestyle – from working out to hanging out, it fits into anyone's routine," said Wayne White, corporate vice president, Companion Products, Motorola Mobility. "S10-HD not only provides superior high definition sound quality but the advanced design ensures the headset is dust and sweat proof."Don't Sweat ItPut S10-HD to the test, the lightweight, sweat proof and water resistant design can keep up with you, from a rigorous work out to running errands. S10-HD uses advanced materials and a thoughtful design ensures the electronics stay dry. The S10-HD's speakers are recessed in their housing with a new ear cushion interface and hydrophobic acoustic mesh ensures the headset is sweat proof, while preserving audio quality. To reduce exposure to moisture, silicone seals protect electrical components, all buttons are co-molded and the micro-USB charging cover is molded to the headphones housing with a water-proof plug.Music to Your EarsListen to your favorite tunes in a whole new way with S10-HD high definition audio. The advance acoustic design along with the digital tuning and enhanced bass provide amazingly rich audio. It even takes your phone calls by automatically pausing the music and resuming it when you hang up.Building on PerfectionS10-HD is an update to S9-HD, the award-winning Bluetooth stereo headphones that redefined wireless music. The back housing is redesigned to optimize antenna performance outdoors and improved buttons help make controlling music and calls a breeze.AvailabilityS10-HD Bluetooth® headset will be available in the U.S. beginning October 24 at Best Buy stores and online for $79.99. For more information regarding S10-HD, please click here.
 