
 

As far as secrets go, this one was not well kept. After a series of leaks that treated us to early images of the device, Motorola finally spilled the LTE beans with a teaser page reveal just yesterday. Now, we have official confirmation that the itsy bitsy 4G Spyder's on its Big Red way.

This newest addition to Verizon's Droid lineup boasts a Gorilla Glass coated, 4.3-inch qHD Super AMOLED display -- a first for any mobile handset -- atop a dual-core 1.2GHz TI OMAP4430 processor. Although the RAZR may look like a Kevlar-wrapped, slightly warped Droid X with its 7.1mm skinny silhouette and familiar topside hump, the insides tell a different tale. Joining the list of well-heeled specs, are an 8 megapixel rear camera capable of 1080p HD video, 1GB RAM, 16GB of onboard storage with 16GB additional on the microSD card and an 1,800mAh battery. Moto's also included Lapdock 100 and 500 Pro compatibility, converting this latest red-eyed beastie into a power user's best friend.

To help you squeeze the most productivity out of its 21st century RAZR, Moto's also thrown in what it's calling SmartActions software to manage your phone's battery life. These user-determined settings can be programmed to shut off Bluetooth when you return home or slow down the processor speed while you're on the phone -- whatever your energy needs, the company's intent you make the most of this handset. A new personal cloud feature comes bundled with the device, dubbed MotoCast. Video, photos, documents and music can be streamed from your laptop straight to the handheld. And for the IT departments of the world, the RAZR comes business ready with Citrix Receiver, Motorola Webtop and videoconferencing abilities.

Of course, there are a slew of accessories you can pair up with that new Droid: two lapdocks, wireless keyboard options, HD docks and Bluetooth headsets. You can snatch up all the extra goods and, of course, that aluminum-accented smartphone on October 27th when Verizon begins accepting pre-orders. As for that hard street date, the network's being coy with a global release slated for November.

Update: Motorola has also confirmed that the phone will be exclusive to Rogers in Canada, where it will simply be known as the Motorola RAZR. Still no word on an exact release date, but the phone is now available for pre-order at $150 on a three-year contract, and Motorola says it will launch "in time for the holidays." Unfortunately, Canadians will have to make do without LTE, as Rogers' version will only do HSPA up to 14.4Mbps.







 		Show full PR text  Verizon Wireless and Motorola Announce DROID RAZR™ by Motorola: DROID Strong. RAZR Sharp. 		Impossibly thin with unstoppable power on America's fastest and most reliable 4G network 		Oct. 18, 2011 		BASKING RIDGE, N.J., and LIBERTYVILLE, Ill. – Today, Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI) and Verizon Wireless announced DROID RAZR™ by Motorola, the world's thinnest 4G LTE smartphone. A true marvel of design, this smartphone packs strength and smarts into a stylish package offered exclusively from Verizon Wireless. 		Measuring 7.1 mm thin, made with KEVLAR® fiber for strength and Corning® Gorilla® Glass for scratch resistance, the DROID RAZR is ready to face the elements. Speed limits are just an illusion with a dual-core 1.2 GHz processor and Verizon Wireless 4G LTE. DROID RAZR customers can expect to rip through the Web with speeds up to 10 times faster than 3G. 		"DROID RAZR by Motorola combines style, performance and the power of Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network into one innovative device," said Marni Walden, vice president and chief marketing officer for Verizon Wireless. "These are two iconic brands that separately symbolize the best technology available today. The combination will provide an unsurpassed wireless experience for customers." 		"DROID RAZR by Motorola is a testament to the innovation and design possibilities that stem from a strong partnership between Motorola Mobility and Verizon Wireless," said Sanjay Jha, Chairman and CEO, Motorola Mobility. "We set out to design the best smartphone on the planet and delivered DROID RAZR which is thinner, smarter, stronger than any device on the market." 		Not only does DROID RAZR by Motorola deliver heart-pounding speed, but it has a mind-bending 4.3-inch hyper-vibrant display with more colors than most LCD HDTVs. The Super AMOLED™ Advanced display with qHD resolution dishes out beautiful images and smooth action so on-the-go movies and TV shows aren't a blur, whether customers stream from Netflix™ or rent from Android Market™. It's the first smartphone capable of streaming movies and TV shows through Netflix with up to HD resolution. 		DROID RAZR customers can take advantage of the Super AMOLED Advanced display and 4G LTE speeds to stream videos with NFL Mobile, only from Verizon. Fans can stay up to date on news, schedules and scores from their favorite teams on the go. NFL Mobile is included at no additional charge for 4G LTE customers for the remainder of the 2011 season. 		If cutting-edge visuals are its beauty, apps on DROID RAZR are its brains. Enter MotoCast™, the free Motorola app that lets you stream or download your music, pictures and more from your PC to your phone. The Smart Actions app helps automate everyday tasks and optimizes battery efficiency by letting customers create rules, such as automatically setting the phone to vibrate during work hours or dimming the display at a specific battery level. The revolutionary webtop application allows customers to combine the device with separately sold accessories, like the Lapdock™ 100 or HD Station, unleashing the power to edit documents and browse the Web with a full Firefox® browser on a larger screen – all while charging the device. 		Additional features: 		Powered by Android™ 2.3.5, Gingerbread		1GB RAM for a fast user interface and multi-tasking		8-megapixel rear camera with 1080p HD video capture and image stabilization technology for crisp and clear videos		Front-facing HD camera for video chat over 4G LTE, 3G or Wi-Fi		4G LTE Mobile Hotspot capable so customers can share 4G LTE speed with up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices		Water repellent nanocoating protects the phone, and even the inside components, against everyday spills		Remote wipe, pin lock and government-grade encryption for email, calendar and contacts as well as voice and video chat conferencing		Use Quickoffice® to view, create and edit Microsoft® Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents on your mobile device from anywhere at anytime		Bluetooth 4.0 low energy		32 GB memory: 16 GB on board and 16 GB microSD™ card pre-installed (actual formatted capacity is less)		Powerful 1780 mAh battery 		The DROID RAZR will be available in early November for $299.99 with a new two-year customer agreement at all Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at: www.verizonwireless.com; as well as at authorized retailers. Customers can visit www.droiddoes.com/droidrazr to pre-order DROID RAZR beginning on October 27. For more information on Verizon Wireless products and services, visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

