
 
  More Info   Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich review  Which devices have been updated to Ice Cream Sandwich?  Motorola Droid RAZR and Droid RAZR Maxx Android 4.0 update incoming  Ah, what a difference a couple years can make. After earning notoriety for is frustrating MotoBlur skin, the manufacturer has made strides on the Android user interface front. Its next attempt, known by many as "BlueBlur," was a far better experience, if only because the original user interface could hardly get any worse. These modest improvements aside, though, we've always wondered how the company would make its mark on Android 4.0, a newer version of the OS that ushered in a major redesign. Would Motorola once again choose a heavy, proprietary skin, or would it be more heavily influenced by its new Google overlords and develop a UI more in line with stock Ice Cream Sandwich?  Unfortunately, Motorola kept us waiting in suspense longer than any other major OEM: Samsung, HTC, Sony and (gasp!) even LG have already started shipping devices loaded with skinned versions of ICS. But while Motorola popped the update onto one specific tablet earlier this year, it only managed to push test copies of Ice Cream Sandwich to a handful of Droid RAZR and Droid RAZR Maxx devices before Jelly Bean was announced. Even now, we still haven't seen how the now-antiquated firmware will look on new Motorola handsets (though we hopefully will find out with the upcoming Atrix HD, RAZR HD or Photon Q). We have to wonder if the drawn-out acquisition process put the outfit in an awkward holding pattern, preventing it from cranking out fresh handsets and accompanying firmware updates.

 So is HelloMoto making a grand entrance by being the last to show up to the Ice Cream Sandwich social? What makes Ice Cream Blurwich tick? We'll take you through the major elements of the user interface to give you a sense of what to expect when your Motorola phone is ready to make the jump. 




 First impressions We'll come right out and say it: we like Motorola's new and improved UI. Shocked? So are we, especially given the OEM's atrocious UI design history -- MotoBlur was one of the most abhorrent interpretations of Android we've ever seen, so it goes to show that you can't judge firmware solely by a company's past performance. Of course, it's no secret that HelloMoto isn't too proud of its Android roots either, considering it swiftly distanced itself from the Blur moniker in favor of a less painful, nameless user experience.

  We'll come right out and say it: we like Motorola's new skin. Shocked? So are we. As if it's trying to fit in, Motorola is seemingly attempting to embrace its new Google heritage with its ICS firmware because it offers an incredibly close resemblance to the pure vanilla Android experience while still exhibiting a personality of its own. It doesn't saturate your eyeballs with cartoonish icons, restrict your handset's performance or require proprietary login credentials. Essentially, it takes one step toward Google's preferred ICS design and one step away from Motorola's previous efforts.

 Lock screen 
 It makes sense to begin our review with the very first screen you're greeted with after the phone boots up: the lock screen. It features a radiating circle in the middle of the screen with a key inside. Touch the circle and you'll see four shortcuts: unlock, a dialer, messaging and the camera app. Our only complaint about this setup is that it doesn't appear to be customizable, meaning you can't swap in your most-used apps. The date and time still sit in the upper-left corner, but this is also where you'll first see that signature Roboto font. Over on the top right is an easy-access toggle switch to turn vibration mode on or off. As you'd expect on ICS, the notification bar is also accessible from this screen (more on this later). Also staying true to stock Android 4.0, you can use Face Unlock to bypass the lock screen, in addition to a dot pattern, PIN code, password or slide gesture. Audio controls are also accessible from the lock screen, though we were slightly disappointed to discover that it doesn't act as a shortcut for the music application itself. You have the option to pause, go back or move forward, but you're not allowed to go directly into the Now Playing screen. Note that we're only calling it a slight disappointment: to solve this problem, just drag the notification bar down in the lock screen and you'll find the music player access there. Still, it feels like a superfluous step.

 Home screen 
 Okay, you've made it past the lock screen and now you're staring at the home panel. As ever, the screen is comprised of a 4 x 4 grid of icons, but the bottom row (or app dock, if you will) makes room for five icons, including the app drawer launcher in the center. The other four are completely customizable, which means you can program shortcuts for your favorite apps and they'll stay with you as you flip between the five available home screens. You can even leave open spots in the dock, if you like. The font of choice for ICS is Roboto, and it looks as good as ever on our RAZR Maxx. Despite the fact that screen resolution hasn't changed, we did a double take when we first looked at the display -- at first blush, the screen actually looks sharper with the new font. Upon closer inspection you'll still see some pixelation, but Roboto helps tighten things up for a much cleaner appearance.



 Removing an item from the home screen still involves the same steps as before (long-press on the item, drag it up to the top of the screen), but ICS offers a simple X button with the word "remove" on its side. In contrast, Motorola's Gingerbread UI employed a trash can framed by an eerie red glow. Much like stock ICS, long-pressing the screen brings up a menu allowing you to choose a wallpaper from various sources. This action in Gingerbread gave you the ability to place widgets (now in the app menu), shortcuts (now gone) and folders (now just drag and drop one app on top of another to create them). Though some of the changes in widget offerings come part and parcel with ICS, at least one difference here seems indicative of Motorola's overall change in UI strategy. That would be the approach to status updates. The social networking widget found in Moto's Gingerbread build has completely disappeared in favor of common first- and third-party options -- a move that effectively erases the last vestiges of Motoblur. Happily, one of our least favorite parts of Motoblur is MIA. Long-pressing an icon in the app menu will bring up the home screen, giving you the ability to place it anywhere you like or drag it up to "more options" at the top of the screen. What are these options, you ask? Typically, you can share or uninstall the app, or be taken into its screen on the app manager to clear out its cache or perform a force stop. This particular setup represents an immense improvement in user experience -- previously, you had to go through an extra pop-up screen between the app menu and the home panel. We appreciate that easier flow, in which everything is accessible with just one tap. Voice dictation: Motorola has taken the voice dictation functionality introduced in Ice Cream Sandwich and integrated it with its own Android skin. Provided you're hooked up to a data connection (we won't see offline use until Jelly Bean hits), just hit the mic button on the keyboard. The feature works just as well as it does on stock Android -- it transcribed most of our sentences quickly and precisely. Easter Egg: The Nyancat-style Easter Egg found in stock Ice Cream Sandwich is available here for your enjoyment. So if for some reason you can't get enough of the flying Androids with 8-bit Ice Cream Sandwich bodies, all you need to do is go into the "About" section of the settings menu and repeatedly tap the Android version number. Android Beam: Given the RAZR Maxx's lack of Near-Field Communication (NFC), Android Beam wasn't offered as an option in the settings menu. We assume this will be added to new devices that have NFC enabled, and we have little reason to doubt it'll be much different than the standard stock experience. Test mode: Typing *#*#4636#*#* on your dialer brings up the hidden test menu, which is a mode tucked away from plain sight so that only the largest phone enthusiasts will find it. If you fit the bill -- or just want to explore -- head on in. You'll find stats on your phone's battery, your current WiFi connection, how much you've used specific apps, a toggle switch for various connectivity modes (you can disable LTE here, for instance) and other information that'll likely only be of interest to, well, field test engineers. Still, it can be fun to explore.