
 

Verizon's dangled a 4G LTE upgrade carrot in the noses of the Xoom-adopting hordes from the start. Now, it appears the carrier's ready to make good on that promise. Starting tomorrow, current owners of Motorola's Honeycomb tab can visit a dedicated VZW site for a step-by-step guide through the upgrade process. If you were amongst the eager few who signed up for alerts, the company's going to prioritize you and send out a notification via email. The entire swap-out should take up to six business days, returning a freshly enhanced LTE-enabled slate free-of-charge. As for the rest of you Xoom-less onlookers, Big Red's going to be offering up the updated tablets this October 13th for $499 on a new two-year service contract. Jump past the break to parse through the official presser.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  MOTOROLA XOOM 4G LTE UPGRADE AVAILABLE TOMORROW  		Upgrade to Add the Speed of the Largest 4G LTE Network in America 		BASKING RIDGE, N.J. – Verizon Wireless and Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI), today announced the Motorola XOOM 4G LTE upgrade will be available for existing Motorola XOOM customers beginning tomorrow. The Motorola XOOM 4G LTE will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com beginning Oct. 13 for $499.99 with a new two-year contract. 		Starting tomorrow, Motorola XOOM customers can visit www.verizonwireless.com/Xoom4GLTEupgrade for complete instructions and to begin the 4G LTE upgrade process. Customers who signed up for email alerts will receive an email notification with instructions tomorrow. Customers should expect to get their updated Motorola XOOM with 4G LTE back in approximately six business days. The 4G LTE upgrade is free of charge and customers do not have to change their current data plan when upgrading to 4G LTE. Customers are encouraged to back up any personal information prior to shipping.   		Faster speeds and connections enhance the Motorola XOOM experience, allowing customers to download songs in seconds and movies in minutes. Customers should expect average download speeds of 5 to 12 Mbps and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps in 4G LTE mobile broadband coverage areas. When customers travel outside of a 4G LTE coverage area, the Motorola XOOM automatically connects to the Verizon Wireless 3G network, enabling customers to stay connected from coast to coast.   		Key features: 		· 10.1-inch widescreen HD display 		· 32 GB built-in storage (actual formatted capacity is less), with microSD card slot supporting additional 32 GB 		· Android™ 3.2 Honeycomb – supports Google™ Mobile Services including Gmail™, YouTube™, Google Talk™, Google Search™, Google Maps™, Google Movies™, Google Books™ and Android Market™ 		· Dual-core 1 GHz processor 		· Adobe® Flash® 10- enabling the delivery of rich Flash based web content including videos, casual games and applications 		· 2-megapixel front-facing camera for video chats over 4G LTE, 3G and WiFi 		· 5-megapixel rear-facing camera with LED flash 		· Wi-Fi networks are generally short ranged and provide wireless Internet access to localized public areas (often called hotspots) such as airports, hotels, and coffee shops.   		Data plans: 		· Motorola XOOM customers will have the option to choose one of the following mobile broadband data plans: 		o $30 monthly access for 2GB monthly allowance 		o $50 monthly access for 5GB monthly allowance 		o $80 monthly access for 10GB monthly allowance
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

