
If you want to get a sense of where the real innovation in smartphones is happening, you need to look past the high-end flagships and toward the cheap stuff. And with the new Moto E, Motorola has crafted one of the most compelling budget smartphones yet. Starting at just $150, it's a tad more expensive than last year's $120 model, but it makes up for that with upgrades that make it a far more usable phone. Those include the addition of LTE, 8GB of built-in storage (twice as much as its predecessor) and a slightly bigger screen. (Moto's also offering a $120 3G-only version.) It may not sound all that exciting if you're waiting for the new Galaxy S6 or HTC One, but it's a solid choice for someone who doesn't need a powerful phone. And it's yet another sign that even the geekiest among us may soon be springing for inexpensive, contract-free phones.




HardwareThe Moto E should feel familiar to anyone who's held a Motorola phone since the Moto X debuted in 2013. Even though the company's owner has since shifted from Google to Lenovo, Motorola is still sticking with the same curved-case design, which fits oh so nicely into your hand. Sure, it's still made out of plastic, but for this price I'm not expecting a metal unibody getup. What's truly impressive is that the Moto E doesn't feel like a toy, even though it's one of the most inexpensive smartphones you can buy right now. In 2014 we were amazed that a decently capable smartphone could be cheap. This year, the big takeaway is that it actually has some style to it.

The smooth edges from last year's model, which tended to make things a bit slippery, have been replaced by ridges that help quite a bit with grip. In general, the device has a nice, solid feel, largely thanks to the lack of a removable rear panel (read: there isn't much to flex). If you want to get to your SIM card or add more storage, you just have to snap off the phone's plastic perimeter (available in several colors).

Motorola's slight screen bump to 4.5 inches, up from 4.3, makes the Moto E feel even snugger in your hand. Even more importantly, the addition of LTE makes it just as capable as more expensive phones when it comes to downloading and streaming media. Unfortunately, its screen resolution is still stuck at a relatively paltry 960 x 540 (qHD). It's once again packing a 5-megapixel camera, but there's now a 0.3 megapixel (VGA!) front-facing shooter as well. That won't be much use for taking quality selfies, but at least you've got the option for video chat now.


While most of the Moto E's hardware makes a strong first impression, its display is where you begin to see the sacrifices Motorola made to reach such a low price. It's a decently bright, colorful IPS LCD screen that fares well indoors, but once you step outside it becomes a pain. The smallest amount of sunlight makes it hard to see anything on the screen. (The photo above was taken at its highest brightness on a partially cloudy day.) It's not impossible to use, but it's certainly not user-friendly. You can't blame Motorola too much, though: There simply aren't many inexpensive displays that can take on the sun well.

The other problem with the Moto E's screen is its relatively low 960 x 540 resolution, which ends up making text, photos and just about everything else a tad less sharp than on other smartphones. It's not a night-and-day difference from the 1080p displays we're used to today, but it's still a noticeable step down. I came to dread reading long articles on the phone during my subway commute, whereas that was usually the time where I put a dent in my Pocket queue. Maybe that was just an unconscious reaction to the lower specs, but it's still worth noting. If you're stepping down from a more capable display, you'll probably get used to the lower resolution, though. And it probably won't even register to people upgrading from other cheap handsets, or buying their first smartphone.

Software
No, the Moto E doesn't run stock Android 5.0.2 Lollipop -- but it's close. Sticking with a strategy it's used since the first Moto X, Motorola once again managed to deliver a phone that's mostly free of the crapware that plagues other devices. It packs in apps from Plex, Revision3 and Flixster, but those are things you may actually want to use, so I didn't find them bothersome.

The few custom Moto tweaks actually make it more appealing than a totally stock Android phone. There's Moto Display, which lights up notifications on the phone's screen when you pick it up or rock it on a flat surface. Surprisingly, Motorola even brought over the double-twist gesture, which quickly loads the camera when you flick your wrist twice while holding the phone. Just as with the Moto X, that gesture gets you to the camera at any point, including when it's still locked. Those sorts of innovations were one of the key selling points for the original Moto X, which makes it all the more impressive that they're here at all.

Camera
Just like its screen, the Moto E's so-so camera capabilities won't make you forget that you're using a cheap phone. Its 5-megapixel rear shooter performs fine in daylight and bright indoor scenes, but it's pretty much useless in low light. And no, there's no flash either, if you're into that sort of thing. In decent lighting, the Moto E's camera delivered usable shots, but they were all a bit soft and lacked fine detail. There's also quite a bit of color fringing when the sun creeps into your photos. It's a camera that'll be ideal for quickly throwing photos up on Facebook or Instagram, but it won't give you any high-quality keepsakes.




