
       
Well, this is... something. Out of seemingly nowhere, Motorola has just made the decision to shun Google's location services in favor of those from Skyhook, proudly becoming the "first Android device maker to abandon Google for its location services." According to the release -- which feels atypically jovial to us -- the device maker will marry Skyhook's GPS, WiFi and cellular location in the "vast majority" of its phone models, and since Skyhook will be baked into the OS, every single app can reap the benefits. Reportedly, developers are pretty stoked about the news, and it's pretty clear that Motorola is equally confident that Skyhook's location solution is the best on the market. Not like Google really needs any more frenemies right now, but hey -- you won't find us kvetching about anyone keeping the Big Shot on its toes.
      

 

Show full PR textSkyhook Wireless Announces First Platform Integration Of Location System On Motorola Android-Based DevicesSkyhook provides Motorola's Android-based devices with enhanced location performance worldwideBOSTON, MA – April 27, 2010 - Skyhook Wireless, the worldwide leader in location positioning, context and intelligence, today announced that Motorola, Inc. will deploy its Core Location across much of the company's portfolio of Android-based mobile devices. Skyhook-enabled Motorola smartphones, which will begin shipping later this year, will have the ability to better support a new wave of location-aware applications by leveraging Skyhook's precise, reliable, and fast-performing location engine.Location is at the center of an extraordinary explosion of mobile innovation, and is fundamental to many emerging mobile services. Today there are thousands of mobile applications that incorporate location as a part of their user experience. Precise location enables consumers to check-in with friends, find nearby concerts and exhibits, or get directions to the destinations of their choice. For some experiences, such as turn-by-turn navigation or local search, location is the central feature, but increasingly, new types of applications in music, sports, and entertainment are incorporating location to personalize content delivery. "Motorola is committed to providing rich location services for our customers and developer partners," said Christy Wyatt, corporate vice president of software and services product management for Motorola Mobile Devices. "Precise location is central to the mobile experience, and Skyhook's Core Location will enhance Motorola's Android-based mobile devices with its innovative location technology."Skyhook is the recognized leader in mobile location technology and produces over three hundred million location requests every day over tens of millions of mobile devices. The ground-breaking Core Location uses a combination of Wi-Fi, cellular and GPS readings in order to produce a single, accurate location quickly and in all environments."Motorola is creating ground-breaking and innovative mobile devices," said Ted Morgan, CEO, Skyhook Wireless. "Skyhook is excited to further enhance the location accuracy and availability of these devices."About Skyhook WirelessSkyhook is the worldwide leader in location positioning, context and intelligence. In 2003, Skyhook pioneered the development of the Wi-Fi Positioning System to provide precise and reliable location results in urban areas. Today, Skyhook's Core Location provides positioning to tens of millions of consumer mobile devices and applications. For more information visit www.skyhookwireless.com.
 