
After roughly nine months of almost complete radio silence, Google-owned Motorola suddenly sprang into action by announcing four devices in the space of eight days. The lineup of new smartphones included the much-hyped Moto X and a fresh crop of Droid-branded handsets for Verizon. Interestingly enough, this quadruplet shares many of the same specs; aside from exterior design, screen and battery size, there's very little to distinguish Motorola's latest offerings. The first out of the gate is the Droid Ultra, a 5-inch 720p model wrapped in Kevlar. All told, it's more of a mid-range phone, though its on-contract price of $200 would suggest otherwise.


The Droid Ultra is arguably the closest cousin to the Moto X, and because the two have basically the same specs and price, we've been scratching our heads trying to figure out why Motorola needed to make both. Still, we did our due diligence in giving the Ultra the full review treatment. How does it differentiate from Moto's flagship, and does it hold any sort of advantage? Is the device worth paying $200 and agreeing to a two-year contract? Read on as we answer these questions and more. 




Hardware
For all the commonalities between the Droid Ultra and Moto X (which we'll discuss at length in this review), its external design at least creates the illusion that they're completely different phones. While the X features slender curves, the Ultra reminds us of the 2-year-old Droid RAZR, with a hump for the camera module up top (don't worry, it's less pronounced this time). It also features the same tapered body, with a chassis that gets thinner toward the bottom of the phone, along with slightly tapered corners to match. Also similar: those straight edges and short, steep curves, which come together to ensure a natural fit in the hand. At the same time, it gives you a nice place to rest your fingers. With a 137.5 x 71.2mm frame, the Ultra stands 8mm taller and 6mm wider than the Moto X. And though it's 7.2mm thick at its thinnest point, it's only a little bit skinnier at its thickest point than its close cousin. The Ultra weighs 4.83 ounces, which is heavier than the X, but still lighter than previous-generation devices. Besides, its weight is still perfectly reasonable. In general, the X is technically easier to hold, but you won't feel like the Ultra is burdensome to carry around.

Just like the Droid RAZR series that came before it, the Ultra is built with a layer of woven DuPont Kevlar fiber that Motorola reps tell us is locked into place by a resin. This layer, which is the honeycomb pattern you see underneath the plastic casing, is meant to minimize thickness and add a small amount of additional durability (though we doubt firearms are powerless against it, so we'd discourage you from testing them out). Regardless, we're still tremendously disappointed by how much grime and grease the glossy back collects; it makes the phone look maddeningly dirty, and you'll want to invest in a nice microfiber cloth so you can wipe the device off on a regular basis. There also seems to be a small pocket of air between the plastic and the layer beneath, as the back of the phone has a little bit of give, especially closer to the top. Interestingly, the Droid Maxx also uses Kevlar, but opts for a soft-touch cover instead of plastic, which provides a cleaner look and better grip. Suffice to say, we would've much preferred to see Motorola do the same with the Ultra.


Just like Moto's three other new handsets, the Ultra features a 720p screen. This particular smartphone uses a 5-inch AMOLED panel, which means you'll see darker darks and more saturated colors, while theoretically saving battery life -- an important thing when you regularly use a service like Active Notifications. We could see the display from nearly any viewing angle, but we had a difficult time making it out in sunlight, even with the brightness bumped all the way up. In normal conditions, however, we were quite happy with how the display looked; despite it not being 1080p like many of its $200 competitors, the Ultra's resolution should be satisfactory for most buyers.

The Ultra offers capacitive navigation keys below the display, which is a contrast to the X's virtual keys; you get a lot more screen real estate as a result, but this may come as a disappointment to some who like to keep the hardware as minimal as possible. Above the screen, you'll find an earpiece, sensors and a 2-megapixel front-facing camera. A flip of the phone reveals a rectangular camera setup, with the LED flash and lens joined by a hidden speaker grille; you'll also see a trio of logos on the back consisting of Verizon, Motorola and Droid brands from bottom to top, with Moto's version being backed by a textured plastic material. The top of the phone has nothing but a 3.5mm headphone jack, while the bottom has a micro-USB port that also can be used for USB OTG, which means you can connect flash drives, USB keyboards and even a mouse to your device.


We were especially impressed by one particular aspect of the phone's design. The volume rocker, found on the right side of the Ultra, doubles as a SIM card tray. This is a clever way to save space, and it doesn't make the phone feel any cheaper since the power button, which sits just above it, appears to be fashioned out of the same mold. (Admittedly, however, we wonder how well the removable rocker will hold up over time, so perhaps there's a reason other OEMs haven't attempted this feat before.) Motorola decided to transition from micro-SIM cards to nano-SIM -- just like Apple did with the iPhone 5 and LG will do with the G2 -- and we have a feeling other manufacturers will follow suit in the next year or so. In the meantime, this will make things especially difficult for anyone who has multiple devices and likes to swap their SIMs back and forth, but this will likely affect only a small minority of users (which includes us).

Since the Ultra is a Verizon LTE device, its radio supports bands 4 and 13 (700 / AWS) along with the usual CDMA / EVDO frequencies. Fortunately, it also features GSM tech for global roaming, such as quad-band HSPA+ (850 / 900 / 1900 / 2100) and quad-band GSM / EDGE. You'll also get Bluetooth 4.0 LE+EDR, NFC, Miracast compatibility, WiFi Direct, plenty of GPS / GLONASS support and 802.11a/ac/b/g/n. It doesn't offer wireless charging support, so you'd want to lean toward the Droid Maxx if it's part of your daily routine.

     Motorola Droid Ultra
      Dimensions 137.5 x 71.2 x 7.18mm (5.41 x 2.80 x 0.28 inches)   Weight 4.83 oz (137g)   Screen size 5.0 inches   Screen resolution 1,280 x 720 (294 ppi)   Screen type AMOLED   Battery 2,130mAh Li-Polymer (non-removable)   Internal storage 16GB (11GB accessible)   External storage None   Rear camera 10MP ClearPixel, AF, LED, f/2.4   Front-facing cam 2.0MP   Video capture 1080p / 30 fps;   NFC Yes   SIM Nano   Radios  Verizon Wireless: LTE (700 / AWS), HSPA+ 42 Mbps (850 / 900 / 1900 / 2100), CDMA / EVDO (800 / 1900), quad-band GSM / EDGE

    Bluetooth v4.0 LE+EDR   SoC Motorola X8   CPU 1.7GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4 Pro   GPU quad-core Adreno 320 at 400MHz   RAM 2GB   Entertainment FM radio, Miracast, USB OTG   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/ac/b/g/n   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.2.2 (Moto UI)  Software
Whether you get the Droid Ultra or the Moto X, you'll be treated to basically the same user experience. Both devices ship with Android 4.2.2 out of the box, and even though it's not a completely vanilla version of the OS, the customizations are kept to a minimum compared to OEM skins like TouchWiz and Sense. There are a few extra widgets and services provided by Moto, but everything else is pretty close to what you'd find on a Nexus; hopefully this means it'll get the update to 4.3 sooner rather than later, but it first needs to clear Verizon's rigorous testing process, so we're not holding our breath that it'll be coming right away.

The Ultra, just like other Droid-branded devices, is filled to the brim with pre-loaded software, including a few Amazon apps, Audible, NFL Mobile, IMDb, Mobile Hotspot, My Verizon Mobile, Verizon Tones, Viewdini and some other VZW applications. Most of them can't be uninstalled, but at least you can disable them so they're not getting in the way.





*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

