
 

Well, look who just showed up at Intel's CES 2012 keynote? Motorola Mobility's own Sanjay Jha just grabbed a bit of the limelight -- long enough to announce a multi-year, multi-device agreement that should see Intel's Medfield chips powering Moto's hardware (the second announced behind Lenovo) in the not-too-distant future. Naturally, we're guessing Android will be the OS of choice here, but we can only guess what Motorola's going to do when all of its other chip partners come knocking with new questions.

Update: We've learned that product shipments from the partnership will start in the second half of this year.

Follow along at our Intel liveblog here!
 

 		Show full PR text  Intel and Motorola Mobility Strike Multi-Year Strategic Mobile Partnership 		Motorola Mobility to Begin Shipping Intel®-Based Smartphone in 2H 2012		2012 International CES 		LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--INTERNATIONAL CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW – Intel Corporation and Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) announced that the two companies were entering into a multi-year, multi-device strategic relationship that includes smartphones which Motorola will begin shipping later this year using Intel® Atom™ processors and the Android™ platform. 		"Though there are 5 billion mobile subscribers in the world, less than 800 million are using a smartphone today. With Android as the leading smartphone OS globally and advancements in computing technology we see tremendous opportunity for the converged devices market." 		The collaboration, which also covers tablets, will combine Intel's leadership in silicon processor technology and computing innovation with Motorola's mobile device design expertise to deliver products that have the high performance, long battery life and convenience necessary for increasingly mobile lifestyles. 		"When great silicon and software technology meets great mobile and design innovation, amazing things can happen," said Intel President and CEO Paul Otellini. "Our long-term relationship with Motorola Mobility will help accelerate Intel® architecture into new mobile market segments. We expect the combination of our companies to break new ground and bring the very best of computing capabilities to smartphones and tablets, which in turn will help to create powerful new experiences that connect and enrich people's lives wherever they may be." 		"We are delighted to be partnering with Intel to deliver smartphones and tablets based on Intel's Atom processor to consumers and businesses," said Sanjay Jha, Chairman and CEO, Motorola Mobility. "Though there are 5 billion mobile subscribers in the world, less than 800 million are using a smartphone today. With Android as the leading smartphone OS globally and advancements in computing technology we see tremendous opportunity for the converged devices market." 		Smartphones and tablets are quickly becoming an indispensible part of people's daily lives -- making them constant companions. The strategic relationship between Intel and Motorola Mobility will expand opportunity for continued innovation in these areas as they work closely to leverage Intel's low power system-on-chip (SoC) roadmap for Motorola Mobility's converged mobile device portfolio. The companies will collaborate across hardware, software and services to deliver complete solutions and disruptive new user experiences that offer long battery life, increased computing performance, advanced imaging and video capabilities, and seamless wireless connections. 		About Intel 		Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the world's computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at newsroom.intel.com and blogs.intel.com. 		About Motorola Mobility 		Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility.
 