
 

The world of home automation is one full of disparate, fragmented pieces often requiring high-dollar contractors with trucks full of adapters. Motorola's been trying to streamline that with its 4Home standard and the company's latest attempt at smarthome synchronicity has just been unveiled. It's called the Connected Home Gateway and it looks like your average wireless router, but it's actually much more than that -- according to Moto's press release, anyway, which promises the thing can easily tie together home security, automation and climate control into a single, petite box. Once harmonized, the whole package is said to be easily accessible from a mobile device, something that might help homeowners relax a bit more while on vacation -- or while covering a major convention in Las Vegas. We're still lacking a lot of details here (like, how exactly do all these devices connect to the thing) but we'll try to get a demo and more details as soon as possible.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Motorola Mobility Simplifies Convergence with Connected Home Innovations at CES 2012 		The new connected consumer lifestyle is on display at Motorola (LVCC Central Hall, Booth No. 8644) 		Jan. 05, 2012 		HORSHAM, Pa. – Jan. 5, 2012 –At this year's Consumer Electronics Show, Motorola Mobility (NYSE: MMI) is making the Smart Home simple-with the introduction of the Connected Home Gateway. Key innovations from Motorola's Home division – including Televation™, DCX3600 video gateway, DreamGallery, SocialTV, and SecureMedia – are also driving the evolution of television, making it easier for consumers to enjoy and discover new programming, tap into social features, and access content on multiple devices, both at home and on the go. 		The new Motorola Connected Home Gateway – the latest embodiment of Motorola's 4Home platform –is a CES 2012 Innovations Honoree for outstanding design and engineering. This honor continues Motorola's unbroken streak of product awards for 4Home innovations at CES. 		"People want anywhere, anytime access to their digital lives. Our suite of award-winning products addresses the new ways that people are embracing their connected lifestyle in the home," said Dan Moloney, president, Motorola Mobility. "We're seeing more consumption of more media and lifestyle services across more devices. This is an unprecedented opportunity for service providers to differentiate by streamlining these converged experiences. At CES, Motorola is showcasing a range of new products that are paving the way for the next stage of the connected home." 		Introducing the Connected Home Gateway		It's not enough for people to control their TV and other aspects of their digital lives in the home. They also want control of the home as well, from anywhere they may be. More connected devices being added to the home network means more complexity, both for the consumer and the service provider. 		Enter Motorola's new Connected Home Gateway: the connected home, in a box. Powerful processing and 4Home technology come together to deliver the connected home the way it was meant to be: smart and simple. 		Adding connected home services – such as home control, home security and energy management – has never been easier for consumers and service providers, thanks to the Motorola Connected Home Gateway, which handles the complexity of today's home networks as well as the traditional obstacles of service installation and maintenance. All consumers have to do is plug in the gateway, and the unit automatically connects their home control devices to the home network. 		Now, with just the push of a button, the devices in the home can be paired wirelessly and connected to the cloud for remote management on a host of devices. And connected home services can be added, managed and troubleshot on the fly. 		This is achieved with a powerful 1.2 GHz processor running Motorola's open 4Home software platform, which supports and abstracts a host of standards and protocols, hiding the complexity of multiple disparate devices on the home network. It also allows consumers to access their homes remotely, from a smartphone, tablet or PC. And a robust back-end architecture combined with Motorola's on-board EDGE™ Service Assurance software lets service providers deliver support, proactive quality assurance and service activation in real-time, meaning faster, and more efficient customer service. 		All this in a single box. The Motorola Connected Home Gateway is the closest thing to plug and play for the connected home.  		The Evolution of Television		The Internet is changing the way we watch television. Television is no longer a one-way activity. It's an interactive, community-driven experience. And this experience has expanded far beyond the television set. 		A recent Motorola study found that more than 69 percent of people, globally, watch TV on a device other than their television. 		At CES 2012, Motorola is showcasing new solutions that bring TV up to Internet speed: giving you a smart, streamlined way to enjoy a personalized TV experience and relevant social features from your smartphone, PC or tablet. 		Televation: TV Beyond the TV		Live TV streaming on tablets, anywhere in and around the home. Motorola's Televation – winner of Light Reading's Leading Light Award, Communications Technology's Platinum Award, and a Broadband Technology Report Diamond Award – addresses consumer demand for high-quality TV experiences beyond the tube. 		Televation, by Motorola, lets consumers watch live TV on their tablets, anywhere in the home. It's the only solution that delivers a full cable subscription onto the tablet, wirelessly. And it's the only one that lets you watch whatever show you want – vs. simply streaming what's playing in the living room. No more competing for what channel to play on your tablet. You get all your regular channels, whenever you want. 		Small to mid-sized operators can also use the hosted client Televation app to streamline set-up costs and time-to-market. 		Televation and its hosted client app work with Motorola XOOM and DROID XYBOARD by Motorola tablets, as well as tablets from other manufacturers. 		Advanced Video Gateway: Making the Shift to IP		Motorola's DCX3600 IP Video Gateway marks the set-top's evolution into the entertainment hub of the home. This advanced video gateway enables a truly connected home environment by merging traditional broadcast TV with new IP-based content and capabilities for whole-home media distribution across multiple screens. Consumers can view, record or play video on any networked device, in any room, seamlessly. 		At CES 2012, Motorola will be demonstrating the IP Connected Home experience of tomorrow – with the DCX3600 distributing video to a variety of connected devices, including an IP set-top, DROID RAZR by Motorola smartphone, DROID XYBOARD by Motorola tablet and PS3™ gaming console. 		The more content that comes into our homes, the more likely it will be across multiple screens. While today's networks are designed to deliver content separately on PCs, smartphones, tablets and television, the IP future of tomorrow will demand greater seamless convergence. 		With future consumers and networks in mind, the DCX3600 maximizes today's network infrastructure while providing flexibility for an IP tomorrow – which is why it was recently honored with a Broadband Technology Report Diamond Award. 		DreamGallery: Innovation at Internet Speeds		Consumers have expressed a desire for a richer experience when it comes to finding their favorite programming and discovering new TV content. With the end user in mind, Motorola's DreamGallery is an on-screen experience that revolutionizes the user experience for next-generation TV. DreamGallery makes the experience of finding shows, movies and sports on TV as easy as on the Internet. 		DreamGallery is cloud-based and designed in HTML5, so service providers can deliver new, customized and branded experiences nearly instantaneously-like updating a Web page-dramatically reducing time-to-scale and development cycles. 		DreamGallery also will enable TV providers to deliver the first consistent on-screen experience across multiple devices. Soon, you'll be able to enjoy the same video experience on your TV, tablet and smartphone! 		Shaw Communications, Canada's largest cable operator, will be the first in North America to offer consumers the DreamGallery experience, which has already gained wide acclaim in Europe. 		SecureMedia: Advanced Content Protection		Securing content and ensuring that it is sent only to the devices for which it is intended becomes much more complex in the multi-screen world. Service providers face a matrix of different adaptive streaming formats, security technologies, and video playback applications to reach a range of consumer devices. 		Motorola's SecureMedia Encryptonite ONE™ HLS+ streamlines the entire content processing and delivery process for multi-screen applications – while ensuring the protection of digital rights and the security of the content streams. This robust system complies with the latest Hollywood studio secure-delivery specifications for multi-screen applications. 		SecureMedia's advanced content protection works across platforms, including IPTV, to secure content in all its forms, now and in the future.  		Social and Interactive TV		In a recent Motorola poll, half of Americans surveyed said they'd like a service that merges their social media habits with TV viewing. 		Motorola's SocialTV Companion Service puts a dashboard of social applications at subscribers' fingertips, on their smartphone or tablet, with content that's customized to the programs they're watching. TV viewing is augmented through interactive games, applications, live chat, and social networking feeds presented on these companion screens – making TV more engaging. 		VISIT MOTOROLA		To see how Motorola is redefining every element of the Home Ecosystem – and empowering operators to deliver more – visit Motorola at CES (Booth No. 8644 located in LVCC Central Hall). Or check out our blog, MediaExperiences2Go and MediaCenter. 		About Motorola Mobility		Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility.
 