
 Apple's been working hard to chip away at RIM's lead in the enterprise over the last couple years by beefing up iOS' IT policy management chops in ways that traditionally only BlackBerry (and the now-marginalized Windows Phone 6.5 / Windows Embedded Handheld platform) have excelled at, but Motorola -- a company that's got virtually 100 percent of its skin in the Android game -- would obviously like to see that change. To that end, it acquired a little company called 3LM (that's "Three Laws of Mobility") last year that's been working on an enterprise management platform for Android, and it appears they've pulled off a bit of a coup -- not only will its parent company be supporting it on devices starting in the second quarter of the year, but devices from competitors like HTC, Sharp, Sony Ericsson, and Pantech are on board, too. A standard software package for this sort of thing is just what IT bosses like to see -- and it could be Android's most dangerous strike yet on the enterprise side of the market. Follow the break for Moto's press release.
      

 

Show full PR text3LM and its Partners Announce Plans to Launch Enterprise Manager Solution for AndroidMotorola Mobility, HTC, Sony Ericsson, Pantech Co. Ltd and Sharp are among the first to support 3LM Enterprise PlatformFeb. 15, 2011MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – Feb. 15, 2011 – Three Laws Mobility, Inc. (3LM), a subsidiary of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: MMI), in conjunction with HTC Corp., Sony Ericsson, Pantech Co. Ltd and Sharp Electronics Corp. (Sharp), today announced plans to launch a complete end-to-end mobile management solution based on the 3LM Android enterprise platform.3LM will offer the first mobile management solution for Android devices that supports all of the critical IT device policies commonly requested by businesses and governmental entities, and is designed to enable the adoption of Android devices among enterprise users by addressing ease, cost-of-management and security concerns of IT managers and chief information officers."We are extremely pleased to announce this series of partnerships that will significantly enhance the capabilities of Android devices for enterprise businesses," said Tom Moss and Gaurav Mathur, co-founders of 3LM. "The 3LM solution was developed for three reasons: first, to enable next generation mobile devices such as tablets and phones to become the primary computing devices at enterprises, replacing laptops without sacrificing security or functionality; second, to help enterprises reduce IT costs while at the same time increasing user choice and satisfaction; and finally, to unleash innovation in enterprise applications and services."3LM, which was acquired in 2010 by Motorola Mobility, expects to launch its mobile device management services for enterprises in the second quarter of 2011, in conjunction with devices from Motorola Mobility, HTC, Sony Ericsson, Pantech, Sharp and additional Android original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that will leverage the 3LM platform."We are very excited that the 3LM solution, and this set of partners, will enable a broader set of customers to enjoy our Android products," said Christy Wyatt, corporate vice president of software and services product management for Motorola Mobility. "3LM gives us access to an exciting new set of customers within the enterprise space that have a unique set of requirements."About 3LMThree Laws Mobility, Inc. (3LM) develops technology for Android devices based on three core principles: (1) Protect your user. A mobile device may not harm its user or, through inaction, allow its user to come to harm though malicious code or content. (2) Protect yourself. A mobile device must protect itself and the integrity of its data and secured communications. (3) Obey. A mobile device must let the user use the device freely, as long as such usage does not conflict with the First or Second Law.About Motorola MobilityMotorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility.
 