
  Here's something for those who've wanted to slip their wrists into one of those MOTOACTV fitness watches, but don't really do the whole running thing. Motorola's introducing a Golf Edition of the device, which lets users track games on more than 20,000 courses across the globe, keep track of their score and compare their games to the pros. No word on whether it can be programmed to whisper "be the ball" to you throughout the day, though. More info on this wrist caddy after the break.
      

 

  Show full PR text   Motorola Mobility and Bubba Watson, Three-time PGA Tour Winner, Team Up to Introduce MOTOACTV™ Golf Edition   LIBERTYVILLE, Ill. – March 22, 2012 – Open your stance. Head down. Eye on the ball. Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI) introduces the MOTOACTV Golf Edition, a cutting-edge GPS Golf tracker, virtual caddy and online clubhouse. Users can track their golf game on up to 20,000 courses worldwide right from their wrist. GPS tracks the front, center and back distances to green and to hazards. A virtual caddy keeps track of your scorecards, clubs and key statistics. Plus, users can sync their rounds wirelessly to visualize and study their game online at MOTOACTV.com and view rounds from the Pros. Track data like total steps taken, distance covered and calories burned on the course - it's the ultimate way to stay fit and shave shots from your score. Attendees of the Arnold Palmer Invitational will get a sneak peak of these exciting golf capabilities in Orlando, Florida starting today where pro golfer and three-time PGA Tour winner Bubba Watson will be taking the course.   Yardage from Your Wrist   Play up to 20,000 courses globally and see your distance to the front, center and back of green, as well as distance to the hazards. It also contains the PAR information for your favorite courses. No more fumbling with laser finders, phone apps or rummaging through your bag.   Virtual Scorekeeping   Throw away those tiny pencils. MOTOACTV keeps track of your scorecards, clubs and key stats such as the number of putts taken and even the greens in regulation that you hit. Users can even customize the clubs that you have on MOTOACTV to match the ones in your golf bag.   Online Clubhouse   MOTOACTV syncs your rounds wirelessly at MOTOACTV.com where you get an unparalleled virtual representation of your round using a satellite view of the course. Move your mouse over the arc of the ball flight and pull up details of the shot you played. You can also keep every scorecard for reference, and similar to other MOTOACTV workouts you can share your rounds with friends. Plus, see how the pros like Bubba Watson play on select courses before you play them yourself.   MOTOACTV has teamed up with pro golfer and three-time PGA Tour winner Bubba Watson, a self-taught golfer who definitely knows a few things about taking his game to the next level.   "The new Golf Edition of MOTOACTV has features that allow players to make better decisions on the course," said Watson. "From the weekend warriors trying to find the distance to the back of the green to great golfers who want to analyze their game and share their stats with friends, MOTOACTV helps improve scores and makes the game more enjoyable."   Be sure to visit www.motoactv.com to hear more from Bubba Watson about how MOTOACTV Golf Edition can help amp your game. Also, Bubba will be featured in digital advertising across various golf outlets starting today.   Best of the Best   From golf to cycling to ultramarathons, MOTOACTV encourages athletes and fitness enthusiasts to boost their game. In addition to Bubba Watson, check out MOTOACTV.com for expert advice and inspiration from other top athletes, including:   Dean Karnazes – After running in all 50 states and on all seven continents, ultramarathon man Dean Karnazes uses MOTOACTV to push his body to even higher heights.   Chris Carmichael – A leader in innovative training methods, professional trainer Chris Carmichael adds MOTOACTV technology to train the best coaches and athletes in the country.   George Hincapie – A 15-time Tour de France veteran who was once hailed as "America's premier classics rider," world-champion cyclist George Hincapie uses MOTOACTV as he prepares to dominate his next race. 
 