
 

Just a week after we received a tip that a mysterious big box retailer would be getting a kid-friendly flavor of Motorola's Xoom tablet, Best Buy has come forth to make things official with the Xoom Family Edition. Everything seems to be in line with what we already knew, including the $40 software bundle -- yes, yes Zoodles comes preloaded, as does Asphalt 6 and SIM City Deluxe. And after the kids are done playing, mom and dad can catch up on homework with Quickoffice Pro HD. The Android 3.1-powered tablet includes a rather modest 16GB of storage, and will run you $379 when it hits Best Buy stores on Sunday. Any questions? Jump past the break for the full Moto rundown.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Motorola Mobility and Best Buy Announce Motorola XOOM™ Family Edition - For Kids of All Ages 		Special edition tablet exclusively for Best Buy customers is built to last and loaded with fun to bring the family together again 		Oct. 14, 2011 		LIBERTYVILLE, Ill. - Oct. 14, 2011 - Grab the popcorn, hit the lights and cuddle up on the couch with the new Motorola XOOM™ Family Edition, the HD tablet built for your entire family. Available exclusively through Best Buy starting October 16, the Android™ 3.1-powered Motorola XOOM Family Edition will entertain everyone in the house with TV shows, thousands of movies, and fun, educational games for kids of all ages. And with the award-winning Zoodles™ application, parents can rest easy knowing their kids are safe from inappropriate content. It's an affordable way to bring everyone together into the twenty-first century. 		"Nowadays, everyone from mom, dad to the youngest child use the same tablet device. We set out to design a device that's kid and family-friendly yet versatile enough to handle your business needs," said Jim Hamilton, corporate vice president, global retail & distribution, Motorola Mobility. "The Motorola XOOM Family Edition offers a world of games, shows and video tools and because it's from Motorola, you know it's durable and will last for years to come." 		"Tablets continue to generate excitement and we are thrilled to be able to offer the Motorola XOOM Family Edition to Best Buy customers," said Scott Wallace, senior director of tablet merchandising at Best Buy. "We think these devices are great for kids and families, and offer something for everyone. At Best Buy, we've long stood for choice and are delighted that the new XOOM Family Edition will be part of our selection." 		Motorola XOOM Family Edition comes pre-loaded with almost $40 worth of applications and also features the award-winning Kid Zone™ by Zoodles™ that locks the home button and allows your kids to only access the content you deem acceptable, like educational games and movies. It also sports MotoPack by Motorola, which makes it simple to find and download apps that help you do more-and have more fun-with your tablet. MotoPack by Motorola showcases a selection of high-quality, popular apps that have all been fully tested on Motorola tablets to ensure an exceptional experience. Simply select the apps you want and download them directly from Android Market™. New apps and special promotions will be featured in the MotoPack by Motorola on an ongoing basis, so be sure to check back regularly. 		And after the kids fall asleep, Motorola XOOM Family Edition lets you get back to work with email access, document editing capabilities with Quickoffice® Pro HD, and Web surfing that looks just like a PC, with tabbed browsing and Adobe® Flash® Player. Then access more than 250,000 other apps, as well as new cloud services from Google Mobile™ Services, Amazon and more. 		Featuring a 10.1-inch widescreen HD display and battery life that lasts through a day of road tripping or a marathon game night, everyone will get a kick out of the entertainment possibilities with the Motorola XOOM Family Edition. Watch videos on YouTube and access millions of books while you hunt down the perfect bedtime story through Android Market™. With 16GB of on-board storage, everyone in the family will have space to store their favorite songs, photos and movies - even Grandma. 		With a 5-megapixel rear camera and front-facing webcam, the entire family can video chat with aunts and uncles across the country. Remember the ancient days of camcorders and VHS tapes? Well those days are long-gone when you use Motorola XOOM Family Edition to record family videos and share them in a snap. Forget uploading to a PC-play your videos back on the tablet, view them on your flat-screen TV with HDMI® or post your masterpieces straight to YouTube™, Picasa™, Facebook® and more. 		Want the details? Here's a list of the facts: 		Runs on Android 3.1, built specifically for tablets		1GHz dual-core processor for lightning-fast responsiveness		10.1" HS IPS HD screen display with capacitive multi-touch		5MP back camera with flash, with 720p video webcam		Preloaded with almost $40 worth of applications, plus Zoodles™, the award-winning Kid Mode application		Preloaded with MotoPack by Motorola XOOM (App Downloader by Motorola)		·Preloaded with Quickoffice™ Pro HD for seamless productivity at work		Preloaded with MotoPrint – the application that allows you to print straight from the Web browser		Preloaded with fun games like Asphalt 6 from Gameloft and SIM City Deluxe		16GB built-in memory		Battery lasts up to 10 hours for video playback and Web browsing		Access to more than 250,000 apps in Android Market™ 		Availability and Pricing 		Motorola XOOM Family Edition will be available exclusively at all Best Buy stores nationwide and online at BestBuy.com for a limited time value price of $379 starting Oct. 16. 		Best Buy is advancing the growth of the tablet and e-reader category by combining an expansive selection with a shopping experience that allows customers to easily try and compare devices. The retailer is committed to delivering superior value and convenience by presenting a full line of accessories with each device, along with exclusive advantages such as tablet selection and connections support from specially trained Best Buy Blue Shirts, financing options, Reward Zone points, and tablet trade-in and Buy Back programs. For more information about these programs and tablets at Best Buy, visit www.bestbuy.com or www.bestbuy.com/tablets.
 