
   We feel strongly about exercise -- the only time you ever need to run is to escape from violence or, you know, Black Friday mobs. Others think it's an acceptable recreational activity, and it's these people who will be excited that the Motorola MOTOACTV's arriving in the UK. It's packing the same features we showed you before, including GPS tracking, 4,000 song capacity and being able to connect calls on your compatible Moto phone. It's an exclusive at specialist retailer Sweatshop for £250 and will be hitting shelves on December 1st. Just don't make us go in there, we might fall faint from thinking about all the exertion.
 

  Show full PR text  Motorola Mobility Unveils MOTOACTV™ in the UK - The Ultimate Fusion of Music and Fitness  Part GPS fitness tracker, part smart music player, all you.  Nov. 29, 2011  LONDON – Nov. 29, 2011 – Burn more calories, beat that personal best and train even harder with MOTOACTV™, the new device marrying fitness and music from Motorola Mobility UK Ltd. MOTOACTV is a lightweight, wearable fitness performance tracker and smart music player in one – it's the equivalent of having a professional fitness instructor and your favourite DJ helping you train at all times. MOTACTV will be available starting December 1 from Sweatshop, the UKs leading running retailer.  Whether your goal's the completion of a fun run, marathon, or everything else in between, sync MOTOACTV with your PC, and you'll be able to check out the music you perform to best. You will be able to track your workouts over extended time periods, set goals and even create workout competitions with your friends via MOTOACTV.com. With MOTOACTV's easy to navigate touch-screen display you can instantly launch a new workout or find that one song you've been dying to hear.  "Motorola has created a new category of smart device that support your active lifestyle with the addition of MOTOACTV," said William Ripley, general manager, Companion Products EMEA, Motorola Mobility. "Workout smarter without using multiple devices or even wires, with the first multi-activity music and fitness tracking device with the brains to push you beyond your limits."  "We are thrilled to announce that Sweatshop are partnering with Motorola Mobility to bring MOTOACTV to our UK customers," said Nick Pearson, managing director of Sweatshop UK. "This is the most exciting product in the sports device market for years, and Sweatshop will help our customers get the most from it. We believe MOTOACTV can deliver real benefits to the training of our customers, whether you're an experienced marathon runner or somebody looking to get fit."  Play The Numbers Game We get it, you love statistics. You're obsessed with your pace, number of calories burned, miles covered, personal records and fitness facts. MOTOACTV uses Motorola AccuSense™ technology and GPS to ensure measurement accuracy of your performance. Your time, distance, speed, heart rate* and calories burned are all measured, so you can reach your fitness or weight loss goals faster than ever.  Then, upload your workout to MOTOACTV.com to analyse the performance data tracked by the device and review useful, easy-to-understand charts, tools and programs that help you see your strengths and empower you to overcome challenges. You can also get workout tips and training plans from fitness experts at MOTOACTV.com and on your Motorola Android™-powered smartphone with our free mobile app available via Android Market™.  Sprint. Cycle. Sing. Your heart's pumping, your thighs are burning but you've hit the wall with five laps to go. You need a serious tune to get you through. MOTOACTV can rock up to 4,000 of your favorite songs while tracking your every move, from the street to the gym. Ultra-portable, you choose the way you want to wear MOTOACTV: strap it on your wrist or arm, clip it to your shirt or mount it on your bike during an outdoor ride.  Your playlist is more than just workout songs: they're songs that push you to perform at your best. The smart music player learns what tracks motivate you most by measuring your performance against your music and then uses those songs to create your personal high-performance playlist.  On those days when your automatically generated high-performance playlist isn't doing the trick, you can switch to FM radio for even more song variety. And if the music is really moving you, go that extra mile – MOTOACTV tracks your outdoor training via GPS.  Keep Connected, Keep Your Pace MOTOACTV also gives you the option to stay connected to your Motorola Android™-powered smartphone, so you can answer calls, receive texts and rock out via your headphones without breaking a stride.  MOTOACTV will tackle your fitness goals with the following features:  Ongoing tracking of fitness performance stats, including pace, distance, calories burned, and map of route covered, with automatic wireless syncing of workout data to MOTOACTV.com 8GB of storage for endless playlists Sports a 1.6" full-color touch-screen display that auto-adjusts for indoor or outdoor lighting and is sweat-proof, rain-resistant and featuring scratch-resistant Corning® Gorilla® Glass Option to sync with the latest Android-powered smartphone to receive incoming calls and texts FM radio capabilities for more song variety Up to five hours of battery life for outdoor workouts, 10 hours indoors, and nearly two weeks on standby Supports both Bluetooth® 4.0 and ANT+ wireless connectivity for your existing fitness sensors and your future ones Size: 46mm x 46mm x 9.6 mm Weight: 35 g  Pricing and Availability Starting on 1st December MOTOACTV will be available at Sweatshop stores across the UK, see www.sweatshop.co.uk for your nearest store.  The recommended retail price for MOTOACTV 8GB is from £249.99, which includes the SF200 sports wired headset, wrist strap, clip and USB charging and sync cable. For those who enjoy multiple sports, the cross training accessory pack at £39.99 adds an arm band, bike mount and wall charger to ensure you are always ready for the next training session.
 