
 
 It's been a day of big smartphone reveals, but Motorola's not one to let the glory shine too long upon rivals. At its press event today in New York City, the Google-owned manufacturer gave the public its first official look at the Droid RAZR HD. Unless you've been living off the grid, it's hard to find much about this announcement fresh and / or exciting, as specs, photos, tutorials, FCC docs and even sample pics have been leaking since the start of April. Surprise already blown, the handset falls in line with previous reports, running a lightly-skinned version of Android 4.0.4 (upgradeable to Jelly Bean) and bearing a 4.7-inch 720p display, dual-core Snapdragon S4 processor clocked at 1.5GHz, 8-megapixel rear camera, NFC, as well as a massive 2,500mAh battery.

 So, what's changed in this RAZR refresh? Well, the phone's back may still be Kevlar-coated (in this case, it's pretty much fully wrapped), but a few cosmetic differences have been made to the Droid RAZR HD's body. For starters, its front face almost spans from edge to edge, with just a little bit of bezel surrounding that display. Dimensions-wise, it's 131.9mm tall, 67.9 mm wide and still pretty thin at 8.4mm. It's definitely a coup for design-focused consumers that prefer to have their devices appear as a sea of seamless black glass. While it'll be hanging out on Verizon's 4G network, we're still waiting on pricing -- but we're promised that it will arrive "before the holidays."

 Mat Smith contributed to this report.


 
  Show full PR text   Motorola Mobility Takes Screen Size and Battery Life to the Edge with Three New Smartphone Additions to RAZR™ Family
   More screen. More battery life. More compact. More colors. And the best of Google packed inside. Introducing the new RAZR™ M, RAZR™ HD and DROID RAZR™ MAXX™ HD.

   Sept. 05, 2012

   LIBERTYVILLE, Ill. – Sept. 5, 2012 – Speed, power, design and the best Android™ experiences around. Motorola Mobility is delivering all that and more with three new additions to its RAZR™ smartphone family: Motorola RAZR M, the full screen phone; the nonstop all-day entertainer Motorola RAZR HD; and the unmatched, live-forever battery of DROID RAZR MAXX HD by Motorola. All three Android-powered smartphones are built with top-of-the-line materials, are small in size, big on battery life and packed to the gills with the best experiences Google has to offer.

   Pushing Screen Space to the Edge  Motorola RAZR M packs a big screen into a phone that fits in the palm of your hand. The Super AMOLED Advanced 4.3-inch display spans from edge-to-edge. The border you typically find on smartphones is virtually, in a word, gone. Even though it's smaller in size, you still get 40 percent more screen than the leading competitor*. You can type emails and texts easily with a wider keyboard, watch YouTube™ videos and movies on a wider screen and browse the Web with Chrome™ for Android without squinting. All on a long-lasting battery that is 40 percent more powerful than the competition*.

   Motorola RAZR M is also easy to use. It comes with interactive, swipe-by-swipe tutorials that walk you through the setup and help customize your phone to your needs – no instruction manual required. While RAZR M already has a long-life battery, when you set up the SMARTACTIONS™ battery saving rules too, your phone settings will automatically adjust to squeeze even more from every charge.

   Available in sleek black or stand out white, the Motorola RAZR M will be coming soon to consumers in several Asia Pacific countries. For those in the US, it's coming to the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network as DROID RAZR M by Motorola for the unbelievable price for $99.99 after a $50 mail-in rebate with a new two-year customer agreement. All that power, speed and edge-to-edge beauty at a great price. No catch.

   Go. All. Day.  The new Motorola RAZR HD provides long-lasting battery performance for nonstop high definition entertainment. Its 4.7-inch HD display is the most compact smartphone in its class, designed for watching up to 10 hours of movies and TV shows or 6 hours of surfing the Web. You get the same sharp clarity as your HDTV, and beat the competition* with 85 percent greater color saturation and 50 percent more pixels per inch.

   It's not all about looks though. If you feel like hitting the road, you can drive with confidence knowing you'll get up to 6 hours of voice-guided turn by turn GPS navigation all on a single charge. No matter where the day (or night) takes you, Motorola RAZR HD will keep up with 24 hours of battery performance.

   Available in sleek black or stand out white, the Motorola RAZR HD will be coming soon to consumers in various countries throughout Asia Pacific, Europe, North America and Latin America. In the US, it will be available before the holidays on the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network as DROID RAZR HD by Motorola. We'll provide more details on pricing and availability soon.

   Long Live the Battery  Never have an "off" day again. DROID RAZR MAXX HD has the same features as Motorola RAZR HD, but takes battery life to a whole new level. We're talking 32 hours of performance1 with the longest-lasting LTE smartphone1. You can literally get through an entire Hollywood trilogy with 13 hours of straight video playback, up to 10 hours of YouTube HD content or surf the day away with up to 8 hours of web browsing. For those who eat, drink, work, play and sleep with their phones, life won't ever be the same.

   DROID RAZR MAXX HD will be available before the holidays in black in the US on the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network. More details on timing and pricing will be made close to availability dates.

   Premium Materials and the Best of Google  These new smartphones are made from the premium design materials you expect from the Motorola RAZR family, including a Corning® Gorilla® Glass display, DuPont™ KEVLAR® fiber^ and a splash-guard coating. They're also built with the best of Google inside:

   ● Chrome™ for Android, giving you a personalized Web experience anywhere you go  ● Google Play™, offering access to 600,000+ apps and games, millions of books and songs thousands of movies and TV shows  ● Google Maps™ for Android for voice-guided, turn-by-turn directions  ● Voice Actions for Android™, letting you control your phone with your voice  ● Google+™, which can automatically upload your photos to a private album online  ● YouTube™ for watching exclusive videos and live events in HD quality  ● Android 4.0.4, Ice Cream Sandwich, and Android 4.1, Jelly Bean, upgradeable  For more information and multimedia assets for Motorola RAZR M, Motorola RAZR HD and DROID RAZR MAXX HD, please visit our press kit at mediacenter.motorola.com.

   Calling All Devs and Mod Enthusiasts  The beauty of Android lies in personalization and customization. For developer and custom ROM enthusiasts, DROID RAZR M and DROID RAZR HD will come in a special developer edition available online only through motorola.com in the U.S. Tweak, tinker and customize the day away by using Motorola's software tools to unlock the bootloader. Warning: not for the faint at heart. Warranties will be voided. Visit motorola.com/razrmdev or motorola.com/razrhddev for more information.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

