
 
Noticing a trend here? First we had the Infuse 4G from Samsung, and now we've got the Atrix 4G from Motorola featuring a whopping 1GB of RAM -- so it would seem this is the device we'd had rumored as the Olympus. Announced at AT&T's CES-based Developer Summit today, the phone is the first to be unveiled for the carrier's lineup with a dual-core processor, but the fun doesn't stop there: it's got a 960 x 540 display that gives the iPhone 4's pixel density a run for its money, a fingerprint reader, support for 802.11n on both the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands, a ridiculous 1,930mAh battery that dwarfs the average 1,300 to 1,500mAh cell you see in most modern smartphones, HD video capture, and a wild set of peripherals -- HD Dock and Laptop Dock, primarily -- that allow you to use the Atrix in a "webtop mode" that bears a striking resemblance to a desktop operating system. Follow the break for the full press release!

Update: It's coming to Orange UK and Bell Mobility as well, with Orange's version due Q2 2011 and Bell's "in the coming months."





Show full PR textMotorola Mobility and AT&T Announce ATRIX™ 4G, the Future of Mobile ComputingThe world's most powerful smartphone packs the power and capabilities of a PC in your pocket through Motorola's revolutionary webtopJan. 05, 2011LAS VEGAS – CES – Jan. 5, 2011 - Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI), and AT&T today unveiled Motorola ATRIX™ 4G, the only smartphone that allows you to carry the power of mobile computing inside your pocket. Motorola's revolutionary webtop application changes mobile computing forever by unleashing the power of the smartphone like never before. Designed to bring unprecedented computing to your smartphone, Motorola's webtop application runs a full Mozilla Firefox 3.6 browser and supports Adobe® Flash® Player to open up all the rich graphics, animations and video on the web. Motorola ATRIX 4G includes a dual core processor with each core running at 1 GHz, delivering up to two GHz of processing power. Put simply, Motorola ATRIX 4G is the world's most powerful smartphone."Consumers are increasingly using smartphones as their primary digital screens," said Bill Ogle, chief marketing officer, Motorola Mobility, Inc. "Motorola ATRIX 4G ushers in a new era of mobile computing. ATRIX comes loaded with the Motorola webtop application, and when used with one of our exclusive docks, enables consumers to extend the capabilities of their smartphones. Together, these provide a revolutionary interactive computing experience that empowers individuals in new ways for staying connected, informed and entertained at home, on the job and anywhere in between.""With ATRIX 4G, we are rethinking what a smartphone can be, and literally changing the game with a new device category that combines the power of a laptop with the latest smartphone features and 4G speeds," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T mobility and consumer markets. "With Motorola Mobility, we're delivering on our commitment to provide customers with the best mobile broadband experience and best smartphones."Motorola ATRIX 4G is designed to essentially become a user's primary digital hub to create, edit and interact with documents, media and content. This is facilitated by Motorola's webtop application and incredible new accessory docks, such as the Laptop Dock, that provide users with a larger screen, keyboard and trackpad enabling them to have an enhanced and more interactive computer-like experience with their devices.While in the webtop application users can run their Android applications in a window, browse their favorite websites with a full Firefox desktop browser, send instant messages and make phone calls, all at the same time. Calls continue uninterrupted if Motorola ATRIX 4G is removed from a dock. Users can take advantage of the ability to surf the web, view social networking, and use HTML5 web-based applications and supported cloud computing services. Plus, the new Entertainment Center feature lets you show all of the photos, music and videos you already enjoy on-the-go on a big screen in your living room. In the U.S., ATRIX 4G will feature the AT&T U-verse® Mobile application, which allows users to schedule recordings, and for qualifying TV customers, download and watch hit TV shows on their smartphones.Motorola ATRIX 4G provides consumers with instantaneous access to all their emails, files and media. While using the webtop application, business users with an existing Citrix account will benefit from the integrated Citrix Receiver application that provides secure, high performance access to virtual desktops as well as Windows®, web and office applications hosted on Citrix XenDesktop. In addition to the full suite of office productivity applications and email applications, users can also access a great number of web applications such as Salesforce.com, Google Docs, and any HTML application or service from the full desktop browser.Motorola ATRIX 4G runs Android™ 2.2 with access to more than 100,000 apps and games in the Android Market™.Motorola is introducing two industry-leading companion docks for ATRIX 4G:* The Motorola HD Multimedia Dock has three USB ports and an HDMI port enabling connections to a keyboard, mouse, speakers and HDMI-compatible monitor for working at your desk/office, or connecting to an HDMI-compatible television and home theater audio system for interacting with content and enjoying video, music, games and more in your living room.* The Motorola Laptop Dock has an incredibly thin design with an 11.6-inch screen, full keyboard, stereo speakers, 36Wh three-cell battery that delivers up to eight hours of battery life and weighs just 2.4 pounds. Users simply dock their Motorola ATRIX 4G into the back of the Laptop Dock to turn it into an active, connected machine to experience true mobility at work, home and playing on-the-go in a form factor that's lighter and smaller than most laptops on the market.Key features and specifications:* A dual-core processor capable of opening web pages twice as fast as most other smartphones, rendering games faster and displaying HD video on big-screen TVs* A full 1 GB of RAM for twice the RAM of most smartphones to deliver effortless multi-tasking, such as watching a movie while receiving and responding to email* The world's first qHD display for a smartphone, offering high resolution and 24-bit color, making it easier to read indoors and outdoors* Front- and rear-facing cameras and the ability to record in HD* Convenient biometric fingerprint reader for easily unlocking your phone while providing extra security* Up to 48GB of storage (16GB internal and optional 32GB MicroSD card) – enough to store thousands of songs, photos and movies* 2.4GHz and 5GHz Wi-Fi 802.11n support, enabling as much as 50 percent faster download and upload speeds in WiFi mode compared to most other smartphones* Optional AT&T Mobile Hotspot service for connecting up to five additional Wi-Fi-enabled devices* Under 11 mm thin with an extra large 1930 mAh battery for extended standby and talk time* Two microphones for noise-reduction technology so your calls will be heard loud and clear in even the noisiest environments* Supports HD video capture and replay for most multimedia standardsAvailabilityMotorola ATRIX 4G will be available to AT&T customers in Q1 2011. For more ATRIX 4G information visit: www.motorola.com/atrix and www.att.com/ATRIX4G. Motorola ATRIX 4G will be available exclusively in the U.S. for AT&T customers.About Motorola MobilityMotorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE:MMI) fuses innovative technology with human insights to create experiences that simplify, connect and enrich people's lives. Our portfolio includes converged mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets; wireless accessories; end-to-end video and data delivery; and management solutions, including set-tops and data-access devices. For more information, visit motorola.com/mobility.***************Motorola Mobility and Orange UK Announce Motorola ATRIX™, the Future of Mobile Computing Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI), and Orange UK today announced Motorola ATRIX™, which unleashes the power of the smartphone like never before. Motorola's revolutionary webtop application makes Motorola ATRIX the only smartphone to carry the power of mobile computing inside your pocket. Designed to bring unprecedented computing capabilities to your smartphone, Motorola's webtop application runs a full Mozilla Firefox 3.6 browser and supports Adobe® Flash® Player to open up all the rich graphics, animations and video on the web. Motorola ATRIX includes a dual core processor with each core running at 1 GHz, delivering up to two GHz of processing power, and 1 GB of RAM. Put simply, Motorola ATRIX is the world's most powerful smartphone. "We want to empower individuals, giving them new ways to stay connected, informed and entertained at home, on the job and anywhere in between," said Andrew Morley, vice president of marketing for Motorola Mobility, EMARA. "We are finding that consumers are increasingly using smartphones as their primary digital screens. Motorola ATRIX ushers in a new era in mobile computing and has the power to deliver on its promise to empower individuals as it comes loaded with the Motorola webtop application, which enables consumers to enhance the capabilities of their smartphones and simultaneously reduce their need for additional mobile computing screens." "We are proud to be the UK launch partner for Motorola ATRIX, a ground-breaking product that delivers on our ongoing commitment to offer customers the latest multimedia devices," said Phil Roberson, director of Devices, Everything Everywhere, the company that runs Orange UK. "Motorola ATRIX offers our customers a new and exciting way to stay in touch with the people who matter the most to them." Motorola ATRIX is designed to essentially become a user's primary digital hub to create, edit and enjoy documents, media and content. This is facilitated by Motorola's webtop application and by the optional Motorola HD Multimedia Dock and Motorola Laptop Dock that provide users with a larger screen, keyboard and trackpad – enabling an enhanced and more interactive experience with their devices. While in webtop, users are given a window into the smartphone that enables access to all of the device's functionality within Android. Calls continue uninterrupted if Motorola ATRIX is removed from a dock. Plus, the new Entertainment Centre feature lets you show all of the photos, music and videos you already enjoy on-the-go on a big screen in your living room. Motorola ATRIX provides consumers with instantaneous access to all their emails, files and media. While using the webtop application, business customers will benefit from the Citrix Receiver application for complete access to commercial desktop-licensed software. In addition to the full suite of office productivity and email applications, users can also access a great number of web applications such as Salesforce.com, Google Docs, and any HTML application or service from a full desktop browser. Motorola ATRIX runs Android™ 2.2 with access to more than 100,000 apps and games in the Android Market™. Motorola is highlighting two industry-leading companion docks for ATRIX: The Motorola HD Multimedia Dock has three USB ports and an HDMI port enabling connections to a keyboard, mouse, speakers and HDMI-compatible monitor for working at your desk, or connecting to an HDMI-compatible television and home theater audio system for enjoying video, music, games and more. The Motorola Laptop Dock has an incredibly thin design with an 11.6-inch screen, 36Wh three-cell battery that delivers up to eight hours of battery life, full keyboard, stereo speakers, and weighs just 1.1 kilograms. Users simply dock their Motorola ATRIX into the back for true mobility at work, at home and playing on the go in a form factor that's lighter and smaller than most laptops on the market. Key features and specifications:A dual core processor capable of opening web pages twice as fast as most other smartphones, rendering games faster and displaying HD video on big-screen TVsA full 1 GB of RAM for twice the RAM of most smartphones to deliver effortless multi-tasking, such as watching a movie while receiving and responding to emailThe world's first qHD display for a smartphone, offering high resolution and 24-bit color, making it easier to read indoors and outdoorsFront- and rear-facing cameras for video chat and the ability to record in HD Up to 48GB of storage (16GB internal and optional 32GB MicroSD card) – enough to store thousands of songs, photos and moviesOptional 3G Mobile Hotspot service for connecting up to four additional Wi-Fi-enabled devicesBiometric fingerprint reader for easily unlocking your phone while providing extra securityUnder 11mm thin with an extra large 1930 mAh battery for extended standby and talk timeTwo microphones employing noise-reduction technology so your calls will be heard loud and clear in even the noisiest environmentsAvailability Motorola ATRIX is expected to be available to Orange UK customers in Q2 2011. For more information on Motorola ATRIX, click here and for Motorola ATRIX accessories click here.
 