
 
Motorola's quirky square-shaped Android 2.1 creation has just become official, courtesy of the company's YouTube channel.The Flipout brings a 2.8-inch, 320 x 240 screen (Kin killer!), a 3 megapixel camera with "one-touch" uploads to Facebook, MySpace and photo-hosting sites, and a refreshed implementation of Motoblur, which now includes resizable widgets, feed filters, and push corporate email. We hear that last feature is a real must-have with the target audience of this device.Video of the Flipout can be found just after the break, and Euro readers can expect it imminently, as the listed Q2 2010 launch date basically means it'll be out by month's end. Wonder how they'll price a curious creature like this.

Update: Our pals at Recombu got a quick hands-on with the Flipout, and... it's a square Android phone. Video after the break.

Update 2: We've come across a more comprehensive spec sheet on Moto's dev site, which lists AT&T- and Rogers-compatible 3G bands, make of that what you will.

[Thanks, Martin]
      

 

Show full PR textBASINGSTOKE, UK – June 2, 2010 – Motorola (NYSE: MOT) today announced Motorola FLIPOUTTM with MOTOBLUR™, a stylishly square and compact smartphone that's as individual as its users.Launching in Europe from Q2 2010, FLIPOUT runs on Android™ 2.1 and features an innovative square pivot design that opens to reveal a five-row QWERTY keypad with a separate row for numeric keys. FLIPOUT features up to seven customizable home screens, live wallpapers and added security for exchange server users. It also offers enhanced MOTOBLUR features making it easier to follow who and what really matters to you."FLIPOUT merges Motorola's design heritage with Android to deliver a new take on the typical smartphone form. In an incredibly compact square, FLIPOUT fits neatly in your palm, purse or small pocket, making it fun and easy to stay connected while on the go," said Ralf Gerbershagen, vice president and GM, Mobile Devices, Western Europe, Motorola. "For fans of social networking, FLIPOUT also features enhancements to MOTOBLUR, allowing users to connect with their networks however they want."FLIPOUT's array of colors will be country-specific and could include Licorice, Fairway Green, Raspberry Crush, Brilliant Blue, Poppy Red, Saffron or White.Enhanced MOTOBLURMOTOBLUR is Motorola's exclusive Android experience that syncs contacts, posts, messages, photos and much more - from sources such as Facebook®, MySpace, Twitter™, Gmail™, work and personal e-mail, and last.fm - and automatically delivers them to the home screen. MOTOBLUR automatically backs up contacts, log-in information, home screen customizations and e-mail to a secure server and provides remote data wipe for lost or stolen devices. One username and password restores contacts, messages and connectivity to prior networks and email providers.FLIPOUT offers enhanced MOTOBLUR functionality and features, including:• Happenings and Messages widgets – filter by social networking account, by contact(s) or by contact group to only see the information you want• Screen customization – move and resize preloaded widgets on up to seven home screens• Battery Manager – manage battery consumption by operating in one of three performance modes• Data Manager – monitor data usage from the home screen to better manage pay-as-you-go and limited data plans• Personal and Corporate e-mail – pushed directly to the device• Re-tweet capabilitiesHear and be heardFLIPOUT includes CrystalTalkTM PLUS which improves a caller's voice quality while filtering out background noise for better conversations. Building on Motorola's proprietary microphone and speaker configuration, CrystalTalk PLUS adds a second microphone to provide even clearer voice quality, while cutting down background noise. Web & MultimediaFLIPOUT brings optimal web and photo browsing to the palm of your hand with multi-touch pinch to zoom, and is Adobe® Flash® enabled which provides access to most content-rich websites.For music fans, FLIPOUT's connected media player offers full screen lyric support, integrated song ID and a social solution for knowing what people around you are listening to.Additional multimedia features include a 3MP camera with digital zoom and KODAK PERFECT TOUCH technology for better, brighter pictures and gallery mode for tagging and labeling of photos. One-touch uploads to Facebook, MySpace, Picasa and Photobucket make sharing your images quick and easy. Also included are video capture, playback and streaming options along with Bluetooth®1 capabilities for wireless calls and music.FLIPOUT features full Google™ services including Google Search™, Google Maps™, Gmail™ and access to thousands of apps on the Android Market.AvailabilityMotorola FLIPOUT with MOTOBLUR will be introduced to Europe from Q2 2010. For more information about availability, please contact your local Motorola representative. To learn more about the device visit YouTube™ or here. To experience MOTOBLUR, please visit www.motorola.com/motoblur.FLIPOUT with MOTOBLUR™Talk and Standby Time: 275mins / 377 hrs WCDMA, 357mins / 365 hrs GSMBands/Modes: WCDMA 900/2100, GSM 850/900/1800/1900, HSDPA 7.2 Mbps (Category 7/8) EDGE Class 12, GPRS Class 12, HSUPA 2.0 Mbps, eCompass/aGPS, Version 2.1+EDRWeight: 120gDimensions: 67.00 x 67.00 x 17.00 mmSize: 76 ccOS: Android 2.1 Battery: 1170 mAhConnectivity: 3.5mm headset jack, USB 2.0 HS, Wi-Fi, NGPDisplay: 2.8 inch display 320 x 240 pixels, QVGA TFTMessaging/Web/Apps: MMS, SMS, Email (Corporate Sync, POP3, IMAP, Push Email), Instant MessagingAudio: FM Radio Receive, AAC, AAC+, AAC+ Enhanced, AMR NB, MP3, WMA v9Video: Capture/Playback/Streaming, H.264, MPEG4, WMV v9Camera: 3 megapixel, digital zoom, fixed-focusBrowser: Android HTML WebKit, Adobe® Flash® enabledMemory: 512MB internal memory with removable 2GB Micro SD card (included); supports up to 32GB MicroSD (optional)Form Factor: Rotator QWERTYAntenna: Internal Address Book/Calendar: MOTOBLUR aggregates Facebook®, MySpace, TwitterTM and GmailTM; Syncs and merges your work contacts, email and calendarLocation Services: aGPS (assisted), eCompass
 