


 We're sorry for MGF's delay; some editorial mixups have since led to numerous interns being flogged mercilessly. Last
week Movie Gadget Friday took a look at the Memory Erasing
Process from Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. This week, following a genuine reader request (and not just
because sarcasm comes so naturally), Josie Fraser takes a gander
at the W.O.P.R. from 1983's WarGames. 

Ah, 1983—to be honest I can barely remember it, but who could ever forget WarGames—the thrills, the tension, and the
fabulous touchtone telephones.


 The film's star is the made-up and most likely made of cardboard military computer W.O.P.R. (War Operation Planned
Response, pronounced Whopper—apparently Burger King had far reaching connections in the 80s) and a programme called
Joshua—ably voiced by James Ackerman who easily wins second place for the all-time Creepiest-Computer-Voice-In-A-Movie
Award (you know who gets number #1). W.O.P.R. works for the non-fictional North American Aerospace Defence Command
(NORAD), and is programmed to play a limited selection of games, including chess and Global Thermonuclear War.



 Unfortunately, Mathew Broderick - playing high-school hacker David Lightman, is unaware that Global ThermonuclearWar isn?t fun for all the family at all, but actually America and Canada?s MAD response to nuclear attack?i.e. designedto nuke the communists back. What starts out as a harmless bit of hacking fun rapidly turns into the countdown forWorld War III.    Lightman?s technical props were actual computer technologies?The Fischer-Freitas Company?s IMSAI 8080 microcomputer,FDC2-2 Dual Floppy disks, and a Zenith 12-inch video monitor. He uses the IMSAI connected to an acoustic coupler andhis telephone handset to access W.O.P.R. This may seem a little unrealistic, but bear in mind that in the movieW.O.P.R. was also designed launch both nations? entire intercontinental ballistic missile supply in response to a powercut.  NORAD is still defending the skies, although in recent years has become the friendly face of potential nuclearmeltdown with its official NORAD Tracks Santa web site. Either that or FatherChristmas is being earmarked as a potential recipient of Guant?namo hospitality.


