
 I recently got a chance to test MovieBeam without paying the activation fee. In the endMovieBeam foot the bill for shipping as well.I will admit that my expectations were not very high and I amsorry to say that I am very disappointed. I was very excited when the package arrived and I rushed home to connect itto my HDTV and run it through it's paces. The best news is that the box worked fine with my Vonage VOIP phone. The badnews is that the Picture Quality was the worst HD I have ever seen, well maybe not the worst, but it is in contention.
      

 

The MovieBeam box is pretty cool, it is a light blue box with inviting text. Itopens easily and the first thing you see is a easy setup sheet like a new PC. The box comes with everything you needexcept a HDMI cable, which is available as a accessory. The first thing after you connect all the wires that the boxwants to do is to phone home. So I ran a wire to my Vonage box and after turning off the bandwidth saver on Vonage.comthe first step completed successfully. The next step was to adjust the antenna, theantenna is easily assembled and kinda cool looking, I hid it behind a picture frame and the meter indicated an 85without any adjustments. The last step of setup was a short movie explaining the service and how important it was tonot unplug the MovieBeam STB. Now that the setup is completeI browsed through the interface, the menu's were intuitive, cool looking and relatively fast. Keep in mind that Itolerate a HDTiVo, so everything seems fast compared to it. The movie previews start fast, but you quickly realize thatthe selection is not that great. There are 100 movies out of the box and only 7 are available in HD, but none of themare new movies. It reminds me of the selection of DIRECTV's HD PPV, except even older.The biggest surpriseis that MovieBeam requires HDMI to watch the HD movies. It doesn't support DVI ( I called and confirmed it wasn'tsupported) and it doesn't give you the option to down-rez. The HDMI to DVI cable that came with my HDTiVo works fine at480p, but does not give me access to the HD content. The software is programmed to check for HDMI and if it isn't thereyou don't see any HD options anywhere. If you have HDMI you can see the "HD Showcase" under "FindMovies". Since I wasn't able to try it with my 2 year old Mitsubishi WS55813 I bothered my next door neighbor thatjust bought a 50" Sony SXRD 3LCD(KDF-E50A10)  completewith a HDMI port, so I took the MovieBeam STB to his house to check out some HD. My neighbor is no HD connoisseur buthis reaction was the same as mine; surprised at how bad it could look. Although he wasn't sure what was wrong with whathe saw, I knew right away. The movie was so compressed that all the scenes suffered from compression artifacts, evenscenes that were almost completely still. The compression was unbearable and even if it did work on my TV, I would besending it back. The movie was "Deep Blue Sea", this scene was a simple profile shot before the transitionand with nothing moving. The blocks you see in his cheeks were present in all skin tones. This is by far worse than anycompression I have witnessed from DIRECTV or due to local affiliates multicasting their OTA feeds. I have seem somefantastic examples of WM9 HD clips on my MCE so there is no doubt in my mind that they simply cranked up thecompression far too much. In the end thereview is right on par with the prediction I madewhen MovieBeam was first announced. The product is so close, yet so far away. If they don't start to bundle thisservice with other products and offer higher quality (selection and PQ) movies there is no way that they will everacquire a large user base.

       

 