
 

We're sure there's at least one person out there who has been itching to shoot boat-loads of video with their iPad 2. Perhaps even a short film or two. After we pointed out how crazy you are, we might suggest looking into a tripod-mountable case like Makayama's Movie Mount. This simple plastic frame adds a number of things that a budding iPad videographer might appreciate, including a pair of hot shoes for hooking up lights and mics, and a mount for lenses, just in case you prefer wide-angle or telephoto shots. You can even switch between the conversion lenses and the built-in one on the fly thanks to the sliding adapter. The Movie Mount is available to pre-order now for $69.95, with the first deliveries expected to ship in October. Before you go, check out the gallery below, as well as the video and PR after the break.





   		Show full PR text  Movie Mount improves iPad2 video camera 		Makayama today introduces the 'Movie Mount for iPad2', a unique piece of hardware which radically improves video capture with the iPad2. It turns the iPad2 into a complete studio. Use tele- and wide angle lenses, attach microphones and lights. Use a tripod for professional pan- and tilt movements, and much more. Comes with a free app. 		With the Movie Mount, iPad2 users get 10 new features for the device: 		Attached a tripod for stable shots, pan & tilt camera movements. Standard screwfitting.		Use 37 mm conversion lenses, such as wide angle and zoom*. Such as: US / EU		Slide on-the-fly between the built-in lens and the conversion lens.		Use shotgun microphones for better sound (requires splitter cable). Such as: US / EU		Use an optical viewfinder to shoot in bright sunlight. Such as: US / EU		Use a video light for better performance in low light. Such as: US / EU		Easier iMovie editing, with a 9 degrees working angle.		The mount allows your iPad to stand upright and be used as monitor.		The free Movie Mount iPad app allows you to manually control video recording		Fully compatible with Smart Cover. 		Movie Mount is exclusively produced by Makayama and sold directly through our website. Lenses, tripod, microphone, lights etc. are not included with the purchase. Complimentary iPad app is free. 		Production has started and pre-orders are taken as of today. First deliveries will begin October 2011. Pricing: $ 69.95 / EUR 49.95 EUR, including taxes and shipping worldwide.
 