
 

MSI took the wraps off of two similarly named slim notebooks today. The X460 and X460DX both pack 14-inch displays, two USB 3.0 slots (and one 2.0), and shiny multitouch trackpads into 4.3 pound frames. The higher end X460 rocks an Intel Core i7 processor, WiDi 2.0 and 750GB of storage. The models are currently available, with a suggested starting price of $799.






 		Show full PR text   MSI Fuses Superior Performance with Slim and Sleek Desig 			CITY OF INDUSTRY, CA – August 16, 2010 – MSI Computer Corp., a leading manufacturer of computer hardware products and solutions, announces the availability of the stylish X460 and X460DX notebooks, the 14-inch mobile powerhouse for professionals on the go. Part of the X Series ultra-slim notebooks, both units are powered by Intel® Core™ processors, Integrated Intel® GMA HD or nVidia GeForce GT540M video cards, Microsoft Windows ® 7, and THX TruStudio PRO™. 			"The X460 and X460DX takes our current X Series to another level, shrinking the power and performance of a larger notebook into a mobile unit with exceptional battery life," said Andy Tung, Vice President of Sales for MSI US. "Crafted with the mobile professional in mind, these units feature a sleek design that reflects MSI's pursuit for innovation and style." 			Featuring Intel® Wireless Display (WiDi) 2.0, the X460 model enables users to easily connect their laptops to any television unit using standard Wi-Fi. In addition, both models feature THX TruStudio PRO™, an audio technology designed to bring the experience found in live performances, films and recording studios into notebooks and desktop PCs. 			"The MSI X460 model featuring the latest Intel® Core™ processors and Wireless Display technology effectively addresses the needs of the mobile professional, giving them superior performance and easy connectivity," said Joe Van de Water, Product Marketing Manager at Intel. 			Available in three distinct configurations, all models come with two USB 3.0 ports, HDMI connectivity, and 1.3 MP integrated webcam for easy expansion and networking.			All models are protected by a 1 year Manufacturer's Limited Warranty and are currently available for order at Newegg and Amazon starting at $799.99 MSRP. 
 