
 

Another day, another behemoth of a laptop packing some super-charged components for the demanding, but mobile, gamer out there. Underneath the hood of the MSI GT783 series is a quad-core 2.2GHz Core i7 2670QM along with a 2GB GTX 580M GPU for some pixel-punishing performance. Both machines also boast a 17.3-inch 1080p screen but, while the cheaper GT783R settles for 12GB of RAM and a pair of 750GB drives in a RAID array, the GT783 ups the ante to 16GB of DDR3 and trades in one of those spinning platters for a 128GB SSD. Both are pretty beastly portables (both figuratively and literally, at 8.6 pounds) and are also available as part of a limited edition bundle featuring Battlefield 3, a headset, a mouse and a few other extras. The GT783R and GT783 are available now for $2,300 and $2,500 respectively but, before you rush off to order yours, check out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  MSI Announces the New GT783 Gaming Notebook Featuring the Highly Anticipated NVIDIA GeForce GTX 580M Graphics Card 		Providing gamers with an unprecedented gaming experience like no other, the GT783 comes standard with NVIDIA's top-of-the-line graphics and the Intel Core i7-2670QM quad core processor. 		City of Industry, CA – January 4, 2012 – MSI Computer Corp., a worldwide leading manufacturer of computer hardware products and solutions, is pleased to unleash the GT783 and GT783R, two mobile gaming powerhouse laptops featuring the NVIDIA© GeForce© GTX 580M graphics processing unit (GPU) and Blu-ray burner. The new notebooks are designed with cutting edge technology for gamers that have been thirsting for gaming ecstasy. 		Engineered to provide serious gamers with the ultimate power, the new GT783 series combines vibrant graphics from one of the most high-end NVIDIA© GeForce© graphics processors, along with the second-generation Intel® Core™ i7 Processor, creating battle-ready notebooks that are poised to dominate the gaming market. 		"Gamers will revel in the GT783's arsenal of advanced gaming technology combined with a sleek, innovative exterior. Packing the NVIDIA's GeForce GTX 580M, both GT783 models offer unrivaled visuals and FPS performance providing gamers with an ultra realistic gaming experience unlike anything else available on the market." said Andy Tung, Vice President of Sales, MSI USA. 		The GT783 Limited Edition and GT783R comes jam-packed with impressive specs, including 4 DDR3 memory slots allowing the hardcore user to upgrade the memory to an incredible total of 32GB. Each model comes with its own unique storage configuration to meet the needs of any gamer. The GT783R comes packed with a dual HDD set up in RAID 0 for accelerated and enhanced performance. Offering a hybrid storage configuration, the GT783 Limited Edition combines an SSD hard drive with an HDD to instantly increase hard drive read speeds by 70%, more than enough to meet the needs of battle scenes and other complex graphics. 		Similar to the G Series family, both GT783 and GT783R models also come loaded with impressive MSI gaming technology, including the following: 		NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 580M: Latest generation GPU improves overall performance for an intense gaming experience		MSI's Exclusive Turbo Drive Engine (TDE) Technology: Easily overclock GPU with TDE, providing a 3-5% boost in graphics performance to accelerate video decoding and add extra excitement to your gaming.		SteelSeries Full Color Backlit Keyboard: Designed for immediate response and supporting simultaneous keystrokes, dominate with precision and control		MSI Cooler Boost Technology: Powerful cool down system instantly increases airflow to rapidly reduce system temp to enhance stability		Dynaudio Speakers with THX Surround Sound: Professional quality speakers with built-in sub-woofer to accurately reproduce THX's surround sound experience. 		The new gaming notebook will be available starting the week of January 3, 2012. The GT783 Limited Edition comes bundled with a Battlefield 3 and SteelSeries gaming set, including the popular Battlefield 3 game, an MSI gaming backpack, SteelSeries Siberia V2 gaming headset, the MSI SteelSeries Kinzu optical gaming mouse, and the MSI SteelSeries mouse pad. 		The GT783 and GT783R, which start at MSRP $2,499 and $2,299.99 respectively, are available in e-tail stores including Newegg.com and Amazon.com. For more information including a complete list of specs, please visit http://www.msimobile.com 		About MSI		Founded in 1986, MSI designs, manufactures and markets superior technology solutions and products, including Tablets, Notebook PCs, All-in-One PCs, and PC components including IPCs, Servers, Motherboards and Graphic Cards. Committed to innovation and style, MSI products are available in more than 120 countries and employ more than 14,000 people worldwide. To learn more about MSI's complete line of products, visit: us.msi.com; or follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
 