
 MSI made a reasonable case for AMD-based gaming when it unveiled the GX60 laptop back in September... just not for Americans looking to buy one right away. There's a better argument now that the 15.6-inch portable is shipping to the US this week. The $1,300 asking price isn't quite impulse level, but it's a relative steal for a system whose quad-core, 2.3GHz A10-4600M processor and Radeon HD 7970M should handle modern games without much fuss. The 8GB of RAM, 750GB hard drive, Blu-ray drive, SteelSeries keyboard and Killer networking don't hurt, either. As long as the GX60's 7.7-pound weight isn't too imposing, it might be the ticket to wielding a brag-worthy PC at the next LAN party without having to follow the Intel-owning pack.



  Show full PR text   MSI Makes High Performance Portable Gaming Affordable with AMD Powered GX60 – Available this Week
  Battle-ready and outfitted with AMD HD 7970M graphics supporting AMD Eyefinity, Steel Series Keyboard, and Killer™ E2200 Game Networking for under $1,300
  City of Industry, Calif. – November 12, 2012 – MSI Computer Corp, a leading manufacturer of computer hardware products and solutions, unveils their newest AMD powered gaming notebook, the GX60. Armed with state of the art components, including AMD Trinity A10 Quad Core processors, AMD Radeon™ HD 7970M GPU, Killer™ E2200 Game Networking and Steel Series Gaming Keyboard, the GX60 is the ideal choice for gamers seeking a high-performance, yet affordable unit.
  The GX60, part of MSI's award-winning G Series of gaming notebooks, delivers exceptional gaming experience through a combination of high-performance components and proprietary technology. MSI's exclusive TDE (GPU Overclocking) Cooler Boost Technology delivers one-touch performance boost while AMD's Eyefinity, a stereoscopic 3D technology, allows users to run multiple independent display outputs simultaneously.
  "MSI spared no bells and whistles in creating the GX60, packing it with cutting-edge components including the latest AMD processor," said Andy Tung, vice president of sales for MSI US. "MSI is committed to the gaming community and we believe that exceptional performance leads to unparalleled gaming experience."
  Available this week, the GX60 also comes with Blu-ray Disc reader, a 1920x1080 anti-reflection screen that reduces eyestrain while widening the field of view, 9 cell battery for extended mobile gaming pleasure, gold coated audio jacks (Audio Boost) for crystal clear and high fidelity sound, and more.
 
