
 
After weeks upon weeks of painstaking delays (okay, so maybe that's a stretch... maybe), MSI has finally started shipping the Wind to US customers. As you very well know, these buggers have been showing up everywhere across the pond, but we've just received word that Fry's, NewEgg, Amazon, ZipZoomFly, MWave and Buy.com are all sending units out as we speak for those that pre-ordered. Chime in below if you've just recently received a shipping notification (or, heaven forbid, if you're still waiting). Full release after the jump.
      

 

MSI BEGINS SHIPPING THE WIND The Wind is available in Fry's and online New Egg, Amazon, Fry's, ZipZoomfly, MWave.com and Buy.comCITY OF INDUSTRY, CA – July 8, 2008 – MSI Computer, a leading manufacturer of computer hardware products and solutions, has begun shipping all the pre-ordered Wind U100 notebooks. The Wind, with its speedy new Intel Atom™ 1.6GHz processor, is also on sale at Fry's and online at www.newegg.com, www.amazon.com, www.frys.com, www.zipzoomfly.com, www.mwave.com, and www.buy.com. These first notebooks sold will feature Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition and a 3-cell battery.In September, MSI will begin selling a Windows version of the Wind with a 6-cell battery , as well as the Linux version with a 3-cell battery. MSI will also carry a 6-cell battery for customers who wish to upgrade their 3-cell battery in late September. About MSI Founded in 1986, MSI strives to design and manufacture superior technology and innovative products, while offering outstanding customer service. The company's expansive range of product lines includes mainboards, graphic cards, servers/workstations, laptops, barebones, IPCs, multimedia products, CE devices and networking devices. MSI is ranked among the world's top 3 motherboard manufacturers and is one of the top 5 server manufacturers. MSI has developed several new technologies, including ACV (Amazing Crystal Vision), and ACS (Advanced Cooling System). MSI's notebooks are known for their aesthetically pleasing designs and powerful components. To keep abreast of the global market MSI provides multi-language customer service and associated web sites. MSI has offices in Taiwan, Mainland China, USA, Germany, France, Holland, United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, Korea, Poland, Russia, Canada, and India. To learn more about MSI's complete line personal computers and components please visit www.msimobile.com.

       

 