
 
The more things change, the more they stay the same at MSI, as the company's two tablets -- due to ship within three months -- still feel like early prototypes. MSI showed off both its Windows 7 and Android 10-inch slates at CES 2011, now known as the WindPad 100W and WindPad 100A, and both sport last-gen tablet specs. Despite pitching the Windows device as an Oak Trail device, the WindPad 100W's still got a 1.66GHz Atom Menlow Z530 CPU here, and Windows 7 is seriously laggy and unresponsive despite the presence of a 32GB SSD and 2GB of RAM. Though it have the promised HDMI port, it's basically the same device we saw in May of last year.

Meanwhile, the WindPad 100A (nee WindPad 110) has indeed had a redesign, but possibly for the worse -- it presently only has a single physical key pulling double-duty as Back and Power, and MSI's no longer listing Tegra 2, just a ARM Cortex A8 chip from an undisclosed vendor. It's actually got a fairly useful custom skin on top to display icons at proper tablet resolution and quickly swap between multimedia, the full Android Market, and a full 1GB of RAM, but the device wasn't anything special otherwise. If you ask us, an Android 2.2 tablet with these specs is going to be a hard sell in a post-CES 2011 world. Still, it's always possible MSI could pull things together at the last minute and surprise us. PR after the break. 






Show full PR textMSI Unveils 10-Inch Tablets for Android and Windows Platforms and Pushes Boundaries with All-in-One Concept Designs at CES 2011World's first 10-point multi-touch Butterfly and ultra slim Angellow AIO designs stem from MSI's continued commitment to R&D and innovating with style2011 International CESSouth Hall, Booth 30359LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--MSI Computer Corp., a leading manufacturer of computer hardware products and solutions now entering its 25th year in the industry, today unveiled its innovative new line of tablets, as well as two all-in-one (AIO) PC concept products."Award-winning product quality and outstanding customer service."NEW GENERATION WINDPAD TABLETS: FEATURE PACKED AND LIGHT AS A FEATHERMSI revealed two new generation WindPad tablets - one on the Windows platform and the other on the Android™ platform. Both tablets are a testament to MSI's innovative R&D and groundbreaking, stylish design, with functions such as G-Sensor gravity detection, which protects the internal hardware in case the unit is dropped, an ALS light sensor which adjusts screen brightness according to the surrounding light source, and Wi-Fi.MSI WindPad 100A tabletThe lean 10.1-inch multi-touch machine – based on the Android OS and weighing in at 1.6 pounds – is powered by an ARM processor, and offers features such as a digital compass, a GPS locator, and Wi-Fi with a 3G option available. The new tablet is approximately half an inch thick at its thinnest point, and can run for eight to ten hours on a single battery charge.The WindPad 100A offers a complete array of I/O ports, with USB and HDMI slots for expanding and connecting. To ensure that the WindPad's unlimited expandability is easy-to-use, the MSI design team carried out more than 10,000 computer simulations on the possibilities for their placement. This rigorous testing process means the I/O ports are seamlessly integrated into the tablet's design.MSI WindPad 100W tabletThe 100W tablet, weighing in at just 1.76 pounds, features the Microsoft® Windows™ 7 Home Premium operating system and a 10.1-inch screen that supports multi-touch control. In addition to the features of the WindPad 100A, it is equipped with the Intel® Menlow™ Z530 processor and a 32GB solid state hard drive.The MSI WindPad 100W tablet will be available in Q1 2011 with prices starting from $499.INNOVATIVE ALL-IN-ONE PC CONCEPT PRODUCTS: STYLE & SUBSTANCEMSI's dedication to innovation in the all-in-one PC field has borne not one, but two new concept designs for 2011.Butterfly All-in-One PCMSI's Butterfly AIO is the world's first AIO to use 10-point multi-touch, rather than the standard two-point touch. It has a moveable touch screen that can slide up and down to adapt to users' preferences, making multi-touch easier than ever. In addition, the system's seven inch portable media player can wirelessly access the content of the Butterfly PC, so users can enjoy movies, videos, pictures, or music wherever they are within the home, without the hassle of file transfers. And, the keyboard is set to stall in the back of the unit to save space.Angellow All-in-One PCThe Angellow All-in-One PC focuses on chic design and compact style, with the computer ingeniously concealed in the back stand instead of the back panel to make the screen as thin as possible. As a result, the touch screen can adjust to a more comfortable angle for extended hours of usage. This model also comes with a seven inch portable media player which can wirelessly access the content of the Angellow PC.For more information on MSI, please visit www.msi.com.
 