
 
 We sure hope you like surprises, because we've got a good one for you. It seems as if MSI wasn't quite pleased with the killer graphics on its feature-loaded GT70 laptop and decided to give it a quick boost. Earlier today, the outfit announced its fresh gaming machine will now ship with NVIDIA's GeForce GTX 675M GPU instead of that already powerful GTX 670M found in our review unit. MSI says the change was driven by the company's beliefs that "exceptional performance starts with outstanding components," and, needless to say, we're certain you'd agree. In case you've yet to grab one of these for yourself, you can do so at the source below.



  Show full PR text   MSI Now Shipping Acclaimed GT70 Gaming Notebooks with NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 675M Graphics
   Superb performance and state-of-the-art graphics deliver unmatched immersive gaming and multimedia experience

   City of Industry, Calif. – May 31, 2012 – MSI Computer Corp, a leading manufacturer of computer hardware products and solutions, challenges mobile gaming limits once again by upgrading their acclaimed GT70 gaming beast with NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 675M discrete graphics card. Heralded as the fastest single-unit laptop GPU, the GTX 675M adds even more power to GT70s deadly combination of performance and multimedia experience.

   Already outfitted with Intel© HM77 Chipset, Killer™E2200 Game Networking, SteelSeries backlit keyboard, Dynaudio Speakers with THX Surround Sound and more, the GT70 now further immerses gamers in blistering frame rates, extreme special effects and unmatched 3D experience without sacrificing battery life.

   MSI also announces the availability of GE70 and GE60, two gaming notebooks designed for gamers seeking a balance in performance, portability and affordability. The new 17-inch and 16-inch units feature a futuristic design and are equipped with the latest Intel© HM77 Chipset, NVIDIA® GTX 660M GPU, SteelSeries keyboard and Headset AMP + Gold Flash Jacks, giving them more than enough horsepower to handle the most demanding tasks.

   "MSI believes that exceptional performance starts with outstanding components, and we've exemplified that belief in our spectrum of gaming notebooks, from high performance to budget-conscious," said Andy Tung, Vice President of Sales for MSI US. "We've given our flagship gaming notebook even more power with NVIDIA's GTX 675M, but also unveiled the GE70 and GE60, which packs affordable power for your entire daily gaming needs."

   About MSI  Founded in 1986, MSI designs, manufactures and markets superior technology solutions and products, including Tablets, Notebook PCs, All-in-One PCs, and PC components including IPCs, Servers, Motherboards and Graphic Cards. Committed to innovation and style, MSI products are available in more than 120 countries and employ more than 14,000 people worldwide. To learn more about MSI's complete line of products, visit us.msi.com or follow us on Facebook at facebook.com/MSI.ComputerUS and Twitter at http://twitter.com/#!/msiUSA.

 
