
 


	We first caught wind of Mutewatch AB's eponymous sort of anti-watch -- a personal vibrating time management wristband, equipped with a hidden touch-activated LED display -- when it became available for pre-order back in August. It seemed unique, but back then we had no idea of how it looked in action or when we might finally get one strapped onto our wrists. It's a mystery no more, as the Swedish suite has just released a heavily stylized (and totally rendered) video showcasing the Mutewatch's various touch-enabled functions. Also in tow, a press release announcing retail availability in July. Although our cellphones can do pretty much the same thing as this spendy $259 timepiece, we can't hide our geeky (and guilty) lust for one. You can check out the video for yourself past the break, but be warned: a moderate case of GAS -- Gadget Acquisition Syndrome -- may occur after viewing.


 

     				Show full PR text  STOCKHOLM MAY 19, 2011 – MEET THE MUTEWATCH Swedish company Mutewatch AB is finally ready to launch its innovative watch. 				Meet the Mutewatch, a new time management tool that features vibrating alarm and timer functions and a hidden touchscreen. It works as a silent reminder that lets you (and only you) know when it's time to sum up, move on, or get going. The Mutewatch keeps track of time – so you don't have to. 				The Mutewatch is due to launch on a global level in July, 2011. So far, 10 000 products have been sold, both online, to distributors and to key concept stores – among others Colette in Paris, Cara & Co in Moscow and NK in Stockholm. 				It all started when Mai-Li Hammargren wanted to avoid waking up her film photographer boyfriend every morning, as he worked late nights. Mai-Li got in touch with Oscar Ritzén Praglowski, a design engineering student and together with Gustav Hammargren they founded Mutewatch in 2008. The original idea of a quiet alarm clock developed into a philosophy all about time management, efficiency and respecting other people's time. 				Not long after this, mechatronical engineering student Johan Thelander was brought into the team because of his passion for turning concepts into tangible products. A couple of years ago, Johan transformed his bed into one big alarm clock – due to its ability to measure weight it wouldn't stop beeping until he got out of bed. Johan was without a doubt perfect for the job. 				Today, after more than three years since the idea first meeting, the team couldn't be more excited to finally be able to release the Mutewatch into the global market. 				Mutewatch is a Swedish company based in Stockholm. We work at the centre of a constantly growing international network that includes people from the film, design, fashion and music industries as well as young entrepreneurs and professionals. We are driven by curiosity and have a simplistic and human approach to technology. This is why this network is the perfect place for us to develop and test our innovations and designs, letting us have a conversation about how we can adjust and improve our products. 				Our goal is to develop products that give people the tools they need to manage their time in a sustainable way. We believe in the pursuit of dreams, ambitions and personal fulfilment – whatever they may be – and embrace the possibilities and opportunities of contemporary life. The Mutewatch works for everyone who has a set of tasks, a goal to achieve and only 24 hours a day to do so.   
 