
 
We'll admit -- we were pretty amazed to hear that Journey To The Center Of The Earth pulled in more revenue in 3D than 2D, but this figure is downright jaw-dropping. My Bloody Valentine 3D, which we noticed was one of the first big screen releases to really be pushed in the format, grossed $27 million in its opening weekend. Ready for the kicker? 3D screens outperformed 2D screens 6:1, with RealD taking credit for a staggering 71 percent of the $27 million. Moreover, the flick was also the first to ever be released in over 1,000 digital 3D locations, so we're sure that didn't hurt matters. We won't deny that we've had our sincere doubts about the future of 3D cinema, but figures like this can make even the most hardened pundit take another look. Full release is after the break.
      

 

RealD DELIVERS 71% OF THE $27 MILLION PLUS FIRST WEEK GROSS FOR LIONSGATE'S MY BLOODY VALENTINE 3D Film is first feature ever to release in more than 1,000 digital 3D locationsLos Angeles (January 23, 2009) – In what marks the widest theatrical 3D film release to date, RealD, the world's leading outfitter of 3D-enabled theatres, brought in 71% of the total box office for Lionsgate's My Bloody Valentine 3D, which topped $27 million in its first week of release. Verifying the growing strategy of releasing films in 3D, opening week 3D screens outperformed 2D screens 6:1."We are proud of the great opening week that Lionsgate had with My Bloody Valentine 3D in RealD theatres," said Michael Lewis, chairman and CEO of RealD. "3D continues to be the bright spot in the industry and it's clear that audiences responded to the promise of this superior filmgoing experience in RealD 3D."Steve Rothenberg, President of Distribution for Lionsgate said "We are thrilled over the fantastic audience response to MY BLOODY VALENTINE 3D. Lionsgate has been a leader in horror innovation, so it was important that MY BLOODY VALENTINE 3D be a showcase for today's 3D as an immersive experience and not just a gimmick. RealD helped make that possible, and these opening numbers are proof of the film's success."Presented in stunningly real, cutting edge 3D projection, My Bloody Valentine 3D stars Jensen Ackles (TV's "Smallville" and "Supernatural"), Jaime King (THE SPIRIT, SIN CITY, SIN CITY 2) and Kerr Smith (FINAL DESTINATION, "Dawson's Creek"). A remake of the 1981 horror classic, MY BLOODY VALENTINE 3D is directed by Patrick Lussier from a screenplay by Todd Farmer and Zane Smith, based on a screenplay by John Beaird, story by Stephen Miller, and is produced by Jack Murray.About RealD (website: www.reald.com)RealD is the global leader in 3D, bringing the most advanced and enjoyable digital 3D experience to cinemas worldwide. RealD's next-generation technology, deployed across the world's largest 3D platform in 34 countries with over 1,600 screens, provides a stunningly realistic viewing experience. Beyond cinema, RealD is the worldwide inventor and provider of key stereoscopic technologies used in science, manufacturing, marketing, and other industries, with thirty years of scientific development behind its systems. RealD's mission-critical 3D visualization technologies are used by organizations such as NASA, Pfizer, BMW, Boeing and more.

       

 