
 
 Astronauts aboard the International Space Station and right here on terra firma are clearing their schedules for a Google+ Hangout on February 22nd, which will be the first NASA-coordinated Hangout with the ISS. Between 11 AM and noon ET, astronauts will answer questions previously submitted via video clips and those streaming in from the space agency's Facebook page, Google+ and through Tweets tagged with #askAstro. NASA isn't saying who'll snag live face-time with the spacefarers during the Hangout, but it is asking folks to upload unique and original questions in clips of 30 seconds or less to YouTube by February 12th. Yearning to have a query answered? Hit the jump for the full submission details.



  Show full PR text   NASA Hosts Its First Google+ Hangout Connecting with Space Station
  WASHINGTON -- NASA will host its first Google+ Hangout live with the International Space Station from 11 a.m. to noon EST, Friday, Feb. 22. This event will connect NASA's social media followers with astronauts on the ground and living and working aboard the laboratory orbiting 240 miles above Earth.
  Google+ Hangouts allow as many as 10 people to chat face-to-face, while thousands more can tune in to watch the conversation live on Google+ or YouTube.
  NASA's social media followers may submit video questions prior to the Hangout. During the event, several video questions will be selected and answered by the station crew and astronauts on the ground. Unique and original questions are more likely to be selected. Additionally, NASA also will take real-time questions submitted by fans on Google+, Twitter and Facebook.
  The deadline to submit video questions is Feb. 12. To be considered, video clips must be no longer than 30 seconds and must be uploaded to YouTube and tagged with #askAstro. Submitters should introduce themselves and mention their location before asking their question.
  Also use #askAstro to ask real-time questions on Google+, YouTube or Twitter during the event. On the morning of the event, NASA will open a thread on its Facebook page where questions may be posted.
  The hangout can be viewed live on NASA's Google+ page or on the NASA Television YouTube channel. To join the hangout, and for updates and opportunities to participate in upcoming hangouts, visit the NASA's Google+ page at: http://www.google.com/+NASA
  Astronauts Kevin Ford and Tom Marshburn of NASA and Chris Hadfield of the Canadian Space Agency will answer questions and provide insights about life aboard the station. Crews conduct a variety of science experiments and perform station maintenance during their six-month stay on the outpost. Their life aboard the station in near-weightlessness requires different approaches to everyday activities such as eating, sleeping and exercising.
 
