
 
It's time to add another 3D sporting event to your calendar, now that NASCAR and Turner Sports have gone public with plans for a 3D broadcast of the Coke Zero 400 July 3. Viewers can watch on DirecTV or online via TNT RaceBuddy. The hardware requirements for PC viewing are similar to those from the Masters broadcast, and we don't expect to hear DirecTV is in a more sharing mood than cable companies were then, so it will probably be the only option to watch this on TV. NASCAR is promising two custom feeds for the 3D broadcast, with one consisting of strategically placed track side cameras, and another focused on pit road. We're really waiting for a 3D Gopher Cam, in wall cam, and roof mounted cameras, but those can probably wait for the second race that airs in 3D.
      

 

Show full PR textDaytona night race to be shown 3D online, DirecTVCHARLOTTE, N.C. -- NASCAR Media Group and Turner Sports on Monday announced that NASCAR's first foray into 3D programming will take place with a special presentation of the Coke Zero 400 on July 3 (TNT, 7:30 p.m. ET).The 3D production will be made available through TNT RaceBuddy on NASCAR.COM as well as through DirecTV, and will complement a special television presentation on TNT, highlighted by the network's groundbreaking signature Wide Open format.NASCAR.COM will feature 3D feeds for the Daytona race in addition to the mosaic of HD-quality complementary unique camera angles available on TNT RaceBuddy on NASCAR.COM throughout the six Sprint Cup Series races televised on TNT.Turner also will make the Cup Series race from Daytona available in 3D through DirecTV. In order to experience the event in 3D, viewers will need a 3D TV or PC display with matching 3D glasses. Fans can go to www.nascar.com/racebuddy3Dexternal link to get more information about the hardware and software used to view the 3D production online."One of our goals here at NASCAR is to continuously explore ways to improve the viewing experience for our fans," said Jay Abraham, chief operating officer of NASCAR Media Group. "Offering the Coke Zero 400 in 3D on NASCAR.COM and select television distributors is a great example of that consistent exploration. Our fans have been asking us about 3D for several months so we're excited to deliver that to them for the first time ever in what will likely change how NASCAR is consumed moving forward."The 3D production on NASCAR.COM and DirecTV will feature two custom racing feeds produced specifically for 3D. The first will provide a unique look at the racing action from strategically placed cameras around the track designed to maximize the effect of 3D. The second stream will bring the mayhem of pit row into the third dimension creating a one-of-a-kind visual experience."At Turner Sports we pride ourselves on innovation through testing, learning and exploring new products and technologies that can better serve our audiences on a multitude of platforms," said Lenny Daniels, Turner Sports EVP and COO. "We see this as an opportunity to showcase our marquee primetime race in Daytona through our signature Wide Open format on TNT, as well as to learn more about 3D through this unique presentation online at NASCAR.COM and through DIRECTV."TNT's televised coverage at Daytona 6:30 p.m. ET with Countdown to Green, and continues with live race coverage at 7:30 p.m. in Wide Open format -- continuous race coverage free of national commercial breaks and more unobstructed race action than that of a standard telecast by using a letterbox widescreen format.
 