
 Navigon's gearing up for tomorrow's big day by updating its, erm, Navigon and StreetPilot Onboard apps. The refreshed software adds support for the iPhone 5's new 4-inch display as well as baking in public transport listings to Cupertino's presently underwhelming mapping offering. It's also gaining the promised "last mile" function to record the location of your car when finishing your journey on foot, sparing you the embarrassment of getting lost in the multi-storey lot when you return. The company's offering a $10 discount on its apps if you pick 'em up before October 3rd, while the in-app purchase of Urban Guidance has been reduced from $5 to $3 for the same period.

 Update: We've had a note from Garmin to say that while Navigon update is now available, StreetPilot Onboard has been slightly delayed.



  Show full PR text   Garmin Updates iPhone Navigation Apps with Public Transportation Features and Apple Maps Integration
   On the heels of the release of iOS 6, Garmin today updated its NAVIGON navigation app to add public transportation features, Apple Maps integration and full support for the new 4-inch screen of the iPhone 5. A similar update for the Garmin StreetPilot Onboard iPhone app will follow soon.

   "With our recent updates our apps can now serve as an extension to Apple Maps, providing iPhone users advanced navigation capabilities," said Joern Watzke, vice president mobile phone business at Garmin Wuerzburg GmbH. "This includes our new public transportation functionality as well as many additional premium features that aren't available on free navigation apps."

   Users can simply select any address or point of interest in Apple Maps and they will be offered the option to navigate to the selected destination using their NAVIGON app[1]. Both the StreetPilot Onboard and the NAVIGON app feature onboard maps that allow route calculations even in areas where cell coverage fades. Additional premium features include comprehensive lane guidance, speed limit and safety camera warnings, exit services, parking info, a trip planner and multi-route display, among many other functions[2].

   The NAVIGON app now fully utilizes the 4-inch display of the iPhone 5, which makes it easier to see all the details in the map view, such as speed limits or points of interest. This comes in especially handy for split screen depictions such as when the lane guidance feature is displayed next to the map view

   New Pedestrian and Public Transportation Features

   With Urban Guidance users are able to integrate public transportation into theirroute, complete with detailed itineraries of transit stops. The new feature considers trains, trams, busses and water taxis when calculating pedestrian routes. Users will be guided to a transit stop by foot and be able to look up detailed information on what line to take and where to get off. The new Last Mile function automatically saves the location of the user's car when continuing by foot, making it easy to find it on the way back. To depict the user's surroundings, the upcoming Garmin StreetPilot Onboard app update will also include new graphical features such as Google Street View and Panorama View 3D (in app purchase). Learn more about these new features here.

   The NAVIGON apps are up to 25 percent off until October 3, 2012. The in app purchase Urban Guidance is 40 percent off. The Garmin StreetPilot Onboard app will also beavailable at a reduced price once the update becomes available.

   NAVIGON USA: $39.99 instead of $49.99

   NAVIGON North America: $44.99 instead of $59.99

   NAVIGON MyRegion: $24.99 instead of $29.99

   Urban Guidance (In App Purchase): $2.99 instead of $4.99

 
