
 
 Forget everything your mother told you about playing ball in the house, Majesco thinks it's a terrific idea. NBA Baller Beats takes a rhythmic music game-like approach to the game of roundball, incorporating a real live basketball as a controller for the Xbox 360 title, as part of its full-body tracking Kinect action. And in case you're having trouble motivating off the couch, the gamemakers have brought the likes of Kanye, Run DMC, The Gorillaz and Common to help get you to your feet. Just make sure you remove that priceless antique vase from the living room before you do. At present, all we've got is a teaser trailer, which you can check out after the break. More info is coming at E3.



  
   Show full PR text    REAL BALL. REAL SKILLS.
  NBA BALLER BEATS CHANGES THE GAME.
  COMING EXCLUSIVELY TO KINECT FOR XBOX 360 THIS FALL
  The First Ever Full Body Motion-Based NBA Video Game Lets You Perform Like A Pro Using A Real Ball
  Edison, NJ-April 25, 2012-Majesco Entertainment Company (NASDAQ: COOL), publisher of the wildly successful Zumba® Fitness video game franchise, today revealed plans to release NBA Baller Beats, a fun, high energy and first-of-its kind participative basketball video game launching this fall exclusively on Kinect™ for the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft. Developed by HB Studios, NBA Baller Beats gets players on their feet mastering mad ball handling skills using a real basketball while playing to the beat of an eclectic soundtrack. The Kinect motion sensor captures every movement of both player and ball to create an entirely new basketball gaming experience.
  "NBA Baller Beats introduces an unprecedented way to experience basketball through a video game like never before," said Jesse Sutton, Chief Executive Officer of Majesco Entertainment. "Our innovative play mechanic combined with Kinect technology puts the ball in players' hands, tracking both full-body gameplay and ball movement, so players are going to have to get up and actually play basketball to get in the game. Ballers and fans alike will love this game."
  "We are excited to work with Majesco to provide basketball fans and gamers with a unique experience like NBA Baller Beats," said Vicky Picca, Senior Vice President, Licensing & Business Affairs, NBA. "Showcasing the energy and dynamic elements of the NBA against the backdrop of a compelling soundtrack will be fun for fans of all ages."
  Aspire to perform like a pro in NBA Baller Beats as you train alongside your favorite NBA franchise unlocking songs, difficulty levels, and over 100 posters and trading cards showcasing NBA players' greatest moves. The music is your guide as you master ball handling skills, dribbling, and baller moves with a real basketball as Kinect technology tracks your every crossover, pump fake, behind-the-back, around-the-world and more! Become the ultimate baller and increase your stamina in single player mode, break it down and practice different skills in Move School mode or show-off in multiplayer mode and go head-to-head against up to 8 players – the highest score wins bragging rights. No matter the level of your skills, players of all abilities will enjoy getting off the couch and raising their game with NBA Baller Beats.
  The NBA Baller Beats soundtrack features a mix of music across decades and genres including hip-hop, rock, and old school classics, with tracks from Kanye West, Run DMC, Gorillaz, Them Crooked Vultures, Common, Tiesto and more. Majesco Entertainment will unveil NBA Baller Beats gameplay, as well as additional soundtrack artists and songs, during the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo held in Los Angeles this June before setting out to give fans a try at exclusive basketball camps this summer.
  NBA Baller Beats will launch exclusively on Kinect for Xbox 360 this Fall. To watch the teaser trailer and find out more, please visit: www.NBABallerBeats.com.
  ###
  About Majesco Entertainment Company
  Majesco Entertainment Company is a provider of video games for the mass market. Building on more than 20 years of operating history, the company is focused on developing and publishing a wide range of casual and family oriented video games on all leading console and handheld platforms as well as online, social networks and mobile devices. Product highlights include Zumba® Fitness, Cooking MamaTM, Alvin and the Chipmunks, and QUICKHIT NFL Football. The company's shares are traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol: COOL. Majesco is headquartered in Edison, NJ with offices in San Francisco, CA, Brockhampton, UK, and a social games development studio in Foxboro, MA. More info can be found online at www.majescoentertainment.com or on Twitter at www.twitter.com/majesco.
  Kinect, Xbox, Xbox 360, and Xbox LIVE are either registered trademarks or trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
  
