
 

What's the point of dropping a few Benjamins on a tablet if you can't watch video on-the-go? Although much fuss has been made of Cupertino's reluctance to add Flash to its line of iOS devices, the kings of content (read: networks) are still scheming up ways to port the prime time eye candy to your portable slates. Shoring up that streaming divide are a trio of new apps from NBC, TNT and TBS that deliver full episodes of the networks' fodder to your iPad, albeit with some authentication required. Unlike other premium mobile video services, these three apps come free of charge. So, go ahead and hit up the source below to get your SVU to go.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		September 09, 2011 NBC EXPANDS THE NBC.COM APP FOR iPAD TO INCLUDE FULL EPISODES AND UPDATES THE NBC LIVE APP WITH MORE CONTENT		The NBC.com App for iPad Now Includes Full Episodes and The NBC Live App for iPad Will Feature "The Office," "The Sing-Off," "The Biggest Loser" and "Chuck" As Part Of Its Social Co-Viewing Experience  		UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. – September 9, 2011 – NBC has announced that its popular NBC.com app for iPad now offers fans full episodes -- mirroring the online experience. 		Additionally, the network's co-viewing application, the NBC Live app, has upgraded with a number of key new features, including the ability to watch video clips, play games and scroll through photos without ever leaving the app. With these new features the NBC Live app is set to make the broadcasts of "The Office," "The Sing-Off," "The Biggest Loser" and "Chuck" unique and interactive experiences. 		The announcement was made today by Vivi Zigler, President, NBCUniversal Digital Entertainment. 		"We are thrilled to offer our fans full episodes via our NBC.com app. Now the app truly reflects the deep fan experience that we have created online at NBC.com," said Zigler. "And our fans are going to love the latest update to the NBC Live app which now offers them more content, better access and a unique social television experience." 		In addition to full episodes, the NBC app for iPad, which launched in June 2011, gives fans access to content from their favorite shows and features such as thousands of video clips and highlights, exclusive photo galleries, recaps, games and news, making it all customizable from the myNBC dashboard. 		The NBC Live app is a unique companion-viewing tool that provides a real time social experience where users can engage with fellow fans in a moderated social stream, and interact with exclusive content synced to the on-air broadcast while they watch their favorite shows on television. 		The NBC.com app and NBC Live app are available for free from the App Store on iPad or at www.itunes.com/appstore.
 