

 The Nest Learning Thermostat just became a lot more available -- that is, if you happen to be around one of the 500+ Lowe's stores in the US that now carry the smart appliance. Lowe's insists that the product, designed by former Apple employees, is in line with the chain's do-it-yourself focus, seeing as home most buyers will likely install the product on their own. And everyone could stand to shed a some cost from their energy bills, right? More info can be found in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    Nest Learning Thermostat Now Available at More Than 500 Lowe's Stores, Lowes.com
  Nest Labs, Inc. (nest.com) announced today that the Nest® Learning Thermostat™ is now available in more than 500 Lowe's Companies, Inc., (NYSE: LOW) stores across the country, as well as on lowes.com. Lowe's – the second-largest home-improvement retailer in the world – will feature Nest in its new Innovation merchandising displays in-store, which bring the best new products in home improvement to life with interactive end caps. To purchase or check local availability, visit lowes.com.
  "There's a natural affinity between Lowe's and Nest," said Erik Charlton, Nest vice president of sales and marketing. "Both companies are committed to supporting DIY-minded customers seeking quality products. Most Nest owners choose to install the Nest Learning Thermostat themselves - and complete installation within 30 minutes - so it makes sense for them to buy from Lowe's, a great retailer that supports its customers' ingenuity and pride in their homes."
  "Nest has added energy and excitement to the thermostat category," said Dean Kochalka, vice president of Merchandising at Lowe's. "Lowe's continues to look for ways to offer customers the latest innovative products to make home improvement simple, and the Nest Learning Thermostat offers customers a personalized, intuitive approach to easily managing the home environment and energy expenses."
  The Nest Learning Thermostat learns about you and your home to automatically adjust the temperature when you're away, guide you to energy-efficient temperatures when you're home and free you from programming hassles by creating a personal temperature schedule. With heating and cooling accounting for approximately 50 percent of the average household energy bill (or more than $1,000 per year), Nest can make a noticeable difference by helping reduce energy consumption. Since its launch in October 2011, Nest has earned rave reviews and awards – from Good Housekeeping's VIP Award to CNET's coveted five-star rating.
  For more on Lowe's dedication to energy conservation and the environment, visit lowes.com/socialresponsibility.
  
