
 
 The Nest Learning Thermostat has certainly generated plenty of buzz -- and not just by thermostat standards -- but it's so far only be available to those in the United States. That's finally starting to change today, though, with Nest announcing that is has now begun shipping the thermostat to Canada. Those interested will initially only be order the device through Nest's own website, where it will set Canadians back the same $249 -- they can also take advantage of the "Nest Concierge" program to get the unit professionally installed for $119, with additional installations running $25 each (all still in US dollars). Still no word on any Canadian retailers that will be carrying the device.



  Show full PR text   Nest Learning Thermostat Now Shipping to Canada
   Sweat Less over Air-Conditioning and Heating Bills

   PALO ALTO, CA, May 29, 2012 /CNW/ - The Nest® Learning Thermostat™ - developed by Tony Fadell, who led the creation of 18 generations of iPod and three generations of iPhone - will revolutionize the way Canadians think about energy use in their homes. Technically advanced, beautifully designed and simple to use, the world's first commercially available learning thermostat begins shipping to Canadians today.

   Nest learns about you and your home to automatically turn itself down when you're away, guide you to energy-efficient temperatures when you're home, and free you from programming hassles by creating a personalized temperature schedule - altogether saving you up to 20 percent on your home heating and cooling bills.

   "It was unacceptable to me that the device that controls a significant amount of all energy consumed in North America hadn't kept up with advancements in technology and design," said Tony Fadell, co-founder and chief executive officer of Nest Labs. "We hope it will not only save Canadians money and energy, but that it will teach and inspire everyone to think more about how we can reduce home-energy consumption."

   Chill Out with Cool Smart Thermostat  According to Natural Resources Canada, heating and cooling accounts for 64 percent of the average Canadian household energy bill. Nest makes a noticeable reduction in energy consumption by addressing the programming problem through a combination of sensors, algorithms, machine learning, and cloud computing. Ninety-nine percent of Nest thermostats have a schedule that matches their owners' lives, helping to save energy and money.

   Since its launch in October 2011, Nest has earned rave reviews and more than 15 awards - from Good Housekeeping's VIP Award to CNET's coveted five-star rating.

   How Nest Works for You

   Keeps you comfortable. With Auto-Schedule, Nest learns your personal schedule and temperature preferences and Nest continues to refine its schedule over time.  Helps you save. Nest saves energy with both automatic, Nest-exclusive energy-saving features and by giving you the information you need to make better energy-consumption choices.  Auto-Away - When Nest's built-in sensors detect that no one is home, Auto-Away automatically lowers the temperature.

   Airwave - Your AC continues to cool the air around it for 5 to 10 minutes after it's off. When humidity in your home is low and the weather's hot, Airwave automatically turns the air conditioner off a few minutes early, then uses the fan to spread that cold air through your home. This Nest exclusive can reduce A/C runtime by up to 30%.

   Energy History - See whether your energy use has increased or decreased compared to the previous week, and understand the cause of that change (your adjustment, Away, or the weather).  The Nest Leaf - Nest tracks the temperatures you typically set and guides you to more energy-efficient ones, displaying the Leaf as a reward when you choose a more energy-efficient temperature.

   Control from anywhere. Connect Nest to your home's Wi-Fi to control it from your laptop, smartphone or tablet. Change the temperature, adjust your schedule and check your energy history remotely.

   Simple to use. Rotate the outer ring to adjust the temperature. The display turns blue when cooling and orange when heating. Push down to open the menu.

   Convenient installation options. If you're comfortable changing a light fixture, you can install Nest. In fact, most Nest owners install Nest themselves, with three out of four DIY customers installing it in 30 minutes or less. If you prefer, you can purchase Nest Concierge professional installation service on nest.com.

   Pricing and Availability  Canadians can purchase their own Nest Learning Thermostat at nest.com/store for $249 USD, plus shipping. Nest also offers professional installation through the Nest Concierge program for $119 USD for the first unit and $25 USD for each additional unit.

   About Nest  Nest is focused on addressing home-energy consumption with an elegantly designed solution - one that people enjoy using. Founded by Apple alums Tony Fadell and Matt Rogers, Nest brings together a world-class team with the broad backgrounds needed to deliver an amazing product that blends technology with ease of use. Nest is privately funded and based in Palo Alto, Calif. For more information, visit nest.com.

 
