
 Hot on the heels of a deal for Canada, Netflix and Warner Bros. have spread their newfound affection for each other to a multi-year, exclusive agreement for Ireland and the UK. Both island nations are getting streaming access to past seasons of four Warner-distributed TV shows, with availability staggered over the next several months. The Vampire Diaries is first out of the gate, with three seasons coming to Netflix on December 1st; five seasons of Gossip Girl follow on March 1st, while less definite schedules have all of Chuck and four seasons of Fringe appearing sometime in 2013. The arrangement isn't quite as ideal as it would be if episodes appeared as they aired, but it's a welcome expansion for a young regional service that's still locked in a  battle for supremacy.



  Show full PR text   HIT SERIES VAMPIRE DIARIES, GOSSIP GIRL, FRINGE AND CHUCK COMING SOON TO NETFLIX
  Netflix Members in UK and Ireland to Exclusively Enjoy Complete Prior Seasons of Top U.S. Programmes
  November 29, 2012-Netflix Inc. and Warner Bros. International Television Distribution today announced a multi-year licensing agreement allowing Netflix members in the U.K. and Ireland to exclusively enjoy complete previous seasons of some of the hottest series on American television.
  The first three seasons of hit teen supernatural drama The Vampire Diaries come to Netflix on December 1, while seasons one through five of saucy young adult favorite Gossip Girl begin on March 1. Later in 2013, four seasons of the J.J. Abrams-created science fiction show Fringe will be available to watch instantly as will all five seasons of Chuck, the beloved hybrid action-comedy, spy-drama that completed its American run in January.
  "We are thrilled to be the exclusive online subscription home for these incredibly entertaining shows from Warner Bros. Television," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix Chief Content Officer. "We are giving fans the opportunity to relive their favorite moments from these programmes while hopefully attracting a lot of new ones who will be able to enjoy these serialized stories from their very beginning."
  "We are pleased to be able to offer fans in the UK and Ireland on-demand access to past seasons of these incredibly addictive series," said Jeffrey R. Schlesinger, President, Warner Bros. International Television. "Whether fans discover, catch-up or relive favorite episodes, Netflix is a terrific distribution partner and this deal demonstrates that there is now a viable new outlet for our programming after the initial telecast in the UK."
 
