
 

Netflix's British charm offensive continues, in preparation for its launch in there early next year. The latest signing is with BBC Worldwide and offers up classic BBC shows like Torchwood, Spooks and Fawlty Towers in return for an undisclosed sum deposited into the public broadcaster's coffers. The license only covers streaming rights to viewers in the UK and Ireland, but Netflix US already has some of the BBC's back catalog and iPlayer should hopefully bring fresher material our way soon. PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Starting Early 2012, Netflix Members In The UK And Ireland Will Be Able To Instantly Watch Many Previous Series of "Doctor Who," "Top Gear," "Little Britain" and more 		BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Dec. 20, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and BBC Worldwide, the commercial arm of the BBC, today announced a new digital licensing agreement that will bring a broad range of great BBC series to Netflix members in the UK and Ireland. 		(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)		Beginning early 2012, previous series of BBC shows such as "Torchwood" and "Spooks" will be available for Netflix members to watch instantly in the UK and Ireland streamed over the Internet to connected TVs, tablets, game consoles, computers and mobile phones.		Financial terms of the deal are not being disclosed. Netflix announced in October that it would launch its service in the UK and Ireland early in 2012. 		"BBC shows are a big favourite of our over 20 million streaming members in the U.S., Canada and Latin America," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix chief content officer. "Members love watching back-to-back episodes of BBC series where and when they want, at the click of a button. We are incredibly proud to make these high quality programmes available to Netflix members in the UK and Ireland." 		Commented Steve Macallister, president and managing director, Sales & Distribution, BBC Worldwide: "With our content already available on Netflix in North and Latin America, we're delighted to be a launch partner for Netflix in the UK and Eire, offering viewers the chance to watch some of our best loved shows on the platform from day one. UK audiences have really grasped the experience that online viewing can bring, and our programming has proven to be particularly popular with this digital audience." 		Additional BBC titles available to members of Netflix in the UK and Ireland will include comedies like "Little Britain" and "Fawlty Towers," and dramas like "Miss Marple" and "Inspector Lynley." 		About Netflix: With more than 20 million streaming members in the United States, Canada and Latin America, Netflix, Inc. [Nasdaq: NFLX] is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For about US $7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streaming over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 700 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, visit www.netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter. 		About BBC Worldwide BBC Worldwide Limited is the main commercial arm and a wholly owned subsidiary of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). The company exists to maximise the value of the BBC's assets for the benefit of the licence fee payer and invest in public service programming in return for rights. The company has five core businesses: Channels, Content & Production, Sales & Distribution, Consumer Products and Brands, Consumers & New Ventures, with digital ventures incorporated into each business area. In 2010/11, BBC Worldwide generated profits of pounds Sterling 160 million on sales of 1158 million pounds and returned 182m pounds to the BBC. For more detailed performance information please see our Annual Review website: www.bbcworldwide.com/annualreview. More information visit www.bbcworldwide.com or twitter.com/bbcwpress.
 