
 History would kindly tell us that this isn't the very first deal Netflix and Warner Bros. have struck in past months -- and, well, chances are it won't be the last one either. Earlier today, the streaming giant announced it had reached a new exclusive agreement with the California-based studio which will bring a hefty amount of new content to subscribers in Canada. Starting January of next year, Netflix streamers in the Great White North can start watching TV shows such as The Vampire Diaries, Fringe and Pretty Little Liars, as well as films like The Hangover Part II, Horrible Bosses and even the critically-acclaimed blockbuster The Dark Knight Rises -- although these movies will come "for a limited period following their pay television window." There's still some time before the deal bears fruit, so perhaps the next few weeks could be used to start clearing that overloaded Instant Queue of yours.



  Show full PR text   THE VAMPIRE DIARIES, PRETTY LITTLE LIARS AND FRINGE COMING TO NETFLIX CANADA
   Netflix Canada To Be The Exclusive Online Home Of Complete Prior Seasons Of Hit Warner Bros. TV Series And Feature Films

   LOS GATOS, Calif., November 26, 2012 -Netflix Inc. and Warner Bros. International Television Distribution today announced an exclusive licensing agreement allowing Netflix members in Canada to instantly watch previous seasons of serialized dramas and feature films from Warner Bros.

   The first two seasons of The Vampire Diaries, the hit teen supernatural drama, are now available on Netflix Canada with season three following on January 1. Complete previous seasons of Pretty Little Liars, the mystery-thriller following four teen friends whose clique falls apart with the disappearance of their queen bee, and Fringe, the science fiction series from J.J. Abrams, will also be available in Canada on January 1.

   Also coming to Netflix as part of the agreement is the hilariously debauched, The Hangover Part II; Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight Rises with Christian Bale and Anne Hathaway; and the comedy, Horrible Bosses with Jennifer Aniston and Jason Bateman, as well as numerous other Warner Bros. titles that will be exclusively available online on Netflix Canada for a limited period following their pay television window.

   "We are thrilled to be the exclusive online subscription home for The Vampire Diaries, Pretty Little Liars, Fringe and great Warner Bros. feature films in Canada," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer at Netflix. "Over the years, we've learned that our members love to immerse themselves in serialized dramas and great movies, and we think that our Canadian members are going to love these latest additions to the service."

   "We are pleased to extend our great relationship with Netflix to the benefit of their Canadian subscribers -- giving them access to full past seasons of some of our most popular and addictive serialized dramas and blockbuster feature film titles," said Jeffrey R. Schlesinger, President, Warner Bros. International Television.

   About Netflix:

   With more than 30 million streaming members in the United States, Canada, Latin America, the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Nordics, Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ: NFLX) is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV programs. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can instantly watch movies and TV programs streamed over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, over 800 devices that stream from Netflix are available.www.netflix.com.

 
