
 While Netflix is trying to lure in the grown-ups with the launch of House of Cards, it's not leaving kids without their own choice of original material. DreamWorks plans to follow up the July release of its animated movie Turbo with a Netflix-only series, Turbo FAST, in December. The episodes will arrive on the service roughly in line with DreamWorks' 2013 slate of movies, including Turbo. Young viewers may well be happy, but Turbo FAST and the larger DreamWorks deal could be that much more satisfying for Netflix itself -- they're potential foils to Amazon's multi-show plans that could keep some subscribing families from jumping ship.



   Show full PR text   Netflix And DreamWorks Animation Launch First Ever Netflix Original Series for Kids
  DreamWorks Animation's Summer 2013 Film Turbo Speeds onto the Streaming Service
  Feb 12, 2013
  LOS ANGELES, Feb. 12, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. (Nasdaq: DWA) today announced they will create the first ever Netflix Original Series for kids. Based on the highly-anticipated DreamWorks Animation movie Turbo, premiering in theaters this summer, the Netflix series Turbo: F.A.S.T. (Fast Action Stunt Team) debuts exclusively this December in the United States and across the globe in the 40 countries where Netflix offers its service.
  "Families love Netflix, so creating an original series for kids was a natural for us. And we're doing it in a big way by adapting Turbo, this year's DreamWorks Animation summer tentpole movie," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer of Netflix. "DreamWorks Animation has a long track record of creating incredibly successful characters and stories that delight people of all ages. We're thrilled to add Turbo the series as well as all new DreamWorks Animation films, starting with their 2013 slate, to Netflix."
  "Netflix boasts one of the largest and fastest-growing audiences in kids television. They pioneered a new model for TV dramas with House of Cards, and now together, we're doing the same thing with kids' programming," said DreamWorks Animation's Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Katzenberg. "DreamWorks is thrilled to be part of the television revolution."
  DreamWorks Animation's Turbo is a high velocity 3D comedy about an ordinary snail who dares to dream big – and fast. After a freak accident miraculously gives him the power of super-speed, Turbo kicks his dreaming into overdrive and embarks on an extraordinary journey to achieve the seemingly impossible: competing in the Indianapolis 500. The film, which stars Ryan Reynolds, Paul Giamatti, Michael Pena, Luis Guzman, Bill Hader, Richard Jenkins, Ken Jeong, Michelle Rodriguez, Maya Rudolph, Ben Schwartz, Kurtwood Smith, Snoop Lion and Samuel L. Jackson, comes to theaters on July 19, 2013.
  Turbo's pursuit of racing greatness continues in Turbo: F.A.S.T.: an episodic animated television series that picks up where the feature film leaves off. It showcases the world-traveling exploits of our snail hero and his tricked-out racing crew as they master outrageous new stunts and challenge any villain unlucky enough to cross their path.
  In addition to the original TV series Turbo: F.A.S.T., new DreamWorks Animation feature titles will be made available for Netflix members in the U.S. to watch beginning with the studio's 2013 film line-up.
  In 2012, Netflix members streamed more than 2 billion hours of kids content. Always commercial free, the content in the kids section of Netflix was curated in conjunction with ratings and reviews from Common Sense Media, a leading non-profit organization that provides independent, trustworthy ratings, reviews and information to help parents make great media choices. In addition to character-based selections, the service displays rows of TV shows and movies organized by easy-to-understand genres such as superheroes, princesses, dinosaurs and girl power. The unique Netflix technology provides each member with a personalized experience based on preferences and favorites.
 
