
   Kicking up a fuss about Netflix hogging all your bandwidth? Perhaps the company's latest partnership could induce a rapid change of heart. The streaming service has paired up with eyeIO in hopes of keeping bandwidth usage during streams to a minimum, which they claim won't affect the content's overall quality. While the joint venture just became official, the startup's "ultra-low-bandwidth" encoding technology -- that allegedly can reduce usage on a 720p HD stream by more than 50 percent -- began its testing phase on the streaming-giant's offerings months ago. Although eyeIO's service has already been implemented by Netflix, it's worth mentioning this isn't an exclusive deal, thus it's possible for its competition to jump on the bandwidth conservation bandwagon in the future. More importantly, we're interested to find out if you have noticed any difference in your streams lately, so drop us a line in the comments below.
 

  Show full PR text  eyeIO Unveils Breakthrough Video Encoding Technology, Netflix First to Deploy  Ultra-low-bandwidth encoding technology provides higher quality video experience for streaming service customers worldwide  PALO ALTO, CA – February 1, 2012 – Today EYE IO, LLC (eyeIO) makes its official debut as an Internet video streaming technology provider, announcing its first commercial license agreement with Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ: NFLX), the leading global internet subscription service for movies and TV shows.  "eyeIO provides a straightforward solution for accommodating the rapidly growing demand for video delivery around the world by alleviating the overwhelming bandwidth currently required to stream video," said Rodolfo Vargas, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of eyeIO. "Our future could not look more promising as eyeIO continues to challenge the commonly accepted limits of Internet video delivery and enables everyone connected to the Internet to enjoy high quality video no matter where they are."  With more than 20 million streaming members in 47 countries and territories, Netflix has revolutionized entertainment by providing instant and unlimited access to tens of thousands of hours of movies and TV shows. eyeIO technology helps Netflix deliver the high quality streaming experience Netflix members love.  "Delivering a high quality video experience is top priority for Netflix," said Greg Peters, Vice President, Product Development of Netflix. "eyeIO technology is an important part of the technology we use to improve video quality and overcome bandwidth challenges presented by Internet infrastructure."  eyeIO video encoding is fully compliant with existing standards, making high quality video available anywhere in the world, on any connected device. The technology can be deployed as either a cloud or local solution and the enhanced video can be viewed without a custom video player or equipment modification.  eyeIO was founded by an all-star lineup of technology experts: Charles Steinberg, former CEO of Ampex Corporation and former President of the Business and Professional Products Company of Sony Electronics (NYSE: SNE); Robert C. Hagerty, former Chairman and CEO of Polycom (NASDAQ: PLCM); and Rodolfo Vargas, former Senior Program Manager of Video at Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT) and former Co-Chairman of Video Streaming and Internet Interactivity at the DVD Forum.
 