
 

So far Canadian Netflix users have had to deal with a far more limited streaming library than their US cousins, exacerbated by the lack of a DVD / Blu-ray library to fall back on, but that's about to change. Netflix has struck a deal in Canada with Paramount for premium pay TV window access covering "exclusive subscription television rights to all first-run films." Currently in the US Netflix's deal with Epix gives it access to many of the same movies (Iron Man 2 -- already available since the 25th in Canada, while not currently ready for streaming in the US -- Titanic, Zoolander, The Last Airbender) eventually, but that's clearly not exclusive. While it's previously cut deals with smaller distributors like Relativity Media and Nu Image/Millennium Films for pay TV window access, the combo of exclusive and a major studio like Paramount makes Netflix a pay TV channel competitor in a whole new way. This backs up its earlier move in that direction by signing up for a new original show to debut on the service in 2012 and potentially adds a new edge to rumored negotiations for the Miramax back catalog, press release follows after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textNetflix and Paramount Reach Multi-Year Premium Pay TV Window Deal in CanadaThe Last Airbender, Marvel's Iron Man 2 and Hundreds More Great Paramount Movies to be Offered Exclusively to Canadian Netflix Members to Watch InstantlyBEVERLY HILLS, Calif., March 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) today announced a new multi-year licensing agreement with Paramount Pictures, a division of Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B), adding hundreds of new movie titles, including the exclusive subscription television rights to all first-run films, for Canadian Netflix members to watch instantly on their computers and TVs.Netflix members in Canada can enjoy theatrical hits from Paramount in the coming months starting with "The Last Airbender" and Marvel's "Iron Man 2." The five year agreement will add over 350 new movies available to watch instantly from Netflix in Canada, including epics like "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," "Titanic," and "Defiance," great comedies like "Zoolander" and "Wayne's World," and beloved classics like "The African Queen," "Sabrina" (1954) and "Terms of Endearment.""We are committed to constantly expanding our selection of top new movies and TV shows for our Canadian members," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix chief content officer. "This agreement will allow them to watch some of the latest hit Paramount films as well as an incredible range of the studio's recent and classic favorites anytime they want. Netflix and Paramount enjoy a great relationship and are proud to bring such a terrific array of films to Netflix members in Canada."Speaking on behalf of Paramount Pictures, Hal Richardson, President of Paramount Television & Digital Distribution, stated "We are extremely pleased to have concluded this deal with Netflix for the premium pay television window in Canada; offering some of Paramount's best films to their rapidly growing Canadian subscriber base, beginning with Iron Man 2 on March 25. We are especially delighted that this arrangement serves to broaden the growing relationship with our friends at Netflix."About Netflix:With more than 20 million members in the United States and Canada, Netflix, Inc. [Nasdaq: NFLX] is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For $7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are Microsoft's Xbox 360, Nintendo's Wii and Sony's PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple's iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 200 devices that stream from Netflix are available in the U.S. and a growing number are available in Canada.About Paramount Pictures Corporation:Paramount Pictures Corporation (PPC), a global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment, is a unit of Viacom (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B), a leading content company with prominent and respected film, television and digital entertainment brands. The company's labels include Paramount Pictures, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, Insurge Pictures, MTV Films and Nickelodeon Movies. PPC operations also include Paramount Digital Entertainment, Paramount Famous Productions, Paramount Home Entertainment, Paramount Pictures International, Paramount Licensing Inc., Paramount Studio Group and Paramount Television & Digital Distribution.CONTACT: Steve Swasey of Netflix, Inc., +1-408-540-3947, sswasey@netflix.com; or Dade Hayes of Rubenstein Communications, Inc., +1-212-843-8022, dhayes@rubenstein.com, for Netflix, Inc.
 