
 AMC's detective series The Killing had an inconsistent first couple of seasons, but it is surprisingly returning for a third. Netflix may have assisted that, by sewing up exclusive rights to stream the show worldwide, with the third season coming to US and Canadian subscribers three months after its cable TV finale. The first two seasons are already on the US service and will appear in other regions over the next few months. We've seen Netflix use its analytics to decide to air a brand new show (House of Cards) and bring back one that's been cancelled (Arrested Development), but this time it's picking up a currently airing series that probably plays better in "binge viewing" format than week-by-week. Whatever the case, even with premium channels and streaming services chasing original content, the odds of your favorite niche program getting its six seasons and a movie appear to have never been better.



  Show full PR text   Netflix Announces The Killing Season 3 Coming Exclusively to Its Streaming Members Globally
  Season 2 is Now Available for Members in the U.S. to Watch Instantly
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., March 14, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and Fox Television Studios (FTVS) today announced Season 3 of fan favorite The Killing, which premieres on AMC in 2013, will be available exclusively for streaming members after its airing in the U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, the deal brings Season 3 to Netflix members three months after the season finale airs on AMC. The deal makes Netflix the exclusive subscription television service for The Killing Season 3.

   (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130314/SF76956)

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

   In addition, the complete Season 2 of The Killing is available for members in the U.S., along with Season 1, which launched on Netflix in 2012. Over the next few months, members in all 40 countries where Netflix is available will be able to enjoy Seasons 1 and 2 of The Killing, prior to the Season 3 launch.

   "We're excited to see The Killing back on TV and we're especially proud to bring Season 3 to our members so soon after it premieres on AMC," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer, Netflix. "The Killing is a terrific serialized drama and we know our members love these high-quality shows."

   David Madden, president of Fox Television Studios, said, "Our agreement with Netflix played an extremely significant part in the studio's strategy that enabled us to bring The Killing back for a third season. Our showrunner, Veena Sud, has plunged our principals into new and dangerous worlds, with wicked twists and a climactic end-of-season resolution, and our acclaimed cast, including Mireille Enos, Joel Kinnaman and new cast member Peter Sarsgaard, are already thrillingly bringing it to life. We are delighted to be in business with Netflix to deliver Season 3, as well as past seasons of The Killing to a broader audience worldwide."

   The critically acclaimed drama, based on the Danish series Forbrydelsen, follows various murder investigations led by homicide detectives "Sarah Linden" (Mireille Enos) and "Stephen Holder" (Joel Kinnaman). After the close of the "Rosie Larsen case," covered over the first two seasons of the series, Season 3 picks up one year later, with Linden no longer a detective. When ex-partner Holder's search for a runaway girl leads him to discover a gruesome string of murders that connects to a previous murder investigation by Linden, she is drawn back into the life she thought she'd left behind.

   About Netflix

   Netflix is the world's leading Internet television network with more than 33 million members in 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including Netflix original series. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Learn more about how Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) is pioneering Internet television at www.netflix.com or follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter.

   About Fox Television Studios

   Fox Television Studios produces scripted and unscripted programming for US broadcast and cable networks, and international broadcasters. The studio produces for USA the hit series Burn Notice, going into season seven, and White Collar, going into season five, as well as the upcoming Graceland. FTVS also produces The Americans for FX, starring Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys, recently renewed for season two, The Glades for A&E, in its fourth season, The Killing, in its third season on AMC, the half-hour comedy series, Maron, to launch on IFC in spring 2013, and the upcoming unscripted series Life Flight, slated to premiere on TNT in early 2014.

 
