
Dexter may have exited airwaves this year, but Showtime's serial about a serial killer cop is getting a new lease on life when all eight seasons arrive on Netflix. The first four seasons arrive on Halloween, with the following seasons expected by January 1st, 2014 -- two drops perfectly timed with mass video consumption around national holidays. Smart! Looks like Showtime's Anytime app isn't the only streaming option anymore.


The announcement is the latest in a long line of partnerships Netflix arranged with various content owners and creators, from the folks behind Damages to Disney. And that's to say nothing of the company's recent in-roads on original content creation: House of Cards, Orange is the New Black and Arrested Development are but a few recent hits in that department. Call us crazy, but we expect even more content announcements from Netflix before the holidays kick into full swing.



Show full PR textCBS Corporation and Netflix Announce Streaming Video On Demand Deal for Landmark SHOWTIME Series "Dexter®"

America's Favorite Serial Killer Arrives on Netflix in the U.S. on Halloween

BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Oct. 28, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) and CBS Corporation announced today a content licensing agreement in which all eight seasons of the SHOWTIME drama "Dexter" will become available for Netflix members in the United States. Beginning on Halloween (Oct 31, 2013), the first four seasons of the award-winning series will be available to watch instantly; seasons 5-8 will begin on Jan 1, 2014.

Starring Golden Globe winning actor Michael C. Hall, "Dexter" tells the story of Dexter Morgan, America's favorite serial killer. As a Miami forensics expert, he spends his days solving crimes, and nights committing them. But Dexter lives by a strict code of honor that is both his saving grace and lifelong burden. Torn between his deadly compulsion and his desire for true happiness, Dexter is a man in profound conflict with the world and himself.

"We're thrilled to have 'Dexter,' one of SHOWTIME's highest-rated shows on Netflix, and so quickly after it completed its record-breaking run," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer for Netflix. "This is one of the great serialized dramas of the past decade and we know our members will enjoy discovering or reliving the twisted world of Dexter Morgan anywhere and anytime they want."

"We're excited to expand our relationship with Netflix's premium service with this groundbreaking SHOWTIME series," said Scott Koondel, Chief Corporate Content Licensing Officer, CBS Corporation. "SHOWTIME has created one of the signature programming brands on television, and this agreement for 'Dexter' further demonstrates the value of this content in the marketplace while expanding the show's passionate fan base to a whole new online audience."

ABOUT CBS CORPORATIONCBS Corporation (NYSE: CBS.A and CBS) is a mass media company that creates and distributes industry-leading content across a variety of platforms to audiences around the world. The Company has businesses with origins that date back to the dawn of the broadcasting age as well as new ventures that operate on the leading edge of media. CBS owns the most-watched television network in the U.S. and one of the world's largest libraries of entertainment content, making its brand – "the Eye" – one of the most recognized in business. The Company's operations span virtually every field of media and entertainment, including cable, publishing, radio, local TV, film, outdoor advertising, and interactive and socially responsible media. CBS's businesses include CBS Television Network, The CW (a joint venture between CBS Corporation and Warner Bros. Entertainment), Showtime Networks, CBS Sports Network, TVGN (a joint venture between CBS Corporation and Lionsgate), Smithsonian Networks, Simon & Schuster, CBS Television Stations, CBS Radio, CBS Outdoor, CBS Television Studios, CBS Global Distribution Group (CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution), CBS Interactive, CBS Consumer Products, CBS Home Entertainment, CBS Films and CBS EcoMedia. For more information, go to www.cbscorporation.com.

ABOUT NETFLIXNetflix is the world's leading Internet television network with more than 40 million members in 41 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments.


