
 
 Netflix mentioned during its most recent earnings call that it had identified an attractive European market to launch its streaming video service in during Q4 2012 and now we know where that is: Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland. There's no word yet on pricing or which devices the service will be available on, but Nordic viewers can expect the usual assortment of movies and TV shows for a flat rate, with many available in HD and surround sound. Judging by the languages of support personnel Netflix was looking for last year, Asia is next on its world domination map (after Canada, Latin America and UK & Ireland) although how investors will react to the hit expansion makes on its earnings in the short term.



  Show full PR text   Netflix To Launch In Norway, Denmark, Sweden And Finland In Late 2012
   LOS GATOS, Calif., Aug. 15, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ: NFLX) today announced it will offer streaming of TV shows and movies for one low monthly price in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland before the end of 2012.

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

   Upon launch, broadband Internet users in the Nordic countries can subscribe to Netflix and instantly watch a wide array of Hollywood, local and global TV shows and movies; many with high definition video and Dolby Digital Plus surround sound.

   Netflix has revolutionized entertainment by giving people a choice to enjoy what they want to watch from its broad selection, when they want to watch it, where they want to watch it for one low monthly price over a wide-range of Internet-connected devices. These devices include PCs, Macs, Smart TVs, game consoles, Blu-ray disc players, smartphones and tablets.

   Now the world's leading Internet subscription service for TV and movies, Netflix has been streaming to millions of U.S. members since 2007, adding Canada in 2010, Latin America in 2011 and the UK and Ireland in early 2012. Using the unique Netflix recommendation engine, each member is presented a personalized list of TV and film titles to enjoy from the Netflix library.

   People in the Nordics interested in becoming Netflix members can go to www.netflix.com to sign up to receive an e-mail alert when Netflix has launched. Further details about the service, including pricing, content and supported devices, will be announced closer to launch.

   About Netflix

   With more than 27 million streaming members in the United States, Canada, Latin America, the United Kingdom and Ireland, Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ: NFLX) is the world's leading internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV programs. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can instantly watch movies and TV programs streamed over the internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, internet-connected TVs, home theatre systems, digital video recorders and internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 800 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, visit www.netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter.

 
