
 Last time we heard, Mr. F and the entirety of the Bluth clan were to return to all our screens sometime in May, but Netflix has finally announced that the global launch will happen on the more concrete May 26th. We'll see a total of 15 new episodes in the fourth series, but there's still over a month to wait. C'mon!


  Show full PR text   Netflix To Launch New Season Of Arrested Development On May 26
   Highly-Anticipated Fourth Season Launches with 15-Episodes (Not a Typo)

   Twitter Pitch: We've made a huge mistake. There are actually 15 NEW episodes of #ArrestedDevelopment launching on @Netflix May 26

   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., April 4, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix will premiere its highly-anticipated fourth season of Arrested Development on Sunday, May 26, 2013. All 15-episodes of the Emmy® Award-winning comedy from series creator/executive producer Mitchell Hurwitz will be available for members to watch instantly at launch.

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

   Arrested Development will be available to all Netflix members instantly at 12:01 AM PDT in territories where Netflix is available – U.S., Canada, the UK, Ireland, Latin America, Brazil and the Nordics.

   "Arrested Development is now widely viewed as one of the top TV comedies of all time and Mitch Hurwitz is bringing it to Netflix in a brand new way, crafted for the on-demand generation that has come to discover the show in the years since it last appeared on TV," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer for Netflix. "The highly anticipated return of this show is sure to make history all over again."

   "Ted said that? Wow. Well don't print this obviously, but he's going to be immensely disappointed. In truth we are doing something very ambitious that can only be done with Netflix as partners and on their platform. Finally my simple wish for the show is coming true: that it be broadcast every second around the clock to every television, computer or mobile device in existence," said series creator and executive producer Mitch Hurwitz.

   Arrested Development centers around Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman) and his eccentric family comprised of his son George Michael (Michael Cera), his father George Bluth Sr. (Jeffrey Tambor), his mother Lucille (Jessica Walter), his brothers George Oscar Bluth II (Will Arnett), Buster Bluth (Tony Hale) and sister Lindsay Funke (Portia de Rossi), and Lindsay's husband Tobias (David Cross) and their daughter Maeby (Alia Shawkat).

   Mitchell Hurwitz, Brian Grazer, Ron Howard, Jim Vallely and Troy Miller are executive producers on Arrested Development, and it is produced by Imagine TV and 20th Century Fox Television for Netflix. Arrested Development has garnered accolades from the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (Emmy®), AFI, the Golden Globes, Producer's Guild Awards, Screen Actor's Guild, the Television Critics Association and the Writer's Guild, among others.

  

