
 

While Netflix has already announced original productions like House of Cards and a new season of Arrested Development it has commissioned for its streaming video service, the first to debut will be Lilyhammer next month. Starring Steve Van Zandt of the E Street Band and The Sopranos, it follows a mobster in witness protection who moves to Lillehammer, Norway, chasing dreams of clean air and gorgeous women. Naturally, it doesn't quite work out like that, but in an interesting twist Netflix will let you find out how it does work out all in one shot. Unlike most linear channels, and even Hulu's original programming efforts like The Confession, Netflix will post the entire season all at once (and in all of its territories -- US, Canada and Latin America) just like it does with older material. Of course, Netflix has a lot of ground to make up after its missteps last year, so perhaps extending its usual policy customers watch video when, where and how they want to content release timing is just the kind of bonus needed. Until it's available however, we'll have to live with the press release and trailer, both of which are included after the break.
      

 

  		Show full PR text  A Netflix Original Series "Lilyhammer"		Steven Van Zandt of "The Sopranos" and Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band is back as a Gangster...this time in Norway		All 8 Episodes of the Entire First Season Available to Watch Instantly on Netflix in the USA, Canada & Latin America Beginning February 6, 2012		Jan 3, 2012 		BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Jan. 3, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- "Lilyhammer," a gripping fish-out-of-water story set in Norway and starring "The Sopranos" mainstay and E Street Band guitarist Steven Van Zandt, is a new Original Series premiering on Netflix (Nasdaq: NFLX) to watch instantly on February 6, 2012 in the USA, Canada and Latin America. 		(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120103/SF28788)		(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO) 		"Lilyhammer," follows New York mobster Frank "The Fixer" Tagliano as he enters the federal witness protection program after ratting on his boss. A sports fan, Frank wants to make his new life in Lillehammer, the Norwegian town that hosted the 1994 Winter Olympics – or as he calls it "Lilyhammer." Frank has visions of a paradise of "clean air, fresh white snow and gorgeous broads" far away from the temptations of the Big Apple and from mob hit men. Reality, of course, turns out to be spectacularly different. 		All eight first season episodes of "Lilyhammer" will be available on February 6 so Netflix members can enjoy the series by streaming over the Internet to connected TVs, tablets, game consoles, computers and mobile phones. 		To view the trailer, visit http://youtu.be/bfRgVbp9gSY. 		"Lilyhammer" is a well-observed, funny and occasionally brutal story of culture clash, focused on Stevie's inimitable portrayal of an East Coast mobster," said Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos. "We're proud to introduce this terrific Original Series exclusively to our members. If you love the first episode, there is no need to wait until next week, or to set a DVR, to catch the next one." 		"I am very careful with my choices and this project was so exciting to me because of the wonderful writing, the rich characters and the fascinating culture of Norway," said Steven Van Zandt, Executive Producer. "Netflix is the perfect home for such a unique show." 		"Lilyhammer" was developed by Rubicon TV AS (creator, Anne Bjornstad & Eilif Skodvin). The Writers on the Show include Anne Bjornstad, Eilif Skodvin and Steven Van Zandt. Producers include Trond Berg Nilsen and Agnete Thuland. Executive Producers include Lasse Hallberg & Steven Van Zandt. The series is a production by Rubicon TV AS. 		About Netflix: 		With more than 20 million streaming members in the United States, Canada and Latin America, Netflix, Inc. [Nasdaq: NFLX] is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For about US$7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 700 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, go to Netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter. 		SOURCE Netflix, Inc.
 