
 

Well it looks like Netflix's rumored UK launch was a lot more than just a rumor. Today, the company announced that it will indeed expand to the UK and Ireland "in early 2012," promising to offer unlimited streaming on PCs, tablets and mobile devices at a "low monthly subscription price." The company didn't say what that price would be, nor did it offer any details on available content or supported devices, though more details will be announced closer to its launch. We're also expecting to hear more from Netflix during its Q3 earnings conference call later today, when we should find out about the impact of its recent price hike and Qwikster turnaround. Whether or not its foray into the UK can loosen Lovefilm's grip on the domestic market, however, remains to be seen. Full PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Netflix to Launch Service in the UK and Ireland for Streaming Movies and TV Shows in Early 2012 		LOS GATOS, Calif., Oct. 24, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX), the leading global Internet movie subscription service, today announced it will expand to the United Kingdom andIreland in early 2012, offering unlimited TV shows and movies streaming instantly over the Internet to TVs and computers for one low monthly subscription price. 		Upon launch, Netflix members from the UK and Ireland will be able to instantly watch a wide array of TV shows and movies right on their TVs via a range of consumer electronics devices capable of streaming from Netflix, as well as on PCs, Macs and mobile tablets and phones. Further details about the service, including pricing, content and supported devices, will be announced closer to launch. 		Netflix has been streaming to U.S. members since 2007, adding Canada in 2010 and 43 countries in Latin America and theCaribbean in September 2011. Netflix has revolutionized entertainment across the Americas by giving its members a huge selection of movies and TV shows to enjoy when and where they want. 		People interested in becoming members of Netflix in the UK or Ireland can go to www.netflix.com to sign up to receive an email alert letting them know when Netflix has launched in their country.
 