
Netflix is putting its money where its mouth is when it comes to building a library of first-run content, tonight announcing it's signed up new series Orange is the New Black for a second season, set for release in 2014. That's particularly notable because unlike Hemlock Grove's renewal last week, this series hasn't even been posted to the streaming site yet. It's not the company's first bold move however, as it signed up for two seasons of House of Cards without seeing anything first, but that had David Fincher and Kevin Spacey attached. This new show is written by Weeds creator Jenji Kohan and follows a woman from Brooklyn sentenced to 15 months in federal prison -- season one debuts July 11th.



 Hold onto your orange jumpsuits, #OITNB has been picked up for a second season!

- Orange is the New... (@OITNB) June 28, 2013Show full PR textNetflix Renews Original Series "Orange is the New Black" For Second Season
Comedic Drama from Jenji Kohan to Return with All New Episodes in 2014
Season 1 Premieres Thursday, July 11th on Netflix

BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., June 27, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- The Netflix Original Series, "Orange is the New Black," the comedic drama set in a women's prison from creator and executive producer Jenji Kohan ("Weeds") will return with a second season on Netflix in 2014.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

Produced by Lionsgate Television, the hour-long series starring Taylor Schilling, and based on the popular memoir of the same name by Piper Kerman, is set to debut its first 13-episode season on Thursday, July 11 at 12:01 AM PDT in all territories where Netflix is available – U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, Latin America, Brazil and the Nordics.

"Jenji and her team have produced a phenomenal series and we're eager to get a second season to our viewers," said Cindy Holland, Vice President of Original Content at Netflix.

"I am thrilled that Netflix has extended my sentence," said series creator and executive producer Jenji Kohan.

"We're enormously proud of the brilliant work of Jenji, the cast and the entire production team," said Kevin Beggs, president, Lionsgate Television Group, "and we're delighted about this early second season renewal. Netflix has been a great partner on this series and we look forward to our continuing collaboration."

"Orange is the New Black" follows engaged Brooklynite Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling), whose decade-old relationship with drug-runner Alex (Laura Prepon) results in her arrest and 15-month long detention in a federal penitentiary. To pay her debt to society, Piper must trade her comfortable New York life with fiance Larry (Jason Biggs) for an orange prison jumpsuit and a baffling prison culture where she is forced to question everything she believes and form unexpected new alliances with a group of eccentric and outspoken inmates. The series' diverse ensemble also includes Kate Mulgrew, Natasha Lyonne, Pablo Schreiber, Danielle Brooks, Laverne Cox and Taryn Manning.

The second season of "Orange is the New Black" is set to begin production later this summer.

"Orange is the New Black" is executive produced by Kohan. The series is produced by Lionsgate Television for Netflix.

About Netflix, Inc.Netflix is the world's leading Internet television network with more than 36 million members in 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Learn more about how Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) is pioneering Internet television at www.netflix.com or follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter. Netflix's original series include the political drama "House of Cards," which stars Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright; "Hemlock Grove," Eli Roth's murder mystery series based on Brian McGreevy's gripping novel of the same name; the fourth season of the critically-acclaimed comedy "Arrested Development;" Ricky Gervais's bittersweet 30-minute comedy drama, "Derek," about a group of outsiders living on society's margins; the second season of "Lilyhammer," which stars Steven Van Zandt; and "Sense8" the upcoming global tale of minds linked and souls hunted from the Wachowskis and J. Michael Straczynski.


