
       If you're looking for more content to watch on Netflix's Watch Instantly streaming service -- especially since all those Starz movies are exiting stage left at month's end -- we have good news, as it just announced a multi-year exclusive deal with The Weinstein Company. The agreement covers foreign language, documentary and "certain other movies" that will be watchable in their pay-TV window only on Netflix, and not HBO or Showtime. That includes such high profile selections as The Artist, which is nominated for 17 Academy Awards this weekend and Best Documentary nominated Undefeated, as well as other flicks like Coriolanus and The Intouchables. Of course, this is still Netflix so while fans of subtitles and exposés may be sated, The Weinstein Company's more mainstream flicks and Dimension Films releases like Scream 4 aren't included, as they're still Showtime exclusives due to the deal it signed with the channel back in '08. Either way, more movies is more movies and you can check out all the details in the press release after the break, hopefully this deal works out better than HD DVD's exclusive Weinstein pact did back in the day.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Netflix and The Weinstein Company Announce Multi-Year Film Agreement to Include 2012 Academy Award Nominee "The Artist" US Netflix Members Will Have Exclusive Access To Oscar Best Picture Nominee, "The Artist" As Well As Oscar Documentary (Feature) Nominee "Undefeated" And Other Critically Acclaimed Films From Legendary Producers Bob And Harvey Weinstein  BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. and NEW YORK, Feb. 21, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and The Weinstein Company (TWC) today announced a new multi-year licensing agreement that will make foreign language, documentary and certain other movies from The Weinstein Company exclusively available for Netflix members in the U.S. to watch instantly.  (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)  "The Artist," the most honored film of the year with 17 awards for Best Picture and ten Academy Award® nominations, including Best Picture, will make its pay TV debut exclusively on Netflix rather than on traditional premium cable.  Written and directed by Michel Hazanavicius and starring Jean Dujardin and Berenice Bejo, "The Artist" brings to life the dawn of talking pictures in an original and deeply entertaining way. The film's many honors include the Golden Globe for Best Picture/ Comedy or Musical and Best Picture Awards from the Producers Guild of America, British Academy of Film and Television, the London Critics Circle and NY Film Critics Circle. It has garnered numerous prestigious awards for Hazanavicius, Dujardin, Bejo, and composer Ludovic Bource.  Also making its pay TV premiere on Netflix is "Undefeated," nominated for a 2012 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. Directed by Dan Lindsay and T.J. Martin, "Undefeated" follows players on a Memphis, TN inner-city high school football team as it attempts to win its first playoff game in the school's history.  A diverse slate of TWC specialty films will appear exclusively on Netflix within one year of their theatrical release, including the gripping French-language World War II drama "Sarah's Key," starring Academy Award-nominated actress Kristin Scott Thomas; the recent French box office record-breaker "The Intouchables;" the romantic drama "W.E.," directed by Madonna and winner of the Golden Globe for Best Original Song/Motion Picture; the taut Shakespearean adaptation "Coriolanus," directed by and starring Ralph Fiennes; and "Bully," a timely documentary about bullying in America's schools.  Terms of the deal, the first between TWC and the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows, weren't disclosed.  "We couldn't be happier to be working again with Harvey and Bob, who have an unmatched track record of creating critically acclaimed and commercially successful movies," said Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos. "'The Artist' is a symbol of the Weinsteins' triumphant return to the top of the film business. Through deep passion, great taste and phenomenal vision, Harvey and Bob continue to surprise audiences and make history."  "It is a fantastic coup for Netflix to acquire 'The Artist' and the package of additional titles," said TWC Co-Chairman Harvey Weinstein, "With this deal, a company that loves movies, Netflix, joins forces with a company that is built on that same love. It's exciting that we can offer consumers a supremely convenient way to see the kinds of movies that made us want to be in this business in the first place."  About Netflix:  With more than 23 million streaming members in the United States, Canada, Latin America, the United Kingdom and Ireland, Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's leading internet subscription service for enjoying films and TV shows. For about US$7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch unlimited films and TV episodes streamed over the internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 700 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, visit www.netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter.  About The Weinstein Company:  The Weinstein Company (TWC) is a multimedia production and distribution company launched in October 2005 by Bob and Harvey Weinstein, the brothers who founded Miramax Films in 1979. TWC also encompasses Dimension Films, the genre label founded in 1993 by Bob Weinstein, which has released such popular franchises as SCREAM, SPY KIDS and SCARY MOVIE. Together TWC and Dimension Films have released a broad range of mainstream, genre and specialty films that have been commercial and critical successes, including Tom Hooper's THE KING'S SPEECH, winner of four 2011 Academy Awards®, including Best Picture. Since 2005, TWC and Dimension Films have released such film as GRINDHOUSE; I'M NOT THERE; THE GREAT DEBATERS; VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA; THE READER; THE ROAD; HALLOWEEN; THE PAT TILLMAN STORY; PIRANHA 3D; INGLOURIOUS BASTERDS; A SINGLE MAN; BLUE VALENTINE; THE COMPANY MEN; MIRAL; SCRE4M; OUR IDIOT BROTHER; and SARAH'S KEY. Currently in release are recent Golden Globe winners THE ARTIST, MY WEEK WITH MARILYN and THE IRON LADY. Upcoming releases include THE INTOUCHABLES and THE WETTEST COUNTY IN THE WORLD. Recently wrapped is COGAN'S TRADE. TWC is also active in television production, with credits including the Emmy® Award-winning hit reality series "Project Runway," the new VH1 reality series "Mob Wives," and the critically acclaimed HBO comedy/crime series "The No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency." The company has produced three "Project Runway" spinoffs, "Project Runway All Stars," currently airing; with debuted in 2011; and "Project Runway: Masters," to debut in 2012. The company currently has 17 series in different stages of development, including: "Marco Polo," a scripted historical series about the great explorer; "The Nanny Diaries," based on the hit book; and "The Mad Ones," adapted from the Mafia novel of the same name.  SOURCE Netflix Inc.
 