
 
As expected, Netflix has kicked off its first offering outside the United States by opening up a Watch Instantly portal for Canadians this morning at Netflix.ca. With no discs available at all, the only option is a $7.99 Canadian ($7.80 US) plan for streaming that works on PCs, PS3, Wii, iOS family and many other devices -- interestingly the Xbox 360, Samsung TVs, and Blu-ray players from VIZIO or Insignia are off the compatible list until later this fall. Content availability also seems to be different for our neighbors to the north (English only for now, French is on the way Quebec), with the Netflix blog specifically calling out Superbad and Mad Men as up for streaming, which aren't currently available on Watch Instantly in the US. Unlike our recent Caribana experience we weren't able to cross the border and check it out for ourselves, but owners of Maple Leaf-certified IPs are invited to check out the selection (one month free trials are available) and let us know exactly what we're missing -- more details including Canadian distributors and device availability are in the press release after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textNetflix Launches Canadian Service for Streaming Movies and TV Episodes Over the InternetFor $7.99 a Month, Canadians Can Instantly Watch Unlimited Movies and TV Shows Streamed from Netflix to TVs and Computers - First International Market for Web's Leading Movie Subscription ServiceTORONTO, Sept. 22 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX), the leading Internet movie subscription service, today launched in Canada with an offering that allows Canadians to instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed from Netflix to TVs and computers for only $7.99 a month. The Canadian introduction marks the first availability of the Netflix service outside the United States.To view the multimedia assets associated with this release, please click: http://multivu.prnewswire.com/mnr/netflix/46101/Canadians can immediately begin a free, one-month trial – or learn more about Netflix – by going to www.netflix.ca."With our launch today in Canada, Netflix is focused on adding meaningfully to the entertainment choices available to Canadian consumers," said the company's co-founder and CEO, Reed Hastings, who was in Toronto for the inauguration of the service. "Convenience, selection and value are at the heart of the Netflix service, and it is our hope that this resonates with Canadians."Canadian Netflix members can choose from thousands of movies and TV episodes, including feature films, popular TV series, independent cinema, documentaries, foreign language movies, and kids' programming. Choices are instantly streamed to TVs and computers via a broadband Internet connection – and members can watch as much as they want, whenever they want.A range of leading devices that stream from NetflixA number of consumer electronics devices available in Canada are capable of streaming instantly from Netflix right to TVs. Nintendo's Wii home console and Sony's PlayStation®3 (PS3™) system can stream from Netflix now, and later this fall Microsoft's Xbox 360 is set to join the Netflix streaming ranks here. The installed base of the three leading consoles in Canada is approximately six million units.In addition, iPhone, iPad and iPod touch can now stream from Netflix in Canada, as can Blu-ray disc players from Samsung and Toshiba. Movies and TV shows streamed from Netflix can also be watched instantly on PCs and Macs. Over time, more devices capable of streaming from Netflix are expected to be added in Canada, including Blu-ray disc players from VIZIO and Insignia (the latter available exclusively at Best Buy and Futureshop), Internet TVs from Samsung and the recently retuned Apple TV when it is introduced here. Thousands of movies and TV shows to choose fromAs part of today's launch, Netflix announced Canadian license agreements with major motion picturestudios such as Lionsgate, MGM Studios, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Twentieth Century Fox and Universal Pictures, as well as leading Canadian distributors Alliance Films, Maple Pictures, eOne and Mongrel.Content available to Canadian Netflix members includes:* Popular feature films like "Superbad," "The Pursuit of Happyness," "A Beautiful Mind," "The Notebook," "Elizabeth" and "Slumdog Millionaire."* First-run feature films from Twentieth Century Fox, including "(500) Days of Summer," "My Life in Ruins," "All About Steve" and "Fantastic Mr. Fox" concurrent with their release on linear pay TV in Canada. * In-cycle programming including the new romantic comedy "Running Wilde," starring Will Arnett and Keri Russell. In Canada, "Running Wilde" will stream from Netflix on the same day as the show airs on network television in the U.S.* The first five seasons of the Canadian Showcase Network's hit "mockumentary" series "Trailer Park Boys," director Mike Clattenburg's creation about the misadventures of a group of trailer park residents in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.* Prior season episodes of the Emmy® and Golden Globe® winning TV series "Mad Men" (the stylish drama about ad agency life on New York's Madison Ave in the 1960s) and the hit dramas "Leverage" (starring Academy Award® winner Timothy Hutton), "Rescue Me" (Denis Leary's series about New York City firefighters) and "Monk" (starring Emmy® Award and Golden Globe® Award winner Tony Shalhoub in the title role). * Popular shows from the Discovery Channel ("MythBusters"), Nickelodeon ("SpongeBob SquarePants" and "Dora the Explorer"), Canada's Nelvana Studio (animated episodes of "Babar" and "Franklin") and the BBC ("Robin Hood" and "Fawlty Towers"). As previously announced, the Netflix Canadian service will initially be available in English only, but the company said it expects to add French language capability over time.About NetflixWith more than 15 million members in the United States and Canada, Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For $8.99 a month, Netflix members in the U.S. can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streaming right to their TVs and computers and can receive unlimited DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. In Canada, streaming unlimited movies and TV shows from Netflix is available for $7.99 a month. There are never any due dates or late fees with Netflix. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are Microsoft's Xbox 360, Nintendo's Wii and Sony's PS3 consoles; Blu-ray disc players from Best Buy's Insignia brand, LG and Samsung; Internet TVs from LG, Samsung, Sony and VIZIO; the Roku digital video player and TiVo digital video recorders; and Apple's iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. All of these devices are available in the U.S. and a growing number are available in Canada. For more information, visit http://www.netflix.com.SOURCE NetflixNetflix Launches Canadian Service for Streaming Movies and TV Episodes Over the InternetFor $7.99 a Month, Canadians Can Instantly Watch Unlimited Movies and TV Shows Streamed from Netflix to TVs and Computers - First International Market for Web's Leading Movie Subscription ServiceTORONTO, Sept. 22 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX), the leading Internet movie subscription service, today launched in Canada with an offering that allows Canadians to instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed from Netflix to TVs and computers for only $7.99 a month. The Canadian introduction marks the first availability of the Netflix service outside the United States.To view the multimedia assets associated with this release, please click: http://multivu.prnewswire.com/mnr/netflix/46101/Canadians can immediately begin a free, one-month trial – or learn more about Netflix – by going to www.netflix.ca."With our launch today in Canada, Netflix is focused on adding meaningfully to the entertainment choices available to Canadian consumers," said the company's co-founder and CEO, Reed Hastings, who was in Toronto for the inauguration of the service. "Convenience, selection and value are at the heart of the Netflix service, and it is our hope that this resonates with Canadians."Canadian Netflix members can choose from thousands of movies and TV episodes, including feature films, popular TV series, independent cinema, documentaries, foreign language movies, and kids' programming. Choices are instantly streamed to TVs and computers via a broadband Internet connection – and members can watch as much as they want, whenever they want.A range of leading devices that stream from NetflixA number of consumer electronics devices available in Canada are capable of streaming instantly from Netflix right to TVs. Nintendo's Wii home console and Sony's PlayStation®3 (PS3™) system can stream from Netflix now, and later this fall Microsoft's Xbox 360 is set to join the Netflix streaming ranks here. The installed base of the three leading consoles in Canada is approximately six million units.In addition, iPhone, iPad and iPod touch can now stream from Netflix in Canada, as can Blu-ray disc players from Samsung and Toshiba. Movies and TV shows streamed from Netflix can also be watched instantly on PCs and Macs. Over time, more devices capable of streaming from Netflix are expected to be added in Canada, including Blu-ray disc players from VIZIO and Insignia (the latter available exclusively at Best Buy and Futureshop), Internet TVs from Samsung and the recently retuned Apple TV when it is introduced here. Thousands of movies and TV shows to choose fromAs part of today's launch, Netflix announced Canadian license agreements with major motion picturestudios such as Lionsgate, MGM Studios, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Twentieth Century Fox and Universal Pictures, as well as leading Canadian distributors Alliance Films, Maple Pictures, eOne and Mongrel.Content available to Canadian Netflix members includes:* Popular feature films like "Superbad," "The Pursuit of Happyness," "A Beautiful Mind," "The Notebook," "Elizabeth" and "Slumdog Millionaire."* First-run feature films from Twentieth Century Fox, including "(500) Days of Summer," "My Life in Ruins," "All About Steve" and "Fantastic Mr. Fox" concurrent with their release on linear pay TV in Canada. * In-cycle programming including the new romantic comedy "Running Wilde," starring Will Arnett and Keri Russell. In Canada, "Running Wilde" will stream from Netflix on the same day as the show airs on network television in the U.S.* The first five seasons of the Canadian Showcase Network's hit "mockumentary" series "Trailer Park Boys," director Mike Clattenburg's creation about the misadventures of a group of trailer park residents in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.* Prior season episodes of the Emmy® and Golden Globe® winning TV series "Mad Men" (the stylish drama about ad agency life on New York's Madison Ave in the 1960s) and the hit dramas "Leverage" (starring Academy Award® winner Timothy Hutton), "Rescue Me" (Denis Leary's series about New York City firefighters) and "Monk" (starring Emmy® Award and Golden Globe® Award winner Tony Shalhoub in the title role). * Popular shows from the Discovery Channel ("MythBusters"), Nickelodeon ("SpongeBob SquarePants" and "Dora the Explorer"), Canada's Nelvana Studio (animated episodes of "Babar" and "Franklin") and the BBC ("Robin Hood" and "Fawlty Towers"). As previously announced, the Netflix Canadian service will initially be available in English only, but the company said it expects to add French language capability over time.About NetflixWith more than 15 million members in the United States and Canada, Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For $8.99 a month, Netflix members in the U.S. can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streaming right to their TVs and computers and can receive unlimited DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. In Canada, streaming unlimited movies and TV shows from Netflix is available for $7.99 a month. There are never any due dates or late fees with Netflix. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are Microsoft's Xbox 360, Nintendo's Wii and Sony's PS3 consoles; Blu-ray disc players from Best Buy's Insignia brand, LG and Samsung; Internet TVs from LG, Samsung, Sony and VIZIO; the Roku digital video player and TiVo digital video recorders; and Apple's iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. All of these devices are available in the U.S. and a growing number are available in Canada. For more information, visit http://www.netflix.com.SOURCE Netflix
 