
 

The Bluth family has been off of TV since Arrested Development was cancelled by Fox back in 2006, but after many rumors and reports of a bidding war the show is ready to return as a Netflix-exclusive series. New episodes should be available in the first half of 2013 and represent another serious push into original content for Netflix after it signed up House of Cards, which will debut next year. The details are in the press release after the break, including interesting quotes from Fox execs celebrating this "new business model" allowing them to bring back this show, following Family Guy and Futurama making similar trips back from the dead. After a summer of price hikes, cancellations, and Qwikster PR gaffes, this should bring in goodwill at least from fans of this show, and likely intensify campaigns to save other gone-too-soon TV shows. So what's next to get the Flatliners treatment? Firefly? Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles? Dollhouse? Terriers? Community (six seasons and a movie!)?
      

 

  		Show full PR text  The Bluths Are Back and Only on Netflix		Twentieth Century Fox Television and Imagine Television Make Historic Deal With World's Leading Internet Subscription Service to Bring Classic Series "Arrested Development" Back to Production		America's Favorite Dysfunctional Family Returns For All New Episodes Premiering The First Half Of 2013		Nov 18, 2011  		BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Nov. 18, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- In a landmark deal, all new episodes of the Emmy Award-winning comedy series "Arrested Development" will be coming exclusively to Netflix for its U.S. members to watch instantly, beginning in 2013. 		For the first time in their histories, Twentieth Century Fox Television and Imagine Television will produce original first-run entertainment content for the world's leading internet subscription service, bringing back the acclaimed series to production on all new episodes five years after its cancellation. 		One of Time Magazine's "100 Best TV Shows of All-TIME," the tale of the formerly wealthy, deeply eccentric Bluth clan aired for three seasons, 2003-2006, on Fox and was honored with the Emmy award for Outstanding Comedy Series after its first season on the air. 		"Arrested Development is one of the finest American comedies in TV history and its return through Netflix is a perfect example of how we are working closely with studios and networks to provide consumers with entertainment they love," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix Chief Content Officer. 		"It's also a perfect example of how broad and successful our relationship has become with Fox as we work together with their film, television, international and digital divisions on several exciting initiatives," he added. 		"Netflix's bold entrance into original programming presents an exciting new opportunity for our two companies" commented Peter Levinsohn, Fox Filmed Entertainment's President of New Media & Digital Distribution. "Bringing a classic show back to production on new episodes exclusively for Netflix customers is a game changer, and illustrates the incredible potential the new digital landscape affords great content providers like Twentieth Century Fox Television and Imagine." 		Commented 20th Century Fox TV Chairmen Dana Walden and Gary Newman, "We build brands at this studio which are so distinctive that audiences still clamor for them years after they go off the air. 'Arrested Development' is a great example of that-it has stood the test of time. This innovative deal with Netflix represents a new business model that is extremely exciting and opens the door for a wide range of new collaborations." 		"We also pride ourselves on breaking the rules at this studio, and after bringing back two canceled series – 'Family Guy' and 'Futurama'-to enormous success, we are bullish on the prospects for this brilliant series. We can't wait to get back to work with Mitch, Ron and Brian on bringing the Bluths back to America's living rooms," they added. 		Said Imagine Entertainment co-founders Ron Howard and Brian Grazer, "Of all the projects we've been involved with over the years, we probably get more questions about Mitch Hurtwitz's brilliant 'Arrested Development' than any other-- everyone, ourselves included, seems to feel like the Bluths left the party a bit too soon. Bringing a series back from cancellation almost never happens, but then, 'Arrested' always was about as unconventional as they get, so it seems totally appropriate that this show that broke the mold is smashing it to pieces once again." 		Added Howard, "After a long hiatus, I'm dying to finally get back to the narrator's microphone...'It's Arrested...Development.'" 		The Emmy-winning comedy had its final broadcast on February 10, 2006 and concerned Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman) and his eccentric family comprised of his son George Michael (Michael Cera), his father George Bluth Sr. (Jeffrey Tambor), his mother Lucille (Jessica Walter), his brothers George Oscar Bluth II (Will Arnett), Buster Bluth (Tony Hale) and sister Lindsay Funke (Portia de Rossi), and Lindsay's husband Tobias (David Cross) and their daughter Maeby (Alia Shawkat). 		"Arrested Development" is a production of Imagine Television and 20th Century Fox Television. Ron Howard, Brian Grazer and Mitch Hurwitz are executive producers. 		About Netflix: 		With more than 20 million streaming members in the United States, Canada and Latin America, Netflix, Inc. [Nasdaq: NFLX] is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For about US$7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 700 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, go to Netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter. 		SOURCE Netflix, Inc.
 