
 

Now that Netflix has made its plans to launch in the British Isles official, it's gotten busy signing content deals and the latest affiliation is with Lionsgate's UK arm. The deal makes Netflix the "exclusive subscription streaming service" in the UK and Ireland for the studios first-run movies, with upcoming titles like The Expendables 2, and the Dirty Dancing remake already on deck. The agreement also extends to catalog hits like Reservoir Dogs, 3:10 to Yuma and The Blair Witch Project, which should be available when the service launches early next year. Check the press release after the break for all the details, although there's still plenty of time to decide whether or not its worth your pounds, pence, or bank notes.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Netflix and Lionsgate UK Announce Multi-Year Premium Pay TV Window Agreement in the United Kingdom and Ireland		Starting In Early 2012, Netflix Members in the UK And Ireland Will Enjoy Instantly Watching High-Quality Films From Lionsgate UK 		BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Nov. 14, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and Lionsgate UK, a subsidiary of Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (NYSE: LGF) today announced a new multi-year licensing agreement that will make Netflix the exclusive subscription streaming service in the UK and Ireland for first-run feature films from the studio. 		(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO) 		Lionsgate UK titles will be available for Netflix members in the UK and Ireland to watch instantly in the pay TV window on their televisions, tablets, game consoles, computers and mobile phones, for a low monthly price. Netflix announced last month that it would launch its service in the UK and Ireland early in 2012. 		Appearing exclusively on Netflix within one year of their theatrical release will be such films as "The Hunger Games," the highly-anticipated film based on Suzanne Collins' best-selling teen novel and starring Jennifer Lawrence, Josh Hutcherson and Liam Hemsworth; "The Expendables 2," the sequel to the blockbuster hit starring Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Bruce Willis and Jet Li and the recently-announced remake of the beloved 1987 classic "Dirty Dancing." 		Among recent Lionsgate UK hits available to watch instantly in the UK and Ireland are "The Mechanic," "Saw 3D" and the original "The Expendables" as well as great catalogue titles including "Reservoir Dogs," "Blair Witch Project," "3:10 to Yuma," and "Good Night and Good Luck." 		"Lionsgate is an important and successful supplier of television series and movies to us in all of our territories," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix Chief Content Officer. "We are proud to be the exclusive Pay TV home for Lionsgate theatrically-released films in the UK and Ireland." 		"Netflix is the leading worldwide brand in steaming movies and they have an incredible service in North America. We are very excited to be working with them as they launch their service and bring our movies to audiences in the UK and Ireland," added Zygi Kamasa, Lionsgate UK CEO. 		About Netflix: 		With more than 20 million streaming members in the United States, Canada and Latin America, Netflix, Inc. [Nasdaq: NFLX] is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For about US$7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 700 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, go to Netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter. 		About Lions Gate: 		Lionsgate UK is the diversified UK-based filmed entertainment arm of Lions Gate (NYSE:LGF), the leading independent filmed entertainment studio. The company (formerly Redbus Film Distributors) was acquired by Lions Gate in October 2005 and has since established a reputation in the UK as a leading producer and distributor and acquirer of commercially successful and critically acclaimed product, recently releasing such boxoffice hits as The Expendables, Harry Brown, Oscar and BAFTA winner The Hurt Locker, Drag Me To Hell, The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus, I've Loved You So Long, 3.10 to Yuma, Good Luck Chuck, The Bank Job and Oscar-winning The Lives of Others in the UK. Upcoming releases include 50:50, Machine Gun Preacher, The Sam Raimi produced The Possession, Ralph Fiennes' Coriolanus, David Cronenberg's A Dangerous Method, The Hunger Games and What to Expect When You're Expecting and Lasse Hallstrom's Salmon Fishing in the Yemen starring Ewan McGregor, Emily Blunt and Kristen Scott Thomas. 		Its prestigious and prolific library of nearly 13,000 motion picture titles and television episodes – including Mad Men, Nurse Jackie and Weeds – is a valuable source of recurring revenue and a foundation for the growth of the Company's core businesses – film production and distribution, TV programming, home entertainment, family entertainment and video-on-demand content. The Lionsgate UK brand is synonymous with original, daring, quality entertainment in markets around the globe. www.lionsgatefilms.co.uk 		SOURCE Netflix, Inc.
 