
 Continuing its quest to sate subscribers' appetites with a flow of original content, Netflix has announced a new original series, Sense8. Due in late 2014, it's being developed by the Wachowskis of The Matrix, V for Vendetta, Cloud Atlas and Speed Racer fame, as well as J. Michael Straczynski, creator of Babylon 5. Details are thin, but the press release promises a "gripping global tale of minds linked and souls hunted" with a ten episode run for its first season.
 As it did with House of Cards, Arrested Development and other productions, Netflix is relying heavily on data from viewers to decide which programs to support. According to chief content officer Ted Sarandos, "Andy and Lana Wachowski and Joe Straczynski are among the most imaginative writers and gifted visual storytellers of our time," whose creations are very frequently viewed on the service. According to the creators themselves, they've sought to work together for a decade, and this idea started from a late night conversation about "the ways technology simultaneously unites and divides us." If that's not enough for now, then there are a few more details and quotes in the press release, which is included after the break.


  Show full PR text    Only On Netflix: Sci-Fi Giants The Wachowskis And J. Michael Straczynski Team-Up To Create "Sense8"

   Coming in 2014 from Georgeville Television, a new science-fiction thriller from the acclaimed directors of Cloud Atlas and The Matrix Trilogy and the creator of Babylon 5

   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., March 27, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix will bring Georgeville Television's Sense8, a gripping global tale of minds linked and souls hunted, exclusively to its members to watch instantly in late 2014.

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

   The 10 episode season one of Sense8 marks the first foray into television by the Wachowskis, the creative geniuses behind Bound, The Matrix, The Matrix Reloaded, The Matrix Revolutions, V for Vendetta, Speed Racer and Cloud Atlas, and is the latest project from veteran show runner J. Michael Straczynski, creator of the Hugo Award-winning Babylon 5 TV series and whose film credits include Changeling, Thor and Underworld Awakening,

   "Andy and Lana Wachowski and Joe Straczynski are among the most imaginative writers and gifted visual storytellers of our time," said Netflix chief content officer Ted Sarandos. "Their incredible creations are favorites of Netflix members globally and we can't wait to bring Sense8 to life."

   "We're excited to work with Netflix and Georgeville Television on this project, and we've wanted to work with Joe Straczynski for years, chiefly due to the fact his name is harder to pronounce than ours, but also because we share a love of genre and all things nerdy," said Andy and Lana Wachowski. "Several years ago, we had a late night conversation about the ways technology simultaneously unites and divides us, and out of that paradox Sense8 was born."

   "We are proud to be working with Netflix on this new series," said Straczynski. "Lana, Andy, and I are fans of each other's creations, and have been looking for something to do together for nearly a decade."

   Sense8 is being produced by Georgeville Television, in association with Studio JMS. Georgeville Television is a Reliance Entertainment company and independent television studio, formed by veteran film and television producer Marc Rosen, in partnership by Motion Picture Capital's Leon Clarance and Producer Deepak Nayar. Formed in 2012, Georgeville Television currently has two series in pre-production, including NBC's Crossbones starring John Malkovich. Rosen, Clarance, and Nayar will serve as executive producers on Sense8.

   Studio JMS, launched last year by Straczynski and CEO Patricia Tallman, was founded to produce a wide range of film, television, comics and other media properties. In addition to The Flickering Light, Straczynski's feature directorial debut, and Sense8, Studio JMS has created a new comics imprint, Joe's Comics, published in partnership with Image Comics. Its first series, "Ten Grand," will debut in May. In addition to Sense8, Motion Picture Capital is producing The Flickering Light, which begins filming in Berlin later this year.

   "Sense8 is a dream-come-true creatively, and we look forward to working closely with our new partners at Netflix, with whom we could not be more excited to bring the Wachowski's first TV series ever to life," said Rosen.

   The Wachowskis are starting production next month on their new sci-fi adventure Jupiter Ascending for Warner Brothers, starring Channing Tatum and Mila Kunis.

   "We're delighted to once again partner with Joe, and have the opportunity to work with Lana and Andy, two of our movie-making heroes, on their television debut," said Clarance. "They have created a brilliant concept, which will be a wonderful story to produce, and a rich conceptual world for viewers to experience."

   About Netflix, Inc.

   Netflix is the world's leading Internet television network with more than 33 million members in 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Learn more about how Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) is pioneering Internet television at www.netflix.com or follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter.

 
