
 

We're not sure how Don Draper would have sold a 60 percent price increase on your most popular service package but maybe Netflix executives can make a guess after they start watching the first four seasons of Mad Men today on Watch Instantly. Netflix's Lionsgate deal will keep reruns flowing for years to come, while a new agreement with CBS International is bringing its programming -- including Showtime shows like Dexter that were recently yanked from the US Netflix service -- to viewers in Canada (who already had Mad Men) and Latin America (where it locked up a cache of telenovelas yesterday). This CBS agreement is separate from their (also non-exclusive) US deal that brought Star Trek back, but international viewers will still get to both TOS and TNG, as well as shows like Twin Peaks and 90210. Check the press release after the break for more details on the international deal, the source link for a time warp back to 1960s NYC or hit the comments below to explain how canceling your $7.99 per month service is a stand against greedy corporations.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  CBS AND NETFLIX ANNOUNCE INTERNATIONAL LICENSING AGREEMENT FOR CANADIAN AND LATIN AMERICAN SUBSCRIBERS 		NEW YORK and BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. – July 27, 2011 - CBS Corporation [NYSE: CBS.A and CBS] and Netflix, Inc. [Nasdaq: NFLX] today announced a two-year, non-exclusive international licensing agreement that will enable certain television shows from across CBS Corporation to be streamed instantly to Netflix subscribers in Canada and Latin America. The agreement follows a separate domestic deal announced between the two companies in February. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. 		Beginning in September, and for only $7.99 a month, Netflix members in Canada will be able to enjoy both the current and complete back seasons for CW hit "90210," as well as past seasons of critically lauded fan favorites from SHOWTIME such as "Californication," "Dexter," and "The United States of Tara." Canadian members will also have access to a broad range of CBS library programming, including "Numb3rs," "Sleeper Cell," and "Twin Peaks." 		Netflix announced in early July that it would be launching in 43 countries across Mexico, South America and the Caribbean later this year. Under this new deal with CBS, previous seasons of series, including "90210," "Medium," "Nurse Jackie," "Californication" and "Dexter," will be available for Latin American members to watch instantly, as will a broad range of library titles, including the original "Star Trek," "Star Trek: The Next Generation," "Charmed," and "Twin Peaks." 		"We are pleased to be partners with Netflix as they rollout their superb service to new markets," said Armando Nunez, President, CBS Studios International. "This new arrangement-which does not compete with U.S. ratings or SHOWTIME's domestic subscriber base-underscores the popularity of CBS content around the world, and illustrates yet another meaningful way for us to realize incremental value from our vast library of content." 		"We are delighted to be expanding our successful relationship with CBS to our newer markets in Canada and Latin America," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer of Netflix. "We aim to provide the widest possible range of great TV shows so our members can always find something compelling to watch wherever and whenever they want." 		About CBS Corporation		CBS Corporation is a mass media company with constituent parts that reach back to the beginnings of the broadcast industry, as well as newer businesses that operate on the leading edge of the media industry. The Company, through its many and varied operations, combines broad reach with well-positioned local businesses, all of which provide it with an extensive distribution network by which it serves audiences and advertisers in all 50 states and key international markets. It has operations in virtually every field of media and entertainment, including broadcast television (CBS and The CW – a joint venture between CBS Corporation and Warner Bros. Entertainment), cable television (Showtime Networks, Smithsonian Networks and CBS College Sports Network), local television (CBS Television Stations), television production and syndication (CBS Television Studios, CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution), radio (CBS Radio), advertising on out-of-home media (CBS Outdoor), publishing (Simon & Schuster), interactive media (CBS Interactive), music (CBS Records), licensing and merchandising (CBS Consumer Products), video/DVD (CBS Home Entertainment), motion pictures (CBS Films) and sustainable media (EcoMedia). For more information, please visit www.cbscorporation.com. 		About Netflix, Inc.		With more than 25 million members in the United States and Canada, Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) is the world's leading Internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV shows. For $7.99 a month, Netflix members in the U.S. and Canada instantly watch unlimited TV episodes and movies streaming over the Internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, home theater systems, digital video recorders and Internet video players; Apple's iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 200 devices that stream from Netflix are available in the U.S. and a growing number are available in Canada. 		* * *
 