
Despite having recently introduced the likes of Hemlock Grove and House of Cards, Netflix isn't standing still: it's boosting its original content with yet another production, Orange is the New Black. The new comedic drama series, created by Weeds' own Jenji Kohan, is set to start streaming to Netflix subscribers worldwide beginning July 11th. Similar to Netflix's House of Cards, Orange is the New Black consists of 13 episodes running at around 60 minutes -- however, the main story here won't be based on drama coming out of D.C., but rather a "world populated with unforgettable characters and no-holds-barred humor set against the backdrop of a women's prison." Be sure to peruse the PR after the break, where you'll find more particulars about the plot, as well as the full cast list.



Show full PR textNetflix Original Series "Orange is the New Black" Premieres Thursday, July 11
Taylor Schilling Stars in Series Created by Jenji Kohan, Based on Piper Kerman's Best-Selling Memoir

BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., April 30, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix will premiere its upcoming original series "Orange is the New Black" on Thursday, July 11, 2013. Created by Jenji Kohan ("Weeds"), the comedic drama starring Taylor Schilling is set in a women's prison and is based on the U.S. best-selling memoir by Piper Kerman. All thirteen one-hour episodes in the series from Lionsgate Television will be available at launch.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

Netflix members will have access to "Orange is the New Black" at 12:01 AM PDT in all territories where Netflix is available – U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, Latin America, Brazil and the Nordics.

"With 'Orange is the New Black,' Jenji Kohan has created a dramatic yet deeply funny world populated with unforgettable characters and no-holds-barred humor set against the backdrop of a women's prison," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer for Netflix. "Jenji is one of the most fearless voices in television and we are proud to share her uncompromising vision with Netflix members."

"Orange is the New Black" follows engaged Brooklynite Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling), whose decade-old relationship with drug-runner Alex (Laura Prepon) results in her arrest and year-long detention in a federal penitentiary. To pay her debt to society, Piper must trade her comfortable New York life with fiance Larry (Jason Biggs) for an orange prison jumpsuit and a baffling prison culture where she is forced to question everything she believes and form unexpected new alliances with a group of eccentric and outspoken inmates. The series' diverse ensemble also includes Kate Mulgrew, Natasha Lyonne, Pablo Schreiber, Danielle Brooks, Laverne Cox and Taryn Manning.

"Orange is the New Black" is executive produced by Kohan, who also wrote the first and final episodes of the season. The series is produced by Lionsgate Television for Netflix.

About Netflix, Inc.Netflix is the world's leading Internet television network with more than 36 million members in 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Learn more about how Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) is pioneering Internet television at www.netflix.com or follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter. Netflix's original series include the political drama "House of Cards," which stars Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright; "Hemlock Grove," Eli Roth's murder mystery series based on Brian McGreevy's gripping novel of the same name; the fourth season of the critically-acclaimed comedy "Arrested Development;" and the second season of "Lilyhammer," which stars Steven Van Zandt, and "Sense8" the upcoming global tale of minds linked and souls hunted from the Wachowskis and J. Michael Straczynski.


