
 

You've already had a peek at it in the Kindle Fire and Nook Tablet, but it seems that redesigned user interface is going to be hitting more than just the holiday's most-talked about duo. Netflix has made official a newly redesigned user interface experience for Android tablets -- one that "makes browsing and instantly watching unlimited TV shows and movies streaming from Netflix better than ever." The new look provides multiple rows of titles with larger artwork to scroll through, with Neil Hunt, chief product officer at Netflix, noting that the company has seen a "threefold increase in how long Netflix members are watching on their tablets." As of today, interested consumers can simply update their Netflix app in the Android Market, while iPad users are being asked to wait "a few weeks," after which the new tablet experience will be dubbed Tabster and led on Twitter by a 17-year old methamphetamine addict.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Netflix Unveils New Experience on Android Tablets 		New Tablet Interface Improves Discovery of TV Shows and Movies 		LOS GATOS, Calif., Nov. 15, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Coinciding with the first shipments of the Amazon Kindle Fire and Barnes & Noble NOOK Tablet™, Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) today unveiled a new interface for Android-powered tablets that makes browsing and instantly watching unlimited TV shows and movies streaming from Netflix better than ever. 		The redesigned Netflix experience is much more immersive and provides more focus on the growing Netflix catalog by displaying twice as many titles than the previous interface. In addition, through optimization for touch-enabled tablets, Netflix members can swipe through multiple rows of titles with larger artwork. As a result, it is now much easier to discover and instantly watch movies and TV shows on Android tablets. 		"In the last 12 months we have seen a threefold increase in how long Netflix members are watching on their tablets," said Neil Hunt, chief product officer at Netflix. "We're happy to debut a new user experience coinciding with the release of the next generation of devices from industry leaders. The new Netflix interface offers a significant improvement in browsing and searching for TV shows and movies to instantly watch." 		Netflix members can enjoy Netflix on their tablets by installing the latest version of the Netflix app, available as a free download in the Android Market™ and respective application download stores for other Android-powered tablets such as the Kindle Fire and NOOK Tablet. The new tablet experience should be available for members with iPads in a few weeks. 		Netflix offers convenience and value with a broad selection of Hollywood, international and local movies and TV series. Netflix has revolutionized entertainment by giving people a choice to enjoy what they want to watch, when they want to watch it, and for a low monthly price over a wide-range of Internet-connected devices. 		More details on the devices that support Netflix are available at: http://www.netflix.com/NetflixReadyDevices
 