
 
 Just days after Lovefilm touted its TV and movie deal with 20th Century Fox, Netflix UK is promoting its own TV show additions from the studio, including an exclusive on The League. While we're not sure how well a comedy about Fantasy (North American) Football will go over across the pond, it's also adding Modern Family, Lie to Me, Sons of Anarchy and more, and points out it already has series like 24 and Prison Break that Lovefilm is just now adding. The highest profile piece however, is Netflix's exclusive hold on a new season of the old Fox show Arrested Development, set to premiere in 2013. The press release with the full list is after the break, contrast and compare your options to see which streaming service (if either) is a good fit.



  Show full PR text   New Season of "Arrested Development" Coming Exclusively to Netflix UK and Ireland; Netflix to Offer Members More Complete Seasons of Great Twentieth Century Fox TV Shows
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., June 28, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix, Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and Twentieth Century Fox Television Distribution, today announced that Netflix will be the exclusive UK and Ireland home to the highly anticipated new season of the Fox cult comedy hit, "Arrested Development" to premiere early 2013. Seasons one through three are currently available to members in the UK and Ireland.

   (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120628/SF32062)

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20101014/SF81638LOGO)

   Netflix will also be adding to its UK and Ireland service additional Twentieth Century Fox comedy series including the multiple Emmy® Award-winning hit "Modern Family," and exclusively, "The League," an ensemble comedy about fantasy football and everything else in life, featuring an outrageously funny young cast from the U.S. and Canada.

   More Twentieth Century Fox dramatic series are coming to Netflix as well. They include complete seasons of "Lie to Me," the cerebral whodunit starring British actor Tim Roth; "Sons of Anarchy," a cynical but wildly entertaining look into the world of California motorcycle clubs; and finally, "The Killing," the critically acclaimed remake of the Danish noir police drama "Forbrydelsen."

   Since the service launched in January, Netflix members in the UK and Ireland have been enjoying complete Twentieth Century Fox series such as "24" and "Prison Break" and more recently have been exclusively able to watch "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia."

   "Arrested Development is one of the finest American comedies in TV history and we are incredibly excited to bring it back for British and Irish fans," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix Chief Content Officer. "As today's announcement with Twentieth Century Fox clearly shows, we're continuing to add all kinds of great content for our UK and Ireland to enjoy when and how they want it."

   One of Time Magazine's "100 Best TV Shows of All-TIME," the tale of the formerly wealthy, deeply eccentric Bluth clan aired for three seasons, 2003-2006, on the Fox Broadcasting network and was honored with the Emmy® award for Outstanding Comedy Series after its first season on the air.

   "We are thrilled to expand our relationship with Netflix by bringing the groundbreaking new season of ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT to fans in the UK. This deal continues to build on prior deals by providing Netflix UK with more of our iconic shows and exposing our content to an even broader audience," said Gina Brogi, EVP of Worldwide Pay Television and Subscription Video on Demand for Twentieth Century Fox Television Distribution.

   "Arrested Development" had its final broadcast on February 10, 2006 and concerned Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman) and his eccentric family comprised of his son George Michael (Michael Cera), his father George Bluth Sr. (Jeffrey Tambor), his mother Lucille (Jessica Walter), his brothers George Oscar Bluth II (Will Arnett), Buster Bluth (Tony Hale) and sister Lindsay Funke (Portia de Rossi), and Lindsay's husband Tobias (David Cross) and their daughter Maeby (Alia Shawkat).

   About Netflix:  With more than 25 million streaming members in the United States, Canada, Latin America, the United Kingdom and Ireland, Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ: NFLX) is the world's leading internet subscription service for enjoying movies and TV programs. For about US$7.99 a month, Netflix members can instantly watch movies and TV programs streamed over the internet to PCs, Macs and TVs. Among the large and expanding base of devices streaming from Netflix are the Microsoft Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony PS3 consoles; an array of Blu-ray disc players, internet-connected TVs, home theatre systems, digital video recorders and internet video players; Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, as well as Apple TV and Google TV. In all, more than 800 devices that stream from Netflix are available. For additional information, visit www.netflix.com. Follow Netflix on Facebook and Twitter.

   About Twentieth Century Fox:  Twentieth Century Fox is a subsidiary of News Corporation. News Corporation's diversified global operations include the production and distribution of motion pictures and television programming; television, satellite, cable and digital media broadcasting and transmission, the publication of newspapers, magazines and books; the production and distribution of promotional and advertising products and services; the development of conditional access and subscriber management systems.

 
 
