
 
Believe it or not, blazing-fast WiFi routers don't have to look like anti-aircraft weapons. The new flagship device from Netgear, the N750, keeps its array of antennae stashed out of sight. Even without a gaudy design, this dual-band 802.11a/b/g/n router can hit speeds of 450Mbps over the 5GHz band and 300Mbps at 2.4Ghz, for an "aggregate combined data rate" of 750Mbps. Don't get too excited though, all that means is you can connect one device in either band without dragging down the transfer rate of the other -- you're still bound by the 450Mbps speed limit. The N750 also includes a ReadySHARE USB port for network storage, parental controls, and guest access -- not bad for $150, eh?
      

 

Show full PR textNETGEAR Tops Off Product Portfolio with New Flagship RouterThe NETGEAR N750 Wireless Dual Band Gigabit Router speeds through intense tasks such as HD video streaming, multiplayer gaming and large file transfersSAN JOSE, Calif. – April XX, 2011 - NETGEAR®, Inc. (NASDAQGM: NTGR),a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, today announced worldwide availability of the N750 Wireless Dual Band Gigabit Router (WNDR4000), the newest top of the line router from the industry's market leader. The N750 powers through intense wireless tasks such as streaming HD video, multiplayer gaming and large file transfers thanks to a an aggregate combined data rate of up to 750 megabits per second (Mbps) while operating simultaneously in both wireless N bands: up to 450 Mbps in the 5 GHz band and up to 300 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band.But the N750 isn't just about speed – the router offers a full range of premium features including flexible parental controls and a broadband usage meter, as well as DLNA Media Server support for streaming video, music and photos from any storage device plugged into its USB port to DLNA-enabled devices throughout the home such as some newer televisions and game consoles.The N750 takes the wireless N standard to new levels with performance of up to 450 Mbps in the 5 GHz band, where there is less interference than the 2.4 GHz band. This higher frequency band can provide smoother, more consistent streaming to newer laptops, video game consoles and other dual-band wireless N devices for a superior user experience. The N750 also operates at up to 300 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band, supporting both the older 802.11g standard and the newer 802.11n standard. This provides maximum range and more capacity when multiple devices are using a mix of the 2.4 and 5 GHz bands on a single home wireless network. Overcrowding and delays are minimized during data-intensive activities such as HD video streaming and multiplayer online gaming.The N750 is also an intelligent home gateway that helps consumers get the most from their network and connected devices.NETGEAR Live Parental Controls, for example, provide a centralized, flexible and reliable parental control solution for all devices on the network, including Windows PCs, Macs, smartphones and tablets, giving children and teenagers a safer environment for online activities – with no subscription required!The broadband usage meter can be set to automatically notify consumers when data consumption is reaching monthly limits set by their service provider, avoiding costly overage fees for those with metered service plans.Among the additional premium features of the N750 are:Guest network access, allowing visitors to go online without having to be given the home network password and without gaining access to computers, printers, storage drives and other devices on the home network.NETGEAR ReadyShare™ technology, for connecting a standard USB hard drive to the router to share storage and a media library across the home network.DLNA Media Server, for streaming media to DLNA HDTVs, Blu-ray™ players and game consoles.Four high-speed gigabit Ethernet ports for ultra-fast wired connections.IPv6 ready, for future-proof compatibility with the emerging IPv6 standard for Internet addresses."Home networks are no longer limited to low-bandwidth tasks such as reading email or looking at static web pages. Instead, today's home networks are gateways to movies, television, music, games, video chat and much more," said Som Pal Choudhury, NETGEAR director of product marketing. "No wireless router on the market today is faster or better prepared to deliver these next-generation online experiences to everyone in the family than the N750."Pricing and AvailabilityThe NETGEAR N750 Wireless Dual Band Gigabit Router (WNDR4000) is now available worldwide from major retailers – in stores and online – at $179.99 in the United States.More informationTo learn more about the NETGEAR N750 Wireless Dual Band Gigabit Router, please visit http://www.netgear.com/MaxWiFiAbout NETGEAR, Inc.NETGEAR (NASDAQGM: NTGR) is a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers. For consumers, the company makes high performance, dependable and easy to use home networking, storage and digital media products to connect people with the Internet and their content and devices. For businesses, NETGEAR provides networking, storage and security solutions without the cost and complexity of Big IT. The company also supplies top service providers with retail proven, whole home solutions for their customers. NETGEAR products are built on a variety of proven technologies such as wireless, Ethernet and powerline, with a focus on reliability and ease-of-use. NETGEAR products are sold in over 28,000 retail locations around the globe, and through more than 37,000 value-added resellers. The company's headquarters are in San Jose, Calif., with additional offices in 25 countries. NETGEAR is an ENERGY STAR® partner. More information is available at http://www.NETGEAR.com or by calling (408) 907-8000. Connect with NETGEAR at http://twitter.com/NETGEAR and http://www.facebook.com/NETGEAR.©2011 NETGEAR, Inc. NETGEAR, the NETGEAR logo, and ReadyShare are trademarks or registered trademarks of NETGEAR, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. Other brand and product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. Information is subject to change without notice. All rights reserved.Note: Maximum wireless signal rate derived from IEEE Standard 802.11 specifications. Actual data throughput will vary from maximum signal rates stipulated. Network conditions and environmental factors, including volume of network traffic, building materials and construction, and network overhead, lower actual data throughput rate.
 