
 Just like the suddenly inescapable 4K, it appears Google TV will be a buzzword for multiple new devices at CES like this Netgear NeoTV Prime (model # GTV100) which GTV Hacker discovered via a pair of curious FCC testing documents. It actually snuck through the FCC before the just-leaked ASUS Qube (more on that in a moment), revealed via a documents for both its Bluetooth-connected remote control and a wireless component, although the box itself remains under wraps. The remote packs a QWERTY keyboard, while up front there's a touchpad plus the usual assortment of control buttons augmented with several app shortcuts for Netflix, Amazon, YouTube, Vudu, HBO Go and Crackle. It may be wishful thinking, but here's hoping the inclusion of Amazon and HBO Go buttons mean dedicated apps are on the way, instead of the current website shortcuts. The wireless module is less revealing, only confirming the name, 802.11n, Bluetooth 3.0 and a lack of ad-hoc wireless network support. Check after the break for a couple of more pics, and info on where Google TV may be headed.

 Update: We've heard a bit more about the box which is apparently in beta testing. At least at the moment, those button shortcuts are still tied to the webapps and some testers are complaining about overheating. We also have pictures of the box itself next to its remote, although it's possible the design could change before launch.



  [Thanks, anonymous]
 
 Like ASUS and its O!Play line of media players, Netgear has been pushing dedicated set-top boxes under the NeoTV brand for some time. Unfortunately, despite those efforts it hasn't made much of a mark in an area where others like Roku, Boxee, Western Digital and the Apple TV are more well known. It appears both are at least hedging their bets by jumping on Google's platform, however along with Samsung's upcoming products these could help make Android a default option for connected TV software. Returning to the Qube, GTV Hacker's cj_000 points out what we saw on Friday is only a wireless dongle for the actual (still unseen) box itself, as the Marvell chipset's power and heat requirements alone make a Roku Streaming Stick-style USB dongle an unreasonable option. Beyond that, The Verge notes rumors from anonymous sources claiming the Qube could even be lined up as a replacement for the ill-fated Nexus Q project. The timing of these filings suggest we're only weeks from finding out the truth, hit the source links to paw through raw photos of exposed circuit boards (if you're into that sort of thing) while we bide our time until CES 2013.


