
 
If you've been scouring the world for an adapter to enable your Intel Wireless Display-enabled laptop to do more than just look pretty in the living room, Netgear's got a refreshed box that deserves your attention. The second generation Push2TV adapter has been unveiled today, with an "HD" suffix finding its way in. The revised box now supports 1080p and Blu-ray transmissions, marking a vast improvement compared to the version launched at last year's CES. The PTV2000 is (thankfully) compatible with both existing and future generation WiDi laptops, and the dual-band wireless connectivity ensures that things will hum along just fine over 5GHz when that 2.4GHz band gets too jammed. It's expected to ship later this month in the US for $119.99, with the rest of the world to get it by the end of Q1. 

In somewhat less exhilarating news, a trifecta of WiFi range extenders are also being revealed. The Universal WiFi Range Extender (WN3000RP; $99.99) touts a compact wall-plugged design, and a pair of powerline solutions should work well for those looking to make better use of their home's power cabling. The Internet Adapter for Home Theater - HD+3D (XAVB5004; $169.99) is hailed as the fastest powerline networking solution currently available on the market, while the Powerline AV 200 Nano Adapter Kit (XAVB2101; $139.99) is described as the world's smallest 200Mbps powerline AV adapter. Per usual, you can find the releases in full just below the break. 





Show full PR textNETGEAR Leads the Way with Second Generation Push2TV Adapter Featuring Full-HD SupportInstantly Project Your Laptop Screen and Sound to Your HDTV Without Wires in Full-HD 1080pLas Vegas – January 5, 2011 - NETGEAR®, Inc. (NASDAQGM: NTGR), a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, today announced the second generation NETGEAR Push2TV™ HD TV adapter, now with full-HD 1080p video resolution and other key improvements to enhance the home theater experience, at the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES). The Push2TV HD (PTV2000) is compatible with laptops featuring both current generation and next generation Intel® Wireless Display technology and enables consumers to wirelessly enjoy videos, music, photos and Internet content stored on their laptop on their big screen TVs.*"Over the last year Intel has worked on a number of enhancements to Intel® Widi for 2011 including support for 1080p, Blu-rayTM playback, and surround sound. We are also increasing the number of computing devices that support Intel WiDi by enabling many 2nd generation Intel® core™ processor-based laptops and select upcoming Intel® Atom-based netbooks," said Kerry Forell, Intel WiDi Product Line Manager. "We are pleased to continue our relationship with NETGEAR, a leader in wireless networking, and we're excited that they are launching the second generation NETGEAR Push2TV HD adapter for Intel® WiDi.""NETGEAR is delighted to continue our relationship with Intel to deliver the NETGEAR Push2TV HD TV adapter for Intel® Wireless Display, providing customers a truly easy way to extend the PC viewing experience to the TV," said Damir Skripic, Product Line Manager, Connected Entertainment, NETGEAR. "With the NETGEAR Push2TV HD, consumers don't have to crowd around their PCs to enjoy their favorite Websites or share their own movies or photos with friends and family. Now they can enjoy it all on their big screen TV in full 1080p HD."With a click of a button, NETGEAR Push2TV HD enables consumers to wirelessly stream whatever is being viewed on their laptop to the TV without the need for cables or wires. With a growing number of laptops supporting Intel® WiDi technology (visit www.netgear.com/ptv to see the list of compatible laptops), more consumers now can enjoy the benefits of NETGEAR Push2TV adapter. The new Push2TV HD and the next generation of Intel® Wireless Display software offer consumers an improved home theater experience with the following benefits:* Full HD 1080p – Enjoy video content in the highest resolution on TV* 30fps Video – Superior image quality with full motion video* Dual-Band Wireless Connectivity – Ensures clear picture quality by minimizing wireless interfe-rence* Extend Mode – Browse the Internet on your laptop and wirelessly stream a movie to the TV at the same time* Improved Latency – Reduced lag time between the laptop display and the TV* Expanded Graphics Card Support – Supports laptops with Intel processor graphics alone or in configurations together with discrete graphics processorsThe Push2TV HD adapter is compatible with both the current generation laptops with Intel® Wireless Display Technology as well as the new laptops coming in 2011 with next generation Intel® Wireless Display technology."People are increasingly connecting to the Internet for entertainment content, but viewing HD movies or TV shows on a laptop screen doesn't do that content any justice. Thus we see a growing need for technology that simply allows consumers to connect their PCs to their TVs," said Kurt Scherf, vice president and principal analyst, Parks Associates. "NETGEAR's new Push2TV HD provides consumers with a quick and easy way to wirelessly stream their favorite website videos, music and pictures to their TVs and enjoy a full HD experience."Pricing and AvailabilityBacked by a one-year warranty and 24/7 technical support, the new NETGEAR Push2TV HD (PTV2000) has an MSRP of $119.99 (in the U.S.) and will be available in the U.S. via e-commerce and retail outlets later this month and worldwide in Q1 2011.Show full PR textNETGEAR Supercharges the Home Theater and In-home Mobility ExperienceNetworking Leader's New Universal WiFi Range Extender and Powerline Solutions Give Consumers More Robust Ways to Connect Home Entertainment Products, iPads and Smartphones to the InternetLas Vegas – January 5, 2011 - NETGEAR®, Inc. (NASDAQGM: NTGR), a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, today announced at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) three new home networking products that deliver the connectivity consumers need to supercharge their Internet-ready home theater gadgets and connect their iPads and other tablets, gaming consoles, and smartphones to the Internet.Demonstrating the company's commitment to delivering the innovative products needed to create the best connected entertainment and mobility experience throughout the home, NETGEAR introduces the Universal WiFi Range Extender-a compact wall-plugged design (WN3000RP) and two powerline networking solutions: the Internet Adapter for Home Theater-HD+3D (XAVB5004), which is the fastest powerline networking solution currently available on the market, and the Powerline AV 200 Nano Adapter Kit (XAVB2101), which is the world's smallest 200Mbps powerline AV adapter."Over the last 15 years, NETGEAR has led the way to connect people to the Internet with the most reliable and fastest connections possible," said Vivek Pathela, vice president and general manager, Home/Consumer Products, NETGEAR. "Today, people are placing increasing demands on their home networks to stream videos to their home theaters, play online games in 3D, and engage in social networks and apps with their iPads, tablets, or smartphones. We've created a new fleet of products that not only give consumers the reliable connection they've come to expect from NETGEAR, but also numerous ways to easily connect the growing number of HD entertainment and mobile devices in the home to the Internet. It's the next wave of Internet connectivity in the home."For many consumers, setting up and connecting home theater and mobile devices to the home network and the Internet remains a mysterious and complicated experience. WiFi-enabled Blu-rayTM players, gaming consoles, smartphones and tablets are often in different rooms of the home and therefore may not get a strong signal from the wireless router-which limits usage and makes it impractical to stream HD video or play high-performance online games at the same time. The NETGEAR products announced today address the connectivity and network performance issues often faced in today's connected world and give consumers the ability to create their ultimate home theater and mobility experience."We've reached a tipping point. People aren't just connecting their PCs and printers to the Internet anymore. Today, consumers are connecting more entertainment and mobile devices to their home network than ever before and we expect this number will grow to more than seven billion worldwide by 2015," said Kurt Scherf, vice president and principal analyst, Parks Associates. "NETGEAR's latest offerings capitalize on this market change and offer consumers a flexible and option-rich approach to creating an IP-enabled living room."Extend WiFi in the Home with the Universal WiFi Range Extender (WN3000RP)The Universal WiFi Range Extender (WN3000RP) increases the coverage of an existing home network to help eliminate 'dead zones' and provides more network bandwidth for entertainment, gaming and social networking applications. Due to the increasing presence of iPads and mobile devices, wireless coverage is increasingly needed in every corner of the home. If there are rooms in the house that have limited or no wireless coverage because they are too far away from the router, the Universal WiFi Range Extender boosts the existing WiFi signal in order to reach wirelessly to these 'dead zones' in the home. Consumers need to simply place the product between the router and areas of the home where additional WiFi access and bandwidth are needed for activities like video streaming on a tablet or smartphone. The Universal WiFi Range Extender is the perfect solution for consumers who don't want to change their existing home router. With the push of a button, consumers can add the extender to their home network and get a high-speed Internet connection. It securely and reliably enables devices including iPads, and other tablets, iPod Touch, laptops, Netbooks, WiFi-enabled smartphones, game consoles, and WiFi-enabled Blu-ray players, TVs and TV set-top boxes, to quickly connect to the home network. Its compact design is meant to be plugged directly into an electrical outlet without the need for messy cables and wiring.Get Fast and Flawless HD Video with the New Compact Powerline Solutions: The Internet Adapter for Home Theater (XAVB5004) and the NETGEAR Powerline AV 200 Nano Adapter Kit (XAVB2101)The latest additions to the NETGEAR powerline solutions deliver first-class networking using the existing electrical wiring in any home. The Internet Adapter for Home Theaters (XAVB5004) is the first 4-port 500Mbps powerline adapter kit and is the fastest powerline solution on the market today, while the XAVB2101 is the smallest 200Mbps powerline AV adapter currently available worldwide. The XAVB5004 is designed for compatibility with the draft IEEE P1901 global standard for high-speed powerline communications and both products are also GS/TUV Rheinland and HomePlug AV certified. These plug and play solutions also offer enterprise-class, push-button security for easy and trustworthy encryption.The XAVB5004 delivers flawless HD video streaming and is capable of connecting up to four Internet-ready home theater devices, such as HDTVs, Blu-ray players, IPTVs, TV set-top boxes, media players or game consoles such as Xbox Live and PS3, via 4-Gigabit Ethernet ports, to the Internet. With bandwidth to support the demanding needs of 3D video, the kit includes one 1-port adapter to connect to the router and one 4-port adapter to connect the Home Theater room. The solution's four ports are conveniently color coded for simple setup and quality of service (QoS). The ultra-compact, space-saving XAVB2101 extends Internet access throughout the home via any power outlet and provides a high-speed wired connection that is ideal for HD multimedia. Pricing and AvailabilityThe Universal WiFi Range Extender (WN3000RP) will be available in March 2011 with an MSRP of $99.99. For more information, please visit: http://www.netgear.com/wn3000rp.aspxThe Internet Adapter for Home Theater-HD+3D, 4-port, 500Mbps (XAVB5004) will be available in January 2011 with an MSRP of $169.99. For more information, please visit: http://www.netgear.com/xavb5004.aspxThe Powerline AV 200 Nano Adapter Kit (XAVB2101) will be available in March 2011 with an MSRP of $139.99. For more information, please visit: http://www.netgear.com/xavb2101.aspxAll products will be available through major e-commerce and retail outlets.
 