
 Not due for a laptop upgrade anytime soon? For those of you carrying on without Intel Wireless Display, Netgear just trotted out a so-called universal version of its Push2TV HD adapter that brings wireless media streaming to the masses. Like the WiDi-compatible version already on the market, it mirrors your Windows desktop on a TV or monitor, streaming DVDs, 1080p movies, photos, YouTube videos and other content. As with the WiDi model, the setup consists of a small box that connects to your TV via HDMI, though because the intended customer presumably lacks Wireless Display, it also comes with a thumb drive-sized USB adapter. Look for it in the US and Europe in late September for $129.99 -- a good thirty bucks more than what you'd pay for that WiDi model. Meanwhile, Netgear also announced an $80 dual-band, USB-powered WiFi adapter meant for TVs and Blu-ray players. Full PR for both products after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Display Anything on Your PC onto Your TV With NETGEAR's Universal Push2TV HD Adapter 			The new Universal Push2TV HD Wireless PC to TV Adapter displays the contents of a Windows computer's screen on TV, allowing consumers to enjoy any Internet content on the biggest screen in the house			NETGEAR LOGO NETGEAR logo. (PRNewsFoto/NETGEAR) SANTA CLARA, CA UNITED STATES 			BERLIN, Aug. 31, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- NETGEAR®, Inc. (NASDAQGM: NTGR), a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, today introduced the Universal Push2TV® HD Wireless PC to TV Adapter (PTVU1000) here at IFA, one of the world's largest consumer electronics trade shows, where NETGEAR is exhibiting in Hall 12, Booth 102, of the Messe Berlin Exhibition Grounds. The NETGEAR Universal Push2TV HD Adapter enables users of Windows PCs or laptops to wirelessly display the contents of a computer's screen onto a TV. 			Many of today's connected TVs, Blu-ray™ players and video game consoles can only access a limited list of online sites. The NETGEAR Universal Push2TV HD Adapter breaks down this barrier – all Internet content you can display on your Windows PC or laptop can now be displayed on your HDTV. This includes high-definition video from web sites such as Netflix, Vudu and YouTube; news from online sources including the BBC, CNN and The New York Times; and social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter and Google+; along with personal content including photos, music and home videos; DVD movies from the PC's drive; and even business presentations. 			Video resolution up to full HD 1080p provides a high-quality picture with crisp color and sharp detail on your big-screen HDTV – no more crowding around a small laptop display when watching movies or playing photo slide shows. 			Getting started with the NETGEAR Universal Push2TV HD Adapter is easy. Simply plug in a wireless adapter, about the size of a USB flash drive, into the USB port of a Windows laptop or desktop computer. A small wireless receiver connects to the HDTV through an included HDMI cable. After a simple one-time installation of software, the PC screen is wirelessly displayed on the TV. 			"Experience all your favorite content right on your HDTV," said Damir Skripic, Product Line Manager for Connected Entertainment at NETGEAR. "The NETGEAR Universal Push2TV HD Adapter makes it easy to watch movies, TV shows and clips from the Internet on the biggest screen in the house."  Pricing and Availability 			The NETGEAR Universal Push2TV HD Wireless PC to TV Adapter (PTVU1000) will be available in the United States and Europe in late September, at $129.99 in the U.S.  More information 			To learn more about the NETGEAR Universal Push2TV HD Wireless PC to TV Adapter, please visit http://www.netgear.com/home/products/hometheater/media-players/default.aspx and http://www.netgear.com/ptv.   NETGEAR Brings High Performance Dual-Band WiFi Connectivity to Smart TVs and Blu-ray Players 			The new Universal Dual Band Wireless Internet Adapter for TV & Blu-ray players connects home theater devices to the Internet and provides enhanced performance for HD video streaming			NETGEAR LOGO NETGEAR logo. (PRNewsFoto/NETGEAR) SANTA CLARA, CA UNITED STATES 			BERLIN, Aug. 31, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- NETGEAR®, Inc. (NASDAQGM: NTGR), a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, today introduced the Universal Dual Band Wireless Internet Adapter for TV & Blu-ray player (WNCE3001) here at IFA, one of the world's largest consumer electronics trade shows, where NETGEAR is exhibiting in Hall 12, Booth 102, of the Messe Berlin Exhibition Grounds. The adapter connects any Ethernet-enabled smart TV or Blu-ray™ player to a home wireless network, while dual band WiFi provides maximum performance for video streaming. 			Many TVs and Blu-ray players in homes today have an Ethernet port for connecting to the Internet, but don't have built-in WiFi and aren't in the same room as the home router. The easiest way to bring these devices online is with a WiFi adapter. But proprietary WiFi adapters, built by manufacturers for specific TV and Blu-ray player models, are expensive and only use the congested 2.4-GHz band, which can lead to video jitter. 			The NETGEAR Universal Dual Band Wireless Adapter solves these problems by making it possible to connect on the cleaner 5GHz WiFi band, which is ideal for demanding tasks such as HD video streaming. The adapter plugs into a TV or Blu-ray player through an Ethernet cable, making it compatible with any device that has an Ethernet port. The compact adapter can be placed on the included stand or even mounted on a wall. The NETGEAR adapter is also a future-proof investment that operates in the 2.4GHz band for users who have only a single-band WiFi network today, but intend on upgrading to a dual-band WiFi router. 			For those who already have a dual-band router, the NETGEAR Universal Dual Band Wireless Adapter is a way to add 5GHz performance to TVs and Blu-ray players that only have built-in single-band 2.4GHz WiFi. 			The compact and elegant NETGEAR Universal Dual Band Wireless Adapter has a glossy black finish and is designed to blend in with other home entertainment devices, without drawing attention to itself. 			The adapter is powered through a USB cable, which can be connected to the USB ports found on most smart TVs and Blu-ray players – eliminating the need to run a separate power cord to a wall outlet or power strip. The product also comes with an AC adapter for situations where a USB port is not available. 			"With all the video and music now online from services such as Netflix, Hulu, Pandora and more, there's a growing demand to connect smart TVs and Blu-ray players to the Internet," said Damir Skripic, Product Line Manager for Connected Entertainment at NETGEAR. "The NETGEAR Universal Dual Band Wireless Adapter brings the Internet to home theater devices with minimum effort and maximum performance."  Pricing and Availability 			The NETGEAR Universal Dual Band Wireless Internet Adapter for TV & Blu-ray (WNCE3001) will be available worldwide in the second half of September, at a manufacturer's suggested retail price of $89.99 in the United States.  More information 			To learn more about the NETGEAR Universal Dual Band Wireless Internet Adapter for TV & Blu-ray, please visit http://www.netgear.com/home/products/hometheater/networking-for-home-theater-and-gaming/default.aspx. 
