
       Saskatchewan-based SaskTel isn't the biggest Canadian carrier out there -- it's very regional, along the lines of Cincinnati Bell for the US, in terms of subscribers -- but it's definitely a legit company, and its CEO Robert Watson has casually divulged some potentially major news to the Leader-Post. In a discussion on its 3G network set to launch July 1st, he had this to say: "The good news is that (Apple) is coming out with a new version of the iPhone in the June time-frame and they're going to put us on that. So we're quite excited about that." A new version, you say? We wouldn't be that surprised, frankly, since new iPhones have launched every summer for the past three years, but there's still been nary a peep yet from the folks in Cupertino. Is Watson mistaken or speaking way out of turn? The man would be in a position to conceivably have the inside scoop. Guess we'll find out soon enough.

Update: Just to be clear, while SaskTel is currently CDMA, the 3G network it's rolling out is an iPhone-friendly HSPA.

Update 2: Seems SaskTel is now claiming that those comments were actually not confirmation of a forthcoming iPhone. See the full clarification after the break.

[Thanks to everyone who sent this in]
      

 

Show full PR textSaskTel Excited About New Wireless Network; Clarification of comments made regarding iPhoneREGINA, April 16, 2010 – In 2009, SaskTel announced the construction of a new $172 million Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS)/High Speed Packet Access (HSPA) wireless network. The first phase of the new network build, which will provide coverage in the major Saskatchewan centers, is expected to be available mid- 2010. Full coverage, similar to today's digital cellular coverage, is anticipated to be available by the end of 2010.At this time, SaskTel is currently working with cellular device vendors and partners, both current and new, to offer our customers a wide variety of devices to meet our customers' individual needs, including the iPhone.The comments made by the SaskTel President and CEO in a news article on April 15, 2010 were not a confirmation of a release of a new version of the iPhone. The President was commenting on information that has been reported publicly and on the Internet for several months, which has speculated on the timing of a new release.
 