
It's about time Sony's next-generation handheld got a redesign. Not that the new PS Vita is so different from the original models. The screen's no bigger, and it hasn't lost any backward compatibility either. In fact, nearly everything that Sony's changed here is for the better (and that includes the fizzy new array of colors too). Perhaps the biggest negative, however, is that the new Vita is a Japan-only device, at least for now. But importers delight: our non-Japanese PSN account worked fine (as did our game cards), and with 1GB of built-in memory, there's the possibility that you won't need to pony up more money for Sony's pricey Vita memory cards. But how does that cheaper screen fare against its predecessor's sparkling OLED? And can you play it for more than five hours? Keep reading, folks: we've got some good news and some bad news. 




HardwareThe original Vita started out as a thick slice of handheld. Fortunately, though, at 15mm thick (20 percent less) and 219g (a 15 percent weight reduction), this new model is more comfortable to use -- far more than those numbers would suggest. Indeed, playing for extended sessions was less of a test of upper-body strength than it used to be. We kid, but it does feel substantially lighter. The previous Vita was very much at the limits of handheld gaming, size-wise. Portable, yes, but not pocketable, at least in our opinion (and our trousers'.) The thinner Vita easily slides into jacket and blazer pockets, and also takes up less space in messenger bags. Still, we're not going to be storing it in our jeans any time soon.

The new Vita also looks better. Ranging from hot pink and black, to white and lime green, it's great to see Sony experimenting with colors beyond just monochrome and primary shades. Shape-wise, the edges now curve inwards rather than remaining flat, which means the new Vita is easier to grip too. Otherwise, it's the same oval-shaped handheld, although the buttons have received some minor cosmetic changes. Some of the lightweight decorations have been ditched, so there are no more circles surrounding the d-pad and analog sticks. Meanwhile, the PlayStation home, start and select buttons are now circles rather than ovals, matching the Vita OS' game and app icons. Weirdly, Sony also shed the backlighting underneath the home button; you'll have to make do with the pair of notification lights on the top edge.


On our lime-green iteration, Sony added two gray, rubberized pads to the white analog sticks, while on the other models, these are both black. The sticks themselves feel slightly springier than on our old Sony handheld, although that could well be wear and tear, and not a change in the construction of the sticks themselves. The d-pad remains unchanged -- identical to the last Vita, but different from the separated-out direction keys found on PS3 and PS4 controllers. Speaking of the PS4, it clearly had some influence on the Vita's redesign, too. The rear touchpad has shrunk by about 3cm in width (the other dimensions are about the same), putting it much closer in size to the incoming touch panel on the PS4's DualShock 4. And indeed, smaller is better. During Remote Play for PS3 titles and when the Vita emulates PS1 games, the handheld migrates those L2 and R2 collar buttons to the rear pad, which used to mean a lot of unwanted L2 and R2 input. While using the new Vita, however, the smaller rear panel meant we made much fewer accidental presses.

Those clicky buttons are still around, and there's the same button setup along the top edge. This time, though, those power and volume nubs are made of colored plastic instead of the machined aluminum found on the original. In general, the Vita's slender new shape was apparently made possible by reshuffling the components inside and, well, swapping some out. The major swap-out was the screen, which has gone from a well-received OLED display to an LCD one, similar to the screen technology Sony uses on its Xperia smartphones. We will say this: the quality of the LCD in the new PlayStation Vita is miles beyond the watery, shady screens of your PSP. Still, is it for the better?




