
 There are already 2,048 x 1,536 reasons to covet the latest iPad, but here's one more: it's the first tablet to incorporate the latest Bluetooth 4.0 "Smart" standard. Like the iPhone 4S, Apple's new slate is ready to pair with other Smart devices that drain far less power than previous modules. Want to complement your purchase with a wireless keyboard whose batteries will last for years? Or to plaster your body with tiny low-power sensors so you can, erm, monitor yourself on your iPad? Oh yes, Bluetooth 4.0 can make that happen.
      

 

  Show full PR text  The New iPad First Bluetooth Smart Ready Tablet  Apple Embraces Bluetooth 4.0, Readies for Explosion of Bluetooth Devices and Data  KIRKLAND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The new iPad, unveiled today by Apple, Inc. [NASDAQ: AAPL], is the world's first Bluetooth Smart Ready tablet, incorporating Bluetooth v4.0 and its hallmark feature low energy technology. As a Bluetooth Smart Ready tablet, the new iPad gives any Bluetooth device, from a static data-collecting sensor to a laptop or mobile phone like the iPhone 4S, the ability to connect, share and distribute information in real-time. No other wireless technology is able to provide the limited energy consumption, usability, functionality and install base that Bluetooth v4.0 brings to the market.  "We've seen a steady stream of Bluetooth Smart Ready and Bluetooth Smart devices since the beginning of the year and expect today's news to propel that wave even higher."  The fact that Apple's new iPad is a Bluetooth Smart Ready hub is big news for the broad CE ecosystem – accessory manufacturers, app developers, and most importantly, consumers. Every second, there are over 60 Bluetooth enabled devices commercialized worldwide – Classic Bluetooth technology and now Bluetooth Smart devices joining the 7 billion Bluetooth enabled devices already in market. This massive ecosystem is expected to expand remarkably within the next two years: 2B Bluetooth enabled devices will ship in 2012 and 3B are expected to ship in 2014, according to Peter Cooney, practice director, semiconductors at industry watcher ABI Research, Inc. So why is the new iPad better with Bluetooth technology?  For manufacturers:  • As a Bluetooth Smart Ready hub, the new iPad is ready to connect to the expanding universe of Bluetooth devices, both Classic Bluetooth technology (think existing mice, keyboards, and speakers,) and new Bluetooth Smart devices (fitness sensors like the Polar H7 or Wahoo Blue Heart Rate Monitors, Casio G-Shock GB-6900 Smart Watch, etc.).  • The new iPad joins the iPhone 4S and the Motorola Droid Razr as some of the first Bluetooth Smart Ready devices that are already available to connect to the increasingly diverse and massive number of Bluetooth enabled devices. The release of Windows 8 PCs and tablets will further propel the millions of Bluetooth Smart Ready hubs that will ship this year.  For app developers:  • As a Bluetooth Smart Ready hub, the new iPad (like the iPhone 4S) enables app developers to turn data coming securely from Bluetooth peripherals into compelling information for consumers via apps. OEMs as well as third-party app developers can distribute their apps through the app store and allow them to easily connect to whichever Bluetooth Smart device they like. This is all enabled through Apple's API.  • Data coming from Bluetooth devices is app and cloud friendly– secure, diverse, real-time and inherently lightweight.  For consumers:  • Like all other Bluetooth Smart Ready devices, the consumer now has the opportunity to seamlessly connect their diverse Bluetooth devices (Classic Bluetooth technology or new Bluetooth Smart devices) to the new iPad. Not only will a consumer be able to buy an ultra-efficient Bluetooth Smart keyboard that won't require a change of batteries for the life of their new iPad, they can also track the data that might be securely coming off of their many Bluetooth Smart devices through apps on their new iPad.  • For example, fitness buffs can track and record their workout analytics (heart rate, distance, speed, elevation, etc.) on an app that's talking to their Bluetooth enabled heart rate monitor. Diabetics can seamlessly and securely track their blood sugar levels from their Bluetooth enabled glucose meter through an app on their new iPad. At their next visit, they can simply show a chart of their blood sugar levels over the past six months on their new iPad (in full HD) when the doctor asks how their readings have been since the last check-up. Or consumers can use their new iPad as a remote control to their Bluetooth enabled home audio system, TV or thermostat.  • Consumers can trust the security of the data being transported via Bluetooth technology. Data coming from Bluetooth Smart peripherals feature military grade 128-bit AES encryption. Not only are Bluetooth Smart devices ultra power efficient, but they are also ultra secure. "The new iPad is the first of its kind, showing Apple really understands how their products are better with Bluetooth technology, and the value of the Bluetooth ecosystem – to the developer community, to the manufacturer, and to the ultimate benefactor – the consumer," said Michael Foley, Ph.D., executive director, Bluetooth SIG. "We've seen a steady stream of Bluetooth Smart Ready and Bluetooth Smart devices since the beginning of the year and expect today's news to propel that wave even higher."
 