
  Getting a little bit antsy in your respective Apple Store queue? Don't worry, Cupertino let it be known that its new iPad is on-track for an 8AM debut this Friday. The "resolutionary" (Apple's fault, not ours) tablet will be reaching Apple Stores on March 16th at 8AM local time in ten countries: the US (including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands), Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland and the UK. Here in the States, the iPad will also be hitting a number of retailers, including Best Buy, Radio Shack, Sam's Club, Target and Walmart. The tablet starts at $499, the line starts around the corner and the relevant press info starts after the break.
      

 

  Show full PR text   New iPad Arrives in the US & Nine Additional Countries on Friday   CUPERTINO, California―March 14, 2012―Apple® today announced the new iPad®, the third generation of its category defining mobile device, will arrive at Apple's retail stores and the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com) on Friday, March 16 at 8:00 a.m. local time in the US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland and the UK; along with Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.   The new iPad features a stunning new Retina™ display, Apple's new A5X chip with quad-core graphics and a 5 megapixel iSight® camera with advanced optics for capturing amazing photos and 1080p HD video and still delivers the same all-day 10 hour battery life* while remaining amazingly thin and light. iPad Wi-Fi + 4G supports ultrafast 4G LTE networks in the US and Canada, and fast 3G networks around the world including those based on HSPA+ and DC-HSDPA.** Additionally, iPad 2 is available at a more affordable price starting at just $399.   Every customer who buys a new iPad at an Apple retail store will be offered free Personal Setup service, helping them customize their iPad by setting up email, loading new apps from the App Store™ and more, so they'll be up and running with their new iPad before they leave the store. Personal Pickup, available at Apple retail stores in the US and a feature of the free Apple Store® app, lets iPad customers shop and buy from anywhere they are, then pick up their purchase at any Apple retail store. In the US the new iPad will also be available at Best Buy, Radio Shack, Sam's Club, Target and Walmart. 
 