
 
Amazon Germany just couldn't keep a secret. Microsoft's just announced that a shiny new Xbox 360 Arcade replacement -- with 4GB internal flash memory, a matte finish, and built-in 802.11n WiFi -- will be shipping August 3rd for $199.99. A stark difference in capacity to the current 250GB model, but at least it's cheaper. Looking ahead to November, the standalone Kinect, it's coming for (yeah, you guessed it) $149.99 with Kinect Adventures. Act surprised, Microsoft would really like you to. As for the pièce de résistance -- that'd be the 4GB console, Kinect sensor, and game -- that's due out "this holiday" for $299.99. Press release after the break, pretty pictures just below. 

Update: Looks like the Britons will be paying £129.99 for Kinect. 






Show full PR textNew Xbox 360, Kinect Sensor and "Kinect Adventures" - Get All Your Controller-Free Entertainment in One Complete PackageMicrosoft announces pricing for Kinect and a new Xbox 360 4GB console.REDMOND, Wash. - July 20, 2010 - Microsoft Corp. today announced an all-in-one opportunity to jump into the controller-free fun of Kinect this holiday: the all-new Xbox 360 4GB console, the revolutionary Kinect sensor and "Kinect Adventures" packaged together for $299.99 (U.S. ERP). With "Kinect Adventures," players will make their way through 20 adventures, navigating roaring rapids and ducking and dodging through mountaintop obstacle courses and other exotic locations - no controller, wand or balance board required. In addition, existing Xbox 360 console owners can purchase the Kinect sensor with "Kinect Adventures" for $149.99 (U.S. ERP). The sensor, which will work with each of the 40 million Xbox 360 consoles currently in households worldwide,1 is uniquely able to track your full body movements, respond to your voice and deliver a multiplayer experience right out of the box.In addition, the new Xbox 360 4GB console, which begins shipping on Aug. 3 in the U.S., will be available for $199.99 (U.S. ERP). With a sleek new design, the Xbox 360 4GB console looks great and includes built-in Wi-Fi N, 4GB of internal flash memory, touch-sensitive buttons and a black matte finish.2"Kinect for Xbox 360 offers tremendous entertainment value for the whole family," said Dennis Durkin, Xbox 360 chief operating officer. "With full body, voice and the ability to play games with your friends right out of the box, Kinect is the most unique, complete and affordable way for everyone to enjoy controller-free fun and entertainment."With more than 15 games available at launch, living rooms will become fitness rooms, dance clubs and sports stadiums. Kinect games, including "Kinectimals," "Kinect Sports," "Kinect Joy Ride" and MTV Games' and Harmonix's "Dance Central" will retail for $49.99 (U.S. ERP). In addition to games, Kinect changes the way you experience entertainment by putting your favorite movies, TV programs, music and live sports from ESPN all in one place. Begin a movie by simply saying, "Xbox, play," or browse through a music list with the wave of a hand. Kinect also creates new ways for friends and family to have fun together. With Video Kinect,3 share a smile with friends and family, as you open a window into living rooms around the world."I think Kinect is a major leap forward in the gaming experience that will appeal to both mainstream and casual gamers," said Michael Gartenberg, partner, Altimeter Group, and author of the Engadget Entelligence column.Starting today, select retailers are taking pre-orders for the Xbox 360 Kinect Console Bundle at $299.99 (U.S. ERP) and Kinect for Xbox 360 at $149.99 (U.S. ERP). Pre-order Kinect or the Xbox 360 Kinect Console Bundle today, and at launch receive a token to download three exclusive game levels for "Kinect Adventures," the game included with Kinect.4 Those wanting more information or to pre-order now should go to http://www.xbox.com/en-US/hardware/wheretobuy.About KinectKinect for Xbox 360 brings games and entertainment to life in extraordinary new ways - no controller required. Simple to use and fun to play, Kinect for Xbox 360 allows owners to jump into Kinect-enabled games for any type of play, and the Kinect Hub puts your favorite movies and TV programs, music, live sports, and social networks all in one place. The Kinect sensor recognizes you, responds to your gestures, listens to your voice and works with every Xbox 360 console (175 MB of memory required). More information about Kinect for Xbox 360 can be found at http://www.xbox.com/kinect.About Xbox 360Xbox 360 is a premier home entertainment and video game system. This November, with the addition of Kinect, Xbox 360 will forever transform social gaming and entertainment with a whole new way to play - no controller required. Xbox 360 is also home to the best and broadest games as well as the largest on-demand library of music, standard- and high-definition movies, TV shows and digital games, all in one place. The entertainment center of the living room, Xbox 360 blends unbeatable content with the leading social network of 25 million Xbox LIVE members to create a limitless entertainment experience that can be shared at home or across the globe. More information about Xbox 360 can be found online at http://www.xbox.com.About MicrosoftFounded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.1 175 MB of memory required.2 It also has a one-year limited warranty on the console.3 Xbox LIVE Gold membership required for Video Kinect.4 Download tokens included in marked packages at launch, at participating retailers, while supplies last. 80 MB required to download from Xbox LIVE.For more information, press only:Natalie Edwards, Edelman (323) 202-1461, natalie.edwards@edelman.comKristin Oke, Edelman (206) 268-2265, kristin.oke@edelman.comNote to editors: For more information, news and perspectives from Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft News Center at http://www.microsoft.com/news. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may have changed. For additional assistance, journalists and analysts may contact Microsoft's Rapid Response Team or other appropriate contacts listed at http://www.microsoft.com/news/contactpr.mspx.Follow Kinect on Facebook as it tours the world, transforming how people experience games and entertainment. Visit http://www.facebook.com/xbox for more info.
 