
 


	After launching its digital newsstand for the Galaxy Tab earlier this year, Next Issue Media is now looking to expand to other Android tablets, as well. The company, which was founded by a quintet of publishers including Conde Nast, Hearst and Time Inc., has just signed partnerships with a slate of slate manufacturers, including Motorola, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba, along with Verizon Wireless. Next Issue Media didn't specify which devices would support its app, but it did take the opportunity to announce new digital magazines, like Car and Drive, Coastal Living, ELLE, Golf and Real Simple. The goal is to have a full 40 titles by the end of the year, ahead of its full-fledged launch in 2012. Turn past the break for more details in the full PR.
 

 		Show full PR text  Next Issue Media Adds Titles and Distribution to its Preview Edition Release 		Interactive magazine roster and OEM partners expand in advance of Q1 full-feature release 		NEW YORK and SILICON VALLEY, Calif., Nov. 16, 2011 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- Next Issue Media, the company formed by five leading U.S. publishers--Conde Nast, Hearst, Meredith, News Corp. and Time Inc.--today announced the addition of new tablet optimized titles from Hearst and Time Inc. to its preview edition release. The company also announced partnerships with several major consumer electronics partners to augment its distribution footprint on Android tablets in advance of the holidays. Through these actions, Next Issue continues to build toward its full-feature product release currently planned for Q1 of next year. 		Magazines added to the Next Issue newsstand include: Car and Driver, Coastal Living, ELLE, Golf and Real Simple. Each of these top titles, along with current offerings such as: Better Homes & Gardens, Esquire, People, The New Yorker, TIME and Sports Illustrated, delivers a rich, interactive reading experience optimized for high resolution Android tablets. Many more optimized titles from Next Issue publishers are expect to be added to the newsstand before the end of the year. 		In addition, through distribution partnerships with manufacturers Motorola, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba and service provider Verizon Wireless, the Next Issue app will be prominently showcased across multiple tablet offerings via placement on device home screens and featured app stores. The Next Issue app is also available through its website, www.nextissue.com . 		"This announcement demonstrates our promise to deliver a content-rich, user-friendly digital reading experience for consumers across the Android platform. Given the ramp up of Android devices in Q4, Next Issue is perfectly positioned for easy discovery by new customers and to deliver the compelling, high-quality content they desire." said Morgan Guenther, CEO of Next Issue Media. "More titles, more devices, more choice and lots more to come from Next Issue in Q1, so keep watching." 		"Consumers have a variety of choices when purchasing digital content, and Next Issue cuts through the confusion to prominently showcase our digital magazine offerings," said Steve Sachs, Time Inc. Executive Vice President, Consumer Marketing and Sales. "Next Issue is a valuable partner as we introduce more digital titles through the end of this year."
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

