
 Call it coincidence if you want, but a December 7th press conference to launch the NFC Forum's new Certification Program likely has something to do with NFC read / write support built into Google's new Android 2.3 "Gingerbread." An OS that could be officially unveiled as early as today according to a cheeky blog post by Notion Ink that includes this bullet:

"6th December is another big day for Android and you will find out how fast Notion Ink can work. (Eden is extremely compatible with 2.3)."
Recall how gung-ho Eric Schmidt was on the topic of Near Field Communication while demonstrating it using a still unannounced Nexus S with an embedded NFC chip at the Web 2.0 Summit. That was way back on November 16th when Schmidt promised a Gingerbread release "in like the next few weeks." According to the NFC Forum, a device must be certified in order to display the official "N-Mark" (pictured) -- a symbol for NFC that tells you where to touch in order to initiate NFC services on your device. So, Google... anything you'd like to announce before Tuesday?

P.S. Almost forgot that Google's Andy Rubin will be kicking off the D: Dive into Mobile event later today. We'll be there live just in case Andy feels like introducing something pungent and tasty during the opening session scheduled for 6:30pm San Francisco time.
      

 

Show full PR textNFC Forum Press Conference/Reception at Cartes in Paris, Dec. 7, to Launch the NFC Forum Certification ProgramVisit the Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum in Cartes Booth 3C134CARTES & IDentification 2010--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The NFC Forum:WHAT:A Press Conference at Cartes 2010 announcing the launch of the NFC Forum Certification Program, followed by a cocktail reception. The NFC Forum Certification Program gives device manufacturers a means of establishing their products' compliance with the NFC Forum's technical specifications. For service providers and consumers, the Certification Program offers increased assurance that NFC Forum-certified products are interoperable with NFC Forum-certified devices. Only companies whose products pass certification testing will be able to display the N-Mark, the universal symbol for NFC, which tells consumers where to touch to initiate NFC services on a device.The NFC Forum is also celebrating the announcement of four newly published technical specifications. These specifications further define the modular architecture and interoperability parameters for NFC devices and protocols. They work hand-in-hand with the new program to clear the way for developers to bring more globally interoperable NFC solutions to market.Join us as we officially unveil the next step in the evolution of NFC technology, and then celebrate this new path to global NFC deployment. Advance registration is required.WHO:Koichi Tagawa, NFC Forum Chairman; Mohamed Awad, NFC Forum Board member; Matt Ronning, NFC Forum Compliance Committee Chair; and Paula Berger, NFC Forum Executive DirectorWHEN:Tuesday, 7 December 2010, 16:00-18:00 CETWHERE:Cartes Paris-Nord Villipinte Exhibition Centre, Hall 6, Room 613REGISTER:http://www.regonline.com/nfc_forum_certification_launch_press_conferenceMEDIA CONTACT:Ruth Cassidy, NFC Forum; +1 617-957-8494; ruth.cassidy@nfc-forum.org
 