
 You don't have to look high (or low) to find a litany of complaints regarding Time Warner Cable's service, support or pricing, but it's evidently aiming to right one particular wrong later today. According to Bloomberg, the National Football League has inked a deal with TWC to bring the NFL Network and RedZone Channel to its systems. The move comes just months after the NFL ushered its networks onto rival Cablevision, putting TWC is a particular bind in the greater NYC market. It's still unclear where the channels will be positioned and how much extra you'll have to pony up to get 'em, but hey -- it's cheaper than moving to a FiOS neighborhood. (Though, admittedly, less satisfying.)

 Update: Both parties have confirmed it, NFL Network and NFL RedZone Channel are coming to Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks starting September 23rd. NFL Network will be included for customers on the Digital Basic and Sports Pass tiers, while NFL RedZone is on the Sports Pass package only, check the press release after the break for the relevant details and self-congratulatory affirmations.



  Show full PR text   Time Warner Cable & Bright House Networks sign multi-year deals to carry NFL Network & NFL RedZone
   NFL Network reached multi-year agreements with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks, the country's respective second- and sixth-largest cable providers, for carriage of NFL Network and the NFL RedZone channel, it was announced today.

   NFL Network and NFL RedZone will debut in Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks homes beginning this Sunday September 23, with full launch before Thursday, September 27.  "We're delighted to have reached an agreement for NFL Network and NFL RedZone that provides a good value to our customers," said Melinda Witmer, Executive Vice President and Chief Video and Content Officer for Time Warner Cable. "The additional games this year and the proven appeal of NFL RedZone will certainly prove to be a draw for our customers. We look forward to a long and productive relationship with the NFL."

   "We thank our customers for their patience while a fair deal was reached for all involved," said Steve Miron, CEO, Bright House Networks. "It is especially rewarding to say yes to our customers who have requested NFL Network's award-winning coverage."

   "We are excited to work with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks to bring fans football 24 hours a day, 365 days a year," said NFL Network President and CEO Steve Bornstein. "Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks subscribers will be able to enjoy our weekly Thursday Night Football schedule, our award-winning Sunday NFL GameDay shows, NFL Total Access, NFL Films programming and much more. In addition, the NFL RedZone channel is a truly exciting way to enhance your Sunday football viewing experience each and every week."

   Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks are major cable providers in the home markets for 12 NFL teams (Buffalo, Carolina, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dallas, Green Bay, Indianapolis, Kansas City, New York Giants, New York Jets, San Diego and Tampa Bay). For Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks, NFL Network will be available on the Digital Basic and Sports Pass tiers, and NFL RedZone will be available to Sports Pass customers.

   NFL Network is the home of Thursday Night Football - 13 primetime NFL regular season games from September through December - and is the destination for all that happens around the sport of football. NFL Network airs seven days a week, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and provides viewers with more than 2,500 hours per year of original programming, including: NFL Total Access, NFL GameDay, the new four-hour NFL AM weekday morning show, Top 10, Playbook, NFL Replay, NFL Classic Games plus the Emmy award-winning Sound FX and America's Game.  NFL Network also features every NFL preseason game, the Senior Bowl, plus more coverage of the NFL Draft, Pro Football Hall of Fame ceremony, NFL Scouting Combine and Super Bowl than anyone else.

   The extraordinarily popular NFL RedZone, produced by NFL Network, whips around every NFL game on Sunday afternoons, delivering the touchdowns and most exciting moments as they happen and in high definition. When a team goes inside the 20-yard line, fans see the crucial plays live. The channel keeps fans up-to-date in real time, switching from game to game with live look-ins, highlights and a chance to see every important play. For more information on NFL RedZone, visit www.nfl.com/redzonetv.

   About Time Warner Cable  Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high‐speed data and voice services in the United States, connecting more than 15 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video and voice services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers and, through its NaviSite subsidiary, managed and outsourced information technology solutions and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at www.timewarnercable.com, www.twcbc.com, www.navisite.com, and www.twcmedia.com.  About Bright House Networks  Bright House Networks is the sixth largest owner and operator of cable systems in the U.S. and the second largest in Florida with technologically advanced systems located in five states including Florida, Alabama, Indiana, Michigan and California. Bright House Networks serves approximately 2.5 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. The company also offers a full suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Bright House Media Strategies, the advertising arm of Bright House Networks, offers businesses advanced targeted advertising solutions. Bright House Networks also owns and operates exclusive local news and sports channels in its Florida markets. For more information about Bright House Networks or our products and services, visit brighthouse.com.  About NFL Network  NFL Network airs seven days a week, 24 hours a day on a year-round basis and is the only television network fully dedicated to the NFL and the sport of football. Fans turn to NFL Network to receive inside information and insights straight from the field, team headquarters, league offices and everywhere the NFL is making news.  NFL Network gives fans unprecedented year-round access to all NFL events, including the Super Bowl, Playoffs, regular season, preseason, Pro Bowl, Pro Football Hall of Fame induction weekend, NFL Draft, Scouting Combine, Senior Bowl, league meetings, minicamps and training camps. For more information log onto NFL.com, the exclusive home of NFL Network, NFL video highlights, NFL chats, news and information.

 
