
Verizon Wireless has had an agreement with the NFL providing streaming access to games since 2010, but a new extension will bring more of the sport than ever to its phones and tablets. Not only will its exclusive access continue, but an updated NFL Mobile app is coming this season with more news, video on-demand and behind the scenes info. In 2014, Verizon will expand streaming beyond the current Thursday, Sunday and Monday night games, adding Sunday afternoon CBS and Fox broadcasts, plus playoffs and the Super Bowl. The NFL held back streaming rights in its recent deals with the networks enabling this new agreement, which along with its partnerships with ESPN and Microsoft should keep the game going whether fans come to the stadium or not. According to the Wall Street Journal the new deal is worth as much as $1 billion, up from the last four year pact which was reported to cost Verizon $720 million.



Show full PR textVerizon and NFL Announce Multi-Year ExtensionDeal Extends and Expands Leading Carrier's Current Sponsorship and Content Agreement with the LeagueNFL Mobile Content Enhanced Starting in 2014 with Addition of Live Sunday Afternoon Regionalized Games, All NFL Playoff Games and the Super BowlThe National Football League and Verizon Wireless today announced the renewal of their agreement with a new, innovative and expanded multi-year extension.Verizon Wireless, the official wireless service provider of the NFL, will continue to provide fans with access to America's favorite sport, regardless of whether they are at home or on the go.For the 2013 season, the NFL and Verizon will launch an updated version of the popular NFL Mobile app. NFL Mobile from Verizon will continue to offer exclusive access on phones to Thursday, Sunday and Monday Night Football game coverage, NFL Network and NFL RedZone. The new NFL Mobile from Verizon will include improvements and enhancements that give fans unprecedented inside access to all the latest news, stats, exclusive game highlights, plus an extensive collection of on-demand video featuring analysis and inside access from NFL Network and NFL Films. In addition, fans will have special access to other popular features including fantasy, customizable NFL alerts, ringtones and graphics.Beginning with the 2014 season, NFL Mobile from Verizon will expand to include access to live CBS and Fox Sunday afternoon games within their home markets, as well as all postseason playoff games, including the Super Bowl.For additional information on NFL Mobile from Verizon, specific phones, applications and associated pricing, visit http://www.verizoninsider.com/nfl



*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

