
 


	Yeah, the NFL's really great and everything, but you know what would make it even greater? More. Money. Fortunately for Roger Goodell & Co., that's exactly what the league is due to receive, thanks to a slate of TV deals signed last week. The agreements, set to go into effect at the end of the 2013 season, effectively renew the NFL's current agreements with CBS, Fox and NBC, extending the league's TV contracts for a "record-setting" nine extra years. Not surprisingly, the deals will also funnel some extra pocket change through the NFL's coffers -- which will of course be coming from you, if you're subscribing to cable or satellite TV. Currently, the three networks pay a combined $1.94 billion in annual rights fees, but according to the LA Times, the league will now receive an average of $3.1 billion per year, as stipulated under its renewed agreements. In a statement, Commissioner Goodell said the deals underscore his league's "unique commitment to broadcast television," with CBS Chief Executive Leslie Moonves adding that his network will benefit from the NFL's "terrific, exciting programming," and from the consistently high ratings that "no other franchise delivers." The agreements, which come just a few months after the NFL inked a comparatively lucrative deal with ESPN, will also allow for the league to shift games between CBS and Fox, in order to bring "regional games to wider audiences." Each network, moreover, will air three Super Bowls over the course of the nine-year contract, continuing the rotation currently in place. Tebow past the break for the full PR.
 

 		Show full PR text  The tradition continues: NFL to remain on broadcast TV 		CBS, FOX & NBC Sunday packages extended through 2022 season – longest-ever NFL agreements with over-air broadcast partners 		The National Football League has agreed to nine-year extensions of its Sunday broadcast television packages with CBS, FOX and NBC that will keep NFL games on free, over-the-air television, Commissioner Roger Goodell announced today. The nine-year terms are the longest for NFL television agreements with over-the-air broadcast partners, surpassing the eight-year deals signed with CBS, FOX and ABC from 1998-2005. 		The new agreements run through the 2022 season. The NFL's current television agreements expire following the 2013 season. 		The agreements also enable the NFL to expand its Thursday night package of games on NFL Network beginning next year. The number of additional Thursday night games has not been determined. 		The NFL is the only sports league that delivers all of its games – regular-season and playoffs – on free, over-the-air television. (ESPN's Monday night and NFL Network's Thursday night cable games are required by contract to be carried on over-the-air, broadcast stations in the cities of the participating teams, subject to local blackout rules). 		CBS will televise the American Football Conference package of Sunday afternoon games that it acquired in 1998. CBS first began televising NFL games in 1956 and carried the NFC package from 1970 through 1993. 		FOX will continue with the National Football Conference package of Sunday afternoon games that it acquired in 1994. 		NBC will again carry the Sunday Night Football package of primetime games that it acquired in 2006. NBC will continue to televise the Thursday night NFL season Kickoff game to open each season and will add the annual Thanksgiving primetime game starting in 2012. 		Flexible scheduling – which ensures quality matchups in all NFL Sunday time slots and gives teams a chance to play their way onto primetime on NBC and into the late-afternoon 4:15 PM ET time slot on CBS and FOX – remains a viewer-friendly element of the network broadcast agreements. It will be expanded in 2014, including the ability to move games between CBS and FOX to bring regional games to wider audiences. Further details on enhanced flexible scheduling will be developed with the networks. 		CBS, FOX and NBC will each televise three Super Bowls during the term of the agreements, continuing the current rotation. NBC will carry Super Bowl XLIX (49) in Glendale, Arizona in 2015, Super Bowl LII (52) in 2018 and Super Bowl LV (55) in 2021. CBS will broadcast Super Bowl L (50) in 2016, Super Bowl LIII (53) in 2019 and Super Bowl LVI (56) in 2022. FOX will televise Super Bowl LI (51) in 2017, Super Bowl LIV (54) in 2020 and Super Bowl LVII (57) in 2023. 		"These agreements underscore the NFL's unique commitment to broadcast television that no other sport has," Commissioner Goodell said. "The agreements would not have been possible without our new 10-year labor agreement and the players deserve great credit. Long-term labor peace is allowing the NFL to continue to grow and the biggest beneficiaries are the players and fans." 		Commissioner Goodell said NFL fans should expect ongoing innovation from the NFL and its TV partners. 		"CBS, FOX and NBC have served NFL fans with the highest-quality television production," Commissioner Goodell said. "The networks will continue their outstanding coverage of the NFL while also helping to deliver more football to more fans using the best and most current technology." 		Earlier this season, the NFL and ESPN reached an eight-year extension to keep Monday Night Football on ESPN through the 2021 season. 		NFL games are 23 of the 25 most-watched programs among all television shows this fall and draw more than twice as many average viewers as broadcast primetime shows. 		Show full PR text  CBS and NFL Reach New Nine-Year Broadcast Rights Agreement Through 2022 Season 		CBS Sports Remains Broadcast Home of NFL's American Football Conference 		NEW YORK, Dec. 14, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The National Football League announced today that CBS has been awarded a new nine-year broadcast rights agreement that runs through the 2022 season. In the new deal, CBS Sports remains the broadcast home of the NFL's American Football Conference (AFC). In addition, as part of the NFL's expanded "flexible scheduling," CBS will also broadcast games from the National Football Conference (NFC). This will be the first time CBS will broadcast AFC and NFC matchups in the same season. CBS will broadcast Super Bowl L in 2016, Super Bowl LIII in 2019 and Super Bowl LVI in 2022, in addition to Super Bowl XLVII in New Orleans in 2013. 		"The NFL provides terrific, exciting programming to our viewers week-in and week-out," said Leslie Moonves, President and Chief Executive Officer, CBS Corporation. "No other franchise delivers ratings the way an NFL game does. The League has proven time and again that it understands the importance of a healthy broadcast partner, and this historic new agreement strengthens that partnership. In addition, the deal continues CBS's ability to be profitable with the NFL throughout the coming decade and beyond." 		"CBS has been broadcasting the NFL for 52 years, and we are extremely pleased to extend our long-term partnership," said Sean McManus, Chairman, CBS Sports. "This commitment is further proof of the valued relationship CBS shares with the NFL and of the overall strength of CBS Sports. The opportunity to add quality NFC games greatly enhances our television package. We look forward to continued growth as we broadcast the NFL for many more years to come." 		Twelve of CBS's 14 owned stations are in NFL markets, including New York, San Francisco/Oakland, Boston, Miami, Denver, Pittsburgh and Baltimore, which are all AFC markets. 		This new deal is the longest ever with the NFL and its broadcast partners, surpassing the eight-year deal from 1998-2005. CBS Sports, which first began televising NFL regular-season games in 1956 and this season marks its 52nd season, had broadcast rights to the National Football Conference package from 1970 through 1993. The Network began televising American Football Conference games in 1998.
 