
 Last year, the National Football League took a massive step forward when it announced it would be live streaming the biggest game of the year for the first time ever -- at least officially. Said move was mostly deemed a pretty good success, to say the least, with the sporting event netting around 2.1 million unique viewers back then -- as such, it shouldn't come as a surprise that the NFL's looking to come back for round two on February 3rd. Earlier today, Roger Goodell & Co. announced the upcoming Super Bowl XLVII is set to follow suit and be streamed on the interwebs as well, however this year's streaming duties will be handled by CBS instead of NBC -- and the NFL's own website, of course. Additionally, Verizon subscribers can get it on the action straight from their smartphone via the the NFL Mobile application, just as they were able to during the Giants vs. Patriots face-off. We still have some time until the next iteration of the Big Game, so here's to hoping your favorite team shows up in New Orleans and makes the entire experience that much better for you.



  Show full PR text   NFL to stream Super Bowl with CBS; Wild Card Saturday & Pro Bowl with NBC; All four postseason games also available via NFL Mobile from Verizon
   MORE THAN 2 MILLION WATCHED SUPER BOWL LIVE STREAM LAST YEAR ON NFL.COM & NBCSPORTS.COM

   Super Bowl XLVII on CBS, and the Pro Bowl and the Wild Card Saturday doubleheader games on NBC will be available to fans on television, online and on select mobile phones, the NFL announced today. All four postseason games will also be available on NFL Mobile from Verizon.  Super Bowl XLVII will be broadcast on CBS with fans able to access the live stream from NFL.com and CBSSports.com. NBC's postseason games – the Wild Card Saturday doubleheader and the Pro Bowl – will be broadcast on NBC as well as streamed live on NFL.com and NBCSports.com.

   The live coverage from CBSSports.com, NBCSports.com and NFL.com will come from CBS' and NBC's TV coverage of the games. Complementing that stream will be a number of extra features to enrich the viewing experience including additional camera angles, in-game highlights, live statistics and other interactive elements.

   Last year's first-ever live stream of a Super Bowl in the United States attracted 2.1 million users, making it the most-watched, single-game sports event ever online, according to data provided by Omniture and mDialog, surpassing any previously reported record. The live game stream was available on both NBCSports.com and NFL.com as well as NFL Mobile from Verizon.

   CBS' Super Bowl on CBSSports.com will kick off on Sunday, February 3 with Super Bowl XLVII live from New Orleans and will feature CBS Sports' exclusive broadcast coverage of the game with JIM NANTZ (play-by-play) and PHIL SIMMS (analyst) calling the action.  NBC Postseason Extra will kick off on Saturday, January 5 with NBC's Wild Card Saturday doubleheader. Coverage will continue on Sunday, January 27 for the 2013 Pro Bowl live from Hawaii. NFL.com and NBCSports.com will feature the audio from NBC's broadcast teams.

   Verizon wireless customers can catch postseason action live on their smartphones with coverage available on NFL Mobile from Verizon. Running on the nation's largest 4G LTE network and largest, most reliable 3G network, NFL Mobile from Verizon will be the on-the-go source for real-time coverage. Prior to the games, customers can use NFL Mobile from Verizon to keep up-to-date with breaking news, highlights, video on demand and live NFL Network coverage available on an array of smartphones. NFL Mobile from Verizon is available exclusively to Verizon Wireless customers for $5/ month. Data charges may apply for download and use of the application. For more information about NFL Mobile from Verizon including how to purchase the app and a list of compatible devices, visit www.verizoninsider.com/nfl.

 
