
Sometimes you need a little extra encouragement to hit the trail. The latest update to Nike+ Running for iOS should give you that friend-based push to lace up when you're feeling particularly lazy. Social competitions make up most of what's new in version 4.3, bringing in the same functionality between the app and its Nike+ FuelBand counterpart. To start a challenge, simply set a distance, a duration and invite your buddies. From there, group chats allow for motivation (read: trash talk) and checking in on your temporary frenemies' progress. Each time you clown your pals, you'll earn a medal. Like Nike+ Fuel, what those are good for is anyone's guess. After you're done topping the leaderboards, sprint to Distro's latest issue for an inside look at the swoosh company's Accelerator startup program.



Show full PR textNike invites runners to take on their friends with the latest Nike+ Running App update for iPhone and iPod touch. With the re-launched Nike+ Challenges feature, runners can set a distance goal, invite Nike+ friends to join and race to the finish line.

Runners' insights on the thrill of competition helped inform the new Nike+ Challenges feature. Users can determine the Challenge's name, mileage goal, time period and participants. A new chat feature allows friends to encourage each other and share tips throughout the challenge. Runners can stay motivated by checking the live leaderboard to track progress and see where they rank amongst their friends.

The runner who completes the Nike+ Challenge distance first receives a gold medal badge, while all Challenge finishers receive a white medal. The badges sync with the runner's Nike+ profile, which keeps a log of all completed and in-progress Nike+ Challenges.

Nike+ Challenges is the latest addition to digital services offered by the Nike+ Running experience, which includes heat maps showing popular running routes; leaderboards to compare running stats; in-run cheers from friends; audio feedback on pace, distance and time; a Powersong feature for extra motivation; and positive feedback from some of Nike's top athletes.

Nike+ Running is part of the overall Nike+ community of athletes. Since its launch in 2006, users have recorded more than 980 million miles. Athletes can visit the single-destination nikeplus.com to access all their Nike+ data – including lifetime NikeFuel points accumulated from all Nike+ devices – and connect with others across sports, around the world.


