
 
 Nike took to Microsoft's stage at E3 to announce a new fitness feature for your Kinect, Nike+ Kinect Training. We're told it'll make us "athlete-fit", with constant feedback on technique and every four weeks, it'll even re-assess your progress. The setup will also nag remind you through Windows Phone of incoming training sessions -- though there's no specifics on whether the fitness setup will play nice with other mobile platforms. The companion phone app will also allow you to compare and share progress with friends also using the training program.




   Show full PR text   Xbox and Nike Team Up to Revolutionize Fitness at Home   "Nike+ Kinect Training" brings a world-class Nike experience into your home.
   LOS ANGELES, June 4, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- At the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) today, Microsoft Corp. and NIKE Inc. ushered in a new era of home fitness, unveiling "Nike+ Kinect Training" only on Kinect for Xbox 360. Featuring Nike trainers who work with some of the company's top athletes, "Nike+ Kinect Training" is a custom training program rooted in elite Nike fitness and specifically designed to help athletes of all levels reach their potential in the comfort of their own homes.

   Whatever your fitness goal, "Nike+ Kinect Training" will give you the tools to get you there. Through the magic of Kinect, the personal trainers within the experience can see how your body moves, assess your physical strengths and athleticism, identify areas for improvement, and create a personalized workout plan to help you achieve your personal best. With real-time feedback to make sure positions and movements are correct, the "Nike+ Kinect Training" custom program evolves as you do, helping you get fitter, faster and stronger.

   "By combining Nike's understanding and knowledge of great athletes with the powerful technology of Kinect, we have created a personal training program unlike anything currently available," said Yusuf Mehdi, corporate vice president of Marketing and Strategy of the Interactive Entertainment Business at Microsoft. "Kinect becomes the eyes for 'Nike+ Kinect Training' instructors, bringing a new level of engagement and personalization to the program that blurs the lines between a personal training session and a game."

   Nike is the leader in sports innovation and has developed new ways to inspire athletes at every level with digital services such as Nike+ and the Nike+ FuelBand. With "Nike+ Kinect Training," Nike training can be personalized for anyone - from a professional athlete to an everyday athlete or even for someone who is just getting started.

   "'Nike+ Kinect Training' gives everyone access to the same training that we give our professional athletes. It merges our understanding of the greatest athletes in the world with the amazing sensor technology of Kinect for Xbox 360," said Stefan Olander, vice president of Digital Sport at Nike. "'Nike+ Kinect Training' will make working out at home fun and inspiring, and with its seamless connection to two huge global communities in Xbox LIVE and Nike+, you'll always find more motivation in someone to train with or challenge."

   Take your training experience further by competing in challenges, sending encouragement to friends, and staying connected with a mobile app that keeps you motivated and on track for your next workout.(1) "Nike+ Kinect Training" will be available exclusively on Kinect for Xbox 360 during the holiday 2012 season.

 
