
 
 Android fans have been largely cut out of the Nike+ ecosystem, but that changes tonight: the shoemaker has kicked off a major redesign by giving the Google faithful their own version of its GPS-based run tracking app, now called Nike+ Running. Both it and an ample version 4.0 remake for iOS make starting a run that much quicker, and the whole experience has been tuned to compare runs and set goals without having to squint too closely at a phone that should be far from your mind. Facebook's Open Graph steps into the arena to share run data and track friends; even if you're not a social networking maven, you can tag your shoes to find out if that worn out pair of cross-trainers is holding you back. Both app versions are free to grab, so you've got an easy avenue to loading up your Galaxy S III (or iPhone) and shedding a few pounds.



  Show full PR text   Nike+ Running App for Android Allows Runners to Track, Share and Compare their Runs
  BEAVERTON, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Today NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) announced the launch of the Nike+ Running App for Android, providing more runners with access to the world's largest running club.
  The Nike+ Running App for Android connects seamlessly to nikeplus.com, which has been reengineered to be smarter, more social and more motivational. The app allows runners to track, share and compare their runs from anywhere, anytime. It features a smooth, intuitive user interface – tailored and optimized for Android – that hosts a number of features to enhance the running experience. The in-run navigation is seamless and simple, allowing runners to easily check key run stats, see their in-progress GPS maps, change songs or get audio feedback without missing a stride.
  "The expansion of Nike+ onto multiple mobile platforms will allow us to serve more runners than ever before. This opportunity will give even more athletes the chance to experience Nike+, which makes this an incredibly exciting time for the running community," said Stefan Olander, Vice President, Digital Sport.
  The key focus in the app's design is motivating runners. A "Next Moves" feature on the home screen allows runners to easily flip through suggested challenges: for example, to run their fastest 5k or go their farthest distance. A dynamic goal progress bar helps runners stay motivated and tracking on goals they've set up through their nikeplus.com profile.
  The app makes sharing to Facebook or Twitter fun with run summary features. Runners can choose from a wide variety of terrains and emotions, as well as tag which shoe they ran in to track shoe total mileage. And for runners recording climate conditions, the app automatically knows the weather based on GPS location.
  The Nike+ Running App for Android is available for free on Google Play.
 
