
 Oh, the superzoom camera -- it's not a compact and the lens doesn't twist off, but for one reason or another, this confused category has survived against the odds. So, if superzooms happen to be your shooter of choice, we've got some good news: Nikon's got a new pair to add to the pickins. For those with deeper pockets, the Coolpix P520 might be on order, with an 18.1-megapixel BSI CMOS sensor and a 3.2-inch vari-angle (tilt-and-swivel) VGA display. There's a 42x f/3.0-5.8, 24-1,000mm lens on board, netting you quite a bit of range. It also offers 1080/60i HD video shooting and WiFi compatibility through the optional ($60) WU-1a Wireless Mobile Adapter.

 Casual photographers might be more taken with the Coolpix L820, which still packs a fair amount of punch, thanks to a 16-megapixel BSI CMOS sensor, a 30x, 22.5-675mm zoom lens with optical VR, and 1080p video shooting. Unlike its more feature-packed sibling, though, this model uses AA batteries -- which you might be into if international travel is on the agenda (those disposable cells are available worldwide, which helps if you aren't keen on plugging in a charger). Both offerings will hit stores in late February, with the P520 available for $450 and the L820 shipping for $280, in your choice of black or red finishes.


  Show full PR text   WITH INCREDIBLE ZOOM RANGES, NIKON'S NEW S9500, P520 and L820 COOLPIX CAMERAS MAKE CAPTURING ACTION AT A DISTANCE EASY
   Combining Connectivity with High Quality NIKKOR Lenses, Nikon's New COOLPIX Cameras are Designed for Every Shooting Occasion

   MELVILLE, NY (January 28, 2013) – Today, Nikon Inc. introduced three new COOLPIX digital cameras with high-power zoom lenses, enabling consumers to capture beautiful images and videos at a wide range of distances. The COOLPIX P520 sports a 42x zoom lens and the versatility needed for advanced performance, while the 22x zoom COOLPIX S9500 combines impressive range with an ultra-slim, pocketable package. Both feature Wi-Fi® connectivity1 that allows users to send images and videos from their camera directly to a compatible smart device through the Wireless Mobile Adapter Utility application1, ideal for sharing content with others as well as for posting to social networking sites. The compact COOLPIX L820 offers a 30x zoom and an ergonomic design, making it simple and fun to comfortably capture images and videos at various distances. Great for anyone from the weekend jetsetter to the everyday memory maker, the zoom lenses and user-friendly features of the newest COOLPIX cameras make them ideal to have on-hand for any occasion.

   "Nikon's new long zoom COOLPIX cameras provide consumers with the chance to capture a diverse range of subjects and scenes, whether near the subject or at a distance," said Bo Kajiwara, Vice President of Marketing, Planning and Customer Experience, Nikon Inc. "Designed for the frequent traveler, the instant sharer, and the family memory keeper, these new COOLPIX cameras offer trusted Nikon technology, high image quality, Full HD video and a variety of other features that meet photographers' needs."

   The Nikon COOLPIX P520: The Advanced Performance Ultra Zoom Camera  For those looking to capture a beautiful and sharp image up close or at a distance, the new COOLPIX P520 boasts a 42x optical zoom-NIKKOR glass lens with an impressive zoom range from a wide 24mm to a whopping 1000mm (35mm equivalent), for users that require the very best in performance and versatility. Lens-shift Vibration Reduction (VR) alongside the new Active Mode assist in capturing blur-free images and video, while full manual controls give users the power to realize their creative potential when shooting. The P520 also features an 18.1-megapixel backside-illuminated (BSI) CMOS sensor and high ISO sensitivity to ensure quality images even in low-light conditions.

   Additionally, the COOLPIX P520 allows users to not only shoot images from a distance, but also at unique angles thanks to a versatile 3.2-inch Vari-Angle LCD monitor. Additionally, Full HD (1080p) video recording with stereo sound is possible with the simple touch of the dedicated movie record button. This ultra-zoom camera comes with built-in GPS capabilities as well, allowing photographers to log their journey with an easy-to-use display.

   To share images and videos instantly with family and friends, the P520 is compatible with the WU-1a Wireless Mobile Adapter2. This optional accessory paired along with the downloadable Wireless Mobile Adapter Utility application1 allows users to transfer their images and videos to compatible smart devices and tablets for easy sharing and viewing with others.

   The Nikon COOLPIX L820: A Comfortable Long Zoom Camera Fit to Preserve Precious Family Memories  Designed to capture stunning images at various distances, the compact COOLPIX L820 sports a high-power 30x zoom, a 16-megapixel CMOS sensor, and Vibration Reduction (VR) technology to help keep shots steady. With its super wide-angle lens, covering from wide-angle 22.5mm to super-telephoto 675mm, users have the versatility to capture crisp, vivid images, whether up-close or at a distance. The camera's 3-inch monitor, ergonomic design, along with the convenience of AA-size batteries and a dedicated video button make it easy and fun for users to shoot comfortably. Thanks to a simple and intuitive interface, users can easily access a wide range of features, including Easy Auto Mode and Smart Portrait System, which enable them to enhance their photos with options like Red Eye Fix and Face-Priority AF. Other special effects include Glamour Retouch, Filter Effects and Skin Softening for optimal portrait enhancements.

   The Nikon COOLPIX S9500: New Ultra-Slim Zoom Offering Shares World Travels With Ease  The slim COOLPIX S9500 sports a 22x optical zoom (25-550mm) and is the perfect companion for anyone that wants to capture and share high-quality images and HD videos with a sleek and stylish package. Small enough to keep close in a shirt pocket or purse, the S9500 features an 18.1-megapixel BSI CMOS sensor, ideal for capturing low-light images with clarity and sharpness. It also sports a legendary NIKKOR lens with Vibration Reduction (VR) to minimize the effects of blur and camera shake. For those who want to capture their journey through video, this camera also offers Full HD (1080p) movie recording with stereo sound. Additionally, a bright 3-inch OLED monitor assists users to clearly compose or view their recorded movies or captured images, even when in bright conditions. The COOLPIX S9500 also offers various shooting effects to enhance memories, including an upgraded Glamour Retouch function, Skin Softening and Quick Effects.

   To enhance the user's sharing capabilities when away from family and friends, the S9500 offers a built-in GPS function to provide the user the ability to log their travels and share where they have been. In addition, the camera offers built-in Wi-Fi®1 connectivity so images and videos can be shared while on the go by transferring them to a compatible smart device equipped with the Wireless Mobile Adapter Utility application1. It also enables users to remotely take photos with the camera from a compatible smartphone or tablet.

   The COOLPIX S6500: Compact Camera that Packs a Powerful 12x Zoom  Announced earlier this month, the COOLPIX S6500 is designed for those looking for an easy-to-carry camera that takes and shares great photos, easily. The camera features a 12x optical zoom lens, a 16-megapixel BSI CMOS sensor and a variety of user-friendly features, including five new Glamour Retouch effects, all packed into a slim, stylish camera body. In addition to an extensive feature set, the S6500 offers built-in Wi-Fi® connectivity1 that allows users to transfer images and HD movies from their camera directly to a compatible smart device.

   Price and Availability:  The COOLPIX P520 will be available for a suggested retail price of $449.95* in Black, Red, and Dark Grey in February 2013. The COOLPIX L820 will be available for a suggested retail price of $279.95* in Black and Red, while the COOLPIX S9500 will be available for a suggested retail price of $349.95* in Black, Silver, and Red. Both will be available in February 2013. Additionally, the previously announced COOLPIX S6500 will be available in early February for a suggested retail price of $219.95* in Silver, Black, Red and Orange.

 
