
       
Keeping with the pre-PMA announcements, Nikon also launched the S and L series of cams just now -- the S stands for "Style," and L stands for "Life." The Ls are the low-end of the bunch -- Life is apparently cheaper than Style -- and you've got two choices: the $280 L110 superzoom, which has a 15x optical zoom lens in front of a 12.3 megapixel sensor and a 3-inch 460,000-dot LCD, or the $130 L22 compact, which has a 3.6x zoom and a 12 megapixel sensor, and comes in many colors because low-end camera have to come in rainbow colors or the Best Buy people won't say they're any good. Nikon says the new $299 S8000 pictured above is the most notable of the Style line, mostly because of its 10x zoom, 720p video, 921,000-dot LCD for previewing. Yeah, not bad at all. After that it's just incrementally sadder steps down the features scale: the $249 S6000 has a 7x lens and a 230,000-dot LCD, the $200 S4000 adds touchscreen controls to its 3-inch 460,000-dot LCD but has a 12 megapixel sensor and a 4x zoom, and the $149 S3000 has a 2.7-inch LCD, a 4x zoom, and probably isn't interesting to you at all. Unless it is, in which case you can look at it in the gallery, read the PR after the break, and just generally party the night away.





Show full PR text"S" REPRESENTS STYLISH, SLIM DESIGN, SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE AND SUPER ZOOM WITH THE NEW NIKON COOLPIX S-SERIES DIGITAL CAMERASWhether a User Needs HD Video, Super-Long Zoom, or a Functional Fashion Accessory, There Is Something for Everyone with Nikon's New Style Series of Digital CamerasMELVILLE, NY (Feb. 2, 2010) – Today, Nikon Inc. continues the tradition of blending innovation, design and performance in its line of COOLPIX compact cameras with the introduction of four new COOLPIX Style Series cameras. The S-series cameras provide users with innovative and fun features such as long zooms, speedy performance, advanced flash controls, touch-screen technology, and enhanced high resolution LCD screens in sleek, stylish camera bodies. In an impressive slim body, the new COOLPIX S8000 digital camera sports a long 10x optical zoom, 720p HD Video, and a 3.0-inch 921,000-dot LCD screen with bright Clear Color Display. Not to be outdone, the COOLPIX S4000 blends a user-friendly touch-screen interface with an elegant camera design, while the COOLPIX S6000 and COOLPIX S3000 digital cameras deliver the speed, accessibility and ease-of-use that have made the S-series the camera of choice among consumers who value style and performance. "Building on the hallmarks of the COOLPIX line, the new S-Series cameras combine the features consumers want, along with high performance and innovative technology into elegant camera designs with colorful results," said Bo Kajiwara, director of marketing, Nikon Inc. "The digital camera has become an accessory to today's consumer, and with the S-series camera, users can challenge their creativity, and complement their sense of fashion."All new COOLPIX S-series cameras incorporate Nikon's world-class NIKKOR lenses, delivering accurate detail and brilliant color, as well as Nikon's EXPEED™ digital image processing concept, which ensures high-quality pictures with stunning color and sharpness. Many of the new S-series models embrace the addition of High Definition (HD) video by adding an ideally located video record button on the back of the camera. Other COOLPIX features include Scene Auto Selector, which automatically recognizes the shooting situation and adjusts camera settings accordingly for great pictures anywhere. To make better portraits easier, the Smart Portrait System incorporates a series of automatic functions including In-Camera Red-Eye Fix ™, Improved Face-Priority AF, Face Priority AE, Smile Mode, Blink Warning and Skin Softening to flatter even the most camera-shy subject.New COOLPIX S8000: Deceptively Slim Yet Hides a SurpriseHidden inside the COOLPIX S8000's slender body resides a powerful and versatile 10x Optical Zoom-NIKKOR ED glass lens that produces incredibly sharp, crisp images up close or far away. To banish the blur at any focal length, the S8000 features a 4-way Image Stabilization System and ISO settings to 3200. Additionally, the S8000 has the ability to record HD movies (720p) at 30 frames per second (fps) with stereo sound, and features an ultra high-resolution 921,000-dot Clear Color Display LCD for sharp, clear viewing of images.The 14.2-megapixel COOLPIX S8000 digital camera also includes a new feature called the Creative Slider, which simplifies adjusting brightness, saturation and color tone in-camera by utilizing the Rotary Multi Selector. Another new feature, Advanced Flash Control, allows users to create more natural-looking flash shots by utilizing higher ISO settings and faster shutter speeds in low light as well as apply Multi-area Auto Backlight Compensation for even exposures. Additionally, the COOLPIX S8000 packs an improved Sport Continuous Mode, high-speed continuous shooting at up to approximately 4 fps for 45 frames (3 MP), plus a fast start-up time and a quick shutter-release time. To further ensure no moment is missed, the S8000 has the ability to acquire the subject and lock focus using Subject Tracking.The COOLPIX S8000 will be available in February 2010 for $299.95* MSRP in a choice of colors including black, red, bronze and champagne silver. The New COOLPIX S6000: High Performance Is Always In StyleThe new COOLPIX S6000 digital camera blends performance into an elegant camera design to create the ideal accessory for wherever life leads. Though the S6000 measures only one-inch thick, it comes with a versatile 7x Optical Zoom-NIKKOR ED glass lens to zoom in on the action or fill the frame with your subject. The COOLPIX S6000 also has the ability to record HD movie clips (720p) at 30 fps to preserve memories in high quality video, which are easily played back later on an HDTV from the camera via HDMI connection.The COOLPIX S6000 includes features like 14.2-megapixel resolution and a bright 2.7-inch 230,000-dot Clear Color Display LCD. Similar to the COOLPIX S8000, the COOLPIX S6000 boasts advanced features and controls like Sport Continuous Mode and Advanced Flash Control. The S6000 also sports a fast start-up time of approximately 0.75 seconds and a short shutter-release time of approximately 0.3 seconds to help ensure memories are recorded as soon as they happen. To further help users snap stunning photos easily, the COOLPIX S6000 features ISO 3200; 4-way VR Image Stabilization System; Subject Tracking; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System all packed into an ultra-stylish design. The COOLPIX S6000 will be available in March 2010 for $249.95* MSRP in a choice of bold colors, including champagne silver, black, red, and bronze. The New COOLPIX S4000: Touch-Screen Technology, Nikon PerformanceIntegrating elegant design and intuitive operation, the new COOLPIX S4000 digital camera comes equipped with a touch-screen interface that places the camera's controls at the users' fingertips. The COOLPIX S4000 incorporates a new 3.0-inch 460,000-dot touch-panel Clear Color Display LCD, which makes it easy to compose, review, edit and share pictures.To fully utilize the touch-screen interface, the COOLPIX S4000 comes with several advanced shooting features. With Touch Shutter, users can select their subject by a single touch on the screen to adjust focus and exposure, and to automatically release the shutter. When selected, Subject Tracking can automatically follow and focus on a subject selected by touching the screen, such as a fast moving child or a pet throughout the frame. At the touch of a finger, users can record HD movies (720p) to create and share. The S4000 also includes user-friendly modes like Scene Auto Selector, which automatically recognizes the scene in your picture and adjusts camera setting to take the best photo possible for the given conditions. The 12-megapixel COOLPIX S4000 features a 4x wide-angle Zoom-NIKKOR lens, ISO sensitivity to 3200; 4-way VR Image Stabilization System; Subject Tracking; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System and a compact stylish design. The COOLPIX S4000 digital camera will be available in March 2010 for $199.95 MSRP in a choice of vibrant colors, including plum, champagne silver, pink, red and black. New COOLPIX S3000: Make a Statement in ColorSleek design, attractive colors and innovative technology truly set the new Nikon COOLPIX S3000 digital camera apart from the competition. The COOLPIX S3000 comfortably places advanced shooting controls in the hand for great fun and optimal results. User-friendly advanced features and ease-of-use, along with the camera's compact size make it a pleasure to carry around anywhere from the family reunion to a night on the town.With the stylish looks and the vivid color choices of the S3000, the camera is the perfect tool to express one's personal style. The COOLPIX S3000 also includes a bright 2.7-inch 230,000-dot LCD screen designed to make it easy to compose, review and share pictures.The 12-megapixel COOLPIX S3000 features a 4x wide-angle Zoom-NIKKOR lens; ISO 3200; 4-way VR Image stabilization System; Subject Tracking; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System and a colorful and compact design. The COOLPIX S3000 will be available in March 2010 for $149.95 MSRP and in a choice of vibrant colors, including plum, champagne silver, black, orange, green and blue. SUPER ZOOM AND STUNNING PHOTOS ARE WITHIN REACH WITH NIKON'S NEW "L" SERIES COOLPIX DIGITAL CAMERASThe COOLPIX L110 Boasts 15x Zoom and HD Movie Capability, While the COOLPIX L22 Digital Camera Offers Big Features at a Small PriceMELVILLE, NY. (Feb. 2, 2010) – Nikon Inc. today introduced two new COOLPIX compact digital cameras to its Life-Series line, which provide consumers an easy and fun way to enjoy snapping and sharing digital images. While the L110 digital camera affords users the ability to get close to all of life's moments with its powerful zoom lens, the compact design and ease of use of the L22 makes it the go-anywhere, anytime digital camera for any occasion. The L-series point-and-shoot digital cameras define simplicity and value, ready to capture life's precious moments with stunning quality and clarity with the aid of Nikon technologies such as the Smart Portrait System, Scene Auto Selector and legendary NIKKOR Optics."These new additions to the COOLPIX L-series continue the tradition of empowering consumers to enjoy photography with cameras that are easy to use, with features that make taking great photos an enjoyable experience for the whole family," said Bo Kajiwara, director of marketing, Nikon Inc. Both of these new Life series cameras help make flattering portraits of friends and family easy with the Smart Portrait System, which integrates the following advanced features: o In-Camera Red-Eye Fix TM automatically fixes most instances of red-eyeo Enhanced Face-Priority AF can detect up to 12 faces from a variety of angles o Smile Mode automatically detects when your subject smiles and releases the shuttero Blink Warning notifies the user when a subject has blinked in a photoThe COOLPIX L110 Digital CameraThe L110 digital camera achieves its versatility through a 15x Optical Zoom-NIKKOR lens. Covering a wide 28mm to 420mm super-telephoto focal range, the lens can readily handle everything from action shots at the kid's soccer game to stunning landscapes from the family vacation. The 12.1-megapixel COOLPIX L110 features a large, bright 3.0-inch high-resolution (460,000-dot) LCD for easy composition, viewing, and sharing of images; while a new High Definition (HD) 720p movie mode features a built-in stereo microphone, and a dedicated movie selector button that makes it simple to switch from capturing stills to recording HD movies. In addition, the COOLPIX L110 digital camera features the ability to utilize the optical zoom and auto focus operations during video capture to make focusing and staying with the action simple and easy. For example, when photographing or capturing video clips of fast moving pets or children, users will be able to retain focus and easily keep the subject within the frame. Additionally, consumers will not miss the action with Sport Continuous Mode, which captures images at a blazing 11.1 frames per second (3 MP resolution).Additionally, a 5-way Vibration Reduction (VR) Image Stabilization System helps to reduce camera shake in the following ways, helping to banish blurry photos in low light or shooting while handheld: • Optical VR Image Stabilization by image sensor shift compensates for the effects of camera shake, producing clearer, sharper results in lower lighting or unsteady conditions• Hybrid VR Image Stabilization combines both sensor shift VR and Electronic VR • Motion Detection automatically detects moving subjects and adjusts shutter speed and the ISO setting to compensate for camera shake and subject movement• High ISO 6400 capability creates opportunities to take sharper, natural-looking photos in lower light conditions• Nikon's original Best Shot Selector (BSS) automatically takes up to 10 shots while the user presses the shutter and saves the sharpest imageThe COOLPIX L110 includes four AA Energizer® Ultimate Lithium batteries, allowing 840 shots or seven hours of video. The new L110 camera will be available beginning February 2010 and will retail for $279.95* MRSP and will be offered in black or red. The COOLPIX L22 Digital CameraThe new L22 digital camera has popular camera features, including a large LCD screen, Auto Scene Selector and AA battery convenience, at an affordable price point. The new L22 is compact and easy to use, and the ideal camera for consumers who will not compromise on performance when looking to capture life's memories at an affordable price. The 12-megapixel L22 features a 3.6x Zoom-NIKKOR lens for creative compositional freedom, an incredibly bright 3.0-inch LCD screen for sharing and composing images and VR electronic image stabilization to help end blurry photos due to low light or camera shake. The new L22 will be available beginning February 2010 and will retail for $129.95* MSRP in a choice of colors, including black, red, blue and champagne silver. For more information about the new L-Series COOLPIX cameras, as well as the full line of COOLPIX products, please visit www.nikonusa.com.
 