
 
If you don't want to hate your current camera, look away now. Nikon's 16 megapixel D7000 has landed into the world of officialdom with a bang, bringing with it an almighty 39-point autofocus system, 100 percent viewfinder coverage, 1080/24p and 720/30p video options, dual SD card slots, 6fps burst mode for up to 100 shots, and magnesium alloy top and back covers for that extra bit of metalized durability. The continuous video autofocus that debuted in the D3100 is here too, though bear in mind there's a 20 minute cap on uninterrupted recordings. Video nuts might not like that, but at least there's a stereo mic input and an added control dial for adjusting shooting modes. It's looking like a thorough upgrade from the D90, but remember that Canon's direct competitor -- the 60D -- costs a Benjamin less than the D7000's $1,200 body-only asking price (or $1,500 with an 18-105mm kit lens) , so take the time until this becomes available in mid-October to weigh up your options well. Oh, and the outfit's also throwing out two new pieces of high-end glass alongside a new flash: an AF-S 200mm f/2G ED VR II for $5,999.95, an AF-S 35mm f/1.4G for $1,799.95, and an SB-700 Speedlight for $329.95. 






Show full PR textEVOLUTION OF THE REVOLUTIONARY: THE NIKON D7000 D‐SLR IS THE PREEMMINENT DIGITAL CAMERA FOR DEMANDING PHOTO ENTHUSIASTS The D7000 Offers Creative Freedom with Advanced Features Such as a New 16.2 Megapixel DX‐Format CMOS Sensor, Six FPS Shooting, 39‐Point AF System and 1080p HD Movie with Full Time Autofocus MELVILLE, N.Y. (September 15, 2010) – Nikon Inc. today introduced the new D7000 digital SLR camera designed to fulfill the needs of passionate photographers who demand exceptional performance, reliability, and unprecedented levels of control and versatility in a compact form factor. Engineered as an ideal balance of durability and functionality, the D7000 D‐SLR features a multitude of new enhancements and updated Nikon technologies, which results in stunning photos and amazing full HD (High Definition) movies. Continuing the tradition of innovative technology that began with the revolutionary D90, the first D‐SLR to capture HD movies, the D7000 features a new 16.2 megapixel CMOS sensor with low‐light ability never before seen in a DX‐format (APS‐C) camera. The new EXPEED 2 TM image‐processing engine fuels the enhanced performance of the D7000 along with a new 39‐point AF system and groundbreaking new 2,016 pixel RGB 3D Matrix Metering System to deliver amazing image quality in a variety of shooting conditions. Additionally, the D7000 D‐SLR provides full 1080p HD movie capability with full time auto focus (AF), enabling users to capture their world with both striking still and moving images. "The D7000 D‐SLR creates a new class of Nikon camera by delivering exceptional quality, control and an innovative feature set; this is a camera that enables D‐SLR users to achieve a true expression of their creative vision, while concentrating primarily on image quality above all else," said Lisa Osorio, general manager of marketing at Nikon Inc. "When you combine the innovation of the agile D7000 with the exceptional and robust line of NIKKOR lenses and accessories, the potential for D‐SLR photographers and filmmakers is limitless." Unparalleled Performance From Unrivaled Technologies With its new 16.2‐megapixel CMOS image sensor and Nikon's new EXPEED 2 image processing system, the D7000 D‐SLR delivers superior image quality with low noise. The EXPEED 2 image‐processing engine combined with a 14‐bit Analog / Digital conversion brings a new level of even tonal gradations while managing color, contrast, exposure, and noise resulting in brilliant image quality. EXPEED 2 also manages the D7000's speedy 50‐millisecond shutter response, blazing AF speed and rapid six frame‐per-second (fps) burst speed for up to 100 images. The D7000 D‐SLR features an all‐new 39‐point AF System, which includes nine center cross‐type sensors that operate with more than 60 NIKKOR lenses. The 39 points in the new Multi‐CAM 4800DX AF module work together to provide superior subject acquisition and fast tracking capabilities, allowing photographers to confidently capture a player stealing third from the sideline to fast‐moving wildlife. Additionally, photographers can activate dynamic or single point AF, configurable in combinations of 9, 21 or 39 or a 21‐point ring to match a variety of shooting styles and situations. Photographers can activate 3D tracking, which continuously follows moving subjects within the 39 AF points, highlighting the activated AF point in the viewfinder. Utilizing Nikon's exclusive Scene Recognition System, the camera analyzes subject information from a database containing more than 30,000 images to optimize focus, exposure and white balance. To assist in creating amazing imagery, the Scene Recognition System reads data from a groundbreaking 2,016‐pixel 3D Color Matrix Meter RGB sensor that examines the scene's brightness and color data then optimizes the camera's performance prior to the actual exposure. Another revolutionary Nikon first, this system interprets scene data for improved control of light metering and i‐TTL flash output. Additionally this new sensor allows for a new "Ambient" white balance setting which can be activated to allow warm rendering in Automatic White Balance.Nikon Continues the Low‐Light Fight The D7000 D‐SLR continues Nikon's tradition of providing photographers the confidence to shoot in low‐light, knowing they will capture high quality low‐noise images. The camera's native ISO range of 100‐6400 affords the versatility to photograph in challenging lighting conditions, such as when indoors or in the evening. The ISO range can be expanded to a Hi‐2 setting of 25,600, which was previously found only in Nikon FX‐format territory. The resolution of the camera renders a pixel size of 4.78 µm, which allows more light to be gathered, resulting in a correctly exposed image that has less noise and finer grain. Full 1080p HD Movies with Advanced Video Features Building upon the popular D90 D‐SLR, the Nikon D7000 captures breathtaking full 1080p HD movies with full‐time autofocus and manual exposure control. To keep critical HD focus, users can choose to engage a variety of AF functions, including face priority to track up to 35 human faces, subject‐tracking and normal or wide‐area autofocus. Advanced movie features also allow exposure adjustment on the fly while recording. The D7000 D‐SLR offers variable frame rates and resolutions, and can record 1080p at a cinema‐like 24 fps, or a web‐friendly 720p at either 24 or 30 fps for up to 20 minutes per clip. Once recorded, users are able to edit and trim video clips in the camera to save time in post production. Whether utilizing a wireless or hot shoe mounted microphone, sound can be recorded via the stereo microphone input for professional audio results. To further simplify movie shooting, Live View is activated by a single dedicated switch, and HD video recording is achieved by pressing a single button. The D7000 D‐SLR also incorporates a built‐in HDMI output CEC compliant (Consumer Electronic Control) that allows users to connect it to a HDTV and playback with most HDTV remote controls. By adding versatile NIKKOR lenses to the equation, photographers can create a variety of photo perspective to video such as isolating subjects with a shallow depth of field, and recording in low‐light conditions. Combining the D7000 D‐SLR with NIKKOR lenses also delivers the sharpness essential for HD video, and Nikon's innovative Vibration Reduction (VR) II technology helps to eliminate the effects of camera shake. No Compromise: Enhanced Build Quality, Durability and Usability The compact design is lightweight enough for a full days use, but has a reassuring heft that hints at Nikon's reputation for reliability. The durable camera body consists of a magnesium‐alloy top and rear covers and a 150,000 cycle‐rated shutter system. Additionally, the D7000 D‐SLR is dust and moisture sealed and features Nikon's dust reduction system to remove image‐degrading particles from the image sensor. Among the well laid out ergonomics, users will immediately notice a new Mode Dial that eschews traditional Scene Mode icons for more advanced manual functions and two user‐defined settings (U1, U2) to adapt to a users shooting style on the fly. Placed under the control wheel is a Release Mode dial, which allows access the burst modes, timer, or the Quiet Shutter, to soften the cameras operation when shooting in sensitive environments such as a ceremonies or nature. When framing lush landscapes or tight telephoto shots from afar, users will appreciate the large, bright glass pentaprism optical viewfinder has approximately 100% frame coverage and approximately 0.94x magnification. The three‐inch, 921,000‐dot super‐density LCD monitor with 170‐degree viewing delivers bright, crisp image playback and precise Live View and movie shooting. The D7000 D‐SLR features twin SD card slots with SD, SDHC, SDXC memory card compatibility that offers a several recording options including designating separate NEF (RAW) JPEG and movie files. The built‐in i‐TTL Speedlight flash offers coverage for lenses as wide as 16mm and has Wireless Commander support so users can choose how to light their subjects. The D7000 was designed to provide maximum performance with minimized power usage and also employs a new EN‐EL15 battery which enables up to 1050 shots when fully charged.Nikon Technologies That Empower and Inspire The D7000 D‐SLR contains many features aimed at empowering the user with creative freedom including the ability to process RAW images directly in the camera, and add in special effects using the retouch menu. Among the many editing options are color filters, distortion control for a fisheye effect, perspective control for a miniature effect, or a new color sketch filter that creates a sketch‐styled image. As always, manipulated images are saved as copies while the original is retained. The Picture Control system also allows the choice for Standard, Neutral, Vivid, Monochrome, Portrait, or Landscape settings to apply a personal look and feel to their pictures, and it's versatile Scene Modes let them choose from Portrait, Landscape, Child, Sports, Close‐up or Night Portrait for stunning results even in challenging conditions. Price and Availability The D7000 D‐SLR camera will be available throughout the United States beginning mid‐October 2010 at an MSRP of $1199.95 for body only and $1499.95 for body and lens outfit that includes the AF‐S DX Zoom NIKKOR 18‐105mm f/3.5‐5.6G ED VR lens. For more information, please visit www.nikonusa.com.
 