
 It was just over a year ago when Nikon first dipped its toe into mirrorless waters with its first two 1 System cameras, the V1 and J1. Now, the company has released the V1's successor, the aptly named V2. Like its elders, the V2 has a 1200fps slo-mo capture mode, a 3-inch LCD display on the back, a high-res (1.4 million dot) electronic viewfinder, and does 1080/30p and 1080/60i video capture (Alas, 4K recording capability didn't make the cut). Unlike the V1, the V2 comes in only black or white and uses an upgraded 14.2-megapixel CMOS sensor with an ISO range of 160-6,400. It also packs a new Expeed 3A image processor in tandem with Nikon's Advance Hybrid AF to deliver higher speed shooting. That autofocus system is comprised of 73 phase detect sensors and 135 contract detect sensors, which enables the V2 to capture stills at up to 15fps for 45 continuous frames -- and it can shoot 60 frames continuously using fixed focus.




  Show full PR text   STRIKING THE BALANCE OF PORTABILITY, PERFORMANCE AND SHOOTING PREFERENCE, THE NEW NIKON 1 V2 PROVIDES USERS WITH NEW WAYS TO BE CREATIVE AND EXPRESSIVE
   Nikon Continues to Enhance the Powerful Nikon 1 System with the Addition of Photographer-Friendly Features, Connectivity and Accessories

   MELVILLE, N.Y. (October 24, 2012) – Today, Nikon Inc. announced the new 14.2-megapixel Nikon 1 V2, the latest addition to the revolutionary Nikon 1 Advanced Camera with Interchangeable Lens System. Designed for the creative consumer who seeks stunning images and HD video, the V2 incorporates a myriad of new features aimed at improving the shooting experience, including a new ergonomic grip for familiar handling, a built-in flash and the addition of a Command Mode Dial to provide easy access to features and controls. Nikon also introduced the new SB-N7, an optional compact speedlight that offers versatile lighting possibilities for Nikon 1 V1 and Nikon 1 V2 shooters.

   The new Nikon 1 V2 is designed to be compact and delivers astoundingly rapid Autofocus (AF) and shooting response, incredible image quality, sharp Full HD video and advanced yet easy-to-use shooting options. The V2 offers a new 14.2-megapixel CX-format super high-speed CMOS sensor that has been engineered to allow for amazing image quality that exhibits eye-catching colors, rich hues and striking detail. The upgraded sensor combined with the blazing fast Advance Hybrid AF system allows users to shoot up to 15 frames-per-second (fps) while maintaining full AF tracking that allows the capturing of fast moving subjects. Other new and noteworthy features include versatile and fun shooting modes such as Best Moment Capture Mode and the new Live Image Control that lets a user preview their creative vision, pre-capture.

   "The recent additions to the Nikon 1 System, including the new V2, demonstrate Nikon's dedication to delivering a camera system that meets the needs of creative and expressive consumers looking for an easy-to-use camera that is portable enough to take on any life adventure," said Bo Kajiwara, Vice President of Marketing, Planning and Customer Experience. "With a grip and control layout that is familiar to photographers, the V2's incredible speed, versatility, ease of use and portability can be used in various situations to shoot amazing images and sharp HD video."

   Enhanced Design Lets Creative Freedom Flow

   The new V2 sports an enhanced design that includes a comfortable traditional grip as well as a textured camera body and thoughtfully placed mode dials. With easy access to the new top-placed Command Dial, V2 shooters will be able to make camera adjustments quickly and easily, even when framing photos in the camera's 1.4-million-dot electronic viewfinder. The camera also includes a new Direct Setting Control that enables quick access to settings in manual exposure modes (P,S,A,M), so that settings can be changed without taking an eye off the electronic viewfinder or the high-resolution 921,000-dot 3.0-in LCD display. To get creative in challenging light, a built-in pop-up flash supplies extra lighting when capturing images in low-light situations or to provide a fill flash to eliminate shadows. The camera also features a Nikon 1 i-TTL hot shoe port, affording the use of optional lighting and camera accessories with the Nikon 1 V2.

   Though compact and portable, the new Nikon 1 V2 boasts incredible performance and features that will be easily embraced by all levels of photographers. In addition to the 14.2-megapixel CX-format CMOS sensor, the camera also includes the new EXPEED 3A image processing engine, both specifically designed to produce still images and HD video with stunning clarity and color. Additionally, the new EXPEED 3A has improved image-signal processing capability as well as high-speed readout.

   A wide ISO range (160-6400) allows the V2 to perform brilliantly in tough lighting conditions, while the highly responsive Advanced Hybrid Autofocus (AF) system provides users with superfast shooting speeds, allowing them to capture fast action with crisp focus, whether at a football game or dance recital. The Nikon 1 V2's 73 point AF array ensures accuracy and super precise focus, even on moving subjects. The camera also provides high-speed continuous shooting with continuous Auto focusing letting users capture approximately 15 fps up to 45 frames. High-speed continuous shooting at approximately 60 fps for up to 40 frames is also possible.

   Get Creative with Advanced Features

   The new Nikon 1 V2 offers various shooting modes and controls that will help photographers flex their creative muscle while providing new ways to be expressive in still images and HD videos. With the new top-placed Mode Dial, V2 users will be able to access the camera's Auto Mode as well as full manual controls on the fly. The camera is also equipped with an Enhanced Motion Snapshot Mode, which users can utilize to capture fleeting moments with a short, slow-motion movie sequence in addition to a single defining still image. A Motion Snapshot can be saved as a four second MOV file and JPEG image file separately or it can also be saved as a 10 second movie file without a separate JPEG image file, making it easy to share with others. Furthermore, Motion Snapshots can be combined into a continuous slideshow seamlessly within the camera.

   The Nikon 1 V2 also includes Best Moment Capture Mode, an advanced creative mode that allows individuals to use Slow View to slow down a moment they are capturing, in real time. By simply pressing the shutter button halfway down when focused, users can capture live action (approx. 1.33 seconds), while the view of the subject is displayed at five times slower than normal speed (approx. 6.66 sec). The action is replayed repeatedly as long as the shutter-release button is half-pressed. Fast action sports and events are transformed to slow motion right on the LCD screen, letting the user capture once-in-a- lifetime moments with confidence.

   Additionally, original Nikon 1 features like Smart Photo Selector are still available on this new camera, and are accessible through the Best Moment Capture Mode. When using Smart Photo Selector, V2 users can capture up to 20 shots with a single press of the shutter button, and the camera will then automatically select the five best images to keep based on factors such as exposure, focus and facial recognition. The Nikon 1 V2 also includes an Advance Movie Mode that allows for the simultaneous shooting of 1080p Full HD video and high-resolution stills of the same subject or scene. Slow motion movies at both 400 fps and 1200 fps can also be captured, plus full manual exposure controls are accessible while in Advance Movie Mode.

   Image effects and image-creation functions such as in-camera HDR and the innovative Live Image Control allow users even more ways to customize their photos. Live Image Control gives users the ability to see end-result images before capture by incorporating effects of various camera settings on a scene. With Live Image Control, real time adjustments to motion control, brightness control, Active D-Lighting and background focus are seen on the LCD screen or the electronic viewfinder prior to capture to help ensure the user's creative vision is fulfilled.

   Expanding the Reach of the Nikon 1 V2: Accessories for the Nikon 1 System

   The V2 is compatible with the optional WU-1b Wireless Mobile Adapter1. When connected to the WU- 1b, the camera can shoot high quality images and movies and transfer them to smart devices, making it easy to stay connected and share content wirelessly to social networks. Users of the free Wireless Mobile Adapter Utility application for AndroidTM2 platform smart devices as well as iPhone® and iPad®3 mobile digital devices will also have the ability to remotely control the camera from a smartphone or tablet.

   Like the other Nikon 1 system cameras, V2 shooters will have access to a growing lineup of incredible 1 NIKKOR lenses, Nikon 1 accessories, as well as F-Mount NIKKOR lenses when connected to the FT-1 Mount Adapter. These lenses and accessories will allow individuals to build a system that truly complements their creative lifestyle.

   Alongside the Nikon 1 V2, the new optional SB-N7 speedlight will inspire shooters to take their creative vision to new heights with an extremely versatile yet compact and lightweight flash unit. When connected to the Nikon 1 accessory port of the V2, the SB-N7 will provide opportunities to explore lighting options including i-TTL support. Additionally, the flash head tilts up to 120 degrees for situations that call for bouncing the flash output. The new speedlight is easy-to-use and travel friendly, and also uses common AAA batteries. The speedlight provides a guide number of 18 meters/59 feet (at ISO 100), as well as a supplied external wide flash adapter for wider shooting coverage.

   Price and Availability

   The Nikon 1 V2 camera with the 10-30mm lens will be available in late November 2012 for the suggested retail price (SRP) of $899.95*. The SB-N7 speedlight will be available in January 2013 and will have a suggested retail price (SRP) of $159.95*. For more information on the V2 and SB-N7 or other Nikon 1 series products, please visit www.nikonusa.com.

   Show full PR text   Nikon to Develop Three New 1 NIKKOR Lenses for the Nikon 1 Advanced Camera with Interchangable Lens System
  TOKYO, JAPAN – Today, Nikon Corporation announced the development of three new lenses for the Nikon 1 Advanced Camera with Interchangeable Lens System. These lenses will be welcomed additions to the current lineup of popular 1 NIKKOR lenses, and will provide system owners a breadth of new NIKKOR optics to explore new shooting perspectives.   The development of these new 1 NIKKOR lenses will strengthen Nikon's lineup of 1 NIKKOR lenses while providing three new options to fit the various shooting needs of Nikon 1 users, whether for still images or HD video. The new lineup will include a 32mm medium-telephoto fixed focal length lens (equivalent to 86.4mm in 35mm format) with a fast maximum aperture of f/1.2, ideal for portraits and creating a bokeh effect. The second lens is a 6.7-13mm f/3.5-5.6 ultra wide-angle zoom lens (equivalent to 18-35mm in 35mm format) that includes Vibration Reduction (VR) and is the first 1 NIKKOR lens to offer a wide, 100-degree angle of view. The third lens is a compact and lightweight 10x zoom lens, a 10-100mm f/4-5.6 (equivalent to 27-270mm in 35mm format). This lens is convenient and portable enough to take everywhere, including weekend getaways and family vacations.   The 1 NIKKOR interchangeable lens lineup follows in the tradition of the renowned Nikon F-mount lenses that were first introduced more than half a century ago. The 1 NIKKOR lenses are specifically engineered for the Nikon 1 system of cameras and are developed using optical technologies that Nikon has cultivated with years of experience in optics expertise. The 1 NIKKOR lens lineup offers the same superior image quality that users have come to expect from the Nikon and NIKKOR brands, whether capturing still images or HD videos.   The addition of the three new lenses will join the six 1 NIKKOR lenses currently available:  1 NIKKOR VR 10-30mm f/3.5-5.6 standard zoom lens  1 NIKKOR VR 30-110mm f/3.8-5.6 compact telephoto zoom lens  1 NIKKOR 10mm f/2.8 slim wide-angle fixed focal length lens  1 NIKKOR VR 10-100mm f/4.5-5.6 PD-ZOOM lens equipped with a power drive mechanism (recommended for movie recording )  1 NIKKOR 11-27.5mm f/3.5-5.6 zoom lens  1 NIKKOR 18.5mm f/1.8 fixed focal length lens with fast maximum aperture   Nikon will continue to develop and expand the 1 NIKKOR lineup with lenses that make the most of the capabilities and performance offered by the revolutionary Nikon 1 system.
 
