
 
 In the world of DSLR shooting, you can certainly catch one's attention by mentioning one of two things: a wireless display, or a remote trigger setup. Neither of these are exactly fresh concepts, but Nikon has chosen a curious beast to highlight one of its most promising accessories to date. The $60 WU-1a Wireless Mobile Adapter primarily allows two things to happen. First, it enables your Android phone or tablet (and soon, iOS device) to act as a wireless display. You shoot an image, and within seconds, that image is ready for your ogling on a far larger display than the 3-incher found on the D3200's backside. For those looking for a far better way to review each shot without pulling out the laptop, this is it.

  More Info   Nikon D3200 hands-on  Triggertrap: nine ways to activate your DSLR with an iOS device  Engadget Primed: Cameras  The other function -- the one we at Engadget were most intrigued by -- is the ability to use a mobile device to wirelessly trigger a shot. The adapter relies on WPS (WiFi Protected Setup) in order to converse with one's Android device, enabling a connection even when you're away from a cellular data signal or WiFi network. Frankly, we were overly bummed to see the entry-level D3200 gain compatibility before full-frame shooters like the D800, D3S and D4 -- after all, it sure seems that professionals would be seeking these features more than novices. In the end, however, it's probably best that more spendy clients be kept far, far away from the disappointment. Join us after the break as we explain. 




 Introduction and compatibility 
 Just so we're crystal clear, the WU-1a is only compatible with a single Nikon DSLR. That DSLR is the D3200, a lower-end unit that's selling for around $700 with an 18-55mm kit lens. The camera itself is pretty stout for the price -- plenty of megapixels, a compact frame and a reasonably outstanding 1080p movie mode. But there's no denying that it's a novice-to-amateur rig. Those who make ends meet shooting weddings, sporting events and similar engagements are probably dipping into the D800 / D3S / D4 territory, which makes the decision to exclude every body except the D3200 from the WU-1a's compatibility list all the more baffling. We're guessing the outfit's just using the D3200 as a guinea pig to see how it goes over before potentially making a similar dongle for other units.

 The unit itself is wonderfully miniscule. It's smaller than the diameter of a US quarter, and no thicker than the side panel to which it attaches. Speaking of which, you will have to open the left side panel to plug this guy in, and that door flap will just remain awkwardly propped open the entire time that you're using it. Sure, it'd be amazing if it were integrated directly into the D3200's body instead of being an optional, direct-connect apparatus, but perhaps that'll come to fruition in the D3200's successor. We have to say, though, that the WU-1a is shockingly easy to lose. It's tiny. Really tiny. Make sure you carve out a special place for it in your camera bag -- the only thing more painful than spending $60 on one, is spending another $60 for a replacement.

 Setup 
 First-time setup is a breeze. Plug the module into the D3200, flip the camera on, and surf over to the WiFi section in the Settings menu of any Android 2.3+ device. (For what it's worth, we tested the unit and the app on a Galaxy Nexus with Android 4.1, and it worked flawlessly even with Jelly Bean.) If you're lucky, you'll see a "Nikon" network show up in the list; a simple tap will have the two talking to one another. If they aren't, there's a quick press-and-hold-and-pray scenario that's spelled out in the user guide. If you routinely switch Android devices, you may have to reset the WU-1a entirely to connect it to a new product. Otherwise, you may only see a "locked" network showing up in your WiFi settings. Simply holding the single button on the WU-1a for 10 seconds will achieve the reset.

 Hoping to change ISO sensitivity, aperture or shutter speed via the app? Keep dreaming. You'll also need an app, of course. Searching for "Wireless Mobile Adapter" will lead you to a poorly titled "WirelessMobileAdapterUtility" program from Nikon. As of today, only the Android build is available; we're still hearing that the iOS edition will be out at some point in the fall of 2012. The app itself is lightweight ... almost to a fault. We'd call it spartan, in the effort of accuracy. If your connection is solid, you'll see all four of the available options lit up; if not, you'll be prompted to hop into WiFi settings and patch things up first. As far as multi-device setup goes, this was one of the easier ones that we've encountered.

 App usability 
 We knew from the outset that the WU-1a has a pretty limited feature set. What we didn't know was precisely how limited that feature set is. The WMAU app gives you four options up front: Use the camera to take pictures, Take pictures remotely, Share pictures and Download pictures from the camera. We'll walk through each one below.

 When you select the first, "Use the camera to take pictures," you'll simply continue to use the D3200 as you would. Compose a shot and take it. From there, however, your Android device will automatically suck down the full resolution version of the photo. In our experience, ~10MB JPEGs took just two to three seconds to transfer over. The upside here is that there's no compression in the transfer; the downside is that the app provides no customization options whatsoever in this department. Wish that you could force it to send over resized versions instead of clogging up your Galaxy Nexus' internal storage? Too bad. 



