
       
Man, the Nikon Coolpix S1000pj has gone from crazy rumor to seemingly-real to whoa-here's-the-press-release in record time -- the compact cam with the integrated projector was just officially announced, along with the three other cams we saw leaked earlier today. Leaked specs for the S1000pj were dead-on: a 12.1 megapixel sensor with ISO 6400 sensitivity mounted behind a 5x wide-angle zoom lens with five-way VR stabilization, and that LED-powered projector that'll put up a 40-inch image for slideshows complete with music, effects and transitions. We're a little less excited about the $430 list price this thing will carry when it hits in September, but on the whole it's a pretty terrific idea and we're completely intrigued -- looks like we'll be saving our pennies this month. Pictures of everything in the gallery, deets on the other cams and a video of the S1000pj after the break.





  The Coolpix S70 (pictured in red) is essentially the same cam as the S1000pj, although it has an OLED touchscreen instead of the projector: 12.1 megapixels, 5x zoom with five-way VR. It'll be available in quite a few color combos this September for $400. The Coolpix S640 is focused on speed -- it offers a .7-second boot-up time and "ultra-fast" autofocus, along with a 12.2 megapixel sensor, 5x four-way VR zoom and a 2.7-inch LCD. Tons of colors, September, $250. Lastly, the the Coolpix S570 is the basic model of the group, with a 12.0 megapixel ISO 3200 sensor behind a 5x four-way VR lens and a 2.7-inch LCD. Again, tons of colors when it lands in September for $200.-- NIKON INTRODUCES FOUR NEW COOLPIX CAMERAS OFFERING SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE, DESIGN AND INNOVATION   Nikon Continues to Lead in Innovation with a New Touch Camera and First Compact Digital Camera with Built-in Projector*   MELVILLE, NY (Aug. 4, 2009) – Nikon Inc. continues its tradition of innovation, design and performance with the introduction of four new COOLPIX Style Series compact digital cameras. Building on the success of Nikon's previous touch-screen models, the ultra-stylish COOLPIX S70 features an enhanced interface and organic light-emitting diode (OLED) display technology for a new user experience, housed in a stylish, camera body. The COOLPIX S1000pj features the world's first built-in projector, which enables consumers to share their images and videos in an all-new fun way. Additionally, the COOLPIX S640 and COOLPIX S570, leaders in speed and affordability, respectively, complete the new smarter, cooler, simpler COOLPIX line.  "These latest Nikon COOLPIX digital cameras reflect hallmarks of the COOLPIX line: performance, design and innovation," said Bill Giordano, general manager marketing, COOLPIX for Nikon Inc. "With new features such as a built-in projector and new touch controls for viewing, shooting and zooming, these COOLPIX cameras will appeal to users of every level."  The Nikon COOLPIX cameras incorporate Nikon's world-class NIKKOR lenses, delivering accurate detail and brilliant color, as well as Nikon's EXPEEDTM digital image processing concept, which ensures high-quality pictures with stunning color and sharpness. A new enhancement to Nikon's Smart Portrait System that helps create beautiful portraits includes an all new Skin Softening feature designed to both smooth and even skin tones. Other COOLPIX features include Vibration Reduction (VR) Image Stabilization, minimizing blur that may appear in pictures, even in low-light or unsteady conditions; and Scene Auto Selector, which automatically recognizes the shooting situation and adjusts camera settings accordingly.  NEW COOLPIX S70 FEATURES SUPERIOR STYLING AND OLED TOUCH-SCREEN INTERFACE  Built on the success of Nikon's previous touch-screen models, COOLPIX S70 features Nikon's newly developed 3.5-inch Clear Color Display and a new generation of touch-screen controls that offer an enhanced shooting and playback experience. In addition to its photographic technology and stylish dual-texture design, the S70 captures stunning HD-video at 1280x720 pixels (720p).  New to the COOLPIX line, OLED technology offers the benefits of vivid color reproduction, sharp contrast and the absence of afterimages. The capacitive touch-screen provides an immediate response at the lightest touch of the display for a fun and intuitive feel to every camera operation. For example, using the Touch Shutter feature, users can have a completely "button-free" experience and focus on and photograph a subject by simply touching it on the camera's display. The touch-screen also makes viewing and retouching images more fun and efficient. With the swipe of a finger, users can scroll through images and use a pinching motion with two fingers to zoom in or out on displayed images, switching between thumbnail and full screen views. Additional new touch-screen controls include on-screen sliders for adjusting brightness and Scene Effect Adjustment, which offers controls specific to the scene mode in use.  The COOLPIX S70 features 12.1 megapixels; a 5x wide angle zoom NIKKOR lens; ISO 6400***; 5-way VR Image Stabilization System; Subject Tracking; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System and an ultra-stylish design.   The S70 will be available in September 2009 for $399.95 MSRP in a choice of colors and textures including Red & Red, Champagne & Beige, Black & Black, or Champagne & Light Brown.   NEW COOLPIX S1000pj FEATURES WORLD'S FIRST BUILT-IN PROJECTOR, YOUR PERSONAL THEATER ON THE GO  Providing consumers with new exciting ways to share images, the COOLPIX S1000pj transforms photo-sharing into a multimedia experience. With the touch of a button, users can project images and videos as large as 40 inches, and with the camera's unique slideshow function, playback pictures with music, effects and creative transitions. Additional features of the S1000pj include: 12.1 megapixels; a 5x Wide Angle Zoom-NIKKOR Glass Lens; ISO from 64-6400***; a 2.7-inch Wide Angle LCD display; 5-way VR Image Stabilization System; Subject Tracking; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System and movie mode.  The COOLPIX S1000pj will be available in Matte Black, in September 2009, for $429.95 MSRP.  NEW COOLPIX S640 IS SLEEK, FAST AND FULLY-LOADED WITH ENHANCED SPEED CAPABILITIES  For consumers who never want to miss a moment, the all-new COOLPIX S640 is Nikon's performance leader in the S-Series lineup. High performance features include ultra-fast auto-focus, the fastest start up time in its class** of a mere 0.7 seconds and short shutter release time lag. Additional features of the S640 include: a slim, stylish all metal body; 12.2 megapixels; a 5x Wide Angle NIKKOR lens; ISO from 100-6400 at full resolution; a 2.7-inch Clear Color LCD display; 4-way VR Image Stabilization System; Subject Tracking; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System and movie mode.  The COOLPIX S640 will be available in September 2009 for $249.95 MSRP and will be offered in various colors including: Calm Black, Velour Red, Precious Pink, and Pearl White.  NEW COOLPIX S570 OFFERS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES AT AN ECONOMICAL PRICE POINT  Where style meets simplicity, the new COOLPIX S570 is ideal for entry-level consumers looking for a carefree shooting experience. The S570 features 12.0 megapixels; a 5x Wide Angle Zoom-NIKKOR Glass Lens; ISO 3200 at full resolution, a bright 2.7-inch LCD Display; 4-way VR Image Stabilization System; Scene Auto Selector Mode; Nikon's Smart Portrait System and movie mode.  The COOLPIX S570 will be available in September 2009, for $199.95 MSRP and will be offered in various colors including Black, Red, Blue, and Pink.

       

 