
 

Say hello to the Coolpix P7800. It's an incremental bump, so we wouldn't necessarily recommend ditching last year's P7700 to upgrade, but if you've been holding out, there's a bit more value here. Cosmetically, the most significant addition is a 921k-dot EVF, which Nikon reps feel justifies a jump in price, from $500 to $550. You'll also find a 1/1.7-inch 12.2MP BSI CMOS sensor, 7.1x 28-200mm f/2-4 lens and a 3-inch 921k-dot RGBW articulating LCD, which, like on the D7100, yields better clarity and contrast. There's 1080/30p video capture, an 8 fps continuous shooting mode (but only for six consecutive JPG frames) and an ISO range of 80-3200. Surprisingly, there's no built-in WiFi, but you can add on the $60 WU-1a for wireless connectivity. There's also a full-size hot shoe, for attaching an external strobe and the like.


One of this flagship point-and-shoot's most attractive features for advanced shooters is the manual control. There's a mode dial up top near the shutter release, with access to manual and aperture-priority modes, for example, along with a dedicated exposure-compensation dial, giving you direct access to three stops over and under the metered values. There's also a built-in three-stop neutral-density filter, netting a bit more flexibility for video shooters. Absent this time around, however, is the quick access dial. It's been replaced with a dedicated button and a corresponding on-screen menu, which some photographers might even find more efficient. Nikon's planning to ship the Coolpix P7800 later this month, with an MSRP of $550.

Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!
 

Show full PR textELEGANT PRECISION, ELITE PERFORMANCE: THE NIKON COOLPIX P7800 HELPS EFFORTLESSLY CAPTURE STUNNING IMAGES WITH CONFIDENCE AND CONTROL
Nikon's Newest Advanced Performance Camera Offers Leading Performance and Features for Those Who Want Quality Photos and HD Video

MELVILLE, N.Y. (September 5, 2013) – Today, Nikon Inc. announced the COOLPIX P7800, the latest addition to Nikon's Advanced Performance COOLPIX lineup that offers Nikon's optical excellence and versatile high-performance features in a portable, compact body. Equipped with both automatic and advanced features, the P7800 presents a high-powered and intuitive option for those who want superior image quality and performance, without sacrificing creative control. Packed with innovative features, including a large 12.2-megapixel CMOS sensor, a fast maximum aperture f/2.0 lens and new electronic viewfinder, the P7800 captures images and HD video with elegance and precision, even in difficult low-light shooting scenarios.

"This addition to the Advanced Performance COOLPIX series affirms Nikon's commitment to integrating our storied optical legacy into powerful yet compact cameras," said Bo Kajiwara, Vice President of Marketing, Planning and Customer Experience, Nikon Inc. "The new COOLPIX P7800 will allow photographers of every level to explore their photographic potential while capturing top-class images and Full HD video."Elite Performance and Optics

The COOLPIX P7800 sports a large 1/1.7-inch 12.2-megapixel backside-illuminated CMOS sensor and a versatile 7.1x zoom range (28-200mm equivalent). This combination ensures the capture of stunning images and Full HD video in a variety of difficult shooting environments. Whether shooting portraits, landscapes or documenting the family vacation, the P7800 is the ideal compact camera for almost any occasion.

Low-light performance is bolstered by a blazing fast f/2.0-4.0 glass lens that lets more light in, allowing the user to shoot with faster shutter speeds, and providing sharper results, even without the flash. Additionally, lens-shift Vibration Reduction (VR) in the lens helps create consistently steady and clear shots when shooting handheld, even while moving. For moments when speed is of the essence, the COOLPIX P7800 also features extremely fast continuous shooting, at 8 frames-per-second (fps) for up to six shots, allowing the user to be ready for every memorable, fleeting moment.

The camera is also capable of pristine Full HD 1080p video recording with stereo sound. While recording, the P7800 allows effortless optical zoom and presents several in-camera special effects as well as manual controls affording incredible video potential.

Controlled Precision for Every User

The Nikon COOLPIX P7800 presents a portable, practical and powerful compact camera option for the casual or advanced shooter looking to capture photos with precision and confidence. For capturing a fast moving soccer match or documenting the family vacation, a variety of useful scene and shooting modes are at the user's disposal to help custom tailor the camera's settings for a number of different shooting situations. An intuitive menu and external control system make it easy to navigate and control with ease.

For more advanced users who seek the ultimate in creative freedom, the COOLPIX P7800 offers complete creative controls that afford any photographer the ability to customize every shot. The P7800 is equipped with full manual controls (P,S,A,M) and the ability to capture RAW files, enabling the user to capture and edit uncompressed images. Styled in a classic design with a litany of external analog controls and mode dials for convenient access, this potent compact camera provides the uncompromising control that enthusiasts and professionals covet, clearing the way for the capture of beautiful images and Full HD video. Much like other Advanced Performance COOLPIX offerings, the P7800 is also compatible with many Nikon accessories, including Speedlights and external GPS units.

Capture and Share with Ease

Framing unique and accurate shots is streamlined with the addition of a new high-resolution eye-level electronic viewfinder (EVF) that makes shooting, even in bright sunlight, enjoyable and easy. More creative composition perspectives are possible with the use of a versatile high-resolution 3-inch Vari-Angle LCD screen that can help frame anything from dynamic overhead shots to low-point-of-view macro photos as well as great candid photos of kids and pets.

When using the optional WU-1a Wireless Mobile Adapter*, users can easily shoot and share via Wi-Fi® to compatible smartphones or tablets. Pairing with the free downloadable Wireless Mobile Utility application*, the WU-1a enables the seamless transfer of images and videos for easy sharing and viewing with friends and family.

Price and Availability

The Nikon COOLPIX P7800 will be available in September 2013 for a suggested retail price (SRP) of $549.95**. For more information about this COOLPIX camera or other Nikon products, please visit www.nikonusa.com.


