
 
 In a bid to give Canon's PowerShot G1 X a run for its money, Nikon is pulling out every stop it knows with the introduction of the Coolpix P7700. It's a decidedly prosumer model, priced at a buck under $500 and equipped with a 1/1.7-inch 12.2 megapixel BSI CMOS sensor, 7.1x zoom lens (with a maximum aperture of f/2), 1080p movie mode, Lens-Shift Vibration Reduction and full manual control for those who abhor automatic captures. On the opposite side of the spectrum, there's the $179 Coolpix S01 -- a bantam P&S camera that's bound to snake its way into stockings this holiday season. Specs-wise, it's packing a 2.5-inch touchpanel, electronic VR, a 10 megapixel CCD sensor, built-in flash and a stainless exterior that measures just 3.1- x 2.1- x 0.7-inches. It'll ship alongside the P7700 this September, but it's on you to pick between the red, silver, white and pink color options. The full releases are embedded after the break. 



 
  Show full PR text   NIKON'S COMPACT COOLPIX P7700 COMBINES FIRST-CLASS IMAGE QUALITY, TOP-TIER OPTICS AND UNPARALLELED CREATIVE CONTROL
  Nikon's New Flagship COOLPIX Camera Sets the Standard for Performance, Versatility and Functionality for Those Who Expect The Best and Need The Convenience of a Compact
   MELVILLE, N.Y. (August 22, 2012) – For the compact camera user only satisfied with the very best, today Nikon Inc. introduced its new flagship COOLPIX camera, the P7700. This powerful and versatile point-and-shoot camera features a sharp 7.1x zoom NIKKOR ED glass lens with a maximum aperture of f/2 and a 12.2-megapixel CMOS sensor. Conveniently compact and loaded with innovative features and manual controls, the COOLPIX P7700 will capture still images and Full HD 1080p video with stunning sharpness and vivid color, whether used as the ultimate go-to travel camera or D-SLR companion.

   The COOLPIX P7700 is ideal for those looking for a compact camera with high performance and a complete feature set which will allow them to capture high quality still photos and Full HD video. For photographers looking to step up from traditional point-and-shoot cameras to professionals who crave complete creative control, the P7700 offers one of the most comprehensive feature sets available in its class. Featuring a new 12.2-megapixel CMOS sensor, a high-performance NIKKOR lens and full manual control settings, Nikon's new flagship COOLPIX camera can unleash a photographer's inner creativity and inspire truly magnificent images.

   "Nikon's new COOLPIX P7700 pushes the boundaries of traditional point-and-shoot cameras, offering stunning image quality and fast performance along with the freedom to customize every shot," said Bo Kajiwara, Vice President of Marketing, Planning and Customer Experience, Nikon Inc. "Nikon's flagship COOLPIX P7700 is a powerful and versatile companion that consistently delivers incredible results in various shooting scenarios."

   Exceptional Clarity, Powerful Performance  The COOLPIX P7700 sports a large 1/1.7-in 12.2-megapixel backside illumination (BSI) CMOS sensor that offers excellent tonal range and vivid color reproduction. Additionally, high-speed image processing helps achieve fast continuous shooting at approximately eight frames-per-second (up to six continuous shots) affording the ability to freeze a fleeting moment with exacting precision. The P7700 delivers extremely rapid performance from a quick startup time to lightning-fast autofocus recognition to help ensure the moment is captured.  The P7700's high-performance 7.1x zoom f/2 NIKKOR glass lens is equally as essential in providing the very best clarity and sharpness that professional photographers have come to expect from Nikon. With a large maximum aperture of f/2, the optics cover an equivalent range from 28 to 200mm, allowing for tack-sharp images and HD video throughout the entire focal range. An evolved Lens-Shift Vibration Reduction (VR) function minimizes camera shake for shooting blur-free photos while handheld or in challenging light. Combined with the COOLPIX P7700's powerful CMOS sensor, this bright, large-aperture NIKKOR lens provides reduced noise, beautiful background blurring, fast performance and high image quality whether shooting stills or Full HD video.

   Uncompromising Creative Control  Every photo and HD video is truly in the hands of the photographer, as the P7700 offers unprecedented creative control for its class, from easy automatic options to full manual controls. For even more control in users' images, the COOLPIX P7700 supports RAW shooting, providing the ability to capture and edit uncompressed images without losing image quality. Customizing every shot has never been easier as Nikon's flagship COOLPIX camera features full manual control (PSAM) and 19 unique and versatile Scene Modes and Scene Auto Selector, ready for any shooting scenario. In-camera special effects and filter effects such as Nostalgic Sepia, Vivid and Painting help satisfy amateurs and enthusiasts alike. With the P7700, features like a noise reduction filter, tone level information, COOLPIX Picture Control and versatile bracketing functions open the door for even more creative control and freedom when capturing still images. To capture the most amount of available light, users can also activate consecutive shot combining technology, or use the HDR effect for a wide dynamic range image.

   Full HD Video Unleashed  Creativity continues beyond still images with stunning Full HD 1080p video capability combined with unprecedented movie customization options for its class. Capture HD video using Auto, Manual, Aperture-priority or Custom Movie Mode and enjoy several creative options also available for still shooting, including COOLPIX Picture Control and noise reduction while flexibly adjusting ISO sensitivity, shutter speed and white balance.

   Taking HD video to the next level, the COOLPIX P7700 is capable of intelligent autofocus while recording in any mode as well as optical zoom when shooting in Auto mode. For pristine stereo sound, the P7700 incorporates a built-in stereo microphone, an external microphone input, a HDMI mini connector and HDMI-CEC support.

   Intuitive Operability  The P7700's 3-inch vari-angle LCD monitor, with a wide-viewing-angle and 921,000-dot resolution, offers comfortable shooting from any angle, giving the freedom and flexibility needed to capture every spontaneous moment. Whether shooting videos overhead at a concert or inverting the screen to capture a creative self-portrait, the vari-angle LCD of the P7700 provides users the ability to rotate the screen to adapt to any shooting scenario. The LCD screen can also be flipped closed for protection when not in use.

   Furthermore, the COOLPIX P7700's intuitive ergonomics and control system allows the user to easily access menus and manual controls, ensuring fluid operation. This lightweight point-and-shoot features quick menu, mode, exposure compensation and sub-command dials, all arranged to achieve natural and smooth shooting adjustments on the go. Additionally, the COOLPIX P7700 has a camera body composed of durable yet lightweight magnesium alloy.

   Optional Accessories Expand Creative Control  The COOLPIX P7700 offers compatibility with several optional Nikon accessories for enthusiasts who demand versatility and first-class performance. Nikon's Creative Lighting System (CLS) supports advanced wireless lighting and creative flash shooting by controlling flash output independently for a master unit and a remote unit group. The P7700's hot shoe allows for compatibility with Nikon Speedlights (SB-910 and SB-700) as well as the GP-1 GPS unit and ME-1 external stereo microphone.

   Price and Availability  The COOLPIX P7700 will be available in September 2012 for a suggested retail price (SRP) of $499.95*. For more information about this COOLPIX camera and other Nikon products, please visit www.nikonusa.com.

   _________________________________

  NIKON'S NEW ULTRA-MINI CAMERA IS SMALL ON SIZE AND HUGE ON STYLE TO GIVE GORGEOUS IMAGES WHILE ON-THE-GO
  The New COOLPIX S01 Complements the Modern Users Smart, Stylish and Trendy Personality
   MELVILLE, N.Y. (August 22, 2012) – Today, Nikon Inc. announced the new COOLPIX S01, an ultra-compact camera that combines Nikon imaging technology, style and affordability into an ultra-mini camera body that's easy to use. Its compact size makes the camera small enough to fit into a user's pocket, so they can take it with them anywhere, whether spending a day on-the-go or a night out on the town.

   The new COOLPIX S01's attractive, beautiful styling screams to be seen and encourages users to carry it everywhere because of its small size. The S01 features a simple home screen and user interface with shortcut menus for quick operation to make it easy to capture incredible images and flattering portraits.

   "The new COOLPIX S01 combines a stylish design and legendary Nikon image quality into a compact camera body for those users who love to easily capture stunning images," said Bo Kajiwara, Vice President of Marketing, Planning and Customer Experience, Nikon Inc. "Incredibly compact, the stylish COOLPIX S01 allows owners to always have a Nikon camera on hand while capturing their memorable moments."

   The COOLPIX S01 packs great image quality into an ultra-compact and stylish camera body, allowing users to be ready for fun and spontaneous shooting. Weighing approximately 3.4 ounces with an extremely small form factor (3.1 x 2.1 x 0.7 in.), the S01 is a versatile point-and-shoot that easily slips right into any user's pocket. Stainless construction and processing prevents the glossy exterior from being scratched, while individual colors, such as Red, White, Silver and Pink, accent the fun and social personality of the user.

   The COOLPIX S01 also features an easy-to-use touch-screen operation system. The new graphic user interface (GUI) offers an easy-to-tap four-segment home screen that streamlines operation. Even for first-time point-and-shoot users, various functions can be comfortably accessed through touch operation. By tapping a subject, the shutter is automatically released when focus and exposure are fixed while various image effects set prior to shooting can be applied to pictures. Additionally, simple in-camera retouching of photos can help the user relive their perfect memory.

   Easy Auto Mode helps users to reliably capture beautiful pictures with the COOLPIX S01. By simply framing the subject, the optimal scene mode and exposure are automatically selected according to the unique shooting situation. The user can rely on the camera's auto operation even for night portraits or backlit subjects to enable smooth shooting in any scenario. Six applicable scene modes such as portrait, landscape, night portrait, night landscape, close-up and backlighting help the user flatter subjects in nearly any light.

   Despite its tiny size, the camera benefits from quality NIKKOR optics, sporting a 3X wide-angle zoom NIKKOR lens (29 to 87mm, 35mm equivalent). A high-speed and accurate EXPEED C2 image-processing allows for fast use, but also yields vibrant colors and even skin tones in images. Additionally, a built-in Xenon flash ensures balanced exposures in low light conditions.

   Price and Availability  The COOLPIX S01 will be available in September 2012 for a suggested retail price (SRP) of $179.95* in a variety of colors including Red, White, Silver and Pink. For more information about this COOLPIX camera and other Nikon products, please visit www.nikonusa.com.

 
