




	Looking to match your Black Friday with a similarly noir games console? You're in luck. Nintendo has confirmed what we saw on promo literature last week, with a 3DS bundle that includes a special edition (possibly Hyrulean-crafted) console and a copy of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D. Nintendo says the bundle, arriving alongside a similar Flame Red iteration with Super Mario 3D Land, can be snapped up for $200. However, bargain hunters should be able to sniff out some cheaper deals come Friday.




 		Show full PR text  Cool Nintendo 3DS Bundles Arrive on Thanksgiving Day 		REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Thanksgiving is full of difficult decisions: Stuffing or mashed potatoes? Green beans or yams? Homemade cranberry sauce or fresh from a can? 		Nintendo is adding two enticing choices to this bountiful cornucopia by introducing two limited-edition Nintendo 3DS™ bundles on Nov. 24. The toughest part will be deciding which bundle to purchase. 		The first bundle includes the just-launched Super Mario 3D Land™ game and a Flame Red Nintendo 3DS system. The second bundle includes The Legend of Zelda™: Ocarina of Time™ 3D game and a special 25th anniversary limited-edition Cosmo Black Nintendo 3DS system marked with the Hyrule emblem and gold-colored embellishments. Each bundle will be available at a suggested retail price of $199.99 in the U.S. 		Shoppers who want to test-drive Nintendo 3DS and these two games can pay a visit to one of two dozen malls nationwide between Nov. 21 and Dec. 18. Nintendo will have all the best video games for the holidays on display. Nintendo's website has a complete list of malls participating in the program. 		Remember that Nintendo 3DS also comes with exciting entertainment features right out of the box. Users can download and play hundreds of new and classic games from the Nintendo eShop, and the Nintendo Video service automatically delivers short 3D videos from the worlds of music, comedy, animation and Hollywood to the Nintendo 3DS system. Owners can play games in 3D without the need for special glasses and take their own 3D pictures. Netflix subscribers can stream great TV and movie content. Later this month, Nintendo 3DS owners will be able to record 3D videos or create stop-motion movies.
 