
 
 With E3 2012 right around the corner, Reggie and co. want to make sure your oft-distracted eyes catch every drip drop of the impending Wii U news flood. Much like it did last year, Nintendo's yet again taking to media outlets old and new for coverage of its All-Access Presentation, scheduled for June 5th at 9AM PST, that should prove an unavoidable must-see for any gamer bred on the house that Mario built. Whether you take your news via flat-screen or monitor, the gaming giant's got a solution to sate your preferred means of consumption, making its press conference available ad-free on Spike TV and MTV2, or online with a Facebook-hosted live stream. Of course, you can always set your browser to the Big N's own dedicated site on the big day to keep abreast of its next planned dive into the deep Blue Ocean. Check out the presser after the break for all the necessary informational bits.



  Show full PR text    May 21, 2012 12:00 PM Eastern Daylight Time Nintendo Offers Video Game Fans Everywhere a Front-Row Seat at 2012 E3 Expo
   Nintendo's All-Access Programming to Be Shared on the Web, TV, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter

   REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The 2012 E3 Expo is right around the corner, and fans from all over the world can look forward to accessing the latest Nintendo news right from the comfort of their homes. Nintendo will be using a mix of online, broadcast and social platforms to provide a steady stream of breaking news and announcements during the video game industry's biggest annual trade show, taking place June 5-7 at the Los Angeles Convention Center. Featured content will include the Nintendo All-Access Presentation @ E3 2012, which viewers can access online at http://e3.nintendo.com, watch commercial-free on Viacom's Spike TV and MTV2 television networks or stream via Facebook on June 5 at 9 a.m. Pacific time. Fans also will enjoy easy access to news and updates from Nintendo on YouTube, Twitter and Facebook throughout the E3 Expo, including information about the Nintendo 3DS hand-held system and the upcoming Wii U console.

   "By offering different ways to tune in and follow all the Nintendo news, we aim to make fans all over the world feel like they're right there with us at the show."

   "We don't want anyone to miss the energy and excitement of this year's E3 Expo," said Cindy Gordon, Nintendo of America's vice president of Corporate Affairs. "By offering different ways to tune in and follow all the Nintendo news, we aim to make fans all over the world feel like they're right there with us at the show."

   Consumers can choose from the following convenient ways to experience Nintendo content during the E3 Expo:

   Web: Starting today, fans can go online to visit the Nintendo All-Access @ E3 2012 website at http://e3.nintendo.com for the latest information about new and upcoming games and hardware from Nintendo. The site will be optimized for smartphones, so people can keep up-to-date while on the go. Visitors to the site also can watch a live stream of the Nintendo All-Access Presentation @ E3 2012 starting at 9 a.m. Pacific time on Tuesday, June 5.

   Television: Nintendo is partnering with Viacom as the exclusive television broadcaster for the Nintendo All-Access Presentation @ E3 2012. Viewers with access to the Spike TV or MTV2 networks can watch the presentation live with no commercial interruptions.  Facebook: Facebook users can visit and Like the Nintendo page at http://www.facebook.com/nintendo to get regular updates from the E3 Expo and connect with other Nintendo fans. A special E3 Expo tab will make it simple to access E3 Expo content, including video clips and a Nintendo Instagram gallery. The Nintendo @ E3 Expo app will also allow users to stream the Nintendo All-Access Presentation @ E3 2012 and other events on Facebook.  YouTube: Nintendo will be posting video updates from the show on its YouTube Channels at http://www.youtube.com/nintendo. The lineup of videos will include sneak peeks at upcoming hardware and software as well as interviews with game developers.  Twitter: Twitter users can follow Nintendo (@NintendoAmerica) to receive tweets from the show. Nintendo representatives will also be live-tweeting events such as the Nintendo All-Access Presentation @ E3 2012 on June 5.

   Presented annually by the Entertainment Software Association, the E3 Expo attracts video game professionals, journalists, analysts and business partners from around the globe. Additional information is available at http://www.e3expo.com.

   For more information about Nintendo, visit http://www.nintendo.com.

 
