
 


	Now that we're all sitting on summer's doorstep, Nintendo has decided to add a little heat to its 3DS lineup, with a new 'Red Flare' handheld, coming to Japan next month. Offering a sanguine alternative to the Aqua Blue and Cosmo Black variants, this little fireball will retail for ¥25,000 (about $312) when it hits Japanese stores on July 14th -- just in time for the release of Star Fox 64 3D. The company is also planning to unleash a new Wii bundle on June 23rd, which will package two Wii Remote Plus controllers (one in black or white, one in blue) with Wii Sports Resort software, for ¥20,000 (around $250). No word yet on whether these offers will be coming Westward anytime soon, but you can find more information in the translated press release, after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Nintendo Wii controller and software bundle to add new color to its own set of 3DS body "Red Flare" Add 		Nintendo Co., Ltd. (President Iwata Satoru) is Niokimashite Japan, so we decided to add the following new color changing product specifications will be announced. 		(1) stationary game machine for home use "Wii" (released December 2006) Ni Shimashite, from June 23 this year, the body set dedicated controller "Wii Remote plus" a single, specialized software and the Wii [Sports Resort] (released June 2009) will be sold bundled with add. In addition, manufacturer's suggested retail price of 20,000 yen (tax included) will not change. 		The addition of this time, Wii has two main sets "Wii Remote +", so that now comes bundled with an additional "Wii Remote Plus" without your purchase, your family and friends Togo [with] you can enjoy Wii Sports Resort. 		Since the Wii is released, you feel popular with intuitive and exhilarating action, cumulative shipments of domestic sales at the end of this year, with over three million units in 1159. 		Gameplay to reflect accurately detect the hand position and movement of the player's "Wii Remote +" while taking advantage of and enjoy the fun of Wii Sports Resort [12] resort to sell and ship the additional controller In it, a person can enjoy it, play with it more enjoyable than to tell you that the Wii's appeal, we aim to further spread. 		(2) mobile gaming, "Nintendo 3DS" (released February 2011) Ni Shimashite, from July 14 this year, new body colors, "red flare" will be on sale. Existing color of "aqua" and "Cosmo Black" together with the body color becomes Nintendo 3DS three colors total. 		On June 16 [3D] Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Following the launch of the Company on July 14 [3D] Star Fox 64, this year is [Mirror] Shin Akira Parutena myth, [SUPER The latest series] Mario, Mario Kart] and are expected to launch latest series, the work is expected to be released from a number of software makers also fully equipped with special software we will from now until the end of So by increasing the body colors, Nintendo 3DS body aims to spread in earnest.
 