
 
If there's one event that's immune to being overhyped, it's the annual January expo of everything consumer electronics, known to you and us as CES. The only downer to this geek endurance test is that we've felt it's been lacking a little on the gaming front lately, which is why we're so giddy to hear the news that Nintendo will be rejoining the ranks of exhibitors over in Las Vegas in a few weeks' time. CES 2011 will be the first time in 16 years that the console sales leader has deigned to pitch up a stand at America's biggest tech show, with our suspicion being that the event will be used as an opportunity to remind the world about the upcoming 3DS handheld. Or to drop that Wii HD bombshell we've all been waiting for. Yeah, right!
 

Show full PR text2011 CES GAMING SHOWCASE FEATURES LATEST IN GAMING TECHNOLOGIESNintendo Returns to CES; Other Gaming Exhibitors Include AMD, HP, Intel, Lenovo, LevelUp, Logitech, Microsoft, Nokia, Sony and MoreArlington, Va., November 22, 2010 – The 2011 International CES®, the world's largest consumer technology tradeshow, will feature the hottest innovations in gaming hardware and software. More than 35 exhibitors will display the latest gaming technology advancements in the 2011 CES Gaming Showcase. The International CES will return to Las Vegas from January 6-9, 2011.Exhibitors will present their products across 9,800 square feet within the Gaming Showcase. Located in the North Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center, the Gaming Showcase will feature advancements in online gaming and gaming-related product debuts in both hardware and software – from online PC and HD gaming, plasma HDTV to surround sound and power conditioning hardware. Nintendo returns as an exhibitor to CES for the first time in 16 years."With the gaming market expected to generate $20.3 million in 2010, the International CES is the must-stop hub for innovative gaming products, and will allow CES attendees to experience the future of gaming from an amazing range of innovative companies," said Karen Chupka, senior vice president, events and conferences, CEA. "The Gaming Showcase at CES will feature the hottest gaming trends for the coming year."Major gaming exhibitors include: AMD, HP, Intel, Lenovo, LevelUp, Logitech, Microsoft, Nintendo, Nokia, Sony and more. Publishers and developers will also be in attendance, including: Alcazar Entertainment, Cosmi, DC Comics/Warner and DreamWorks Animation. Furthermore, key retailers like Amazon.com, Best Buy and GameStop will also attend the 2011 CES.For more news about the 2011 International CES before, during and after the show, including the Gaming Showcase, exhibitor information, conference sessions and TechZones, please visit CESweb.org. Journalists are encourages to arrive in Las Vegas by Tuesday, January 4, to take advantage of all the CES press events, including CES Unveiled from 4-7 p.m. on January 4.About CEA:The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) is the preeminent trade association promoting growth in the $172 billion U.S. consumer electronics industry. More than 2,000 companies enjoy the benefits of CEA membership, including legislative advocacy, market research, technical training and education, industry promotion and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. CEA also sponsors and manages the International CES – Where Entertainment, Technology and Business Converge. All profits from CES are reinvested into CEA's industry services. Find CEA online at CE.org.
 