
 

Looking to spring for a new handheld gaming system this Christmas? The Big N is doing its darndest to nudge you in that direction with a new spin on the Metallic Rose and Midnight Blue versions of the DSi XL. Both painted handhelds will be available in bundles alongside Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!. These will set you back $170 a pop for each package deal, and you've got about a week to search the couch cushions for spare coin. You know, just in case the Mini-land ruckus can't wait for Santa's delivery.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  New Nintendo DSi XL Bundles Add Color and Mayhem to the Holidays 		Nintendo is giving value-minded consumers even more choices for satisfying everyone on their holiday gift lists. Starting Nov. 6, new Metallic Rose and Midnight Blue versions of the Nintendo DSi XL™ hand-held system will be available in bundles, each packaged with a free copy of the Mario vs. Donkey Kong™: Mini-Land Mayhem! game. 		Offered at a suggested retail price of $169.99 in the U.S., these colorful bundles deliver countless hours of portable fun with fan-favorite Nintendo characters. The bundles make great stocking stuffers. 		In Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!, players must help Mario™ rescue Pauline by guiding Mini Marios through more than 200 puzzle levels filled with traps set by Donkey Kong™. Players use the stylus on the touch screen to strategically guide the Mini Marios, place items and solve different puzzles. Players with a broadband Internet connection can even construct their own levels or download additional levels using Nintendo® Wi-Fi Connection. With a strong online community constantly creating new levels, players can always find new challenges to play in the thousands of user-created levels already available, or players can contribute their own levels as well. 		Like the Mini Marios themselves, the fun of Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem! just keeps going. Nintendo regularly issues level-design challenges to players. The 20th Challenge, issued on Oct. 14, invites players to create levels involving Crumble Blocks. Players have until Oct. 28 to submit an entry, after which others can download and judge them using the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection via a broadband Internet connection. The top vote-getting levels will be announced on Nov. 2. Be sure to check back for ongoing challenges. 		Beyond the included Mario game, built-in cameras and large screen, Nintendo DSi XL also offers players access to hundreds of downloadable games via the Nintendo DSiWare™ service. Users with broadband Internet access can redeem Nintendo DSi Points™ to download digital games. Nintendo DSi Points can be purchased in the Nintendo DSi Shop, or a Nintendo DSi Points Card can be purchased at retail locations.
 