
 
 As Nintendo attempts to get its eShop up to speed with Sony's PS Vita provision, it's finally announced a July 28th launch date for its first two downloadable games. Alongside the in-store release of the 3DS XL, the full versions of both Super Mario Brothers 2 and the latest iteration of Dr. Kawashima's Brain Age / Training will be available for online purchase in Japan, priced at 4,800 yen (around $61) and 3,800 yen ($48), respectively. Nintendo already offers a mixed bag of retro titles and demos to download, but this is the first time it'll wheel out fully-fledged 3DS games.



  Show full PR text   Announcement of sale (Download Version) Nintendo 3DS card software
   (Minami-ku, Kyoto, President: Satoru Iwata Corporate Headquarters), Niokimashite Japan, from 9:00 am Saturday, July 28, two of the following title, the sale of software download version of the Nintendo 3DS Card Nintendo Co., Ltd. We are pleased to announce that more start.

   ● "New Super Mario Bros. 2"  Manufacturer suggested retail price: 4,800 yen (tax included)  ● "five-minute train the brain demon training supervised by Professor Ryuta Kawashima terribly Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University"  Manufacturer suggested retail price: 3,800 yen (tax included)

   Version software download, in order to be able to save to SD memory card is inserted into the Nintendo 3DS, do not have time or want to play more than one soft carrying at the same time, replace. It will be released the same day at the same manufacturer suggested retail price respectively (boxed version) Nintendo 3DS card software so far, that the time of purchase depending on your preferences, you can choose either .

   To purchase software download version has the following three methods.

   To purchase the "download card"  Enter to download (※) Nintendo e-shop number download buy "download card" soft target in the game, such as dealers, are described.  "Download card" can be purchased at a convenience store retailers and some of the products of some Nintendo.  To purchase a number "download"  Purchased a number "download" the soft target in the online shop, to download Enter the Nintendo e-shop.  Number "download" is available for purchase at the online shop of some.  Buy direct download  Directly download the software to purchase the Nintendo e-shop with credit card etc..

 
