
 

Last night's Netflix / 3DS news was more than just empty promises -- and now we have the official press release to prove it. Starting today, Netflix subscribers with unlimited streaming plans will be able to watch TV shows and movies from the service's selection of online content on their Nintendo 3DS, like the Wii before it. Movies will show up in 2D (darn) on the upper screen of the device, with 3D content coming soon to the glasses-free portable. The Netflix app will be hitting the Nintendo eShop today as a free download. The app doesn't appear to be in the store as of yet, but we'll let you know when it pops up. In the meantime, feel free to check out the press release below -- no glasses required.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Netflix Streaming Now Available on Nintendo 3DS Hand-Held Systems 			REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Starting today, Nintendo 3DS™ owners across the United States and Canada can download a free application that allows Netflix members with unlimited streaming plans to instantly watch TV episodes and movies streaming from Netflix. The attractive, easy-to-use service adds a huge value to the Nintendo 3DS portable system, and again demonstrates how Nintendo 3DS continues to present new and different experiences for owners almost every day. 			Nintendo 3DS joins the Wii™ console in its ability to stream Netflix content. On an average day, more than 1.5 million Netflix members instantly watch TV shows or movies via the Wii console. Now available for download from the Nintendo eShop, the Netflix application makes it easy for people to enjoy big action films, award-winning documentaries or hit reality shows and sitcoms on the Nintendo 3DS system anytime, anywhere. 			"The new Netflix application looks great, plays great and is a fantastic consumer experience," said Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime. "It gives Nintendo 3DS owners access to an amazing wealth of movies and TV shows, which they can watch conveniently from thousands of free Wi-Fi access points across the country. Nintendo 3DS truly offers something for everyone." 			"Nintendo is a terrific partner with Netflix," said Reed Hastings, co-founder and CEO of Netflix. "We're excited to extend the partnership to include streaming on Nintendo 3DS." 			The new Netflix application for Nintendo 3DS displays movies and TV episodes in 2D on the system's upper screen. Users will soon have access to an additional library of select movies that can be viewed in 3D without the need for special glasses. 			Use of the Netflix application on Nintendo 3DS requires a broadband Internet connection and a Netflix streaming membership starting at $7.99 a month. Netflix members with unlimited streaming plans can instantly watch on their Nintendo 3DS systems and other devices, including the Wii console. 			To download the free Netflix application or any other content from the Nintendo eShop, Nintendo 3DS users must first install the free system update that became available on June 6. 			The Nintendo 3DS system's parental control settings can be used to manage access to the Netflix application. Parents who wish to manage the specific content their kids watch will be happy to know that the parental control settings associated with their Netflix account will be applied to the streaming content viewable on the Nintendo 3DS system. 
 