
The year of Luigi rages on with today's news that a Luigi-themed Nintendo 3DS XL handheld is headed to Europe next month. It joins a Triforce-emblazoned 3DS XL that's also set to arrive next month: the former on November 1st for £179.99 ($290) and the latter on November 22nd for £199.99 ($318). Of course, the Zelda-themed version is a touch more expensive as it packs in a code for upcoming 3DS game The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds (a game that would otherwise cost £33). We're still waiting to see EU-wide pricing.


Neither edition is dated for release in North America just yet (the Luigi version is already available in Japan), but we suspect it won't be long before the special edition consoles are headed across the Atlantic. Should you wish to pick up one of the EU-bound handhelds, they'll only be available through Nintendo's new UK website.





Show full PR textThe Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds Limited Edition & Luigi Special Edition Nintendo 3DS XL consoles coming to Europe15/10/201315th October 2013 – The month of November is set to be an exciting one for Nintendo fans, with the announcement of two themed Nintendo 3DS XL consoles inspired by The Legend of Zelda series and Mario's trusty brother, Luigi. One new addition is ideal for enjoying Link's new adventure in The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds, with the other representing a perfect console to mark the Year of Luigi. Both consoles will launch across Europe this November.Luigi will be leading the way on 1st November with the launch of the LUIGI SPECIAL EDITION Nintendo 3DS XL, available exclusively at store.nintendo.co.uk. While the base layer of the console is white, Luigi has his prints all over the console with his silhouette covering the shell in two shades of his favourite colour, green! The year of 2013 has been a busy one for Luigi. Whilst celebrating the 30th anniversary of his videogaming debut in Mario Bros., he has starred meanwhile in Nintendo 3DS titles such as Luigi's Mansion 2 and Mario & Luigi: Dream Team Bros., where the power of Dreamy Luigi holds the key to defeating old foe Bowser and the ghostly bat king Antasma. While on Wii U, the green brother takes centre stage in New Super Luigi U, a whole platforming adventure of 82 courses tailored to the man himself.Zelda fans who have eagerly been awaiting the 22nd November launch of The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds can also on the same day get their hands on The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds Limited Edition Nintendo 3DS XL console. With a download code for the game included with this Limited Edition hardware purchase, fans will be able to download the game directly from Nintendo eShop to begin their adventure. For any Zelda fan, the console is instantly recognisable, with the top shell and the inside of the console decked out in an iconic gold colour, and the bottom shell all black, with a Triforce logo emblazoned across each side. When the console is opened therefore, the double Triforce logo of the game is formed!In The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds, which follows on from the story of the 1992 Super NES classic The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past, enjoy a whole new adventure in the kingdom of Hyrule where Link can now become a drawing to move along walls, allowing a new dimension when solving the fresh set of puzzles on offer. Other new aspects include greater freedom to tackle the various dungeons in the order you want, while many of the most essential items at Link's disposal will be available early on at a shop run by the character Ravio, who'll let you rent or buy items before embarking on your next dungeon adventure.As a final Zelda-themed update for fans, when the packaged version of The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds releases in stores on 22nd November, the front cover will be reversible for fans to choose between displaying the nostalgic image of the cover in classic gold, or in full colour. So whether you are a veteran or a newcomer to The Legend of Zelda series, you can choose how to display your copy of this latest Link offering on your mantelpiece!


