
 

We've been reading about it for what seems like ages, looking over images of the FCC prototype with a magnifying glass, and now Nintendo is showing it off at its E3 press conference. The company that Mario built is trumping up how superior its glasses-free technology is better than others, "a solution that lets you take 3D gaming along with you wherever you go" according to Reggie. The upper screen is surprisingly only 3.5-inches, not the wider that we'd expected. There is a slider on the side that lets you tweak the 3D effect, seemingly enabling you to adjust its depth based on your distance from the screen -- or turn it off entirely. As with the current DS, the bottom is a touchscreen, and is not 3D. 

That's what looks to be an analog stick on the side there, as well, that Nintendo is calling a "Slide Pad." There is a gyro, motion sensor, it's compatible with DSi games, and has two cameras enabling 3D photos. Nintendo is also talking up partnerships including Disney, games that are said to be playable today, at the show, with one of the highlights being a new Kid Icarus game which looks quite action-packed to say the least -- and has better graphics than most of the Wii titles Nintendo has shown thus far. Nintendo has mentioned the 3DS will have the "biggest launch support ever" from third party devs, and a 3D Nintendogs should be a huge seller -- if only because it has cats too. Other games include Madden, Ninja Gaiden, Resident Evil, a Batman title, Splinter Cell, and, finally, a Metal Gear Solid entry.

Nintendo is also talking about how the system will seek out WiFi hotspots or other 3DS systems "without you knowing," which sounds a bit ominous, to be honest. Systems can communicate regardless of which games are being played. It can even pull in new DLC directly from other consoles, all without a monthly fee. 

Still no release date or price, but Nintendo is showing off two colors, red and blue, and they're said to be playable on the show floor. You can be sure we'll be running there right now.

Update: Complete press release and full list of launch games after the break, including some biggies, like Metal Gear Solid "The Naked Sample," Madden, FIFA, and more!

Update 2: If you'd like to know more, check out or two hands-on with the 3DS. Our first impressions of the hardware, and our more detailed thoughts after spending time with a few games. We got cross-eyed so you don't have to.






Show full PR textNINTENDO INTRODUCES GLASSES-FREE 3D GAMING, ANDUNLEASHES THE INDUSTRY'S BEST FRANCHISES IN ENTIRELY NEW WAYSA Dream Lineup: Nintendo 3DS, Zelda, Donkey Kong Country, Kirby, Mario, Golden Sun,GoldenEye, Mickey Mouse, Kid Icarus, Animal Crossing, Nintendogs, PilotWings, Paper Mario ...LOS ANGELES, June 15, 2010 – Nintendo is raising the bar – again.Nintendo changed the world of video games with touch-screen gaming on the Nintendo DS™ in 2004. Nintendo then pioneered the motion-controlled gaming revolution with the Wii™ console and the Wii Remote™ controller back in 2006. Today the company unveils an even more immersive gaming experience: Nintendo 3DS™.At the E3 Expo today, Nintendo gave the world the first look at a portable system that lets people view games in 3D, without the need for special glasses. Nintendo also announced a substantial list of upcoming games for Nintendo 3DS, the Wii console and the Nintendo DS family of systems – a lineup that reads like a who's who of some of the greatest franchises in video game history with a completely new look and feel."The additional dimension of depth in 3D makes it easier for players to judge distances while giving developers a new tool to create games and experiences that play with both height and depth," said Nintendo video game designer Shigeru Miyamoto, who pioneered the fully rendered 3D video game world with Super Mario 64™.Nintendo 3DS comes with a 3.53-inch top screen and a 3.02-inch bottom touch screen. It has three cameras – one inner and two outer – to deliver the 3D effect and take 3D pictures. It includes a motion sensor, a gyro sensor and even a Slide Pad that allows 360-degree analog input. At the E3 Expo, Nintendo showed attendees a range of games and applications for Nintendo 3DS that reinvent some of the industry's most beloved franchises. These include:· Kid Icarus™: Uprising, the long-awaited franchise follow-up to the NES™ classic.· Mario Kart™, which shows off the potential of driving and tossing bananas in 3D.· nintendogs™ + cats, a new version of the best-selling nintendogs franchise that lets players interact even more with their virtual puppies – and kittens!· PilotWings Resort™, a flying simulation that lets players soar above Wuhu Island.· Animal Crossing™, a new installment of the charming community-building franchise.· StarFox 64™ 3D, a game that demonstrates the true distance and depth of outer space using Nintendo's well-known franchise.· Steel Diver™, a new submarine-navigation game from Nintendo.· Paper Mario™, which brings paper-based 2D environments to life.Nintendo 3DS also comes to market with the strongest third-party support of any video game system in Nintendo history. Games on display at the Nintendo booth at the E3 Expo include:· DJ Hero® 3D from Activision· RESIDENT EVIL® REVELATIONS from Capcom· The Sims™ 3 from Electronic Arts· HIDEO KOJIMA'S METAL GEAR SOLID SNAKE EATER 3D "The Naked Sample" from Konami· Professor Layton and the Mask of Miracles (name not final) from LEVEL-5· RIDGE RACER® (name not final) from Namco Bandai Games· KINGDOM HEARTS franchise game from Square Enix· DEAD OR ALIVE® 3D (name not final) from Tecmo Koei Games· SAMURAI WARRIORS® 3D from Tecmo Koei Games· Battle of Giants™: Dinosaur Strike from Ubisoft· Hollywood 61 (name not final) from UbisoftA sampling of other Nintendo 3DS games already in planning includes SUPER STREET FIGHTER IV 3D Edition (name not final) from Capcom; Madden NFL and FIFA Soccer games from Electronic Arts; CODENAME: Chocobo Racing® 3D and a FINAL FANTASY ® franchise game and from Square Enix; a NINJA GAIDEN® (name not final) game from Tecmo Koei Games; Saint's Row: Drive By from THQ; Assassin's Creed™Lost Legacy, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon™ and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory™ from Ubisoft; and a Batman game from Warner Bros. Additional games are in development by Atlus, AQ Interactive, Disney Interactive Studios, Harmonix, Hudson Soft, Majesco, Marvelous Entertainment, Rocket, SEGA, Takara Tommy and Take-Two Interactive.Nintendo also announced a substantial slate of games on the way for its Wii console and Nintendo DS family of systems, with a list of characters and franchises that appeal to all types of gamers."If the video game industry had an All-Star team, Nintendo's games would fill the starting lineup," said Cammie Dunaway, Nintendo of America's executive vice president of Sales & Marketing. "The combination of advanced interface and engaging game play broadens our appeal to all audiences. This is evidenced perfectly at the E3 Expo this year by the incredible new experience and controls that Wii MotionPlus brings to The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword."Wii:· The Legend of Zelda™: Skyward Sword: The game marks a turning point for the franchise, as the introduction of full motion controls enabled by the Wii MotionPlus™ accessory synchronizes player movements with Link's actions while offering the most intuitive play control of any Legend of Zelda game to date. The game is scheduled to launch in 2011.· Donkey Kong Country™ Returns: The classic franchise makes a return with new levels and updated graphics, but with the same sense of fun and excitement of the original. For the first time in the series, two people can play through the entire game cooperatively. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· Kirby's Epic Yarn™: Kirby's entire immersive world is created from different fabrics and textiles. Kirby himself is made from yarn, which gives him the versatility to take the shape of a car, submarine, parachute or UFO. The game is scheduled to launch this fall.· Wii Party™: A party game that brings the fun off the screen and into the living room. Players must perform tasks in the real world to achieve success in the game. The game is scheduled to launch this fall.· Mario™ Sports Mix: A collection of four amazing sports – Mario style. Players can compete with their favourite Mushroom Kingdom characters in basketball, volleyball, hockey and dodgeball. The game is scheduled to launch in 2011.· PokéPark™ Wii: Pikachu's Adventure: The first Pokémon adventure game on the Wii console puts Pikachu™ at the center of a fun, expansive area filled with adventure, Attractions and Pokémon. Players take on the role of Pikachu and interact with Pokémon and compete in Skill Games and Attractions, such as races, battles and other challenges, to save the PokéPark from disaster. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· Samurai Warriors™ 3: Players can choose from more than 35 playable samurai characters, many based on actual figures from Japanese history. Each samurai has different skills and weapons, and each one offers a different perspective on the overall story of the unification of Japan. The game is scheduled to launch on Sept. 27.· GoldenEye 007™ from Activision: The original revolutionized first-person shooters, and this Wii-exclusive sequel features four-player split-screen competition or up to eight players competing online. It's the signature GoldenEye experience for a new era, and is scheduled to launch this fall.· Disney Epic Mickey from Disney Interactive Studios: In this Wii exclusive, players take Mickey Mouse on an epic journey of creativity and discovery. In Wasteland, an alternate world with lands inspired by Disney's animated films and theme parks, players use paint and paint thinner to change the world and affect the outcome of the game. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· NBA JAM from Electronic Arts: In this revival of the classic franchise with vintage game play, the Wii-exclusive sequel includes new features that bring outrageous moves and over-the-top hoops action to new levels. The game is scheduled to launch this October.· Just Dance 2® from Ubisoft: The second installment of the popular franchise features hot dance moves choreographed by experts in every style of music. Up to eight players can compete or, for the first time, two players can dance side by side as a duo. It's a nonstop dance party only available on Wii this fall.· Sonic Colors™ from SEGA: In Sonic's latest adventures, he blasts through obstacles like never before as he uses coloured power-ups to boost his abilities and speed through stages. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· New Carnival Games® from 2K Play: This sequel to the multimillion-selling original features more than 30 new games and 300 new prizes, plus multiplayer action for every game. Only available on Wii this September.Nintendo DS Family:· Pokémon Ranger™: Guardian Signs: The third installment in the action-packed Pokémon Ranger series lets players take on the role of a Pokémon Ranger tasked with protecting Pokémon, people and nature. With new Ranger Signs to call powerful Pokémon, including Legendary Pokémon, and the addition of multiplayer missions, players investigate the nefarious actions of the Pokémon Pinchers, who have been disrupting the peace by chasing and catching Pokémon. The game is scheduled to launch this fall.· Golden Sun™: Dark Dawn: A classic role-playing game branches out with a new look, countless adventures and heroic battles. The game picks up 30 years after the first two games in the series left off with amazing graphics and beautifully animated summoning abilities that span both Nintendo DS screens. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· Dragon Quest® IX: Sentinels of the Starry Skies™: For the first time, this storied franchise is appearing exclusively on the Nintendo DS family of systems. Character customization, cooperative multiplayer adventuring and an epic story make for a one-of-a-kind experience. The game is scheduled to launch on July 11.· Professor Layton and the Unwound Future™: This third installment in the series includes more than 165 puzzles and even more animated sequences and voice acting than the previous game. The game is scheduled to launch on Sept. 20.· Mario vs. Donkey Kong™: Miniland Mayhem: Players use the stylus to draw red girders and control items like ladders, pipes, springs and conveyor belts. The goal is to bring the Mini Toys to the door. Using an intuitive tool kit, players can create new level maps and share them with the public. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· Super Scribblenauts™ from Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment: The sequel to the smash-hit original includes 120 new levels, the ability to use more than 10,000 adjectives, a hint system and a level editor for players to create their own levels and objectives. The game is scheduled to launch in Q4.· Ghost Trick™: Phantom Detective from Capcom: Players are transported into the spirit world of a murder victim who has lost his memory and returned as a ghost. Players must possess and manipulate objects to solve puzzles and the mystery. The game is scheduled to launch this fall.· Rock Band® 3 from MTV Games: The franchise makes its first appearance on Nintendo DS with a stylish interface that puts players into the Rock Band universe like never before. Eight play modes challenge players in guitar, bass, drums, keyboards and vocals, and both co-op and competitive multiplayer options are available. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.· Okamiden™ from Capcom: Players use a brush to draw bridges into existence, traverse canyons and connect winding paths through space. This sequel to Okami follows the story of an adorable wolf pup that fights off a new threat that has drained vibrant colours from the world. The game is scheduled to launch in 2011.· FINAL FANTASY®: THE 4 HEROES OF LIGHT™ from Square Enix: This first original FINAL FANTASY game for the Nintendo DS family of systems uses charming storybook visuals and a fun, intuitive combat system. Players can customize their characters and up to four players can join forces for cooperative play. The game is scheduled to launch on Oct. 5.· Sonic Colors™ from SEGA: The portable version of the game doubles the excitement and action by using both screens as a giant, unified landscape. The game is scheduled to launch this holiday season.For the duration of the E3 Expo, Nintendo will provide fans with exclusive videos and Nintendo content on the Nintendo E3 Network. People can visit http://e3.nintendo.com to watch developer interviews, get all the information about new games and see coverage coming directly from the show floor. The same exclusive content also will be streamed through the Nintendo Channel to Wii owners who have a broadband Internet connection.Remember that Wii and Nintendo DSi feature parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about these and other features, visit http://wii.com or http://www.nintendodsi.com.About Nintendo: The worldwide pioneer in the creation of interactive entertainment, Nintendo Co., Ltd., of Kyoto, Japan, manufactures and markets hardware and software for its Wii™ home console and Nintendo DS™ family of portable systems. Since 1983, when it launched the Nintendo Entertainment System™, Nintendo has sold more than 3.4 billion video games and more than 565 million hardware units globally, including the current-generation Wii, Nintendo DS, Nintendo DSi™ and Nintendo DSi XL™, as well as the Game Boy™, Game Boy Advance, Super NES™, Nintendo 64™ and Nintendo GameCube™ systems. It has also created industry icons that have become well-known, household names such as Mario™, Donkey Kong™, Metroid™, Zelda™ and Pokémon™. A wholly owned subsidiary, Nintendo of America Inc., based in Redmond, Wash., serves as headquarters for Nintendo's operations in the Western Hemisphere. For more information about Nintendo, please visit the company's website at www.nintendo.ca.    Publisher Game   Activision DJ Hero   AQ Interactive cubic ninja   Atlus Etrian Odyssey   Shin Megami Tensei   Shin Megami Tensei: Persona   Shin Megami Tensei: Devil Survivor   Capcom RESIDENT EVIL® REVELATIONS   SUPER STREET FIGHTER IV 3D Edition (name not final)   Electronic Arts FIFA Soccer   Madden NFL   The SimsTM 3   Gameloft Asphalt GT   Harmonix Music game   HUDSON SOFT Bomberman franchise   DECA SPORTS franchise   KORORINPA franchise   KONAMI Baseball franchise   Contra franchise   Frogger franchise   HIDEO KOJIMA'S METAL GEAR SOLID SNAKE EATER 3D "The Naked Sample"   PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER franchise / WINNING ELEVEN franchise   LEVEL-5 Professor Layton and the Mask of Miracle (name not final)   Majesco Entertainment BloodRayne: The Shroud   A Boy and His Blob   Face Racers: Photo Finish   Lion's Pride: Adventures on the Serengeti   Martha Stewart   WonderWorld Amusement Park   Marvelous Entertainment BOKUJYOUMONOGATARI 3D (name not final)   NAMCO BANDAI Games Dragon Ball® franchise (name not final)   Gundam® franchise (name not final)   PAC-MANTM & GALAGATM (name not final)   RIDGE RACER® (name not final)   Super Robot franchise (name not final)   Nintendo Animal Crossing   Kid IcarusTM: Uprising   Mario Kart   nintendogsTM + cats   Paper Mario   PilotWings Resort   Star Fox 64TM 3D   Steel DiverT   ROCKET Crash-City GP   VS-robo   SEGA Sonic (name not final)   Super Monkey Ball (name not final)   SQUARE ENIX CODENAME: Chocobo Racing® 3D   DRAGON QUEST® franchise   FINAL FANTASY® franchise   KINGDOM HEARTS franchise   Take-Two Interactive Carnival Games® franchise   TECMO KOEI GAMES DEAD OR ALIVE® 3D (name not final)   DYNASTY WARRIORS® (name not final)   NINJA GAIDEN® (name not final)   SAMURAI WARRIORS® 3D (name not final)   TOMY LOVELY LISA 3D   NARUTO SHIPPUDEN ACTION   THQ de Blob 2   Kung Fu Panda Kaboom of Doom   Marvel Super Hero Squad Infinity Gauntlet   The Penguins of Madagascar   Puss N Boots   Saints Row: Drive-By   Ubisoft Assassin's CreedTM Lost Legacy   Battle of GiantsTM: Dinosaur Strike   Driver® Renegade   Hollywood 61 (name not final)   Tom Clancy's Ghost ReconT   Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos TheoryT   Warner Bros Batman franchise   LEGO franchise  
 