
 Yes, finally, you can buy a Nintendo 3DS with dragons on it. Today is the day. Well, not quite -- February 4th is the actual day, which is also the day that Fire Emblem Awakening launches on Nintendo's latest portable console. The dragon-emblazoned 3DS is just one small part of the package, as you'll also snag a 4GB SD memory card and the game itself pre-installed on said 3DS. Altogether, the whole package runs just $199, for a savings of approximately $10. It's no Pokémon-themed 3DS, but it'll do, we suppose. Take an even closer look at the limited edition 3DS just below the break.



 
  Show full PR text    NINTENDO HEATS THINGS UP WITH A FIRE EMBLEM AWAKENING NINTENDO 3DS BUNDLE

   Jan. 14, 2013

   When Fire Emblem Awakening launches on Feb. 4, it will arrive with a special version of the Nintendo 3DS hardware. The beautiful blue system is emblazoned with stylish Fire Emblem artwork, has the game pre-installed on the hardware and comes packaged with a 4GB SD memory card. It will be available at a suggested retail price of $199.99, a great value for fans of the series.

   Fire Emblem Awakening is the first entry in the fantasy turn-based strategy series on Nintendo 3DS. It tells the story of Lord Chrom and his growing army of companions as they band together to save the world from a rising evil. Fire Emblem Awakening features a gorgeous art style and voice acting, plus an epic storyline with a massive lineup of memorable characters with unique personalities. As with past entries in the series, every decision the player makes is vital, as characters lost in battle are gone forever. A demo of Fire Emblem Awakening will be available in the Nintendo eShop on Jan. 17.

   Starting on launch day, additional maps will be available to purchase and download. The first downloadable map will be free for a limited time and will be followed by additional maps on a weekly basis. Players with a copy of Fire Emblem Awakening and a broadband Internet connection will be able to access the downloadable content through the in-game world map.

   For more information about Fire Emblem Awakening, visit http://fireemblem.nintendo.com.

 
