
Quit sending those mean letters to your European cousins, full of bitterness and jealousy that they're getting a shiny gold Nintendo 3DS XL with the Triforce emblazoned on its outer shell this holiday and you're not. Not only is it rude, but it turns out that Nintendo's releasing the same 3DS here in North America alongside the launch of The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds on November 22nd (something you may have already surmised). You might get it in a nicely wrapped box, even!


The bundle, game included, costs $220 (a $20 savings) and launches the same day as Xbox One -- though we get a feeling that the two consoles are marketed to slightly different crowds.



Show full PR textAll That Glitters is Gold for Zelda FansNew Gold-and-Black Nintendo 3DS XL Comes with The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between WorldsOctober 29, 2013 08:00 AM Eastern Daylight TimeREDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The Legend of Zelda series has always been associated with the color gold. From the original gold-colored cartridge for The Legend of Zelda on NES to the box art of the recently released The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD for Wii U, when fans think of "Zelda," they think of gold. With the launch of The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds on Nov. 22, the tradition of gold continues. On the same day, a new Nintendo 3DS XL bundle will launch that includes Nintendo 3DS XL hardware with gorgeous gold-and-black coloring and the iconic Triforce on the exterior, as well as a download code for The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds. The legendary system is gold on one side and black on the other, beautifully representing the two parallel worlds Link travels between in the game. The special bundle was announced in a video starring The Legend of Zelda franchise producer Eiji Aonuma, and will be available at a suggested retail price of $219.99.

"It's a special bundle for a very special video game."

"This beautifully designed Nintendo 3DS XL system continues a tradition that has delighted our fans for decades," said Scott Moffitt, Nintendo of America's executive vice president of Sales & Marketing. "It's a special bundle for a very special video game."

The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds is set in the same world as fan-favorite The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past for Super NES and takes place in the same Hyrule after many years have passed. In this new game, Link must journey between two worlds, Hyrule and Lorule, using a mysterious power that lets him become a drawing on walls. Link's ability to merge with walls allows players to solve puzzles and explore dungeons in a new way. Players are also able to buy or rent various items throughout the game, allowing them to explore dungeons in any order they want, adding a new level of freedom to the game play.

For more information about The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds, visit http://zelda.com/link-between-worlds/.

Remember that Nintendo 3DS features parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/3ds.

About Nintendo: The worldwide pioneer in the creation of interactive entertainment, Nintendo Co., Ltd., of Kyoto, Japan, manufactures and markets hardware and software for its Wii U™ and Wii™ home consoles, and Nintendo 3DS™ and Nintendo DS™ families of portable systems. Since 1983, when it launched the Nintendo Entertainment System™, Nintendo has sold more than 4.1 billion video games and more than 655 million hardware units globally, including the current-generation Wii U, Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo 3DS XL, as well as the Game Boy™, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, Nintendo DSi™ and Nintendo DSi XL™, Super NES™, Nintendo 64™, Nintendo GameCube™ and Wii systems. It has also created industry icons that have become well-known, household names such as Mario™, Donkey Kong™, Metroid™, Zelda™ and Pokémon™. A wholly owned subsidiary, Nintendo of America Inc., based in Redmond, Wash., serves as headquarters for Nintendo's operations in the Western Hemisphere. For more information about Nintendo, please visit the company's website at http://www.nintendo.com.


