
 
At least year's CEDIA, EI's quad-CableCARD 754 LifeMedia server was all the rage. Between then and now, Cannon PC has jumped out to offer a system with six CableCARDs. Now, Niveus Media is showing 'em all up by announcing support for up to eight CableCARDs and ten Media Center Extenders. The functionality will soon be available on the forthcoming Pro Series n9 powerhouse, which will utilize Intel's Core i7 processor. The sum of eight is reached by pairing the n9 with four Niveus Digital Cable Receivers and an external, dual CableCARD tuner device, giving users the ability to view and record eight SD / HD programs at once. Oh, and you can also stream those eight signals along with all other HD content to eleven zones. Don't kid yourself -- you know the next US President is so getting this for the White House. Full press release after the break.
      

 

NIVEUS SUPPORTS TEN EXTENDERS AND EIGHT CABLECARDS FROM ONE NIVEUS MEDIA SERVER, FOR TWICE THE POWER   Simultaneous HD TV viewing, recording, and distribution in up to eleven zones!   Denver, CO – CEDIA Expo 2008 – September 4-7 – Booth #850 – Niveus Media is invigorating the whole-home TV viewing experience by announcing that select Niveus media servers will simultaneously support up to eight digital cable (CableCARD) tuners and ten Media Center Extenders. Announcing availability concurrently with the introduction of the 2009 Niveus media server line, boasting impressive enhancements in processing and performance, Niveus now doubles the capabilities of the Niveus Entertainment System.  "Niveus has nurtured the digital cable functionality and compatibility since early 2007 and is proud to be one of the first to support both eight CableCARDS and ten extenders," states Tim Cutting, Niveus CEO and Co-Founder. "By doubling the performance of the Niveus Media Server, we can now support even the largest installations."   The ability to access a robust DVR library and distribute all live and recorded HD content to eleven independent zones will be supported by Niveus' most powerful media server, the Pro Series n9, set to be released in Q4 2008. The n9 will feature a next-generation Intel® Core™ i7 processor, for the ultimate in high-definition, multi-zone entertainment.   Pairing the n9 with four Niveus Digital Cable Receivers, an external, dual CableCARD tuner device, allows cable subscribers to simultaneously view and record eight standard definition or HD programs. Leveraging the increasingly popular Extender for Windows® Media Center platform, users can now stream these eight digital cable signals along with ALL other HD content in up to eleven zones.  "We are very excited to see Niveus maintain their cutting edge product offerings by expanding their product line to address the increasing demands of the custom installer channel," states Kevin Collins, Director – Custom Installer Channel, Microsoft. "Providing installers with the option to scale up to eight tuners and ten extenders is a testament to Niveus' dedication to expanding the media center ecosystem."  As the Niveus Media Server continues to offer unprecedented multi-zone and multi-user functionality, the need for ample storage is greater than ever. To support growing collections of HD content, Niveus has introduced the Niveus Storage Server – Cargo Edition which is based on the Microsoft" Windows" Home Server platform and boasts up to 16TB of scalable storage.   Support for eight CableCARDs and ten extenders will be available in Q4 2008, with availability of the 2009 Niveus Media Server – Pro Series n9. 
 