
 
Four short months after going gold, Niveus' Movie Library has reached the monumental v1.5 platform. Okay, so maybe it's not that huge of a deal, but it's still notable for those out there with the coin to spend on a Niveus Media Center. The new version of the movie management application includes disc-in-drive support, a 10' interface for backing up movies to the Niveus Media Server and expanded metadata with high-resolution cover art (yes, including Blu-ray). Just to reiterate, the software supports "all possible movie formats" including DVDs, Blu-ray Disc, recorded TV movies, WMV, VideoGiants, Amazon Unbox, etc. Best of all, v1.5 is available to download right now in the Niveus Software Labs. Full press release is after the jump.
      

 

NIVEUS MOVIE LIBRARY GOES PRIMETIME!  Version 1.5 is enriched to offer high-res cover art (including Blu-ray) and support for a wider catalogue of movie sources, such as disc-in-drive... and more!  Denver, CO – CEDIA Expo 2008 – September 4-7 – Booth #850 – Designed exclusively for Niveus Media customers, the Niveus Movie Library is a robust movie management tool that aggregates an entire movie collection into one distinct and intelligent interface. Upgraded to accommodate a growing number of movie sources, Niveus Movie Library 1.5 now features: disc-in-drive support; a 10' interface for backing up movies to the Niveus Media Server; and expanded metadata with high resolution cover art (including Blu-ray!).  "Niveus Movie Library 1.5 represents the original vision of this product," states Tim Cutting, CEO and Co-Founder, Niveus Media. "Coupling our new storage server, Cargo, with the enhanced Niveus Movie Library, our customers can now back up, download, store, and access their entire movie collection through the easy-to-use Niveus interface."   In a 3U chassis designed for a/v rack-mount installation, the new Niveus Storage Server – Cargo Edition is capable of storing thousands of movies, in multiple formats. For the serious movie buffs, additional Cargo storage servers can be easily added to enable a modular upgrade path to the most flexible and powerful movie management system on the market.   Rather than having separate catalogues for multiple movie sources, Niveus sought to create a single, artful solution to engage movie enthusiasts and viewers. The slick style of Movie Library offers an encompassing display, rich cover art, and even a recommended movie feature; when one movie is selected a "You may also like" scrollbar at the bottom of the screen is enabled, displaying similar movies within the user's collection.    Niveus Movie Library supports all possible movie formats including DVDs, Blu-ray Disc, recorded TV movies, WMV, VideoGiants, Amazon Unbox, and more.   With the combination of the latest Niveus Movie Library software and Cargo Edition, Niveus customers are offered the most encompassing movie experience.  Niveus Movie Library Version 1.5 is now available for download in the Niveus Software Labs, the hub for exclusive Niveus software updates.  
 