
 
So, it's official. The Nokia X7, unfit for a US launch, has finally found a home with Three in the UK. The heavily leaked stainless steel handset runs an updated Symbian^3 "Anna" (aka, PR2) OS that finally introduces a vastly improved browser and portrait QWERTY with split-view data entry among its 50 new enhancements. Rounding out the specs are an 8 megapixel cam with dual-LED flash, 4-inch OLED ClearBlack display, HD video recording, and 256MB RAM / 1GB ROM with an 8GB memory card tossed in the box. You'll find the press release, video, and more pic after the break.

Update: Nokia tells us that the X7 features 720p video recording, and a 680MHz CPU -- presumably the same old (and we mean old) ARM 11 proc and found in the N8 and E7. Oh, and it's the same Broadcom BCM2727 GPU and 8 megapixel EDoF camera we reviewed in the E7. The X7 will be available in Q2 with a price set at €380 before taxes and subsidies.




[Thanks, Will B.]
      

Show full PR textNokia X7 coming soon to Three.Today Three confirms that it will range the Nokia X7. Built for multimedia, it showcases a 4" touchscreen with an OLED Clearblack display, HD video and an 8MP camera with dual LED flash and zoom. All this and it is still pocket-friendly.Underneath the stainless steel construction and smooth curved edges, the Nokia X7 runs on the new Symbian Anna operating system, which features more than 50 new enhancements. Highlights include a faster browser and full on screen Portrait QWERTY keyboard. Plus, with the new split view, users can see their message conversations, webpages, maps, contacts or email while writing.The X7 also includes Nokia's best in class free navigation that now allows check-in from the homescreen direct to destinations such as Foursquare, Facebook and Twitter.Sylvia Chind, head of handsets commented, "The Nokia X7 is a great multimedia device, combining picture, video and mobile internet needs into one savvy smartphone. With a best-in-class four inch OLED ClearBlack display, superb camera and fully customisable operating system, our customers will have a great entertainment experience on this phone using out super-fast 3G network."Key features:• Symbian^3 OS• 8MP camera Dual LED Flash• 4.0" OLED ClearBlack display, widescreen 16:9• HD Video recording• Flash10• Expandable memory of up to 32G• Ovi store access• 256MB RAM, 1GB ROM memoryPricing and availability will soon be announced, but in the meantime check out the sneak peak video which has just gone live on the Three blog.
 