
       
We're sure just about every company on the map has an opinion on Apple's new device, but a few big wigs have taken time out of their busy schedules to weigh in on the device. These are their stories.

Nokia's Mark Squires, Head of Social Media, was mainly confused by Apple's statement that it's the biggest mobile device manufacturer, surpassing Nokia in combined revenue on media players, phones and laptops. Mark argues that the accepted definition for "mobile devices" excludes laptops, and goes on to mention the undisputed fact that Nokia's still number one when it comes to number of devices sold.
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings, meanwhile, says that mobile devices aren't a priority for his company yet. They're fighting the good fight of the large screen, and once they feel comfortable in their various efforts there, then they'll move on to small screens. Netflix hasn't done or submitted an iPhone application, but Hastings did mention that he was optimistic that if Netflix did get into the game, the app would be approved for the App Store, and that it would run on both the iPhone and iPad.
Satura Iwata, president and CEO of Nintendo, took a much more directly critical approach to the device, calling it a "bigger iPod Touch," and that Apple delivered "no surprises." In the same interview he expressed skepticism as to the value of bringing a high definition Wii on the market, as well as expressing doubts about 3D glasses-based gaming. Iwata is clearly a tough man to please.
Perhaps most threatened by the iPad is Russ Wilcox, CEO of E-Ink. He says dedicated e-readers will outsell iPads due to "simple economics," and that the iPad is "great entertainment device," but it's "not the world's best reading device." His criticisms, mostly in juxtaposition to Kindle-style devices, abound, including price, weight, backlight and so on. He's right on the money about the shortfalls of a straightforward comparison, but we wonder if consumers will feel the same?

Nothing too salacious, unfortunately, and most of the points raised are pretty spot-on -- though we do wish Reed Hastings would rethink his priorities just a smidgen and get Netflix onto mobile devices sooner than later. We're needy like that.
      

 