
 Don't worry, this time it's not a patent issue. However, it is more bad news for HTC's already-delayed One. Nokia has been granted an injunction by the Amsterdam district court concerning the technology HTC used in its current flagship. The legal battle involves a pair of high-amplitude mics housed within One's aluminum body, which are apparently the same dual-membrane components that Nokia's used in its recent Lumia 720, seen above.

 The Finnish company recently applied for a preliminary injunction, pointing the finger at STMicroelectronics, which is responsible for manufacturing the mic for both Nokia and HTC. According to our source, the issue is likely to be a breach of an NDA between Nokia and STMicroelectronics, as the phone maker asserts that the "microphone components [were] invented by and manufactured exclusively for Nokia." We're still hearing new details and will update as we learn more. We've also reached out to HTC for comment. For now, you can read up on Nokia's statement following the court's decision, embedded after the break.
 Update: HTC has offered up an official statement in response to the injunction: "HTC is disappointed in the decision. We are considering whether it will have any impact on our business and we will explore alternative solutions immediately."


  Show full PR text    "The Amsterdam District Court has today granted Nokia's request for a preliminary injunction against the supply to HTC of microphone components invented by and manufactured exclusively for Nokia.   Nokia filed this action after it discovered these components in the HTC One; HTC has no license or authorization from Nokia to use these microphones or the Nokia technologies from which they have been developed.   In its marketing materials, HTC claims that its HDR microphone is a key feature for the HTC One, but it is Nokia technology, developed exclusively for use in Nokia products.   This is one of the latest in a number of cases brought by Nokia to end HTC's unauthorized use of Nokia's inventions. More than 40 Nokia patents have been asserted against HTC in Germany, the US and the UK. An injunction against HTC devices in Germany, which were found on March 19 to infringe Nokia's patent EP 0 673 175, is now in effect. The latest case, on Nokia patent EP 1 579 613 B1 was filed in Mannheim, Germany on April 16.   Once again, Nokia calls on HTC to compete using its own innovations and to stop copying from Nokia."

 
