
 


	It's been a few months coming, but today, Nokia announced that its Lumia 710 handset has finally hit store shelves in Taiwan, ahead of its broader international release. Priced at around €270 (or about $332), the Mango-laced handset will arrive in stores across Singapore, Hong Kong, India and Russia over the next seven days, before expanding to other global markets "over the coming weeks." The 3.7-inch device joins the Lumia 800 as Nokia's latest Windows Phone offering, though it remains to be seen whether or not it'll make its way to T-Mobile anytime soon, as earlier rumors indicated. For more details on the phone, check out Nokia's full press release, after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text   Nokia Lumia 710 now shipping 		Second Windows Phone smartphone from Nokia reaches stores today 		Espoo, Finland - Nokia today announced the Nokia Lumia 710 will hit shelves, less than one month after the Nokia Lumia 800 started turning heads. 		The Nokia Lumia 710 will start selling today in Taiwan alongside the Nokia Lumia 800. The Nokia Lumia 710 will then reach stores in Singapore, Hong Kong, India and Russia in the next seven days and continue its global roll-out over the coming weeks. 		Estimated retail price is 270 EUR, excluding taxes and subsidies and availability will be via operator partners, retailers and open channels depending on local situation. 		The colourful, affordable Nokia Lumia 710 was designed to make the Nokia Lumia experience accessible to more people around the world and at launch was widely praised as the best Windows Phone experience at is price point. It combines the powerful social and Internet experience of Windows Phone with the ability to take pictures in almost any conditions and share with friends in seconds, as well as access to thousands of the most popular apps, including exclusive Nokia services. 		Based on the Windows Phone 7.5 Mango release, the Nokia Lumia 710 smartphone is designed to appeal to people with lively social lives, who want an easy way to enjoy all the benefits of Windows Phone and access to signature Nokia experiences: 		People Hub in Windows Phone displays all call, text, email and social network interactions with any individual contact in an integrated view, with the ability to group contacts and pin favourite groups and individuals to the start screen for live updates and easy access to the people who matter most. 		Faster, easier Web browsing experience with Internet Explorer 9 and one-touch Bing search.		Nokia Drive delivers a full-fledged personal navigation device (PND) with free, turn-by-turn navigation and dedicated in-car-user-interface. 		Nokia Music introduces MixRadio, a free, global, mobile music-streaming application that delivers 100s of channels of locally-relevant music. Nokia Lumia users will also gain the ability to create personalized channels from a global catalogue of millions of tracks. Also integrated in Nokia Music is Gigfinder, providing the ability to search for live local music for a complete end-to-end music experience and the ability to share discoveries on social networks and buy concert tickets. 		With the 5MP camera, anyone can take pictures and share on social networks in seconds, even when the phone is locked. 		The Nokia Lumia 710 can be personalized with a range of colours, including white and black front finish and a choice of five inter-changeable back-covers available to purchase separately. 		Also available to purchase separately are a range of complementary audio accessories co-designed and co-developed with Monster. The in-ear Nokia Purity Stereo Headset by Monster, providing high-performance in-ear style and the on-ear Nokia Purity HD Stereo Headset by Monster for the best mobile audio experience. Both products provide a fresh listening experience and are the first output of the exclusive long-term partnership between Nokia and Monster, intended to introduce a range of premium audio accessories to reflect the outstanding quality and bold style of the Lumia range. 		Product Specifications: 		Nokia Lumia 710: Designed to be personal and affordable 		Can be personalized with white or black body design, five vibrant exchangeable back covers (black, white, cyan, fuchsia, and yellow) and thousands of apps		Best social networking experience provided by Windows Phone release 7.5		Best Internet browsing experience with Internet Explorer 9		3.7" WVGA TFT, ClearBlack capacitive touch screen with pinch zoom, 800 x 480 pixels and 16 million colours		5 MP camera with auto focus, LED flash, high definition 720p video recording with 30FPS and one-touch image sharing 		Nokia signature hubs: Nokia Drive, Nokia Music		1.4GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor, 512MB program memory, 8GB internal user memory, and up to 7.6 hours of 3G talktime		The Nokia Purity HD Stereo Headset by Monster - The ultimate mobile audio experience		Iconic on-ear headset from two trusted brands 		Sleek, lightweight, bold design		Advanced Monster driver technologies deliver accurate reproduction of low bass without distortion, clear mids and crisp highs for a pure listening experience		Ultra-soft ear cushions for hours of comfortable audio listening		Tangle-free cables and Integrated volume and call handling controls		Includes premium carrying pouch and two colour-matched audio cables for maximum compatibility with various mobile devices		Available in cyan, fuchsia, black, and white 		The Nokia Purity Stereo Headset by Monster - High performance in-ear style		Premium in-ear headset from two trusted brands		Stylish noise isolating in-ear design		Advanced Monster driver technologies deliver accurate reproduction of low bass without distortion, clear mids and crisp highs for a pure listening experience		Tangle-free cables and Integrated volume and call handling controls		Includes premium carrying pouch, five pairs of variable sized ear buds, and colour matched cable adapter for maximum compatibility with various mobile devices		Available in cyan, fuchsia, black, and white
 