
 
Though the standard GSM technology path has always been (and will likely always be) Nokia's bread and butter, Espoo has warmed to the idea of alternatives in the past couple years -- they've ended up establishing a reasonably decent lineup with Verizon in the States, and for China, TD-SCDMA is the name of the game these days. To that end, the company has received its membership card to the TD Forum in the mail (finally joining its Nokia Siemens joint venture) and announced two new candybars: the X5 and C5. Actually, it's a bit unfair to call them both "new" since the C5's already seen an international introduction, but the X5 is a fresh design that mimics the design of its X3 and X6 cousins with a 5 megapixel cam and 2.4-inch QVGA display, becoming the company's first S60 device with support for TD-SCDMA to deliver on a promise made back in 2008. Interestingly, China Mobile's C5 is quite a bit different from the version you'll find elsewhere, rocking an entirely different ID and enjoying an additional 1.8 megapixels in its camera sensor for a grand total of 5. The X5 should start to filter into the market this quarter, while the C5 come in the third quarter. Follow the break for the press release.
      

 

Show full PR textAnnouncing Two New Sleek and Stylish Devices: Nokia C5 and Nokia X5BEIJING, China, April 23, 2010 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Nokia (NYSE: NOK) today strengthens its TD-SCDMA portfolio announcing two new devices: the Nokia X5 and the Nokia C5 for TD-SCDMA. Customized for China Mobile - the world's leading operator - these two new TD-SCDMA devices which include the first joint mobile application store, the Mobile Market-Ovi Store, are another demonstration of Nokia's continued commitment to TD-SCDMA as a major standard in China. The Nokia X5 and C5 will debut at the World Expo Shanghai 2010, where consumers can test the Nokia TD-SCDMA devices powerful entertainment features and rich internet experience in the China Mobile Expo area.With these devices, users can connect to the internet through China Mobiles high-speed 3G (TD-SCDMA) network as well as enjoy preloaded applications such as CMCC Music, Mobile Video, Fetion IM, and the Mobile Market-Ovi Store."Nokia is boosting its leadership in the TD-SCDMA market by strengthening its TD-SCDMA portfolio with products that appeal to a wide range of customers at a range of price points. After the milestone collaboration with China Mobile on the Mobile Market-Ovi Store, we also continue to offer new and stylish devices to satisfy our consumers," said Chris Leong, Senior Vice President, Greater China, Korea & Japan."We are also very excited to become a board member of TD Forum after being involved in the forum's activities for years. We have a long-term commitment to TD-SCDMA and we take our leadership role very seriously. We will continue to drive for TD-SCDMA technology and market development as well as evolution towards TD-LTE. And thus will contribute the prosperity of TD-SCDMA in China, with both high quality TD-SCDMA devices and rich applications and services." Leong added.Nokia X5: an exciting music experience and iconic design make users stand out from the crowdDesigned for music lovers and young trendsetters, the new Nokia X5 is the first Nokia TD-SCDMA Symbian based entertainment device. Taking the lead on music experience in the TD-SCDMA market, the Nokia X5 includes a dedicated music key and easy access to CMCC music. With an iconic design in three bright colors - black, white, and red, the Nokia X5 is certain to make younger Chinese consumers stand out from the crowd.With its 5.0-megapixel camera, dual LED flash and video recording functions, the Nokia X5 ensures users will never miss an opportunity to record life's important moments. The device makes it easy to recall those special moments for viewing pictures and videos on a 2.4'' QVGA 16M color TFT display. Direct access to MM-Ovi Store, mobile video, Fetion IM, and Mobile Map/Navigation bring consumers an exceptional mobile internet experience, while pre-loaded rich contents also contribute to an impressive entertainment experience.The Nokia X5 will become available in China during the second quarter of 2010.Nokia C5: an exciting mobile internet experience in a stylish, compact designThe Nokia C5 is a stylish, powerful TD-SCDMA device at a new affordability level in Nokia's TD-SCDMA portfolio and is guaranteed to turn heads. The Nokia C5 has a stylish stainless-steel keypad in a compact design. Rich in features and applications, the Nokia C5 is pre-loaded with Fetion and 139 mailbox, and offers easy access to all services and applications on MM-Ovi Store.Offering a 5.0 megapixel camera and a 2.4'' QVGA 16M color TFT display to allow consumers to take, view great pictures and videos in great detail and share with family and friends. There are two colors schemes available - silver and black.The Nokia C5 will become available in China during the third quarter of 2010.About NokiaAt Nokia, we are committed to connecting people. We combine advanced technology with personalized services that enable people to stay close to what matters to them. Every day, more than 1.2 billion people connect to one another with a Nokia device - from mobile phones to advanced smartphones and high-performance mobile computers. Today, Nokia is integrating its devices with innovative services through Ovi (www.ovi.com), including music, maps, apps, email and more. Nokia's NAVTEQ is a leader in comprehensive digital mapping and navigation services, while Nokia Siemens Networks provides equipment, services and solutions for communications networks globally.
 