
 
 It's taken just over a month for Nokia to get everything in place, but its now announced that around 50 "world-class imaging specialists" have joined Espoo's already substantial mobile imaging department, alongside a stack of Scalado's technologies and intellectual property. The imaging specialist's co-founder, Sami Niemi, who will now head up the Capture and Relive section of Smart Devices at Nokia, said: "The technologies and competences we've developed should help move from taking photos to capturing memories and emotions." (We're sure those hulking PureView sensors will help too.) Take a look at Nokia's brief statement on its future in mobile imaging after the break.



  Show full PR text   Nokia completes acquisition of developers, technologies and intellectual property for imaging from Scalado
   Acquisition aims to bring outstanding imaging experiences to Nokia Lumia smartphones

   Espoo, Finland and Lund, Sweden: Nokia announced today that it has completed the acquisition of all technologies and intellectual property from Scalado AB, originally announced on June 14, 2012. As part of the transaction, approximately 50 world-class imaging specialists transferred to Nokia.

   "We believe that this acquisition will strengthen Nokia's leading position in mobile imaging and provide us with a great opportunity to create even better imaging products and applications," said Jo Harlow, executive vice president, Smart Devices at Nokia. "We welcome the skilled and passionate professionals from Scalado to Nokia and are excited to have them work with the rest of our talented and dedicated imaging experts to bring world-class imaging solutions to our Nokia Lumia smartphones. The Nokia team is already responsible for many leading innovations in mobile imaging and, together with the experts from Scalado, we aim at astonishing the world with new, outstanding imaging experiences."

   Lund has now become a key site for Nokia's imaging software for smartphones, in addition to Nokia's existing locations in Espoo and Tampere, Finland.

   "We're excited to join Nokia at such an important time in its smartphone story," said Sami Niemi, co-founder of Scalado and now head of Capture & Relive, Smart Devices at Nokia. "The technologies and competences we've developed should help move from taking photos to capturing memories and emotions."

 
