
Over a year and a half ago, Marko Ahtisaari, then Nokia's Head of Product Design, confessed that he was spending at least a third of his time working on a tablet. The company's stayed relatively quiet about the mysterious device since then (despite numerous leaks pointing to its existence), but today at Nokia World we're finally seeing Marko's work come to fruition as the Lumia 2520. As you might expect, this is the first -- and possibly the last -- attempt by Nokia to craft a Windows RT slate. It's packing LTE, and a 2.2GHz Snapdragon 800 CPU inside, with a bright 650nit screen made out of Gorilla Glass 2. Nokia showed off a video demonstrating its outdoor readability in sunny Abu Dhabi, bright enough to check out Flipboard on Windows RT. It also packs the Storyteller app seen on the 1520, along with a 6.7MP rear camera featuring Zeiss optics and a 2MP front facing camera.


LTE included, the Lumia 2520's unsubsidized price is $499 in either a red/white glossy finish, or cyan and black matte paintjob when it ships in Q4. Also included are quick charging capabilities that let its 8,000mAh battery go from drained to 50 percent charge in just 40 minutes. The Nokia Power Keyboard accessory shown above costs an extra $149, and promises an extra five hours of battery life plus two extra USB ports. Check after the break for a full list of specs and a video demo, we'll have hands-on impressions of the new slate from Nokia World in just a moment.


Update: Our hands-on is up! 





Show full PR textBringing Lumia innovation to Nokia's first-ever Windows tablet - the Lumia 2520
[Nokia Lumia 2520] Nokia's first Windows tablet, the Lumia 2520, is designed to work anywhere, with a vivid 10.1-inch HD display that is designed to provide the best outdoor and indoor readability of any tablet. Building on Nokia's rich mobility heritage, the Lumia 2520 combines both 4G LTE and Wi-Fi connectivity, a 6.7MP camera, and for the first time ever on a tablet, ZEISS optics, letting people take beautiful pictures - even in low light. The Lumia 2520 runs on Windows RT 8.1 for a highly personal and easy to navigate experience, and also features multiple color choices and fast-charging capability - providing up to an 80% charge in one hour.

The Lumia 2520 also comes with a number of unique software experiences that are exclusive to the Lumia family, including the exclusive "Dragons Adventure" interactive game developed in partnership with DreamWorks Animation. Additionally, the Lumia 2520 includes Nokia Storyteller, a Nokia developed application that introduces a new way to curate and relive images and videos as a story on a map, as well as Nokia Video Director, which offers the ability to edit and get even more creative with videos shot on the Lumia 2520 - as well as content from Lumia smartphones. With integrated HERE Maps, the Lumia 2520 is the only tablet with true offline maps for a fast and reliable maps experience. The tablet also includes an exclusive version of Nokia Music with Mix Radio preinstalled.

The Lumia 2520 pairs with a unique and stylish accessory which offers a great set of benefits: the Nokia Power Keyboard. Offering up to five extra hours of battery life and two built-in USB ports, the Nokia Power Keyboard makes battery life worries a thing of the past. A protective and wraparound cover, the Nokia Power Keyboard includes a fully functional keypad with gesture trackpad, so typing feels as natural as on a laptop. With Microsoft Office and Outlook preinstalled, getting more done on the go is easier than ever.

The Nokia Lumia 2520 will be available in red and white in a glossy finish as well as cyan and black in a matte finish, and is expected to start shipping in Q4 2013 with an estimated price of USD499 before taxes or subsidies. Initial roll out is to begin broadly in the U.S. as well as the U.K and Finland, with additional countries to follow shortly after. The Nokia Power Keyboard will be available alongside the Lumia 2520 at the recommended price of USD149.

Lumia 2520 specs at-a-glance:Windows RT 8.110.1" full 1080p HD AH-IPS, High Brightness with Low Reflectance, Gorilla Glass 26.7MP Auto Focus ZEISS optics, Secondary: 2MP HD wide-angleVideo 1080p@60fps4G LTENokia Music for unlimited streaming of ad-free musicFree global HERE MapsMicrosoft Office built-inQualcomm Snapdragon 800 (2.2GHz Quad Core)8000 mAh (integrated)Red, White (glossy), Cyan, Black (matte)


