
 
It's Nokia Capital Market Day again which means that the boys from Espoo are fawning over investors and giving them a reason to stick around in 2010. And you know what? It sure sounds promising for gadget nerds. Why the optimism? Easy: Nokia is hell-bent on redefining the user experience of its Symbian devices. To quote CEO, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, "In 2010, we will drive user experience improvements, and the progress we make will take the Symbian user interface to a new level." To bolster this proclamation, the very first bullet point listed under Nokia's Devices and Services operational priorities is "improve our user experience" -- something that would thrill us to no end if it happens. 

The revamped Symbian UI is set to deliver on two "major product milestones" in the first and second halves of the year. Nokia will also deliver its first Maemo 6 "mobile computer" in the second half of 2010 flanked by a significantly increased proportion of "touch and/or QWERTY devices" in its smartphone portfolio. It's worth noting that all the discussion is around Symbian, just a single mention of Maemo and its "iconic user experience" in the forward looking press release. Developers will be happy to hear that Nokia will also continue to scale services geographically while continuing to enhance its developer tools like QT4.6 announced yesterday. Financially speaking, Nokia expects to see the erosion of its average selling price slowed compared to recent years. That's good as Nokia attempts to grow its margins. However, while Nokia expects mobile device volumes to be up approximately 10% in 2010 across the industry, it sees its own mobile device volume market share as flat in 2010, compared to 2009.

Be clear on this though: our incredibly frustrating S60 5th user experience was by far the biggest complaint we had when reviewing Nokia's flagship N97 -- having the most bullet points on a list of features is not what it takes to lure consumers anymore (if ever). If Nokia can better the best in class experiences carved out by Apple, Palm, and HTC with its Sense UI then consumer mindshare, and our hearts, will follow.

[Original image via Vladstudio]
      

 