
The Lumia 2520 is Nokia's first Windows tablet -- and it may well be its last. By the time Nokia is ready to design a follow-up product, the Finnish firm might officially be a part of Microsoft. For now, though, the Lumia 2520 is about to go on sale worldwide under the Nokia brand, and will compete directly with Microsoft's Surface 2, the only other Windows RT tablet available right now. Like the Surface, it's a flagship-caliber device, with a 1080p screen and top-of-the-line processor. But whereas Microsoft sees the Surface as kind of a laptop/tablet hybrid -- a real productivity device -- the 2520 is, at its heart, just a tablet. The 2520 has no kickstand, no full-sized USB port -- not unless you buy the optional keyboard cover, anyway. 

Nokia also brought its A-game imaging wise, installing the same camera used on the Lumia 720 (hey, for a tablet that's actually unprecedented). Additionally, there's one other thing the 2520 has that the Surface 2 doesn't: LTE. In fact, you can't even get the 2520 as a WiFi-only device; you can either buy it unsubsidized for $499, or you can purchase it here in the US for $400 on-contract. So it definitely looks good on paper (and in press photos), but what's it like to use? Turns out, it's pretty nice.




HardwareI'm truly excited to see what kind of hardware Microsoft and Nokia come up with once their designers are working under the same roof. Because right now, their design sensibilities couldn't be more different (even if they are equally awesome). Whereas the Surface 2 is made of magnesium alloy, the 2520 is fashioned out of colorful polycarbonate plastic, just like most Lumia phones. And whereas the Surface 2 is all chamfered edges and blunt lines, the 2520 is fully contoured, with the exception of some surprisingly pointy corners. What's interesting is that because the Surface 2 has a boxier shape, it appears thicker than the Lumia 2520. In fact, though, both measure a slim 0.35 inch thick -- at least according to Microsoft's and Nokia's respective spec sheets.

That optical illusion aside, the 2520 is still easier to use in tablet mode -- for the most part, anyway. Certainly, it helps that the 2520 is substantially lighter (1.36 pounds versus 1.49). At the same time, the tablet's sleek, minimalist design sometimes works against it. For all the 2520's curves and contoured edges, the corners are actually sharper than on the Surface 2, which means they dig into your palms more. Also, as we said in our review of the new Lumia 1520, which uses the same design language, those rounded-off edges don't really leave anything for you to press your fingers against. What's more, the backside is a bit slippery. Even the Surface 2, which actually has a smooth finish, still provides more traction than the 2520.

Now, this might be a good time to clarify that depending on which color you choose, the 2520 can have one of two finishes: either glossy (red or white) or matte (those are the white and cyan models). As it happens, I tested out the red version, which seems even slippier than the matte Lumia 1520 my colleague Brad Molen reviewed earlier this week. It's also more of a fingerprint magnet -- I had to give the lid a good scrubbing with a cheesecloth before I filmed that review video you see up there. It's a shame I couldn't have tested one of each: I would have liked to spend some time with the non-glossy version, though based on Brad's review of the 1520, it seems it's easier to keep clean, if also a bit tough to get a grip on.


Taking a tour around the device, you'll find quite a bit of painted-on branding around back. This includes "Zeiss" near the 6.7-megapixel rear camera in the upper-left corner, making clear that Carl Zeiss is behind the f/1.9 lens. Nearby, the NFC area is clearly marked, with the Nokia logo stamped in the middle. Further down, just below the Nokia label, are both "Verizon" and "4G LTE" logos. Obviously, that's just one carrier variant, though seeing as how the 2520 won't be sold as a WiFi-only device, you're probably in for some operator branding no matter where you buy it.

As far as ports and buttons go, most of the action is along the top landscape edge. There you'll find a volume rocker and the all-important power/lock button, with the pin-locked SIM door nearby. Under that same door is a microSD slot, which can accept cards as large as 32GB. Over on the left side (still in landscape mode here), there's a 3.5mm headphone jack up top, with a 2.5mm power port down below. At first glance, they look the same, and you might accidentally try to plug the power plug into the wrong hole the first time you set up the tablet. But you're smart people: You won't make that mistake twice.

Moving on to the right side, there's a micro-USB 3.0 socket and micro-HDMI slot. On the bottom, meanwhile, is a proprietary docking connector that's meant to be used with the optional power keyboard, which adds two full-sized USB 2.0 ports along with a built-in battery rated for five hours of runtime.

Optional keyboard
Speaking of the sort, I had a chance to test out the keyboard cover, which sells separately for $149. To give you a quick rundown of the design, it's made out of a black soft-touch material -- a pleasant contrast to the smooth plastic on the tablet itself. All told, between the soft finish and the fact that it doesn't pick up fingerprints, it has a premium feel; it looks the part of a $149 accessory. What I like best is that the part of the case that props up the tablet attaches to the base with a satisfying magnetic thump. Once it's latched on and you've got the tablet standing up, you'd have to actively pull it away from the magnet to separate the two pieces. Likewise, when the case is shut, the touchpad flap folds over and attaches magnetically to the rest of the book.

Another nice thing about the design is that it leaves the top, left and right edges exposed, so you can keep your headphones or power cord plugged in as you're typing. Indeed, to charge the case you just need to have the tablet plugged in and connected to the AC adapter. Which is nice because it means you only have to remember to take one charger with you. As for those two USB ports, they're located on the back edge, at the base of the "kickstand" portion of the case -- not the easiest place to reach, but at least you can keep cables out of sight.

So what's it like to type on? Well, it's better than nothing. With the exception of some larger buttons, like the Enter and Backspace keys, all of the buttons here have a small, square shape, about the size of a thumbnail. A handful of buttons, including the question mark key, are even smaller. The buttons also have a textured plastic finish -- not unlike a netbook circa 2008. It's a pretty cramped layout, not least because Nokia built in some space between each key. That said, I rarely made any typos, even if I did start to feel a little claustrophobic using a keyboard meant for a 10-inch device. You wouldn't want to peck out a 15-page term paper on this, but for answering emails and doing web searches, it's serviceable.









