

More Info

Nokia announces the Lumia 620
Nokia Lumia 920 review
Windows Phone 8 review


The Lumia 620 is Nokia's most affordable Windows Phone 8 device yet. Alas, it's a device that might never make an appearance in the US, due to its very attractive pricing of (£150, or around $236), unless American carriers are willing to give a rebate from the outset. But it's a surprisingly attractive Lumia -- in fact it's hard to put it in the same category as Nokia's previous cheaper Windows Phone options. Those colors hit you right between the eyes, with matte- and gloss-finish covers in cyan, lime, yellow and magenta presenting a nice alternative to the more staid black and white versions. Behind that shell, a 1GHz Snapdragon S4 Plus beats away, with a bright 3.8-inch ClearBlack display beaming out a familiar 800 x 480 resolution.


Despite the price, it's running the latest iteration of Windows Phone 8 and Nokia's also ensured its own camera lens apps, along with its music and mapping services, have been carried over as well. The 5-megapixel camera may be bested by the Zeiss-equipped 8-megapixel sensors on its bigger brothers, but with a staggering £300 difference between the Lumia 620 and Lumia 920, what other sacrifices have been made? Is this the best bang-for-your-buck Windows Phone we've ever seen? We think it might be.




Hardware
After trying out both the Lumia 920 and the Lumia 820, it's a relief to see Nokia's phone footprint shrink so that it's closer to 2011's Lumia 800. The 620 model has a marginally larger screen than that polycarb-crafted phone, but it feels just as comfortable in our hands -- one-handed use is a non-issue. While the screen's surface is completely flat, the edges curve around gently, forming a rounded back.

Due to the way the covers are formed (two different color layers, for the likes of the lime-green and orange options) they've come out in very vivid hues.

The entire cover can be pried off by pressing down on the camera unit and pulling at the top edge of the covering. Does it feel as plasticky as the Lumia 610? Nope. Wobbly? A little -- there's a minor amount of give in the center of the back, but the cover and device feel unified and solid. Better still, due to the way the covers are formed (two different color layers, for the likes of the lime-green and orange options) they've come out in very vivid hues -- the soft-finish cyan shell is this editor's personal favorite. The cases can also take a fair amount of damage from drops, with the easily breakable headphone port built into each case rather than the phone itself.


Nokia has added a front-facing VGA camera to this model (a first for an entry-level Nokia Windows Phone), while a 5-megapixel sensor and flash are centered on the back. For fans of the Lumia series, the front is even more familiar. The screen is framed with about 2mm of bezel at the sides, with space above it for the aforementioned VGA camera and earpiece. Below the TFT screen, you'll find the staple three-button capacitive control panel.

Along the right edge, there's still a hard camera button -- and all the buttons seem to have more give than last year's Nokia devices. The micro-USB port sits along the bottom with the primary microphone, while the headphone socket belongs at the top, replete with a secondary mic. It's worth mentioning that the Lumia 620 has been gifted with the same distortion-free, high-amplitude mics embedded inside the Lumia 920 -- more on that in the camera section. Meanwhile the Lumia 620's built-in speaker is apparently 20 decibels louder than Nokia's flagship phone, able to penetrate thin walls at a maximum of 100 decibels.


If you want your music louder, the phone is also compatible with JBL's wireless speakers through its built-in NFC, while a removable 1,300mAh battery resides next to the space for a microSD card. There's already 8GB of built-in storage from the outset, while Microsoft is still offering 7GB of cloud storage through SkyDrive -- in short, there are plenty of storage options. There's just 512MB of RAM, but that's plenty for handling the existing app selection on Windows Phone -- we didn't have any issues using Skype or other apps, although we can't vouch for how future-proof this phone will be compared to Windows Phone devices housing 1GB of RAM.

The handset isn't going to weigh pockets down at 127 grams, but it's not the most slender phone out there, either. At 11mm (0.43 inch), it's actually incrementally thicker than the Lumia 920, but with this smaller form factor you shouldn't have any issues with one-handed control. Nokia's new phone is more comfortable to use, even if that means there's less screen to play with.

Display
If you've been looking for a sub-4-inch Windows Phone 8 device, options have been pretty limited as of late. But here, you're getting a display that's appropriate for the price: a 3.8-inch touchscreen that matches the resolution of most Windows Phones -- that is, 800 x 480. Nokia's included its ClearBlack tech and an RGB Stripe pixel arrangement, while adding an anti-glare layer to improve outdoor visibility. Stack it against the Lumia 820, and it requires a bit more explaining.

In a way, the 620's screen looks better -- it's the same number of pixels in a smaller space, but it's no longer AMOLED. Colors appear slightly more muted on the 3.8-inch TFT in comparison, although it also lacks AMOLED's bluish overcast in white areas. Now, after dabbling with 4.7-inch displays you might think that the smaller display would make web browsing a little more frustrating, but page formatting remained pretty much identical among the three Windows Phone 8 Lumias.

Camera
If there was one feature that we expected to be underwhelming, it was the camera. Despite the extent to which Nokia raved about the prowess of its optical image stabilization and Carl Zeiss lens, you won't find either here. Maximum image resolution drops to five megapixels, but the sensor is still capable of 720p capture, with an LED flash potent enough to light up your subject -- it's possibly a little too strong for close-up shots. The physical button launches into the camera almost immediately, with none of the lag of its predecessor, and with the same ability to lock focus with a half-press. We found in most situations that tapping the screen to focus offered a better lock. 



