
 Oh, for an easy life. Sometimes it'd be nice to just read a phone's spec sheet, compare prices and make a decision. In a number of ways, the Nokia Lumia 520 looks like just the type of handset where this ought to be possible: it has the same reliable internals and happy design language that have already proven their worth in the Lumia 620, but it makes a couple of sacrifices for the sake of its £115 pay-as-you-go price tag in the UK -- which undercuts the higher model by a good £30-£50 depending on where you shop. It's even cheaper in the US, where a $150 Lumia 521 variant (not the one reviewed here) is scheduled for general availability on T-Mobile starting tomorrow.

 These sacrifices seem straightforward enough, and they include things that many smartphone users may barely notice, such as the absence of a front-facing camera, camera flash module and NFC. The problem is that the specs are never the full story. Like any phone, the Lumia 520 comes with a few surprises. Read on and we'll try to root them out.




 Hardware 
 The 520 continues Nokia's bright, bold approach to phones, and that's a good thing. It's available in cyan, red, black, yellow and white, so there's some choice in how loud you want to make it.

 Then again, regardless of which color option you pick, this handset isn't quite as bright or bold as the Lumia 620 -- that stunningly good handset that will inevitably set the benchmark throughout this review. The matte, plastic back cover lacks the glossy, rubberized personality of the higher model and also feels a tad creakier. Unlike the 620's cover, it doesn't incorporate any headphone jack circuitry -- it's just a thin piece of plastic.

 There are no problems with seams or with the way the cover fits on, maintaining Nokia's usual quality. The speaker, earpiece, aerial and all cellular components seem to work fine. Some people may even prefer the 520's more sedate appearance, along with its slightly larger LCD display, which results in the phone being a few millimeters longer and wider than the 620, as well as having other ramifications that we'll come to in a bit.

 
 Overall, Nokia's manufacturing is good, but it isn't perfect. For the first few days of use, the 520's camera button kept jamming, requiring the back cover to be removed in order to unstick it. This problem seems to have died down, but it may also be that we're being gentler with the shutter release -- which really we shouldn't have to be.

 Other than that, the simple exterior is punctuated by a 3.5mm headphone port on the top left, micro-USB charge and sync port on the bottom, volume rocker and power/standby button on the right, speaker and camera lens on the back. Lastly, we have the earpiece and capacitive Windows Phone navigation buttons on the front face -- none of which gave us any problems.

       Nokia Lumia 520      Dimensions    119.9 x 64 x 9.9mm (4.72 x 2.52 x 0.39 inches)    Weight    124 g (4.37 ounces)    Screen size    4.0 inches    Screen resolution    800 x 480 (235 ppi)    Screen type    IPS LCD, Sensitive Touch    Battery    1,430mAh Li-Polymer (removable)    Internal storage    8GB    External storage    microSD (up to 64GB)    Rear camera    5MP, f/2.4, no flash    Front-facing cam    None    Video capture    720p    NFC    No    Radios    GSM (850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900)   WCDMA (900 / 2100) Max DL speed: 21.1 Mbps HSPA+    Bluetooth    v3.0 with A2DP    SoC    Qualcomm Snapdragon S4    CPU    1GHz dual-core    GPU  Adreno 305    RAM    512MB    WiFi    Dual-band, 802.11b/g/n    Wireless Charging    No    Operating system    Windows Phone 8    Display 
 The Lumia 620 taught us that a high-quality display needn't cost the earth. Alas, the Lumia 520 teaches us that a top-shelf display must cost something, because Nokia hasn't been able to carry it over into this bottom-end handset.

 This LCD is washed-out, unevenly lit (especially in the lower corners) and suffers from relatively poor (though not horrific) viewing angles. It isn't a patch on any of the higher models, and that's something the Lumia's spec sheet on its own doesn't warn us about, aside from the absence of the word "ClearBlack," signifying that the manufacturer acknowledges this is a lesser panel.

 The 520 is also technically worse off in terms of pixel density, due to the fact it has a 4-inch, rather than 3.8-inch, display while keeping the standard 800 x 480 resolution. In reality though, that sort of difference is imperceptible at screens of this size.  Regardless of the display's technical aspects, we reckon that the inherently bold and contrasty aesthetic of the Windows Phone environment makes it less of an issue. In the midst of daily use, you're just not going to notice that bright patch in the lower-left corner, or those blacks that aren't really black -- at least until someone with a 620 comes and sits down next to you.

 Camera 
 Judging by the quality of its pictures, the Lumia 520's camera module is basically the same as the 620's. That means it takes passable stills for sharing and looking at on small displays. However, there are a few things holding the 520's photography skills back. There's no focus assist light, for a start, which results in unpredictable focus in low-light shots. Combined with the slow shutter speed (due to the absence of a flash) and the slight shake resulting from the sometimes-sticky camera button, this occasionally results in overly blurred images, as the sample below will attest.
 
 Overall, daytime shots were okay, but this writer's stills just aren't as crisp as those Mat Smith took with the 620 in low-light situations -- and there has to be a reason for that other than just my general clumsiness.



