
 Nokia just announced plans to launch a TD-SCDMA version of its Lumia 920 Windows Phone 8 flagship. The handset, designated Lumia 920T, will be available on China Mobile by the end of the year for RMB 4599 (about $739) in a choice of four colors (black, white, yellow and red). It's the first Windows Phone to support the country's TD-SCDMA standard and the first Windows Phone 8 device available in China. 
 Spec-wise, the Lumia 920T is almost identical to its western sibling. Other than packing a different radio, it features the same 4.5-inch 1280x768-pixel PureMotion HD+ display, optically image-stabilized 8.7-megapixel f/2.0 Carl Zeiss autofocus camera, and 1.5GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4 processor (plus 1GB RAM). There's no word on storage capacity, but the handset presumably matches the original with 32GB on board.

 The Lumia 920T integrates with local Internet services such as Sina, Sohu, Tencent, Baidu and Renren and provides access to both the Chinese Marketplace (50,000 apps) and Mobile Market (China Mobile's app store). It also offers NFC deals on location-based service Jiepang (in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou). Furthermore, Nokia and Air China are making wireless chargers available in VIP lounges at Beijing airport. Hit the break for the full PR.


  Show full PR text   Nokia Partners with China Mobile to Launch the Lumia 920T, the First TD-SCDMA Windows Phone
   GUANGZHOU - Nokia and China Mobile today announced the Lumia 920T, the first TD-SCDMA Windows Phone in China. With advanced location services, photography innovation, and fast mobile browsing on China Mobile's 3G network, the Lumia 920T offers Chinese consumers the most innovative smartphone experience.

   "We are delighted to partner with China Mobile, the world's largest operator, to introduce China's first Lumia based on Windows Phone 8. People around the world are responding positively to the new Lumia devices, and we're confident that the enthusiasm will extend to China with the Lumia 920T," said Stephen Elop, President and CEO of Nokia.

   "Our close cooperation with Nokia is a key contributor to the success of China's TD industry, and will further enhance the rapidly growing TD ecosystem. We are excited about this important next step in our partnership, and we look forward to creating an even more vibrant TD industry together," said Li Yue, President of China Mobile Communications Corporation.

   The Lumia 920T uses Pureview's advanced floating lens technology, and takes in five times more light than competing smartphones without using a flash. This makes it possible for people to capture clear, bright pictures and video indoors and at night.

   The Lumia 920T also has the world's most sensitive touchscreen, and thanks to Nokia's ClearBlack display technology offers better visibility in the brightest sunlight. The Lumia 920T also comes with the full suite of Nokia navigation applications, including Nokia City Lens.

   As the largest operator in China, China Mobile will play a significant role in bringing the Lumia experience to more Chinese consumers with its expansive TD network coverage. Lumia 920T's powerful dual-core Snapdragon S4 processor, partnered with China Mobile's high-speed 3G network, is set to deliver fast data connectivity. In addition to the rich applications available in Nokia's Marketplace, Lumia 920T users will enjoy the additional benefit of access to Mobile Market, China Mobile's application store, offering a large range of applications and services tailored for Chinese people, and an easy shopping experience

   Strong, Growing Ecosystem

   To further drive momentum of China's Windows Phone ecosystem, Nokia and Air China today announced a strategic partnership which lets consumers enjoy wireless chargers in Beijing Airport VIP lounges. Furthermore, Jiepang announced a service that lets consumers enjoy great deals by simply tapping their Lumia 920T using NFC in some outlets in Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou.

   Nokia demonstrated its commitment to local developers and entrepreneurs by launching the Nokia Experience & Innovation Center (NEIC), the Academy Program and most recently the Booster Program in partnership with the government and other companies. These initiatives provide fledgling innovative Internet developers and entrepreneurs with business advice, technical support and a low-cost operating environment in which to grow, helping them turn their ideas into applications. These programs will also continue to drive and support the increasing amount of grassroot innovation, further boosting the Windows Phone ecosystem in China.

   Price and Availability

   The Lumia 920T will be available for order by the end of the year. It will retail at RMB 4599 without contract and come in four colours; black, white, yellow and red.

 
