
  We're still not exactly sure what Nicki Minaj has to do with Nokia's new Lumia 900, but the company put her at the center of its promotional efforts in a launch event Friday night that took over Times Square. Oh, you missed it? For just the visual effect of what went on, including CGI dancers on massive LED displays and coordinated effects on the tourist destination's many existing video boards (been there, done that) you can check out our gallery of pics from the event, or look below for the video. If you're all about the phones, Nokia is pushing its Windows Phone 7 flagship with new "the smartphone beta test is over" ads -- there's also one of those embedded after the break. So, is anyone concerned Nokia might not be doing enough to promote this new phone?





     Show full PR text   Apr 06, 2012 22:03 ET Nokia and Nicki Minaj Illuminate Times Square  Nokia Lumia 900 handsets dominate the iconic New York skyline  NEW YORK, April 6, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Nokia teamed up with international superstar Nicki Minaj to bring a building in Times Square alive and create one of the biggest LED displays ever seen to celebrate the launch of the Windows Phone-based Nokia Lumia 900.  Tens of thousands of people watched as Nicki performed a medley of her hits before some of the world's leading visual artists turned the prominent building into a living, breathing entity using cutting-edge CGI technology with 60ft waves appearing to cascade down the building.  Nine of Times Square's famous electronic screens showed the fantastic reaction of the crowd.  The unique visual event, to launch the Nokia Lumia 900 in North America, was choreographed to an exclusive Nokia Lumia remix of Nicki's hit 'Starships', performed live by DJ and producer Doorly.  The entire show was filmed as part of the singer's new music video for the 'Starships' remix.  Nicki said: "When Nokia came to me with the idea to make a building come alive and to perform in Times Square in front of my fans to celebrate the launch of the Nokia Lumia 900 there was only ever one answer.  "To see the idea on paper was amazing but to see it for real blew me away. It brought Times Square to a standstill. The absolute bonus for me is that my fans, who have been so loyal to me, are now part of the video for the Starships Nokia remix.  "Performing in my home town of NYC the same week as the release of my new album, Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded is amazing and it really is a dream come true."  To see more of the event go to www.facebook.com/nokiaus  The Nokia Lumia 900 will be available exclusively in North America from AT&T from April 8 for $99.99. With 4G LTE speeds and outstanding design, the Nokia Lumia 900 lets customers access their email, music and social media quickly.  Nokia is a global leader in mobile communications. Every day, more than 1.3 billion people use their Nokia to capture and share experiences, access information, find their way or simply to speak to one another.  For more information, visit http://www.nokia.com/about-nokia  SOURCE Nokia
 