
   Nokia does love teasing us with its albino-hued special editions, and so it did with the white Lumia 800 back in December. Now that phone is following the color-free road to retail later this month. Other than the eye-pleasing lack of color the phone looks to be identical to its rather more chromatic predecessors, with a 3.7-inch AMOLED display up front and a 1.4GHz processor inside. It looks good, but it just leaves us with one question: how long will we have to wait for a white Lumia 900?  Update: According to Nokia's Conversations blog, the phone will launch first in these countries: UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Scandinavia, Finland, Poland and Switzerland. 




  Show full PR text  White Nokia Lumia 800 available this February  Espoo, Finland - Nokia announced today that the Nokia Lumia 800 will be available in white, beginning later this month.  With Windows ® Phone 7.5 software on board, the white Nokia Lumia 800 features head-turning design and the best social and Internet performance, with one-touch social network access, easy grouping of contacts, integrated communication threads and Internet Explorer 9. It features a 3.7-inch AMOLED ClearBlack curved display blending seamlessly into the reduced body design, and a 1.4 GHz processor with hardware acceleration and a graphics processor. The Lumia 800 contains an instant-share camera experience based on leading Carl Zeiss optics, HD video playback, 16GB of internal user memory and free SkyDrive storage for storing images and music.  Lumia smartphones include signature Nokia experiences optimized for Windows Phone, including Nokia Drive, which delivers a full-fledged personal navigation device (PND) with free, turn-by-turn navigation and dedicated in-car-user-interface; and Nokia Music introducing MixRadio*, a free mobile music-streaming application that delivers hundreds of channels of locally-relevant music. Windows Marketplace also gives Lumia users more than 55 000 apps to choose from.  "Since we began selling it late last year, the Nokia Lumia 800 has received rave reviews around the world," said Ilari Nurmi, Vice President of Product Marketing, Nokia. "Now in white, the Lumia 800 brings with it an even more premium look and feel with its gloss finish, but packed with power and performance underneath its sleek body."  More information about the Nokia Lumia 800 can be found at www.nokia.com/lumia800.  *Availability of Mix Radio varies market by market
 