
If you've heard enough of Nokia's near future plans for its Lumia range, sorry -- there's more. While the company's official event isn't until next Tuesday in London, that hasn't stopped it from announcing the Lumia 928 on Verizon. Again. Nokia's latest installment supplants the Lumia 822 and HTC's 8X for the US carrier, matching the camera specifications (Carl Zeiss f/2.0 lens, 8.7-megapixel sensor) we saw in the Lumia 920 and pairing it all with a potent xenon flash. There's also high-amp mics and a 4.5-inch OLED (1,280 x 768) display protected by a layer of Gorilla Glass. Inside, you'll find a capable 1.5GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4 processor, 2,000mAH battery and 32GB of storage for all those low-blur photos. As for the phone itself, compared to the bright (admittedly chunky) looks of its predecessor, we're looking at a toned-down refresh, in black and white options, with a more squared design aiming to complement those Windows Phone Live Tiles.

Contactless charging and NFC are both built in, as are all those extra Nokia software additions, including Here maps and Nokia Music. It'll launch in the US on May 16th, priced at $99.99 with a mail-in rebate, while you'll also pick up $25 of credit for Windows Phone apps and games if you decide to sign up. Nokia's got an officially sanctioned hands-on after the break -- expect to see our opinions on it next week. 





Show full PR textIntroducing the Nokia Lumia 928 - a new expression of the world's most innovative smartphoneExclusive to Verizon Wireless, newest Nokia Lumia flagship smartphone delivers amazing imaging, video and audio performance to capture and share moments like never before

Sunnyvale, Calif., USA - Nokia today announced the Nokia Lumia 928 smartphone, the latest installment in Nokia's Windows Phone 8 lineup, exclusive to Verizon Wireless.

With Nokia's award-winning PureView imaging innovation, including optical image stabilization, the Nokia Lumia 928 enables people to capture bright, blur-free photos and videos, even in low light conditions such as indoors or at night. Great looking images come easily when snapping them with the smartphone's 8.7MP camera featuring a high-quality, wide angle Carl Zeiss lens. The Nokia Lumia 928 also comes with powerful Xenon flash to freeze the moment.

In addition to amazing imaging and video capabilities, the Nokia Lumia 928 offers rich distortion-free audio capture, even in noisy conditions. Built with three high-audio-amplitude-capture (HAAC) microphones and one of the most advanced loudspeakers available for smartphones, people can record and play back the sound just like they first heard it, all the way up to 140db - the sound equivalent of an airplane taking off. These features shine when using Vyclone, a new app for Windows Phone that lets people co-create, sync and edit multiple views of a shared moment.

"Whether you're attending a party, a concert or a sporting event with friends, the Nokia Lumia 928 excels at capturing high-quality video, audio and blur-free photos of life's most share-worthy moments," said Matt Rothschild, vice president, Nokia North America. "Verizon Wireless customers, we heard you and the wait is over - we're excited to offer a Nokia flagship smartphone, specially designed and optimized for the nation's largest 4G LTE network."

At first touch, the Lumia 928 feels sleek, solid and fits perfectly in the hand. The stunning new smartphone introduces a 4.5" OLED display delivering crystal clear, bright content with great outdoor visibility and a fast, responsive touch-screen even when your fingertips are covered up. The glass extends to the very edge of the phone for a high-end feel.

The Nokia Lumia 928 includes access to signature Lumia apps including the complete set of the feature-rich, intuitive and customizable HERE experiences. HERE Maps, HERE Drive+, HERE Transit** and HERE City Lens help people navigate their life every day. Using Nokia Music with Mix Radio, people can enjoy unlimited streaming of free music playlists with the option to create personal playlists and download for listening offline. Digital camera lenses and apps, including Smart Shoot, Cinemagraph, Panorama, and Photobeamer**, enable people to unleash their creativity.

The Nokia Lumia 928 also comes with built-in wireless charging; just lay it down to power-up, it's that easy.

Powered by Windows Phone 8Windows Phone 8 offers a truly personal smartphone experience, with an iconic Start screen that can be easily arranged to reflect individual priorities and animated Live Tiles for real-time updates on the people and things that matter most. With the same modern look and feel, Windows Phone 8 is built to work seamlessly with Windows PCs and tablets, Microsoft Surface devices and the Xbox 360 console so that files, music, pictures and videos can be accessed in whichever way is most convenient. The Windows Phone Store features more than 145,000 apps for customers to choose from, with hundreds added every day. Getting things done while on-the-go is easy with Internet Explorer 10 for faster, safer browsing and Microsoft Office Mobile integration.

AvailabilityThe Nokia Lumia 928 is available for purchase in white or black at Verizon Wireless stores and online beginning Thursday, May 16 for USD99 after a USD50 mail-in rebate, with a new two-year customer agreement. For a limited time, get a USD25 credit for Windows Phone apps and games with the purchase of a Nokia Lumia 928.*

Also available through Verizon Wireless is a range of Nokia wireless charging accessories to keep you conveniently charged at home, at work or in the destinations in between. The accessories include: the JBL PowerUp Wireless Charging Speaker for Nokia, Nokia Wireless Charging Plate DT-900 and the Nokia Wireless Charging Pillow by Fatboy DT-901.

Nokia Lumia 928 product specifications:

Display: 4.5 inch WXGA HD OLED; Resolution 1280 x 768, Aspect Ratio 15:9, Pixel Density 334 ppi; ClearBlack display, Sunlight Readability Enhancement (SRE), High Brightness Mode (HBM); Luminance 300 nits (nominal max), 500 nits (High Brightness Mode); Color depth 24 bit, 16M colors, refresh rate 60Hz; Super-sensitive capacitive touch enables interacting with the display with gloves and long fingernails; Display active area: 58.37 mm x 97.28 mm; 2.5D Corning® Gorilla® Glass 2Battery: Integrated 2000mAh battery, Li-po, BV 4-NWProcessor:1.5GHz dual core, Qualcomm MSM8960+WTRMain Camera: PureView 8.7MP Auto Focus with Carl Zeiss Tessar f/2.0, 26mm True 16:9 optics, 1.4 sensor; Optical Image stabilization; Xenon Flash for Still Images, 1.4 sensor; Optical Image stabilization; Xenon Flash for Still Images; LED for Video; HD 1080p Video Capture @ 30 fpsFront facing camera: 720p HD video and 1.2MP still imagesMemory: 1 GB RAM; 32GB internal memory (formatted capacity is less); 7GB free in SkyDrive with additional storage via subscription



*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

