
 After being deemed smartphone worthy back in September last year, the S40 platform has just gained another member with the $102 Nokia Asha 310. The follow-up to the Asha 308 and 309, the latest handset rocks a 3-inch 400 x 240 capacitive touchscreen and touts support for a pair of SIMs along with WiFi -- the very first such device to come out of Espoo. Other specs include easy swap functionality, 128MB internal storage expandable up to 32GB, Nokia's Xpress Browser, a 2-megapixel camera and Nokia Maps navigation. Alas there's no 3G, but WiFi should at least come in handy to download the 40 free EA games on offer. No word on stateside availability just yet, but expect it to land in emerging markets in the Q1 of this year.



  Show full PR text   Nokia Asha 310 debuts with Dual SIM and Wi-Fi
   New Asha Touch smartphone helps consumers connect, discover and enjoy more online  Espoo, Finland - Nokia today announced the Nokia Asha 310, a new Dual SIM smartphone with Wi-Fi support to help people get more out of the Internet, for less. The powerful combination of Dual SIM plus Wi-Fi in the same device, a first for Nokia smartphones, gives consumers the best of both worlds by offering the flexibility to enjoy more mobile experiences while managing their costs. The Nokia Asha 310 also comes packed with great apps and games that are the hallmark of the Nokia Asha range.

   Swap SIM cards to suit your lifestyle  With Nokia's built-in Easy Swap Dual SIM technology, consumers can use the external slot on the Nokia Asha 310 to insert a secondary SIM card, while keeping their principal SIM card in place behind the battery. The Nokia Asha 310 puts the user in control, with the ability to shift between SIM cards for personal or work use without turning off the phone. They can also swap SIM cards while on-the-go, to get the best available tariffs when commuting. Nokia Easy Swap Dual SIM makes it possible to assign and store unique profiles for up to five SIM cards. Users can designate SIM cards for text, voice and data and switch between them at their convenience.

   Freedom to do more online with Wi-Fi  The addition of Wi-Fi in the Nokia Asha 310 gives users a fast and easy way to enjoy more online, including streaming videos from YouTube or downloading the 40 free EA Games from Nokia Store. The ability to connect to free Wi-Fi hotspots whether at home or on the go means users aren't constrained by their data plan.

   The Nokia Asha 310 comes pre-loaded with Nokia Xpress Browser, which delivers a fast and fluid browsing experience and support for thousands of web apps. Nokia Xpress Browser compresses Internet data by up to 90%, saving consumers money.

   The new Nokia Asha 310 with Wi-Fi allows users to experience a wide range of mobile Internet experiences right out-of-the box or within easy reach by visiting Nokia Store:

   Socialise - Connect to social networks through the pre-loaded Facebook and Twitter apps - Chat 24/7 with friends online and get push notifications using eBuddy instant messaging - Use popular email services, including Yahoo!, Gmail and more

   Discover - A rich and reliable mapping experience with the pre-loaded Nokia Maps, which works both online and offline - More places of interest using the Nokia Nearby web app, then share your plans with friends on Facebook - More apps, like Foursquare from Nokia Store, which has over 125,000 content items for Series 40 devices including Asha smartphones

   Enjoy - The freedom to stream great video content on YouTube - A gift of 40 free EA games that are available to download individually from Nokia Store - Adventure, sporting and lifestyle content from the exclusive-to-Nokia World of RedBull app, also available from Nokia Store

   "The Nokia Asha 310 further strengthens Nokia's portfolio of Asha devices. Nokia's Asha range now comprises 15 models which succeed in bringing smartphone features like Wi-Fi, video streaming, social, fast mobile browsing, apps and games at competitive price points," said Neil Shah, senior analyst, Strategy Analytics.

   "The Nokia Asha 310 is the first-ever Nokia smartphone to offer both Easy Swap Dual SIM and Wi-Fi in the same device. It gives consumers the best of both worlds, allowing them to separate work and play, or speak with friends on other mobile networks more affordably," said Timo Toikkanen, executive vice president, Mobile Phones, Nokia. "The addition of Wi-Fi support gives users the freedom to enjoy much more of the Internet compared to competitive devices at this price point."

   The newest addition to the Asha Touch family of smartphones, the Nokia Asha 310 features a 3" scratch-proof, capacitive touchscreen that complements the sophisticated design. It features a 2 megapixel camera and comes with a 4GB* memory card included, with support for a further 32GB of external memory.

   The Nokia Asha 310 will be available to purchase in Asia, India, the Middle East, Africa and Brazil starting Q1 2013. Suggested pricing is 102 USD before taxes and subsidies. Available colors include black, white and golden light.

   Device images are available at Nokia.com/press.

   *In Brazil, The Nokia Asha 310 will have a 2GB memory card included

 
