
  The Nokia Asha Series 40 phones were introduced at Nokia World last fall and today it expands by a few models, with the 202, 203 and 302. The 202 model is designed for "easy swap" SIM changes without powering off the phone, while the 203 is a single SIM model. Both expand the lower end line with access to 40 free games ( including Bejeweled, Need for Speed, Tetris, Sims Medieval) and Nokia Life services. The 302 (pictured above) will be the first to bring Microsoft Exchange support on Series 40, a feature that will also be added to the older 303. It does not have a touchscreen, but does bring a 1GHz CPU and 14.4Mbps data speeds for 95 euros, shipping now. The 202 and 203 do have 2.4-inch touchscreens, and are shipping in the next few weeks for 60 euros. Follow along with our liveblog of Nokia's MWC 2012 press conference for more details, or check out the press release after the break.


Myriam Joire contributed to this report.


  Show full PR text  Nokia expands its Asha range with smarter feature phones that improve ways to work, learn and play  - Work - first Series 40 Asha phone to support Mail for Exchange - Learn - new Nokia Life services provide key information to young, urban consumers, coupled with Nokia's cloud-based browser for faster discovery of the online world while paying less - Play - 40 free games available from EA worth EUR 75; plus preloaded Nokia Social application that enables a single sign-in to multiple communities Barcelona, Spain - Accelerating its capability to connect the next billion people to the internet, Nokia today unveiled additional services and three more Asha feature phone models -- the Nokia Asha 202, Asha 203 and Asha 302 -- at Mobile World Congress. Designed to deliver a variety of affordable mobile experiences, the new offerings target three dimensions: Work, with Mail for Exchange support for the Nokia Asha 302; Learn, bringing new information services for young, urban consumers, and a fast, cloud-based browser that reduces internet access costs; and Play, with free EA games available on the Nokia Asha 202 and Asha 203. "Since outlining a new strategy a year ago, we've taken significant actions to deliver against it," said Mary T. McDowell, Nokia's executive vice president for Mobile Phones. "We've been connecting the next billion people to the mobile world and its benefits through contemporary feature phones and internet services. Today, we are taking another step in that direction, with a compelling combination of smarter mobile devices packed with innovative services." Nokia Life benefits 50 million users Nokia also announced an evolution of Nokia Life Tools, Nokia Life, which provides life-enhancing information across the range of Nokia Series 30 and Series 40 products. Now with additional relevant services, social elements and fresher look, it's available first on the Nokia Asha 202 and 203 phones. Since its 2009 launch in India, the SMS-based service has expanded to China, Indonesia and Nigeria. To date, more than 50 million people have experienced its benefits. Nokia Life delivers content in the areas of parenting, life skills, education, health, entertainment and agriculture. For example, Nokia Life can help parents focus on children's physical, emotional and social growth needs, from birth to adolescence. People can also learn English using basic SMS communications, and enjoy ringtones, sport news and trivia. "Nokia Life services provide an entry to the world of digital content and an internet-like experience for many people who don't yet have access to data plans" said Dieter May, Nokia's senior vice president of Mobile Phone Services. "With today's news, we're enhancing our services to bring consumers an even more enjoyable experience on the new Asha phones, with content that matters to them in their daily lives, is fun and helps them progress." Nokia Asha family expands The Nokia Asha family has expanded rapidly since its debut, just four months ago, with four devices presented at Nokia World 2011. It's now available in more than 100 markets globally and will be complemented by three devices announced today. Nokia's Asha 202 and 203 phones stand out with the combination of a traditional keypad with a 2.4- inch touch screen, ideal for browsing, scrolling and opening applications. The Asha 202 features Dual SIM Easy Swap technology with dedicated SIM manager to personalize the phone and save up to five SIM cards with unique information. Both devices come with a 2-megapixel camera, music player, FM radio, Nokia Browser, and Bluetooth connectivity, and can handle memory cards up to 32GB.  Estimated retail price for each is about EUR 60, excluding taxes and subsidies, and both are expected to start shipping in the second quarter of 2012.  Image: Nokia Asha 202 Nokia and EA have teamed on innovative ways to bring games to the next billion. The Nokia Asha 202 and 203 will be the first Series 40 devices to offer EA games. As a 60-day promotion at Nokia Store, the EUR 75 separate cost of an EA 40-game pack - including popular titles such as Tetris, Need for Speed, The Run and Bejeweled - will be automatically waived for buyers of either new model.   Image: Nokia Asha 302 The Nokia Asha 302 is Nokia's first Series 40 phone to support Mail for Exchange, giving people access to their emails, contacts and calendar on an exchange server. That and a stylish QWERTY keyboard make it ideal for young entrepreneurs and professionals seeking a beautifully designed phone. Additionally, the Nokia Asha connects to popular social networks and enables chatting through Whatsapp and other IM services. The Nokia Asha 302 is powered by a 1-GHz processor and supports 3.5G data speeds. It is available now for about EUR 95.  "With today's announcement, Nokia has accelerated the truly global opportunity for enterprise mobility," according to Nicholas McQuire, research director enterprise mobility strategies EMEA for IDC.  "By making Mail For Exchange available for the sub 100 euros mobile device market, Nokia has taken a significant step in helping businesses across the globe, including those from high growth economies, achieve the productivity and employee satisfaction benefits that greater mobility affords them." Nokia Browser helps consumers and operators to significantly cut costs All three new devices provide a fast and affordable internet experience via Nokia's cloud-accelerated Nokia Browser, which makes internet content easy to discover with its localized and personalized home page design and portal to thousands of web apps. In addition to its speed, the browser compresses data traffic up to 90 percent, meaning cost reductions for consumers and operators, who can have better network utilization. Nokia Browser has been rapidly adopted, with almost four new users around the world activating it every second. It is available today in more than 200 markets. About Nokia Nokia is a global leader in mobile communications whose products have become an integral part of the lives of people around the world. Every day, more than 1.3 billion people use their Nokia to capture and share experiences, access information, find their way or simply to speak to one another. Nokia's technological and design innovations have made its brand one of the most recognized in the world. For more information, visit http://www.nokia.com/about-nokia.
 