
Want a cheap gateway to the world of Windows Phone? In the US, it won't get much cheaper than AT&T's new version of the Lumia 520. Nokia's starter device will cost just $100 contract-free when it hits AT&T's GoPhone prepaid service on July 26th -- that's $50 less than T-Mobile's already inexpensive Lumia 521. There won't be LTE support or other frills, but we suspect that many customers won't mind at this price.



Show full PR textAT&T Launches First Windows Smartphone for GoPhone, The Nokia Lumia 520, on July 26
Dallas, Texas, July 22, 2013
Beginning July 26, AT&T* will offer customers even more choice with the launch of the Nokia Lumia 520, the first Windows Phone in the AT&T GoPhone portfolio. The 4G-capable Nokia Lumia 520 will be available for $99.99.
The Lumia 520 offers the intuitive functionality of the Windows Operating System and the outstanding imaging capabilities found on other smartphones in the Nokia Lumia family, all in a more affordable package. You can take great photos with the 5-megapixel camera and Nokia digital camera lenses, add motion to your pictures with Cinemagraph, or capture super-wide-angled pictures to take in more of the scene. In addition, you can use Smart Shoot to capture five sequential images and select different faces and portions of the photos to compile into one final group picture.
The super sensitive 4-inch IPS LCD WVGA display allows you to use the phone with fingernails or while wearing gloves.
"We are excited to launch the first 4G Windows Phone 8 smartphone in our GoPhone portfolio," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president - Devices. "A diverse device ecosystem benefits everyone, and the addition of an affordable Windows device gives our customers yet another choice that fits their needs."
AT&T GoPhone customers can enjoy the affordability and simplicity of no annual contract wireless plans on the nation's largest 4G network. AT&T 4G service is available with any GoPhone smartphone plans.
The Nokia Lumia 520 comes with access to free** global HERE Maps which provide information, photos and reviews on popular nearby places including directions or use HERE Drive to access turn-by-turn navigation, even when offline... To make getting around even easier, HERE Transit provides instant access to the best way across town using public transportation, offering a detailed overview of stations and stops, departure and arrival times, and estimations on your walking times.
Like our other Nokia smartphones, the Lumia 520 comes with Nokia Music that lets you stream unlimited music for free***. Tap into the latest tracks or create your own channels based on the artists you love. Accessing your favorite things is easy with this Windows Phone 8 smartphone. Customers can pin playlists, HERE routes, web pages and documents directly to the start screen as Live Tiles to get to your favorite content quickly. Select from various apps to be placed as Live Tiles and resize to reflect your personal priorities. Microsoft Office is built into your phone, and can seamlessly sync with laptops.
Key Specifications Include:
    Battery Detail 
   1430 mAh Li-Ion
     Talk Time (Hrs)
   Up to 10
     Standby Time (days)
   Up to 13
     Audio playback (hr)
   Up to 63.5
     Operating System
   Windows® Phone 8 
     Display
   4.0"IPS LCD WVGA (800x480 resolution), flat glass (2D), Capacitive touch, Color depth 24bit, 16M colors, ppi235
     Internal Memory
   RAM : 512MB 
 Internal memory : 8GB
     Usable Storage internal memory
   5GB
     External Memory
   MicroSD up to 64GB with 7 GB of free SkyDrive storage
   For more information on AT&T GoPhone and a complete listing of plans, visit www.att.com/gophone.

