
 


	Searching for the perfect accessory to your gold lamé hot pants, gold tooth and gold pinky ring? Then look no further than the Nokia C3-01 Gold Edition. This hunk of sparkly splendor is basically a Series 40 C3-01 Touch-and-Type feature phone with a fancy 18 carat gold topcoat and an upgraded 1GHz processor. Less impressive on the inside, this gilded ringer is packing a quadband GSM radio, HSDPA, WiFi, Bluetooth, a 2.4-inch QVGA touchscreen, a 5 megapixel camera and a microSD card slot. Since it's a made in Finland, it's got Nokia Messaging for email and IM, Nokia Communities for Facebook and Twitter, the new Nokia S40 browser and the Ovi Store, obvi. This ultimate feature phone is available primarily in Eastern Europe and the Middle East for a price of €220 ($320) -- but is there really a price on looking fresh?
 

 		Show full PR text 		ESPOO, Finland - Recently, we launched the new Nokia C3-01 Gold Edition. Designed exclusively for Eastern European and Middle Eastern markets, it brings together the popular Nokia C3-01 Touch and Type with a luxury 18-carat gold plating, ceramic-feel keymat and a matching theme. 		We introduced the original Series 40 based Nokia C3-01 Touch and Type last year, and its combination of simplicity and classic phone design has made it something of a hit among people who are less into megapixels and gigahertz and more interested in "making a phone call". 		That's not to say that the Nokia C3-01 Gold Edition doesn't have the technology bases covered. Offering a quadband radio and up to HSDPA data speeds alongside WiFi and Bluetooth, you won't have any problems getting connected. The hardware's been updated with a 1GHz processor in this model, too, so it's no slouch when it comes to performance. The screen is a 2.4-inch QVGA touchscreen. On the back, there's a 5-megapixel camera with flash. There's also a MicroSD card slot for up to 32GB of extra storage space. 		On board, you'll find Nokia Messaging for email and IM functionality and Nokia Communities for checking into Facebook and Twitter. And of course, there's Ovi Store for downloading extra apps and games. New to this device is the Nokia Series 40 browser, for fast web access without high data use charges. 		It measures 111 x 47.5 x 11mm and weighs 100g. The battery is rated as offering up to 5.5 hours talk-time and up to 18 days on standby. 		The Nokia C3-01 Gold Edition has already started shipping in selected markets, and will extend to more in coming weeks, and, without local taxes or operator subsidies, will cost around €220. More information on the product page here.
 