
 

Nokia's Mary McDowell announced the company's third dual-SIM device, the C2-03, at CommunicAsia. It's a portrait slider with a 320 x 240 touchscreen display paired with the company's Touch and Type interface. Like the C2-00, it's based on S40 and supports Easy Swap -- a handy feature that lets users hot swap their SIMs. Additionally, the phone sports a new version of Nokia's web browser that compresses data up to 90 percent, and Nokia Maps for Series 40 -- which provides location search and routing while offline. Amazingly, standby time is rated at a hearty 400 hours, and while the built-in memory is somewhat paltry (10MB), the storage can be expanded up to 32GB. It's expected to be released in Q3 for €77, and will roll out across India, China, the south-east Asian-Pacific region, Eurasia, the middle east, and Africa. The C2-02, a single-SIM variant will debut alongside the more intriguing sibling, but we know you're most interested in the dual-SIM darling, so hop past the break for an extended peek.
      

 

    			Show full PR text  Affordability without compromise in three new Nokia phones 			Published June 21, 2011 			Enjoy a great web and maps experience, use a keypad or a touchscreen, and get the best out of mobile networks 			Singapore - Nokia today added to its device portfolio with the launch of three new affordable phones - the Nokia C2-02, Nokia C2-03 and Nokia C2-06. 			Mary McDowell, the head of Nokia's Mobile Phones business unit, said: "These phones all offer a web, maps and messaging experience second to none in the market. And with the choice of a touch screen or a keypad, we really have made everything available and easy to use in an affordable phone that comes in both Dual or single SIM options." 			Maps and more 			The Nokia C2-03, the third Dual SIM phone Nokia has brought to market in the past month, comes with Nokia's unique Dual SIM capabilities. These include features that allow the user to personalize up to five SIM cards with a dedicated look and feel, and an Easy Swap option that lets users change SIM cards in seconds without having to turn off the phone or remove the battery. The Nokia C2-02 is a single SIM version with a similar feature set, as well as push messaging options and a broad range of IM providers included, and the Nokia C2-06 comes in a range of fresh colors with a clean, smooth finish. 			The phones all ship with new Nokia Maps for Series 40, where local maps and places of interest are pre-installed on the phone. This means users can view maps and plan routes when the phone is in offline mode, thus saving on the costs of downloading maps over the mobile network. 			Internet for all 			All three phones also deliver a great internet browsing experience through the data compression technology of the Nokia Browser, which keeps the costs of surfing low and speeds up page downloads - benefiting both consumers and operators. The browser loads with a localized start page, giving the user instant access to the most relevant content, and is tabbed to give easy access to favorite or previously viewed information. 			"We want the web to be easy to access, fast and affordable for all," continued McDowell. "The technology behind the Nokia Browser means that consumers, especially those new to the mobile internet, can get the information they need quickly, as the Nokia Browser serves up relevant local content - making the whole experience more personal and enjoyable." 			The three phones also pack a stereo FM radio, media player and memory support that can be expanded to a whopping 32 GB, letting users store thousands of photos, videos and music files. 			The estimated retail price of the Nokia C2-02 and C2-03 is approximately EUR 75 (USD 105) and for the Nokia C2-06 it is EUR 80 (USD 112). All of the devices are expected to hit the market in the third quarter of 2011. 
 