

More Info

Nokia announces 808 PureView: Symbian Belle, 4-inch display, 41-megapixel camera!
Nokia 808 PureView impressions, camera showdown with the iPhone 4S and HTC One S
Nokia 808 PureView announced for US, available soon through Amazon at $699 


The Nokia 808 PureView has a 41-megapixel camera sensor. But you knew that. The crystallization of five years of imaging R&D has landed, and the timing couldn't have been better for Nokia. Alongside uncomfortable financial reading, its move to Windows Phone hasn't exactly set the smartphone world alight just yet. It's seemingly established itself as the go-to WinPho choice for American customers thanks to some aggressive pricing, but with news that the next iteration of Windows Phone won't come to the Lumia 900, many will hold out for Nokia's next handset. Whatever that device will be, it's likely to bring the same PureView technology we've got here on the Nokia 808 PureView -- a Symbian-based handset whose software has seen better days. However, OS be damned, it still blew away attendees at this year's Mobile World Congress. Impressive stuff, given that it's the same show where HTC's admirable One series debuted.


That huge sensor is paired with a new five-element Carl Zeiss lens and a refreshed flash with double the strength of the one on the Nokia N8 -- the existing cameraphone champ. But behind the technical bullet points, it's how Nokia maximizes the 41-megapixel sensor, oversampling with those pixels to create improved 5-, 8- , 3- and 2-megapixel images, reducing noise and improving low-light performance. However, when it comes to software, Symbian Belle (with Feature Pack 1 in tow) lags behind the likes of Android, iOS and Windows Phone in user experience and app provision. Similarly, the chunky handset flies in the opposite direction of the trend for slim smartphones. Is that camera module really all Nokia thinks (and hopes) it is? What's more, is Symbian relevant enough for such future-facing goodness? Let's find out.




Hardware
While the 808 PureView forgoes the N8's metal casing, we can't think of a phone that has a more solid-feeling plastic shell than this. It feels so hardy that if we were to accidentally drop it, the pavement below us might come off worse. Fortunately, the rough matte finish has great purchase in the hand, and the same coating runs across the edge of the phone -- precisely where you'll be grabbing the device while taking photos. That substantial build means the phone's profile tops out at 18mm thick, narrowing to a more acceptable 14mm.

There are two reasons the 808 PureView measures nearly twice as thick as other recent smartphones. First, that sensor needs the extra space, as does the Carl Zeiss lens. Secondly, given the camera-centric gravitas of the whole device, a curvier profile better lends itself to photography. Despite its top-heavy appearance, the weight distribution feels balanced, if slightly biased towards the lens end.

All told, it is, indeed, as bulky as it looks, weighing in at 169g (six ounces) and making a good case for those plastic build materials. The back of the phone wraps around to meet the Gorilla Glass-protected screen, while a plastic strip cuts across the lower half of the battery cover. It gave us something to grip with our fingernails, but could have stood to be a little more substantial. Removing said battery cover will give you access to a swappable (but surprisingly small) 1,400mAh battery, as well as micro-SIM and microSD slots. Fortunately, there's already 16GB of storage built in, but you can expand this to 32GB with a card.


Other connectivity options include a micro-USB port for charging and data transfer, and a mini-HDMI socket behind a covered door on the phone's top side. That uppermost edge houses both of these and the headphone socket, while the left side is left bare. On the right, the volume rocker and two-stage camera button match the chrome finish on the camera unit, with a phone lock switch making a welcome return. The camera button is a core part of this device, and we're glad to report that it's satisfyingly tactile -- even through Nokia's official case, which cocoons the camera phone in flexible plastic.

Across the bottom of the screen, the typical trio of Symbian buttons are on display: a green dialer button, central home button and red disconnect button. They're all collected into a single strip, which will look familiar to anyone who's seen past Symbian hardware or even the Lumia 710. Above the screen, you'll find the earpiece, light sensor and front-facing camera. The phone's loudspeaker is on the base of the phone, to the right of the lens, which is flanked by the Xenon flash on the other side. The camera itself has a mechanical shutter, which you'll notice when you start taking those solipsistic 41-megapixel self-portraits.

ScreenNokia continues to use Gorilla Glass on its devices, this time even coating the camera lens with the stuff -- a wise decision. This protection extends across all four inches of the AMOLED screen as well. Unfortunately, the resolution hasn't moved on from the N8, with the same 640 x 360 pixel count now stretched further, which translates to a creaky 184 ppi. It really puts the brakes on enjoying all those pin-sharp images and high-definition video, although the gallery's responsive pinch-to-zoom interface does side-step this a little. It would have been nice to see these pictures on double, if not quadruple the number of pixels, and the screen remains a curious juxtaposition with the high-end camera.

Oddly, while you're able to adjust brightness in settings, the light sensor will continue to adjust the output of the screen -- something we'd prefer to be in control of. At full brightness, the screen seems to take on a subtle bluish-purple tint. One pleasant surprise is the screen's performance outdoors. The Lumia 900 offered a similarly stand-out experience, and again, it seems a sensible development for Nokia's first PureView device -- you'll be wanting to take photos outside, and you'll want to see them immediately. Nokia's ClearBlack screen gave us colors that were predictably realistic and contrast was superb, despite the dearth of pixels.

Camera
Forget the awkward industrial design. Ignore the frustrating mess that is Belle. Take one picture with Nokia's 808 PureView and all will be forgiven. We dare you. It's difficult to relay exactly how thoroughly awesome this camera is and how stupendously phenomenal the resulting shots are. This device instantly obliterates every other cameraphone, while simultaneously giving most dedicated point-and-shoots the proverbial finger. It's that good. So what's the special sauce? How is this possible? Welcome to the world of software photography, where lenses and motors and hardware are replaced with algorithms and code and wizardry.



 As you'd expect, it all starts with a nice sensor. There's been a lot of brouhaha about the 41-megapixel camera aboard the 808 PureView, and rightfully so. Image quality isn't about the number of pixels as much as it is about pixel size. On the one hand, 41 megapixels seems like overkill -- on the other hand, it's what makes the PureView technology possible. Consider this: at 1.4 microns this sensor's pixel size is identical to that of the iPhone 4S. This means that pixel for pixel, this shooter matches the competition -- it just uses five times more pixels per image than an 8-megapixel camera. At 1/1.2 inches (10.82 x 7.52mm), the 808's sensor is physically massive, larger even than the 1/1.7-inch array in Canon's S95 high-end point-and-shoot. Of course, this is all meaningless without a proper lens. Here, the 808 PureView delivers again with an autofocus prime lens made by Carl Zeiss that features five aspherical glass elements (in one group) and a mechanical shutter. The aperture is fixed at f/2.4 but the lens includes a selectable neutral density filter. Unlike most of the competition, the 808 incorporates both a xenon flash for stills and an LED light for video (the latter also being used to assist with autofocus). A dedicated two-stage shutter key rounds out the camera hardware -- we expect any cameraphone worth its salt to have one. This particular button is decent, but the second detent feels a little mushier and harder to press than we'd like. Some of HTC's handsets (like the EVO 3D, myTouch 4G Slide and EVO 4G LTE) have keys offering better tactile feedback. Now let's talk about Nokia's PureView technology. What's the big deal, anyway? How does it work? Let's begin with that 41-megapixel sensor. Capturing this many pixels enables a software trick known as pixel oversampling. Since a final 8- or 5-megapixel photo usually contains enough detail for printing and is easier to store and transmit, it's possible to use those 41 megapixels to zoom in or stabilize the image without resorting to interpolation and losing information. By combining many pixels to create a single higher-quality pixel, oversampling also removes Bayer pattern problems and reduces noise. Better yet, all this applies to video recording. The net result is crisper stills and videos, with less noise and more detail.