
 

Barnes & Noble is celebrating Black Friday with a white border. The bookstore chain is offering up a limited edition of its excellent Nook Simple Touch reader this Friday, November 25th. Slight aesthetic differences aside, the real news here is the price -- the company is knocking $20 off the already low-cost device, making it the same as Amazon's ad-supported, touchscreen-free fourth gen Kindle. The $79 deal will only last one day, so get 'em while the e-ink is hot. Press info after the jump.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Barnes & Noble Announces Black Friday Megadeals on Hottest Holiday Gifts 			NEW YORK-November 23, 2011-- Barnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS), the leading retailer of content, digital media and educational products, announced today the best Black Friday deals on the season's hottest reading and entertainment products. Among Barnes & Noble's breakthrough offers, on Friday, November 25 – for one day only – customers will be able purchase a limited edition version of the award-winning NOOK Simple Touch, The World's #1 Rated Reader, for the amazing low price of only $79. Sold only at Barnes & Noble bookstores on Black Friday while supplies last, this exclusive model features a stylish white border. 			NOOK Simple Touch is the world's best reader at the world's best value – normally at the low price of $99 without distracting ads – and a must-have this holiday season for anyone who loves to read. With its latest software update, NOOK Simple Touch now has the most advanced E® Ink display with lightning-fast page turns – 25 percent faster than any other E Ink product on the market. And Barnes & Noble has extended NOOK Simple Touch's best-in-class battery life even further for its customers who love to read for long stretches – up to two months, with an hour of reading a day, all on a single charge. At NOOK Digital Shops™, customers will also be able to experience the incredibly popular NOOK Color™ at a new low price of only $199, as well as the NOOK Tablet™, the company's fastest, lightest tablet with the best entertainment displayed in stunning VividView™, for just $249. 			In addition to NOOK products, customers should shop early to take advantage of this year's exciting Barnes & Noble Black Friday specials available in stores and online at Barnes & Noble.com, including: 			NOOK Accessories: Enjoy discounts of up to 44 percent online and in stores on NOOK must-haves, including a free Clear Screen Film Kit with purchase of a NOOK Color or NOOK Tablet Power Kit for $24.95, and a free NOOK Simple Touch Power Adapter with purchase of a Lyra Light for $14.95.			Toys & Games: An incredible 50 percent off of any one item in stores from the world's best selection of Educational Toys and Games, and select items online. Customers can choose from LEGO, LeapFrog, Melissa & Doug, and many more. This offer is exclusively available on Friday, November 25.			Top-selling Books: 50 percent off select popular titles online and in stores, including George R. R. Martin's Game of Thrones Deluxe Edition, John Grisham's The Litigators, Lee Child's The Affair, David Baldacci's Zero Day, Todd Burpo's Heaven is for Real Deluxe Edition, Annie Leibovitz's Pilgrimage, Peter A. David's The Spiderman Vault, and The Art Museum Book, among others.			Kids & Teens Books: 50 percent of select titles online and in stores, including the bestselling series Maze Runner, by James Dashner, and The Mortal Instruments, by Cassandra Clare, as well as popular picture books such as Dr. Seuss' The Bippolo Seed, Eric Carle's The Artist Who Painted a Blue Horse, and Maurice Sendak's Bumble-Ardy. Also available is Tom Angleberger's popular Origami Yoda Book series for young readers.			DVD and Blu-ray: 40-50 percent off select DVD and Blu-ray bestsellers and new releases in stores. 			Additional offers, available to customers online and in stores, include: 			A coupon for 30 percent off one item to shop online from Wednesday, November 23, to Sunday, November 27, or redeemable in stores from Friday, November 25, to Sunday, November 27.			A free $10 Barnes & Noble gift card with every $100 gift card purchase. 
 