
 


	After all of our tablet stories, the first question people ask is "But will it run Vogue?" Fortunately for all of you who are desperate to strike a pose and let your bodies move to the music, it won't be long now. Condé Nast is bringing 17 of 18 titles to Nook Tablet, the only omission being Vogue; which is coming in early 2012. Until then, you'll be able to enjoy the rest of the publisher's stable including Glamour, GQ, Teen Vogue and The New Yorker from the end of November. You can purchase individual issues or an annual subscription, print subscribers will get the digital edition free of charge and anyone who does pay will get a fortnight's trial. The only downside to the trial is that it's significantly shorter than the three months offered by the same publisher on the Kindle Fire. There's plenty more details after the break, where we've got a press release all waiting for a closeup.
 

 		Show full PR text  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: CONDÉ NAST TO DELIVER ALL EIGHTEEN TITLES ON NOOK TABLET  New York, NY, November 14, 2011 – Bob Sauerberg, President of Condé Nast, announced today that eighteen Condé Nast titles would soon be available on Barnes & Noble's NOOK Tablet and NOOK ColorTM. Seventeen of those titles will appear by the end of November, with Vogue joining the fold in early 2012. Titles will be available for both single copy and monthly subscription purchase. Current print subscribers will be able to access their magazine's digital edition free of charge, while new monthly subscribers will enjoy a free 14-day trial. Monthly digital subscriptions on NOOK Tablet will remain consistent with those offered on other tablet devices. 		"We're excited about the launch of the NOOK tablet and being able to extend our relationship with Barnes & Noble," said Mr. Sauerberg. "We know readers will love having another great way to engage with our iconic brands." 		Titles available at launch are: Allure, Architectural Digest, Bon Appétit, Brides, Condé Nast Traveler, Details, Glamour, Golf Digest, Golf World, GQ, Lucky, Self, Teen Vogue, The New Yorker, Vanity Fair, W, and Wired. 		Condé Nast is home to some of the world's most celebrated media brands. In the United States, Condé Nast publishes 18 consumer magazines, four business-to-business publications, 27 websites, and more than 40 apps for mobile and tablet devices, all of which define excellence in their categories. The company also owns Fairchild Fashion Media (FFM), whose portfolio of brands serves as the leading source of news and analysis for the global fashion community. Condé Nast has won more National Magazine Awards over the past ten years than all of its competitors combined. 		Follow us on Twitter @CondeNastCorp
 