
  

Novatel's just announced its North American-friendly MiFi 2372 router with GPRS / EDGE / UMTS / HSPA. The Mifi 2372 will offer 7.2Mbps HSDPA sharing for up to five connections via WiFi. If you recall, the European, 900/1900/2100MHz version launched back in June, so we're happy to see it make its way to our shores at long last. The 2372 also boasts a GPS receiver and microSD card slot, and while there's no word on pricing or definite date of availability, we can assume it'll be offered on subsidy from AT&T and Rogers, and we hope that happens soon. The full PR is after the break.

 
          
 
 
 Novatel Wireless Announces MiFi 2372 Intelligent Mobile Hotspot Optimized for North American HSPA Broadband NetworksGlobal HSPA Edition Brings Intelligent Mobile Hotspot Capability to Virtually Anywhere in the WorldSAN DIEGO, Jul 28, 2009 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Novatel Wireless, Inc. (Nasdaq:NVTL), a provider of wireless broadband access solutions, today unveiled the MiFi 2372 HSPA, the newest version of its Intelligent Mobile Hotspot developed for use virtually anywhere in the world, with multi-mode operation, including HSPA, UMTS, EDGE and GPRS.The MiFi line of Intelligent Mobile Hotspots drives a new vision for personal broadband connectivity. The MiFi 2372 HSPA advances this even further by enabling not only access to connected devices, but also mobile access to new services, applications management and personalization: • Broadened Service Delivery. Like other models in the MiFi line of Intelligent Mobile Hotspots, the MiFi 2372 creates a personal cloud of high-speed Internet connectivity that can be easily shared between multiple users and Wi-Fi devices such as laptops, cameras, gaming devices, smartphones and portable multimedia players. With data speeds of up to 7.2 Mbps downlink and 5.76 Mbps uplink, the MiFi 2372 enables users to access high-speed Internet from anywhere there is a cellular connection, including moving vehicles where multiple passengers may need Internet access. The MiFi 2372 also comes with Novatel's proprietary NovaSpeed technology, enhancing performance of video, online gaming, simultaneous uploads and downloads and large file transfers with minimal interruption or buffering. • Mobile Software Platform. The MiFi 2372 has a powerful on-board applications processor capable of delivering rich software applications and media. The combination of internal (ROM) storage, up to 16GB of expandable microSD memory and on-board GPS capabilities make MiFi 2372 a flexible and robust platform capable of running a variety of location-based applications and enabling the storage of personal content such as music, video and pictures. • Open Developer's Community. Novatel has taken the first step in enabling developers to leverage the embedded processing capabilities of MiFi by opening the software interfaces to the developer community. Developers can download the MiFi applications programming interfaces and programmer guide from the Novatel Developer's Lounge at www.novatelwireless.com/lounge. • Flexibility for Enterprise and Consumer Uses. The MiFi 2372 provides a flexible platform to address the evolution of mobile broadband for both enterprise and consumers. The MiFi 2372 enables IT managers to extend and enhance mobile workforce solutions and better secure, control and manage broadband connections, together with the ability to host vertical applications. Consumers can enjoy a vastly improved user experience, turn a Wi-Fi device into a mobile Internet device, and personalize cloud computing applications to seamlessly engage with the content they desire.Operators launching MiFi have already experienced incremental revenue streams for mobile data by extending mobile capability to traditionally fixed Wi-Fi enabled devices."We are very pleased to announce the continued evolution of the MiFi Intelligent Mobile Hotspot product line," said Peter Leparulo, chairman and CEO of Novatel Wireless. "The availability of the MiFi 2372 HSPA will significantly expand the addressable market for MiFi technology, as well as offering users unrivaled high speed access to multiple devices virtually anywhere they go around the globe."

       

 