
 


	Today marks a momentous occasion for Novatel Wireless, because shipments of its MiFi Intelligent Mobile Hotspot have now surpassed the 3 million mark. The company confirmed the milestone in an announcement yesterday, and took a moment to look back on how far their router has come since it was first introduced in 2009. Since then, Novatel has launched its family of MiFi devices with 25 operators across the world and is looking to build upon its record. For now, though, just grab a bottle of bubbly and join the PR party, after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Novatel Wireless Celebrates Shipment of its Three Millionth MiFi Intelligent		Mobile Hotspot 		SAN DIEGO 足 October 31, 2011 足 Novatel Wireless, Inc. (Nasdaq: NVTL), a		leading provider of wireless broadband access solutions, today announced		that shipments of its MiFi速 Intelligent Mobile Hotspot have surpassed three		million devices since product introduction in 2009. 		"Three years ago we introduced the MiFi Intelligent Mobile Hotspot and		revolutionized the way people access the Internet, from anywhere, anytime,"		says Peter Leparulo, CEO of Novatel Wireless. "The MiFi system architecture		brought a new user-experience to mobile broadband consumers, with one click		connect and no software to install. It also allows carriers to reach a		wider, more diverse subscriber base with innovative service opportunities.		We are very pleased to have achieved this milestone 足 illustrating our		significant market and product leadership for mobile hotspots." 		Novatel Wireless invented and launched the MiFi Intelligent Mobile Hotspot		in 2009 and pioneered and created a whole new product category in the		wireless ecosystem. Novatel Wireless owns significant intellectual property		and holds numerous U.S. and international key patents and patent		applications around core elements of the MiFi Intelligent Mobile Hotspot		family of products. 		Since its introduction, Novatel Wireless has commercially launched its MiFi		devices with 25 operators worldwide and has received major industry		accolades for innovation. 		"We will continue to focus on the value that the MiFi experience brings to		users. With the world becoming increasingly connected, there is opportunity		to improve the way we interact with our wireless devices and our connected		experience," says Rob Hadley, CMO of Novatel Wireless. "We are very proud of		the support for our MiFi family of products and will continue to focus on		innovation that has made the brand what it is today." 		Novatel Wireless currently holds 35 issued or allowed U.S. patents and 37		filed U.S. patent applications, some of which it holds or has filed for in		additional patent jurisdictions as well.
 