
 

So, Japan... want a new mobile device? How about 24? This grandiose announcement comes straight from NTT DoCoMo, which commonly lays its cards on the table for the delight of consumers. Among the selection you'll find eight new Gingerbread phones, six incredibly high-res shooters (ranging between 12.2 and 16.3 megapixels), eight waterproof handsets, and one embedded with Swarovski crystals. We're particularly thrilled to see the mighty Galaxy S II, 3D-capturing Aquos SH-12C, 700-nit Optimus Bright (contrastingly-named but nearly identical to the Optimus Black), ultra-slim MEDIAS WP N-06C, and mobile payment-enabled Xperia Acro. Oh, and don't forget about the LOOX F-07C -- a multi-talented handset that's running Symbian and Windows 7 Home Premium -- while two LTE-enabled WiFi routers are sneaking into DoCoMo's party, too. That's a lot to absorb, so check out the source for individual release timeframes, which begin now and continue through August -- or just check out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  NTT DOCOMO Unveils 24 New Mobile Devices - Including biggest and most diverse lineup of smartphones 		TOKYO, JAPAN, May 16, 2011 --- NTT DOCOMO, INC. announced today its 2011 summer lineup of 24 new mobile devices for launch on or after May 20, including nine smartphones, the largest and most diverse collection of smartphones ever released by DOCOMO, plus a wide variety of feature phones compatible with DOCOMO's i-mode™ mobile Internet platform, as well as mobile Wi-Fi® routers for DOCOMO's Xi™ (read "Crossy") LTE extra-high-speed service. 		The smartphone lineup offers user-friendly features for tethering, mobile-wallet (Osaifu-Keitai™) and infrared-based data exchange, plus downlink speeds up to a theoretical maximum of 14 Mbps starting from early June. The lineup also boasts the world's first wirelessly chargeable smartphone. All Android™ smartphones, including the globally popular Xperia™ and GALAXY models, are preinstalled with Android 2.3. 		DOCOMO's new lineup meets a broad range of needs for mobile users in Japan: 		* Numerous i-mode services and technologies available for smartphones, including Area Mail™ disaster information service, i-channel™ push-based information service and Melody Call™ ringback tones. 		* Smartphones offering enhanced convenience and operability thanks to the new "docomo Palette UI" feature for easy sorting, searching and management of apps.		Eleven high-spec, i-mode-compatible feature phones equipped variously with 3D screens for dynamic viewing, HD-quality cameras and much more. 		* The i-motion™ video-clip distribution service for FOMA™ 3G feature phones now offers 50 MB capacity for both long and high-definition video. Batch downloads of various content are possible with DOCOMO's new "content package" service. 		* Two mobile Wi-Fi routers compatible with DOCOMO's Xi-brand LTE service, offering fiber-optic-level mobile connectivity for wireless devices. LTE service will include Japan's six largest urban metropolises by July and other large cities including prefectural capitals by March 2012.
 