
 When Mr. Fujitsu was designing the Arrows V F-04E for NTT DoCoMo's winter lineup, he probably wrote "ALL THE FEATURES" and knocked-off early. That might explain the pile of tech nestled beneath that 4.7-inch, 1,280 x 720 display -- including 64GB Storage, a 13.1-megapixel camera, NFC, 2,420mAh battery and a fingerprint scanner. The Tegra 3-powered handset also comes with Fujitsu's Human Centric Engine, which, like all J-Phones, promises a few quasi sci-fi features like calibrating the display to be comfortable for your age. It's also water-and-dust resistant and you'll be able to watch 1-Seg broadcasts while on the Bullet Train -- the perfect combination to make westerners feel jealous.



  Show full PR text    ujitsu Introduces High-Spec Smartphone, "docomo with series ARROWS V F-04E"  Quad-core processing power and large-capacity on-board memory make this Fujitsu smartphone an exceptional platform on which to enjoy entertainment content

   Tokyo, November 26, 2012 - Fujitsu today announced the "docomo with series ARROWS V F-04E," a new smartphone available from NTT DOCOMO retail locations in Japan starting November 28, 2012.

   The new ARROWS V F-04E smartphone boasts a high-speed 1.5GHz(1) quad-core processor, support for NTT DOCOMO's "Xi" ("crossy") high-speed communications network, and 64Gb of on-board memory to enable smooth, seamless operations even when the phone is loaded with a variety of entertainment content. This high-performance model spotlights a robust lineup of high-spec smartphone features from Fujitsu, including a top-class 2,420mAh battery, a high-performance 13.1 megapixel camera, an advanced "human-centric engine," and a smart fingerprint sensor.  Background

   Support for data-intensive rich content services for smartphones, such high-definition video and next generation games, has seen a rapid expansion within the marketplace. Enabling users to freely enjoy these types of rich content, however, requires ever faster CPU speeds and larger memory capacity. In order to meet these needs, Fujitsu developed the ARROWS V F-04E high-spec smartphone, which enables smooth, high speed operation through the addition of a quad-core CPU and support for docomo LTE's "Xi" network, and also features high-capacity on-board memory, which provides ample storage for videos, music, and games. The ARROWS V F-04E will be available in three different colors: White, Black, and Magenta.  Product Features

   High-performance NVIDIA® Tegra 3® Quad-Core CPU  The ARROWS V F-04E features a cutting edge high-performance NVIDIA Tegra 3 quad-core CPU. The new handset also incorporates a 12-core NVIDIA® GeForce® graphics processing unit (GPU), allowing users to fully enjoy high-resolution games that incorporate CG graphics. Furthermore, by employing 4-PLUS-1™, an architecture that works to execute tasks requiring very low power with a fifth core in the quad-core CPU, the system achieves both high processing speeds and low power consumption.  64GB of high-capacity on-board ROM(2)  The new handset features large storage capacity, allowing users to enjoy a wide variety of content on the go, such as applications, music, and high-quality video, without concerns of exhausting the smartphone's memory. For example, the handset is capable of storing up to 50,000 high-quality images taken with the phone's 13.1 megapixel camera (assuming a 1MB file size), and can also save up to 11 hours of full HD recorded video (assuming a 10Mbps file size)(3).  2,420mAh High-capacity battery and "NX!eco" application  The new handset features a 2,420mAh battery, which is the largest in its class for smartphones. Furthermore, by utilizing the included NX!eco application, which can integrate and configure separate power-saving settings, users can fully enjoy video content without worrying about battery life.  4.7 inch HD super clear display  The ARROWS V F-04E is equipped with a high resolution 1,280 x 720 pixel HD display. By eliminating the layer of air between the LCD and the touch panel, the display reduces the amount of reflection and dispersion created by ambient light, meaning the handset can display clear, vivid colors both inside and outdoors.  High resolution image processing engine  Fujitsu's new smartphone features cutting-edge high-definition technology that achieves natural and beautiful high-quality imaging. This technology enables users to enjoy all kinds of images, from 1-seg broadcasts to still pictures in a gallery, reproduced with colors and textures that capture a sense of reality.  DLNA® connectivity (with support for DTCP-IP)  The ARROWS V F-04E can connect wirelessly to DLNA-compliant Blue-ray disk recorders and other devices, enabling users to enjoy recorded terrestrial digital broadcast programs(4) in HD resolution by streaming content from anywhere within a home. The phone can also dub recorded programs wirelessly, allowing users to enjoy content on the go. Fujitsu's smartphone also features all-new support for SKY Perfect! premium service HD broadcasts.  High-performance 13.1 megapixel camera  The ARROWS V F-04E's high-performance 13.1 megapixel camera has received a functional overhaul aimed at achieving clearer, more user-friendly photography. The system automatically performs optimal color tuning, enabling users to capture beautiful pictures even when relying on "point-and-shoot" style photography. Operability has been further improved with the addition of advanced zoom adjustment through "pinch-in" and "pinch-out" controls.  Furthermore, the camera features a start-up time and photograph interval of approximately 0.5 seconds(5). Thanks to this high-speed response, users are able to photograph the images they wish to capture at the precise instant, without letting the moment escape. The smartphone's camera also supports a variety of useful functions, such as HDR synthesis found in many digital cameras, aimed at providing users an even more enjoyable photography experience.  Human Centric Engine  The new smartphone comes with an updated and improved version of the Fujitsu Human Centric Engine technology, which delivers optimal usability through cutting-edge sensing technology. In addition, the handset is equipped with newly added features such as "Awaseru View," which adjusts the display's color based on the user's age, and a support feature that enables worry-free operations by preventing mistaken input from inadvertent touches when a user's fingers accidentally touch the edge of the screen.  Smart fingerprint sensor  With the built-in smart fingerprint sensor, the phone's security lock can be released by simply placing the finger of a pre-registered user on the sensor. The new sensor contains a switch that can turn the phone's screen on and off, making the process of turning on the screen and releasing the phone's security lock easier than ever. Moreover, the new sensor delivers even greater convenience when employed in combination with the phone's built-in security features, such as privacy mode and a password manager.  Full-spec capabilities  Fujitsu's ARROWS V F-04E is a high-spec smartphone, featuring a wide range of advanced functions such as the ATOK® high-performance Japanese input system, IPX5/8 water resistance and IP5X dust resistance(6), infrared communications, NFC (equipped with FeliCat), Osaifu-Keitai®, 1-seg broadcast reception, and Bluetooth4.0.

 
