
 
You're probably thinking "chi" or "zee," right? Nope: NTT DoCoMo has laid down the law in its press release touting the LTE service it'll be launching later this year, and it turns out that "Xi" -- in this case, anyway -- is pronounced "crossy." Of course, ultimately, they can call it whatever they like -- it's the service itself that matters, and to that end, we can expect downlink speeds up to a positively blistering 75Mbps, rolling out first in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya in December followed by "other major cities and then additional areas of the nation." DoCoMo's accounting for handoffs, too, so you won't be dropped (theoretically) when you move between Xi and FOMA areas. 75Mbps seems a bit optimistic for a first-phase LTE launch, but hey, we're pulling for 'em. Pricing and hardware will be announced later; in the meantime, you can follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textNTT DOCOMO Announces "Xi" LTE Service BrandProducts & ServicesTOKYO, JAPAN, July 29, 2010 --- NTT DOCOMO, INC. today unveiled the brand name and logo of its forthcoming LTE next-generation mobile service for the Japanese market, which is scheduled to launch in December. The brand name is written Xi™ and read "crossy." The logo is shown below.Xi™The "X" denotes both "connection" and "infinite possibility," and the "i" both "individual user" and "innovation." The logo, which resembles the infinity symbol, aligns the letters in a single stream to embody the bonds that organically link people, goods and information, and lead to new innovation.DOCOMO's Xi LTE service will offer downlinks of up to 75 Mbps, approximately 10 times faster than the company's current FOMA™ 3G service. Initially, Xi will be available in the Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka areas, but coverage eventually will be expanded to other major cities and then additional areas of the nation. Xi users will be seamlessly handed over to the FOMA network whenever they leave a Xi service area.Xi handsets, billing plans and other details will be announced later.About NTT DOCOMONTT DOCOMO is the world's leading mobile operator and provider of advanced mobile services. The company serves over 56 million customers in Japan, including 49 million using i-mode™, the world's most popular mobile e-mail/Internet platform, and 54 million using FOMA™, the world's original 3G mobile service based on W-CDMA. As a leader in the development of cutting-edge mobile technologies, DOCOMO is continually expanding the role of mobile phones as versatile and highly personalized "lifestyle tools" for everyday life, including with a wide range of innovative services for mobile payments, GPS, mobile TV, multimedia content and much more. NTT DOCOMO is listed on the Tokyo (9437), London (NDCM) and New York (DCM) stock exchanges. For more information, visit www.nttdocomo.com.Xi, FOMA and i-mode are trademarks or registered trademarks of NTT DOCOMO, INC. in Japan and/or other countries.FOMA service is only available in Japan.At launch, Xi will offer downlinks of up to 75 Mbps indoors in selected buildings and 37.5 Mbps in other areas.
 