
 
 Back at this year's eventful CES, Nuance announced it was launching a platform to bring voice recognition services to connected TVs, among other devices. Now, just a few months later, the communications outfit's taking credit for the voice features packed inside Sammy's 2012 Smart TVs. Essentially, this means those speaking commands used to control the Smart Hub, applications like Skype and even web surfing are all powered by Nuance's Dragon technology. The move itself isn't a surprising one, given Nuance's credibility within the industry. So, now you know who's making it all happen the next time you're telling that ES8000 what to do.



  Show full PR text   "Hi TV"- Nuance's Voice Recognition Technology Powers Samsung's Voice Control for Samsung Smart TVs, including Smart Hub, Samsung Apps, Web Search, Skype and More
   BURLINGTON, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Nuance Communications Inc. (NASDAQ: NUAN) today announced that the innovative voice capabilities featured as part of Samsung's 2012 premium Smart TV line are powered by Nuance's unique Dragon voice technology. By working with Nuance to integrate tailored voice control capabilities, Samsung can provide consumers with greater choice and convenience in how they control their home entertainment experience.

   As part of a shared vision for a natural, intuitive digital living room experience, Samsung's Smart TVs take full advantage of Nuance's voice technologies optimized for TV platforms. Consumers can use natural voice commands to change channels, search for content on the Web, access Samsung's Smart Hub, and connect with friends and family via Skype. They can even turn on the TV by simply saying "Hi TV, power on."

   "The power and simplicity of voice integration as part of a TV interface is clear the moment you sit back and speak to your TV," said Michael Thompson, senior vice president and general manager, Nuance Mobile. "Working together, Nuance and Samsung are demonstrating how voice truly transforms the digital living room experience."

   Nuance's voice technologies complement the evolving digital TV experience that Samsung is pioneering with its 2012 lineup of Smart TVs featuring Voice Control as a part of its Smart Interaction offerings. By providing consumers with the ability to control basic TV functions via simple voice commands, Nuance's technology helps Samsung Smart TVs deliver a seamless and smarter way for consumers to control their TV. The partnership between Nuance and Samsung underscores the commitment both companies strive toward, to provide consumers with the ultimate "lean-back" experience.

   Availability

   For more details on Samsung's Smart TV lineup and availability visit http://www.samsung.com/us/2012-smart-tv/.

 
