
 
 For better or worse, your options are plentiful when it comes to palm-sized speakers aimed at improving the audio of your gizmos. While many simply tout Bluetooth or USB connectivity, NuForce is hoping to shake things up a bit with its new Cube. This micro-speaker isn't wireless, but it's got the unique ability to also function as a headphone amp and USB DAC -- all in a footprint of 38.5 x 58.5 x 60.0mm (2.30 x 2.30 x 2.36 inches). Aside from giving you multiple ways to add more kick to your tunes, the Cube packs a rechargeable battery that'll last for up to eight hours. Sadly, however, it doesn't appear like you'll be able to daisy chain units together for a tiny stereo rig. On brighter notes, you'll have a choice of silver, red, blue or black, and an iPod Nano adapter is available to make it pretty much the smallest dock we've seen. It'll cost you a spendy $119 to get the Cube within your ears' vicinity, and you'll find more details in the press release below



  Show full PR text   NuForce Introduces its All-In-One  Mobile Audio Center
  NuForce releases Cube: a portable speaker, headphone amp, and audiophile-grade USB DAC with extraordinary sound   Milpitas, Calif. – May 29, 2012 – NuForce, Inc., a leader in professional and consumer audio solutions, today announces the release of its Cube mobile speaker. At a compact and sturdy 2 inches tall, the NuForce Cube is the perfect "triple threat" for music lovers on the go – a great-sounding portable speaker, headphone amplifier, and USB Digital Audio Converter (DAC) all in one.   "I've never been satisfied with the sound of other portable speakers on the market," said Jason Lim, CEO of NuForce. "So we made it our mission to create one that not only sounded great, but looked great. Plus, we equipped it with an audiophile-grade DAC and headphone amp. After months of R&D and critical listening, we think Cube provides the clarity, power and detail in a portable speaker that our customers have been asking for."   A unique, 3-in-1 portable audio speaker that packs a punch:   Speaker: You can hear NuForce's experience in high-end audio electronics--along with a very high-quality speaker driver--in Cube's superior sound, which blows cheap plastic, low-quality portable speakers out of the water. With the Cube, listeners no longer have to sacrifice great sound for portability. Despite its small 2" cube frame, the Cube offers audio detail, depth and dimension other portable speakers simply aren't designed to deliver. You'll hear the character of your favorite singer's voice, the clarity and fine details of the musical instruments, the squeaky floor in a horror movie, or the subtle rumbling of the race car engine.   USB DAC: The Cube's USB digital-to-analog converter (DAC) accepts digital music directly from the computer and bypasses the computer's on-board DAC, which are often low-quality and result in compromised sound, to offer a major improvement over the sound quality.   Headphone Amp: The Cube's finely optimized amplifier circuit takes the audio to a new level, providing plenty of power to drive even the most power-hungry set of "cans". It helps ensure that the headphones provide all the clarity, detail and power they're designed to deliver.   Cube with optional iPod nano adapter  The NuForce Cube is available now for $119 from NuForce's online store and NuForce resellers.   Product Specs:
  Battery: Rechargeable Lithium Battery  Operation Time: 8 hours  Dimension: 58.5mm x 58.5mm x 60.0mm  Watts: 3W  Available Colors: Black, Silver, Red, Blue  Included Accessories: 3.5mm stereo cable 0.6M, USB Cable 0.7M, soft carrying pouch
 
