
 Many a DJ's first footsteps into the craft has started with a box labeled 'Numark.' At This year's Winter NAMM the prolific firm has updated three of its existing controllers, and added a new hand-held wireless line -- called Orbit -- into (ahem) the mix. First up for the refresh treatment is the sequel to the iDJ Live iPad DJ controller -- the iDJ Live II (of course). What's new? Well this time around there's USB connectivity, which opens the functionality to a much broader range of software. The design has also been revised, with the platters most notably being much lower profile. Controls-wise, it's still back to basics with the essentials covered (EQ, crossfader etc), but the lack of onboard audio interface means you're still relying on an audio splitter for cueing. If you need a little more control, or a dedicated audio interface, the second revision on the list -- the Mixtrack Pro II -- might be more up your street. Head past the break to read more.



 Once again the design has been given a makeover, plus there's 16 drum pads, hot cues, back-lit platters and all the usual effects -- there's also Serato DJ Intro software bundled in to get you going. The Mixtrack Pro II will cost $299 when it launches sometime this month. Last of the existing hardware revisions goes to Numark's popular motorized-platter controller the NS7, with the NS7 II. This is aimed at those DJs who like to trick their sets out a little bit, and this is made all the easier by the inclusion of 16 MPC-style pads, borrowed from the sister brand Akai's famous sample player line. The pads also have MIDI-assignable RGB backlights, letting you get creative with the color-scheme. The 3,600 'tick' resolution, plus slipmats definitely make this the digital-turntablist's choice (if that's a thing) from the new recruits.

 Last, and possibly most interestingly, is the entirely new Orbit controller. This -- so claims Numark -- is the world's first wireless handheld DJ controller. The game-controller-esque design evidently hopes to bridge the gap between DJing and performance. The low-latency 2.5GHz wireless will bring the artist closer to the audience, for sure, but if you're a little more traditional, or like a longer, power heavy performance, you can still cable-up. There's four selectable banks of 16 pads (eight either side) plus four virtual knobs and a control wheel for adjusting parameters in real time. If that's all a little vanilla, there's also a two-axis accelerometer which can be set to control two different parameters (fader frequency or volume, for example) which is activated by shoulder buttons -- ideal for those extra-active performers -- and reminiscent of controllers we've seen before. For more info head over to the PRs, or check our ongoing NAMM coverage for hands-ons as we find things.

  Show full PR text   NUMARK INTRODUCES iDJ LIVE II
   iDJ Live II offers expanded mixing capability and an all-new design.

   Cumberland, R.I. (January 24, 2013) – Numark, the world's leading manufacturer of DJ technology, announces iDJ Live II, a new mobile DJ controller that offers versatile control over a wide variety of computer-based and mobile DJ platforms. Numark will unveil iDJ Live II at Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show, January 24-27 in Anaheim, California.

   An updated and enhanced version of Numark's iDJ Live controller, iDJ Live II features an updated low-profile design and USB connectivity, allowing it to perform with both laptop-based and mobile DJ platforms. iDJ Live II features a standard layout of DJ controls, including a crossfader, EQ knobs, and capacitive touch-activated platters. The design of iDJ Live II has also been slimmed down with redesigned platters that are now illuminated and low-profile. A headphone/speaker splitter cable is also included.

   "iDJ Live II enhances and builds upon our original vision for iDJ Live-give anyone and everyone real DJing capability in a compact, comprehensive, and fun package," said Chris Roman, Numark Product Manager.

   Numark will display and demo iDJ Live II at Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show.

   Show full PR text   NUMARK UPDATES AND IMPROVES THE WORLD'S #1 DJ CONTROLLER 
  Mixtrack Pro II unveiled at NAMM 2013 and available in stores immediately 
   Cumberland, R.I. (January 24, 2013) – Numark, the world's leading manufacturer of DJ technology, announces Mixtrack Pro II, an enhanced and updated version of Mixtrack Pro, the world's best-selling DJ controller. Numark will exhibit Mixtrack Pro II at Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show, January 24-27 in Anaheim, California.

   Mixtrack Pro II features a new streamlined design and a new expanded layout of professional controls, including 16 backlit multifunction drum pads and illuminated touch-activated platters. Hot cues, looping, and effects controls are all onboard, along with a built-in professional DJ audio interface. Building upon Numark's longstanding partnership with Serato®, Mixtrack Pro II comes with Serato DJ Intro. DJs can also easily use Mixtrack Pro II with most popular DJ software, and it also comes pre-mapped for an optional upgrade to Serato DJ, the latest state-of-the-art professional software from Serato. Serato DJ includes a wide range of all-new features and capabilities, including stunning new effects powered by iZotope®, ultra-flexible and intuitive MIDI mapping, and the ability to set and trigger up to eight cue points.

   "When we first released Mixtrack Pro, there was nothing else like it-it set the bar and gave DJs and aspiring DJs everywhere truly professional capabilities," said Chris Roman, Numark Product Manager. "Mixtrack Pro II is the next step of that evolution-the bar just got even higher."

   Numark will also be showing Mixtrack II, an all-new version of Mixtrack, which shares all of the same professional updates received by Mixtrack Pro II.

   Mixtrack Pro II will be available in stores in January 2013 with an estimated street price of $299.

   Show full PR text   NUMARK ONCE AGAIN DEMOLISHES THE BOUNDARIES OF DJING WITH THE INTRODUCTION OF NS7 II
  Incorporating exclusive technology from Akai Professional, NS7 II offers DJs the most responsive control surface ever created with virtually every inch filled with advanced touch-sensitive controls.
   Cumberland, R.I. (January 24, 2013) – Numark, the world's leading manufacturer of DJ technology, announces NS7 II, a dramatically enhanced and updated version of the industry's most advanced and best-selling motorized DJ controller, NS7. NS7 II features four channels, 16 backlit RGB velocity-sensitive MPC® pads from Akai Professional, expanded effects controls-including a full array of capacitive touch-activated knobs and filters-and the most comprehensive integration for Serato DJ available. Numark will exhibit and demo NS7 II for the first time at Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show, January 24-27 in Anaheim, California.

   For more than 20 years, Numark has set the pace in the world of digital DJing, empowering DJs with cutting-edge technology that has continually advanced the art form. In 2007, Numark and Serato® released NS7, a controller that blends different eras of DJing so completely it makes them virtually indistinguishable from each other. Since then, the powerful experience offered by NS7 has defined the top tier of DJ performance, setting the standard by which all other controllers are judged.

   Now, with NS7 II, Numark is pushing the modern DJ's performance capability even further, incorporating iconic technology from Akai Professional, the world leader in music production technology and creator of the legendary MPC. NS7 II's 16 MPC pads can be instantly assigned to control five dynamic performance features in Serato DJ: Cues, Loop, Roll, Sampler, and Slicer. In addition, each pad features RGB illumination, allowing for a virtually endless amount of color variations assignable via MIDI. Vinyl platter control has never felt more familiar with its high- and low-torque motorized platters with real slip mats and real vinyl sitting on 3,600 ticks of resolution. NS7 II's four-channel mixer works with or without a computer and includes a full array of external device inputs. Capacitive touch-activated filter, gain, EQ, and effects knobs are other features incorporated from Akai Professional, which turn the knobs themselves into control surfaces. DJs can use them for instant-on parameter control, blending effects, and instant frequency kills. "NS7 II is an interactive playground," said Chris Roman, Numark Product Manager. "It's built to squeeze every ounce of capability out of Serato DJ and push your creative limits. It's born to perform and to empower DJs with maximum live-performance creative capability."

   NS7 II will be unveiled at Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show on January 24th.

   Show full PR text   NUMARK INTRODUCES THE WORLD'S FIRST WIRELESS HANDHELD DJ CONTROLLER
  Orbit offers DJs unprecedented wireless control with 16 backlit pads, large aluminum control wheel, built-in 2-axis accelerometer, belt clip, and 8 hours of personality on a single charge. 
   Cumberland, R.I. (January 24, 2013) – Numark, the world's leading manufacturer of DJ technology, introduces Orbit, a first-of-its-kind wireless handheld DJ performance controller. Numark will unveil Orbit at and around Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show, January 24-27 in Anaheim, California.

   Numark's Orbit is the next step in the evolution of the performing DJ. Made to be held in the hands, strapped to your body using its built-in clip, or placed on the table, Orbit packs an unheard-of amount of control into an ergonomic game-controller-on-steroids design, which has every inch, inside and out, tailor-made for live performance. Orbit can be used wired via the included USB cable, which also charges it, or wireless using 2.4 GHz ultra-low-latency connectivity. Orbit features 4 selectable banks of 16 backlit pads, 8 on each side, for adding and blending effects, launching hot cues and samples, and more. Located in the center of Orbit are 4 bank selection buttons, 4 virtual knobs, and a large aluminum-faced touch-sensitive control wheel, which controls the selected virtual knob for instantly tweaking effects and filters.

   "If you want to be a serious DJ these days, you need the guts and the gear to get out on the stage and perform," said Chris Roman, Numark Product Manager. "Orbit embraces that reality to its core, empowering DJs with performance capabilities that will need to be seen and experienced to be believed. It's intuitive, operating like an extension of the DJ-not to mention it's the most fun you'll ever have on stage."

   Orbit's live-performance design extends even to the inside of the device, where it has an embedded 2-axis accelerometer, which can be assigned to 2 different parameters per bank and activated instantly via 2 shoulder buttons. All of Orbit's controls are fully mappable, so DJs will be able to customize their settings for effects control, transport control, volume control, or any other MIDI parameter. Numark will demonstrate Orbit for the first time at Booth 6700 at the 2013 NAMM show.

 
