
 
Prior to heading across town to his own press event, ASUS' CEO (Jerry Shen) managed to show up donning a face-engulfing set of 3D glasses at NVIDIA's shindig in downtown Taipei. Aside from congratulating NVIDIA on its successes in the 3D category, the bigwig also took time to announce a trio of new PCs. Described as "3D PCs" -- an all new designation which ensures that computers include a pair of 3D active-shutter glasses, a 120Hz 3D-capable display and a discrete graphics processor -- the company is hitting just about every computer segment save for the ultraportable, netbook and tablet PC. But for the worrywarts out there, we feel pretty safe in saying that a 3D slate is somewhere on NVIDIA's workbench. 

Kicking things off was the ASUS G51Jx-EE, a 3D-ready laptop that cuts out the IR emitter and relies on NVIDIA's 3D Vision active shutter glasses. Secondly, the Eee Top ET2400 provides similar capabilities on an all-in-one desktop (you know, for bedroom movie watchers). Finally, the CD5390 tower was hailed as the "world's most powerful gaming solution," equipped with a GeForce GTX 480 GPU and out-of-the-box support for a trio of 3D LCDs. Sadly, no further details on any of these rigs were shared, but we're hoping to hear more during ASUS' own presser.

Update: We've learned that the Eee Top ET2400 will roll with USB 3.0 support and a 23.6-inch LCD, but the other machines are still shrouded in mystery. We'll be scraping the show floor to find out what we can. 






Show full PR text3D PCs Deliver 3D Entertainment to the HomeNVIDIA and Leading PC Manufacturers Let You Enjoy 3D Games, Photos, Videos and Movies in the Comfort of Your HomeTAIPEI, TAIWAN, May 31, 2010 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) -- COMPUTEX 2010 -- 3D is hot. With recent movie box office bonanzas such as Avatar, Alice in Wonderland, and Clash of the Titans, it's clear that consumers are embracing the new immersive experience that 3D movies have to offer. With the proliferation of 3D content, ranging from videos, to photos, to interactive gaming, consumers are left with the tricky proposition of how to bring that 3D experience home. There may be some who are interested in the experience that a 3D television might bring, but another more intriguing and ultimately more flexible solution, is a new category of PC called the "3D PC," which is being debuted at Computex this week by NVIDIA and an ecosystem of 3D partners, including Alienware, ASUS, Dell, Microsoft, Toshiba and others.By definition, a 3D PC is a desktop or notebook PC that meets the following minimum requirements:-- Includes a pair of 3D active-shutter glasses (like the 3D Vision kitfrom NVIDIA), the only solution to provide full resolution 3D to eacheye.-- A 120Hz 3D-capable display in the form of a desktop LCD monitor, a 3Dprojector, a 3D TV, or a notebook PC with an integrated 3D-capableLCD.-- A discrete graphics processor (like a GeForce(R) GPU from NVIDIA)that is capable of delivering high definition imagery to the 3DdisplaySo what does this mean for the consumer?Well, we are at the beginning of a 3D entertainment revolution with 3D being introduced in numerous forms of visual entertainment. From Hollywood movies, to live 3D sporting broadcasts, to games, and photos, the content is already here for consumers to enjoy today. And a 3D PC is the easiest way for consumers to enjoy rich 3D experiences in the home.To help consumers make the right decision when evaluating a new PC purchase, many OEM and system builder Web sites will now feature a new category called "3D PC," from which consumers can select the right platform for the right budget. For consumers wishing to upgrade their existing PC, worldwide e-tailers and retailers will now feature branded 3D PC components, so consumers will know they are suitable for building a PC capable of running 3D content.So what exactly can you do with a 3D PC?You can play games. NVIDIA for example, has been working closely with game developers and today there are more than 425 PC games that work beautifully with NVIDIA 3D Vision technology, the industry's only complete, consumer 3D PC solution.You can view and edit 3D photos. Camera manufacturers such as Fujifilm and Sony are bringing 3D digital consumer cameras to market so you can take and view 3D photos on the new 3D PC.You can view the Web in 3D. NVIDIA has been working with Adobe and Microsoft to enable live streaming of 3D video, which looks fantastic. Sites like YouTube already have over 1,000 3D videos available for streaming and these libraries will only continue to grow. In addition, the recent Masters golf tournament, which was the first major sporting event to stream live 3D over the Internet, shows the immense potential for this new way of consuming 3D content.You can watch Blu-ray 3D movies. Working with partners like CyberLink, who produce the world's leading software players for the PC, consumers can watch the latest Hollywood 3D blockbusters, in the privacy of their own home -- accelerated by the GPU, and without the sticky floors.Kicking off at Computex this week, many major 3D PC partners are showcasing their new 3D desktops, notebooks, all-in-one PCs, displays, and the latest 3D content, including games, movies, and photos. NVIDIA is leading the way with its 3D Experience Center housed in a 1400 square meter tent. Inside will be the largest collection of 3D PC technologies ever seen.Quotes:-- "ASUS has a strong track record of pioneering new categories of PCs,as we did with the netbook," said Jerry Shen, CEO of ASUS. "Now ASUSis very bullish on developing the 3D PC category by shippingnotebooks, desktops and an all-in-one PC equipped with NVIDIA 3DVision. We believe that all entertainment-based PCs will become 3Dcapable within a few years."-- "People wondering where the cool 3D content is, need to look nofurther than a 3D PC," said Hidehito Murato, Chief Marketing Executiveat Toshiba. "We embrace the advent of 3D Vision-based notebooks whichallows users to go 3D 'on the go'. This is by far, one of the mostcaptivating technologies ever introduced on the PC and has uses forpractically every type of digital entertainment. The era of 3D is uponus!"-- "The 3D PC will accelerate the development of stereoscopic 3D as itbrings a wealth of 3D content -- games, movies, photos and theinternet -- into the 3D ecosystem," said Eisuke Tsuyuzaki, ChiefTechnology Officer, Panasonic Corporation of North America. "Now withthe HDMI 1.4 standard, 3D PC content can be easily enjoyed onlarge-screen plasma Full HD 3D TVs, whose fast refresh rates and deepblack levels make for a more immersive and magical gaming experience."
 