
 
NVIDIA has just announced that the GTX 480M, the mobile re-spin of its extravagantly overpowered Fermi desktop parts, will be arriving in the middle of next month. Touted as the world's fastest mobile graphics processor, this chip will bring 352 CUDA cores and a 256-bit memory interface to up to 2GB of GDDR5 RAM. These are clear and convincing advances over the incumbent Green Team leader, the 360M, but things start to look a little worrying when we check the 480M's clock speeds. The processor speed is nearly halved from the desktop GTX 480, at 850MHz, the memory does only 1,200MHz, and the graphics run at 425MHz -- we didn't know anything worthwhile even operated below 500MHz these days. Either way, you're getting a computing powerhouse, with the 480M's 897 gigaflops comfortably dwarfing its predecessor's 413 and promising almighty tessellation performance. What it all means with regard to keeping your frame rates up while traversing the Terminus Systems, we can't yet say. We'll let the benchmarking gurus figure it out -- go past the break for the full press release and spec sheet.
      

 

Show full PR text05/25/2010: New GeForce GTX 480M: the World's Fastest Notebook GPUToday we introduced the new GeForce GTX 480M GPU for Notebooks and with it we're achieving some very impressive milestones. First, this is DirectX 11 done right for notebooks. Tessellation is the most important new feature for the DirectX 11 API, and the GeForce GTX 480M is a true tessellation monster for the notebook platform. It offers a dedicated Tessellation engine for up to 5x more performance than any other GPU.Second, with the power of the GeForce GTX 480M GPUs, notebook manufacturers can set new records for notebook performance. Put simply: If a notebook maker wants to build the fastest possible system on the planet, they will start with GeForce GTX 480M as its foundation.Third, we've now brought the vaunted Fermi architecture to notebooks. GeForce GTX 480M delivers nearly three times more NVIDIA CUDA cores over previous generation Notebook GPUs, which means users get unbelievably fast video transcoding, upscaling from standard definition to high definition and real-time movie clean-up with the click of a button.And finally, the GeForce GTX 480M not only delivers the world's best gaming frame rates, it also gives added features that no other GPU offers, including NVIDIA 3D Vision technology for an immersive gaming experience, NVIDIA PhysX technology that brings games to life with dynamic, interactive environments and NVIDIA Verde Notebook Drivers for the most up-to-date performance from your notebook.We're happy to partner with Clevo to introduce the first system based on GeForce GTX 480M. Stay tuned for more systems in the future.
 