
 No one can accuse Maingear of skipping the latest hardware cycles -- less than a month after offering PCs with NVIDIA GeForce GTX 650 and 660 graphics, the PC system builder has announced that you can get all its desktop machines with GTX 650 Ti graphics now, too. As it happens, NVIDIA has just launched that very product -- a friskier version of the GTX 650 with extra Cuda cores -- keeping Maingear in lockstep with its graphics board suppliers again. That card will fill the gap between the $229 GeForce GTX 660 and $109 GTX 650 cards and run $149 (estimated), while Maingear has said it will feature special F131 and Potenza GTX 650 Ti systems at $150 off, along with a free copy of Assassin's Creed III. So, if you need all the fps you can get, but can't quite pony up for the more desirable GTX 660, check the PR for more details.



  Show full PR text   MAINGEAR ARMS ALL DESKTOPS WITH THE NEW NVIDIA GEFORCE GTX 650 TI GRAPHICS
  Kenilworth, New Jersey – October 9, 2012 - MAINGEAR, an award-winning PC system builder offering custom desktops, notebooks, workstations is one of the first to add the new NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 650 Ti graphics solution that offers game-changing performance and lifelike experience in today's most demanding PC game titles at massively affordable price points.   The new Geforce GTX 650 Ti offers an entry point to the GeForce GTX family of high-performance graphics cards. With full DirectX 11 support that blows away older DirectX 10 card's performance by up to 8x*, PC gamers will experience stunning graphics in 1080P HD brilliance. The NVIDIA GeForce turbocharged Ti performance is also 40% faster than the standard GeForce GTX 650GPU.**   NVIDIA's GeForce GTX 650 Ti , as well as the complete GeForce GTX family is offered on all MAINGEAR custom desktops. MAINGEAR is introducing two special priced edition F131 and Potenza class systems with the 650 Ti which will offer the perfect gaming PC in its class with up to $150 off and will bundle the highly anticipated PC Game Assassin Creed III for free. For more information on these limited edition systems, please visit www.maingear.com/650ti   "MAINGEAR shows once again that they "get it", by showcasing the entire fantastic line-up of GeForce GTX GPUs," said Scott Herkelman, general manager of the GeForce Business Unit at NVIDIA. "A GeForce GTX 650 Ti equipped MAINGEAR will deliver amazing gaming at a remarkable price, courtesy of the revolutionary next-gen NVIDIA® Kepler™ architecture for stunning graphics."

   "We know our customers want the best bang for their buck but don't want to sacrifice performance, the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 650 Ti is perfect entry level card to get great performance at an affordable price," said Wallace Santos, CEO and Founder of MAINGEAR.

   All of MAINGEAR products are supported with lifetime labor and phone support with one to three year hardware warranties. For more information about MAINGEAR's desktops with the new NVIDIA GeForce GTX 650 family of graphics, go to www.maingear.com/650ti

   About MAINGEAR  MAINGEAR is an innovative high performance PC system builder that offers custom desktops, laptops and workstations. Each system is hand crafted for precision performance and uncompromised quality, and has won multiple Editors' Choice awards from publications such as Hot Hardware, PC World, Maximum PC, Computer Shopper and more. With a passion to build the best high performance computers, MAINGEAR will continue to set the standard among system builders. MAINGEAR's expert team custom builds and supports all products in the United States. For more information visit: http://www.maingear.com/

   Show full PR text   NVIDIA Introduces Turbocharged GeForce GTX 650 Ti In Time For Autumn's Hottest Games   Starting at £119, Kepler Architecture-based GPU Offers Awesome Performance for Call of Duty: Black Ops II, Assassin's Creed III, Mech Warrior Online, Hawken and more  SANTA CLARA, Calif.-Oct. 9, 2012-NVIDIA is giving gamers another powerful reason to upgrade their rigs in advance of a bounty of soon-to-be-released, cutting-edge games, with today's introduction of the NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 650 Ti GPU, priced starting at £119.   To get a jump on this autumn's hotly anticipated gaming season, selected authorized Add-in Card Suppliers (1) will be offering a copy of Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed III with selected models of GeForce GTX 650 Ti, sure to be one of this year's most sought after action titles for the PC.   The NVIDIA Kepler™ architecture is the foundation for all GeForce GTX GPUs and has redefined graphics for desktop and notebook PCs by combining revolutionary performance and gaming technology features with an amazing power-efficient design. Ranging in price from £89 for the GTX 650 to £839 for the GTX 690, GeForce GTX GPUs have helped usher in this year's PC gaming renaissance. In keeping with the promise of a "titanium" edition, the GTX 650 Ti delivers turbocharged performance at the remarkable starting price of £119.   Like its predecessors, the GeForce GTX 650 Ti is a phenomenal upgrade opportunity for gamers using previous-generation technology. Compared to the GeForce 9600 GT, for example, the new GTX 650 Ti delivers more than five times the performance-even with all the DX11 and eye-candy features turned on.(2) The dramatic visual differences and full support for 1080p gaming completely change the way games look and feel, providing an immersive gaming experience only available with GeForce GTX GPUs.   The NVIDIA GeForce GTX 650 Ti is available now from the world's leading add-in card suppliers, including ASUS, EVGA, Gainward, KFA2 (Galaxy), Gigabyte, Inno3D, MSI, Palit, PNY, Point of View, and Zotac.

 
