
Even before hitting store shelves, NVIDIA's Shield is shedding $50 from its original $350 asking price -- the little Android portable gaming console will cost $300 when it arrives at retail on June 27th. NVIDIA revealed both the new, lower price and release date today in a blog post which cited gamers asking for a lower price as the reason for the change. "We've heard from thousands of gamers that if the price was $299, we'd have a home run," the post reads. As such, the company's aiming for "a home run" with the new price point -- despite $300 being $50 more than a new PlayStation Vita, and just $100 short of a new PlayStation 4.


Folks who pre-ordered aren't out of luck, they'll just be charged $300 when their unit ships rather than $350. As for where you can pick a Shield up outside of NVIDIA's official website ... well, we're waiting on word from the company on supported retailers. We've dropped the video of our hands-on with the final Shield just below, should you wish to relive those memories with us.


Update: NVIDIA tells us that Newegg, GameStop, Micro Center and Canada Computers will all have Shield on the 27th.



Show full PR textSHIELD Gets Final Touch Before Its Release – a Better PriceA new kind of open gaming device needs a new kind of development process.Rather than being secretive about SHIELD and what it can do, we decided to bring gamers in on the conspiracy, announcing our plan to bring a portable gaming device with console-class controls and a high-def 5-inch screen to market in January at the Consumer Electronics Show.Most of all, we wanted this device to be open and provide the best possible experience-whether you're playing Android or PC games, or enjoying your favorite movies, music, and other apps on the go.Since then, we've put SHIELD in the hands of thousands of gamers. Some have been professional press. Others have been inside our own company. But most have been people like the tens of thousands who streamed through our booth at PAX East and E3.And their reactions have been more than just positive.They've helped us build a better product. Feedback from gamers is why SHIELD's triggers have the perfect throw length. Why SHIELD's buttons have just the right amount of give. Why SHIELD's thumb sticks are so satisfying to flick. Why playing games on SHIELD's pure Android software feels so slick.The result: while SHIELD isn't available until June 27th – we're making that official today – it's already grabbed awards by the fistful – including dozens of 'Best of Show' awards at CES, Computex and E3.Now it's time for one more change.We've heard from thousands of gamers that if the price was $299, we'd have a home run.So we're changing the price of SHIELD to $299.If you've already pre-ordered SHIELD, you'll be charged the new, lower price. You will only be charged $299 when the product ships.We want to get SHIELD into the hands of as many gamers as possible.That's because we think they'll have the same reaction to it as thousands of gamers already have: joy.


