
NVIDIA has been gradually lowering the base pricing for its desktop GeForce 700 series, but few outside of the hardcore gamer set would say the $399 GTX 770 was affordable. Enter the GeForce GTX 760: the Kepler-based chipset supports all the visual effects of its faster cousins, but at a more palatable $249 target price. Although it won't rival the 770 in performance, it offers more bang for the buck than the GTX 660 it's built to replace: the GTX 760 carries more processing cores (1,152 versus 960) and more memory bandwidth (192GB/s versus 144GB/s) while maintaining similar clock speeds. It can even punch above its weight class, as it's reportedly up to 12 percent faster than the $299 GTX 660 Ti. Should that balance of price and performance sound especially sweet, you can pick up a GTX 760 board today from the likes of ASUS, EVGA, Gigabyte and others. Several PC builders, such as Falcon Northwest, Maingear and Origin PC, are also equipping their machines with the new mid-tier graphics from day one.



Show full PR textNew NVIDIA GeForce GTX 760 GPU Delivers Amazing Gaming Performance For Only $249
Tuesday, June 25, 2013
NVIDIA today launched the new NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX™ 760 GPU, which offers amazing PC gaming performance, smooth frame rates and exclusive GeForce GTX features for only $249.Designed to deliver extreme frame rates for all of this year's hottest PC games, including Call of Duty: Ghosts, Watch Dogs and Battlefield 4, the GeForce GTX 760 GPU is the new weapon of choice for experiencing high-definition gaming. And, powered by an NVIDIA Kepler™ architecture-based GPU with an incredible 2.3 gigaflops of processing horsepower, the GeForce GTX 760 is already dramatically more powerful than the next-generation game consoles expected by the end of the year.
"For gamers seeking insanely fast performance and smooth frame rates for their favorite games, the choice is clear: NVIDIA GeForce GTX GPUs," said Scott Herkelman, general manager of the GeForce GPU business at NVIDIA. "At a starting price of only $249, the GeForce GTX 760 ushers in a new level of performance, features and affordability, so gamers can experience today's most graphically demanding titles with all the eye candy turned high. It's a great time to be a PC gamer!"
To satisfy gamer demands for greater customization and overclocking options, the GeForce GTX 760 includes NVIDIA GPU Boost™ 2.0 technology, which automatically increases the GPU's clock speed for enhanced performance, while adding temperature target and fan controls, as well as extra over-voltage headroom and optimizations for advanced water-cooling solutions.
The GeForce GTX 760 also supports NVIDIA's latest array of gaming technologies, including the NVIDIA PhysX® physics engine and NVIDIA TXAA™ anti-aliasing. Plus, it includes the new NVIDIA GeForce Experience™ software, which delivers the industry's best drivers for smooth gaming, advanced features like NVIDIA ShadowPlay™ software(1) and optimal playable settings with the convenience of single-click operation to gamers everywhere. And for those gamers who demand the very best, NVIDIA SLI® technology -- the industry's preeminent multi-GPU solution -- scales to deliver even higher levels of performance.
In addition to these new features, the GeForce GTX 760 represents a tremendous performance upgrade over prior GeForce GPUs. It is three-times faster than the still-popular(2) GeForce GTX 275 GPU and twice as fast as the GeForce GTX 560 GPU, making for a significantly superior gameplay experience with support for all of the latest gaming technologies.
Availability and Pricing
NVIDIA GeForce GTX 760 GPU is available now from the world's leading add-in card suppliers, including ASUS, Colorful, EVGA, Gainward, Galaxy, Gigabyte, Innovision 3D, MSI, Palit, PNY and Zotac. Partner participation will vary by region. Pricing is expected to start at $249.
It will also be sold in fully configured systems from leading U.S.-based system builders, including AVADirect, Cyberpower, Digital Storm, Falcon Northwest, Geekbox, IBUYPOWER, Maingear, Origin PC, Puget Systems, V3 Gaming and Velocity Micro, as well as other system integrators outside North America.

