
 

Nyko may be hitting Sin City's premier electronics trade show with a Yo Gabba Gabba! alarm clock in tow, but the outfit's PS Vita and Kindle Fire accessories are just a hair more enticing. First up is a Vita flavored follow up to Nyko's line of portable gaming battery packs, the PS Vita Power Grip. This $25 rechargeable battery pack promises to triple the battery life of your pocket PlayStation, and tacks on a pair of ergonomic controller grips, to boot. The outfit is also launching an accessory rich "Armor Kit" for the new handheld, an iPod-like speaker stand and a slew of assorted accessories ranging from USB chargers to game card holders.

Kindle Fire owners will be happy to hear that their lightweight tablet is getting hit with the same assortment of accessories, including a speaker stand, an assortment of charging accessories and even its very own battery life-extending Power Case. You'll find the full press release after the break -- in case you really need to know more about that Yo Gabba Gabba! clock radio / charging dock.





 		Show full PR text  Nyko and Yo Gabba Gabba! Team Up For CES 2012 Show Floor Debut		Licensed video game accessories from Nyko join new PS Vita, Kindle Fire and console peripherals 		LAS VEGAS – January 10, 2011 – Nyko Technologies®, the leading videogame peripherals manufacturer, today unveiled its full lineup of new products at the Consumer Electronics Show 2012 in Las Vegas. For the first time ever, Nyko will debut licensed accessories featuring characters from the wildly popular Yo Gabba Gabba! series. New peripherals for the forthcoming PS Vita and the Kindle Fire as well as Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 will be on display for exclusive hands-on demo. New accessories include: 		Muno Time		Charge your favorite portable devices (iPod®, iPhone®, Nintendo 3DS™, Nintendo DS™) in this Clock/Radio/Alarm charging dock. Powered speakers let you listen to music from your device or wake up to built-in Yo Gabba Gabba! songs. Animated arms and speakers bring Muno to life.		Summer 2012 Price TBD 		Hip Pack		A soft carry case designed to hold all portables including 3DS, Vita, iPod and more, the Hip Pack features a customizable Brobee design – make Brobee smile or frown! The Hip Pack includes a screen cleaning cloth, an adjustable waist strap and also features a special storage pocket for games, cables, and headphones.		Summer 2012 Price TBD 		Power Grip for PS Vita		A rechargeable battery pack gives players three times the battery life so they can enjoy the longest of road trips. The Power Grip also provides an elongated, controller-like grip that is ergonomically designed. The device snaps over the back of the Vita while allowing easy accessibility to all buttons and the rear touch panel.		Available at Vita Launch - $24.99 		Power Armor Kit for PS Vita		It features 5 accessories to charge, protect and clean your new PS Vita. The Starter Kit features a hard armor case to keep your system safe, plus an AC charger, a car charger, a USB Cable to transfer files and a cleaning cloth. This bundle has everything you need for PS Vita, all in one place!		Available at Vita Launch - $29.99 		Speaker Stand for PS Vita		The Power Stand for PS Vita is a powered speaker that doubles as a charging dock. The stereo sound makes it perfect for movies and music, while the line-in jack accommodates iPods and other devices. Its sleek aesthetic matches the Vita, which snaps securely onto the dock. This curvaceous stand is the perfect way to charge your handheld overnight.		Available at Vita Launch - $29.99 		Game Case Pro for PS Vita		Slim protective case for PS Vita games and memory cards, it's half the size of standard cases so it's Ideal for travel and gaming on the go. The Game Case Pro holds 10 PS Vita games and 4 memory cards, in a translucent design which allows for easy viewing of game cards.		Available at Vita Launch $4.99 		Power Kit for PS Vita		Keep your Vita juiced up, recharge on the go, and never miss a moment of the action. The Power Kit features a 3-in-1 charging solution, letting you use AC, car or USB. No matter where you are, Power Kit for PS Vita will keep you in the game.		Available at Vita Launch - $19.99 		Power Case for Kindle Fire		Watch movies, read books, play games, and browse the web for longer with the Power Case for Kindle Fire which is an ergonomic grip with a built-in rechargeable battery. Hold the Kindle Fire comfortably while adding to the device's battery life.		Spring 2012 $59.99 		Speaker Stand for Kindle Fire		Turn your new Kindle Fire into a movie theater for home or travel with the Nyko Speaker Stand. Place the Fire in the powered speaker dock for amplified sound. The Speaker Stand holds the Fire at a comfortable viewing angle while keeping the device charged with the included charging cable.		Spring 2012 - $39.99 		Power Kit for Kindle Fire		Keep your Kindle Fire charged and ready wherever you are. Ideal for use at home, in the car, or while traveling.		Spring 2012 $24.99 		Intercooler Stealth for Xbox 360		This item is a matte redesign of Nyko's popular Intercooler STS for the Xbox 360 S. It utilizes Nyko's cutting edge TempSmart™ technology to automatically keep your Xbox 360 S console running at optimal environmental conditions with the Intercooler STS. The Intercooler Stealth is powered by one of the Xbox's USB ports and requires no batteries or AC adapters. The slick "scoop" design blends seamlessly with the design of the Xbox 360 S console and works in both the horizontal and vertical positions.		Spring 2012 - $19.99 		"The Yo Gabba Gabba! license opens up huge potential for creative new accessories, and we're really proud of the Hip Pack and Muno Time. Plus our PS Vita peripherals are a life-saver for portable gamers on the go." said Chris Arbogast, director of marketing at Nyko Technologies. "We've had a great experience at past CES events, and are thrilled to move to the show floor this year."
 