
 
If you took the time to peruse our early review of the Nintendo 3DS, and it sure looks like a lot of you did, you're probably well aware that battery life is a serious concern. We managed just over three hours on a charge, which is really bad for a handheld gaming console. Nyko is the first to offer a solution, the Power Pak+, which actually replaces the stock Nintendo pack, screwing on to the back and offering double the battery life -- which still sadly doesn't approach the longevity of the DS Lite. The company is also releasing a new charging stand that will let you juice up that pack just by setting it down, useful because once you affix this bump the stock charging pad won't work. The Power Pak+ will cost $19.99 and ships on March 27, while the Charge Base is $29.99 and hits stores a week later. It'll be up to you to provide the pants with bigger pockets necessary for the extra bulk added here.





Show full PR textNyko Doubles the Juice with New Charge Base and Power Pak+ for Nintendo® 3DSLOS ANGELES - March 8, 2011Nyko Technologies today announced two new accessories set to debut with the launch of the new Nintendo® 3DS handheld system this March. On launch day Nyko will release the Power Pak+, a high capacity rechargeable battery pack for Nintendo 3DS that offers double the capacity and battery life of the original 3DS battery. One week later Nyko will release the newest Charge Base, designed to store your Nintendo 3DS and make sure it's always fully juiced with easy drop-in charging."Every new console or game system launch is an opportunity for us to find ways to improve the user's experience with the device through innovative technology," said Chris Arbogast, director of marketing, Nyko Technologies. "We are proud to be able to bring our robust knowledge of charging technology to the 3DS user base by providing users the ability to substantially increase their play time."The Nyko Power Pak+ for Nintendo 3DS is a high-capacity rechargeable battery pack that offers double the battery life of the original 3DS battery. The Power Pak+ features debossed finger rests for improved control and comfort. The Power Pak+ will be available March 27 for $19.99.The Nyko Charge Base for Nintendo 3DS is a drop-in charging and storage solution for the new handheld device. Each Charge Base includes a Power Pak+ rechargeable battery pack. The Charge Base features an on/off switch as well as LED indicator lights that let you know when your battery is charging and when it has finished. The Charge Base for Nintendo 3DS will be available shortly after the system's launch for $29.99.Both the Power Pak+ and the Charge Base utilize the standard 3DS AC adaptor for recharging.Connect with Nyko for a chance to win exciting Nyko prizes at @nykotech or on Facebook.About Nyko Technologies, Inc.Nyko Technologies ® develops, manufactures and markets innovative peripherals to enhance the digital lifestyle. The company's mission is to deliver products that solve problems and improve user experience for work and play. Nyko specializes in interactive entertainment, computing, consumer electronics, portable audio, as well as online and wireless technologies. The company has distribution through major U.S. and Canadian retailers, along with distributors worldwide. Founded in 1995, Nyko is headquartered in Los Angeles, Calif. Please visit www.nyko.com or call 1-888-444-6956 for more information.
 