
 

What would CES be without a little video gaming, huh? Thanks to Nyko, we won't ever have to find out (at least in 2009), as it's bringing a smattering of new Nintendo Wii accessories to the desert. Kicking things off right is the simply titled Wand, which is said to be the "world's most advanced alternative to the Wii remote." Aside from doing everything the Wiimote does, the April-bound device also features the firm's Trans-Port technology, which "enables control and vibration feedback to be electrically replicated on a compatible attachment accessory." Up next is the Charge Station EX ($34.99 this April), which improves upon its successor by adding a LED battery indicator and a "new sleek look." Finally, the Kama Charge Kit is an all-in-one charging solution while simultaneously stores and charges both the Wiimote and Kama controllers in one unit. All the fine print is hosted just after the break.
 

 CES 2009: Nyko Technologies Unveils Full CES Product Lineup  The Wand, Charge Station EX and Kama Charge Kit Make Their Debut  LOS ANGELES – Jan. 8, 2009 - The premier video game accessories manufacturer, Nyko Technologies®, today debuted its full lineup of new products at the Consumer Electronics Show 2009 in Las Vegas, Nevada. In addition to the previously announced Metal Pedal™ and Charge Station™ Quad, the following lineup of brand new video game accessories for the Nintendo® Wii™ will be on display for an exclusive hands-on demo:   The Wand™ The Nyko Wand is the world's most advanced alternative to the Wii Remote™ and has been designed from the ground up for superior functionality, comfort, and value. The new controller maintains all of the control functions Wii gamers expect with full motion-sensing capability, pointer functionality, vibration feedback, and a built-in speaker, while offering a variety of new features.   The Wand contains Nyko's all-new Trans-Port™ technology, which enables control and vibration feedback to be electrically replicated on a compatible attachment accessory, providing for faster and more accurate input response. Current attachments made for the Wii Remote can only access buttons through use of mechanical triggers and provide no vibration feedback. One of the many potential uses of Trans-Port technology is a pistol grip that connects to the Wand and electrically replicates key action buttons, providing controls not currently accessible with attachments for the Wii Remote. In addition, enlarged 1 and 2 buttons make the Wand an exceptional choice for classic gaming control when turned sideways, complete with Nyko's signature rubberized battery cover to ensure maximum comfort and grip.  The Wand will be available at select retail stores nationwide in April, 2009.  Charge Station™ EX The Charge Station EX is the latest iteration of North America's best-selling third party video game accessory, the Charge Station™ for Wii. Also a 2-port Wii Remote charging and storage solution, the Charge Station EX adds LED battery level indicators to the front of the device and a new sleek look. Now users will be able to determine not only when a controller is charging but also the charge level of the battery based on the LED indicators.  The Charge Station™ EX will be available at stores nationwide in April, 2009 and will retail for an MSRP of $34.99.  Kama Charge Kit™ The Kama Charge Kit is an all-in-one charging solution for the Wii. The device simultaneously stores and charges both the Wii Remote™ and the Kama controllers in one convenient unit. Included with the Kama Charge Kit is a Kama Wireless Controller, a rechargeable battery pack, and a rubberized battery cover for both the Wii Remote and Kama controllers to allow for seamless drop-in charging.  The Kama Charge Kit will be available at stores nationwide in April, 2009.
 