
 


E3 2011 is upon us, and you know what that means, a heaping helping of new gaming gear from Nyko. Zoom for Kinect is a set of clip-on specs that lets you get 40 percent closer to the sensor bar with no loss of function -- so the studio apartment set can get in on the gesture gaming craze. Nyko's Play Clock is a charging dock for Nintendo's 3DS that doubles as an alarm clock, because you always wanted to turn your 3DS into an alarm clock. Nintendo's new handheld could definitely use some longer battery life, however, so the company's also rolling out three new extended battery packs for the 3DS. There's the Shock n' Rock that brings thrice the juice, "added vibration feedback," and four speakers to your personal gaming party, while the Power Grip is an ergonomic external battery that also triples the 3DS' battery life. Lastly, the Game Boost battery simply snaps on for an extra hour or two of gameplay. Prices and availability remain unsaid, but there's eye candy in the gallery below and PR's after the break.





   		Show full PR text  Nyko Announces New Product Lineup for E3 2011; Kinect Now Apartment-Friendly!		Nyko debuts peripherals for 3DS, Kinect and PS3 at global gaming convention 		LOS ANGELES – June 6, 2011 - Leading gaming peripherals manufacturer Nyko Technologies® today announced their upcoming product line-up to be showcased at the 2011 Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), taking place June 7-9 in Los Angeles. The line-up includes Zoom for Kinect, a bold new peripheral that allows Microsoft's motion-sensing camera to function in smaller environments. Nyko is also introducing a variety of innovative new accessories for the Nintendo 3DS, including new products for charging up, rocking out, and even waking up! Also new this year is a revamped controller dock for PlayStation 3. With a focus on offering real gaming solutions, Nyko continues their tradition of innovation and affordable, high quality design. 		"Nyko has been showing off new products at E3 for a dozen years straight, and we can't wait for players to see the 2011 lineup," said Chris Arbogast, director of marketing at Nyko Technologies. "With 3D and gesture-gaming, this year is all about finding new ways to enjoy video games. We've developed new accessories that bring the fun of gaming to even more players, regardless of long plane trips and cramped living rooms." 		Nyko's E3 2011 product line-up includes: 		• Zoom for Kinect – Specially-designed lenses in a simple clip-on accessory allows Kinect gaming in smaller living rooms and apartments by reducing the distance required for the Kinect to function properly by up to 40%. The Zoom requires no additional power or batteries and is compatible with any Kinect game for both single and multiplayer use.		• Shock n' Rock for 3DS – The ultimate 3DS add-on offers 3x the battery life and 4 powered speakers providing crisp, loud surround sound for any environment. Added vibration feedback gives each and every 3DS game an extra level of immersion while the ergonomic design provides comfort for extended gameplay sessions.		• Game Boost for 3DS – A snap-on backup battery that is lightweight and can be installed quickly, it provides up to an extra 1 – 2 hours worth of juice through the existing battery contacts.		• Play Clock for 3DS – Wake up with your 3DS fully charged every morning with this combination charging dock, alarm clock and powered speaker system. Ideal for storing and charging your 3DS. The built in line-in port allows you to easily hook up any MP3 player or audio device.		• Power Grip for 3DS – This external battery with ergonomic grip offers up to 3x the battery life. The Power Grip does not require players to remove the existing battery while also providing a ergonomic grip for added comfort and stability.		• Charge Base 3 for PS3 – Rapidly charge two PlayStation 3 controllers with this stylish new vertical design of a best-selling item. Nyko's unique, magnetic charging adaptors allow for easy charging, with no ports or cables required.
 