
With Microsoft and Sony making big pushes toward a second screen experience via smartphones and tablets, yet another space is opening up amongst third-party peripheral manufacturers. After all, supplemental information is great and all, but how to access it while gaming? Nyko thinks it's got a solution in the form of the Smart Clip. At first glance, the device looks a fair bit like those bluetooth gaming controls we've already seen en masse. Instead, the add-on clips your phone to your controller so you can, say, check out a map via Smart Glass or the PlayStation App without fumbling for your phone.


We played around with the clip a bit, and while if folds in quite nicely, the prototype still has a ways to go, a gentle jostling knocked the Nyko rep's phone right out. Sorry about that. The rear of the arm has an adjustable device, so you can attach all manner of handsets to your controller. There are also two knobs on the bottom to tighten the arm in place -- nice, as it was a little bit wobbly when we first picked it up. Naturally, Nyko plans to have all the kinks worked out when it launches the Xbox 360, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions later this year for $14.99.




Show full PR textNyko Introduces Next Gen Console Accessories at E3 2013
LOS ANGELES – June 5, 2012 –Nyko Technologies®, the premier gaming peripherals manufacturer, is unveiling their latest products at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). A stalwart exhibitor at the game industry's headline event, Nyko is proud to announce products for the Xbox One™, PlayStation® 4, NVidia® Shield™, Xbox 360®, and Android devices.
"Continuing in our tradition of embracing new platforms within the launch window" said Chris Arbogast, Director of Marketing, Nyko Technologies. "Nyko is leading the way with new products for the second screen console experience as well as unveiling successors to our best-selling Charge Base line which is being redesigned for next-gen consoles"
Nyko's E3 2013 console product line-up includes:
The Smart Clip conveniently holds your smart phone onto your controller allowing for an integrated, hands-free second screen experience. Coming to Xbox 360 followed by editions for Xbox One and PlayStation 4, the Smart Clip will easily hold any generation iPhone, Android, Windows Phone or Blackberry device up to 3.5 inches wide. The Smart Clip is ideal for utilizing the Smart Glass™ or PlayStation App on your phone during gameplay, or looking at walkthroughs, codes, tips and more. The Smart Clip will be released for Xbox 360, Xbox One and PlayStation 4 later this year.
The Charge Base continues Nyko's market leading innovation in the charging category with two new models being announced for Xbox One and PlayStation 4. The next generation Charge Bases will be AC powered and feature dual controller ports, allowing for two controllers to be stored and rapidly charged simultaneously. Each model is custom designed for their respective controllers. The Xbox One edition will come packaged with 2 rechargeable batteries; while the PlayStation 4 model with feature Nyko's patented USB charging dongle system. These designs both allow for easy drop and charge usability. The Charge Base for Xbox One and PlayStation 4 will be released in the launch window of both consoles. Additional information on availability and pricing will be announced later this year. The Headset Adaptor for Xbox One plugs into the HDMI port of the console, and provides stereo RCA audio output for use with most gaming headsets. The HDMI pass-through port provides a high fidelity audio source for your analog audio components, while allowing full 1080p output to the TV. No additional batteries, wall outlet, or software is required to use the Headset Adaptor. Headset Adaptor is compatible with any gaming headset that utilized RCA connectors for in-game audio. The Headset Adaptor will be available this holiday.

