

Now that we know mostly everything about the Xbox One and PlayStation 4, it's about time for peripheral makers to start showcasing their planned gear for these next-gen consoles. As such, Nyko's taken to this year's E3 to announce a few products meant to be used alongside Microsoft and Sony's recently announced entertainment boxes -- there's a Smart Clip, a Charge Base and a Headset Adaptor (Xbox One-only). Meanwhile, Nyko also took the time to unveil a little something for the NVIDIA Shield, including a dock that doubles as a charging station, a couple of sleek traveling cases and a kit which provides power to the unorthodox handheld while on the go or at home. Nyko didn't dive into much of the availability (or pricing) specifics, but the trend seems to be that the add-ons will be available later this year.


Follow all of our E3 2013 coverage at our event hub.



Show full PR textNyko Introduces Next Gen Console Accessories at E3 2013Charging solutions and Second Screen enhancements will be showcased

LOS ANGELES - June 11, 2013 -Nyko Technologies®, the premier gaming peripherals manufacturer, is unveiling their latest products at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). A stalwart exhibitor at the game industry's headline event, Nyko is proud to announce products for the Xbox One™, PlayStation® 4, Xbox 360® and PlayStation® 3.

"Continuing in our tradition of embracing new platforms within the launch window" said Chris Arbogast, Director of Marketing, Nyko Technologies. "Nyko is leading the way with new products for the second screen console experience as well as unveiling successors to our best-selling Charge Base line which is being redesigned for next-gen consoles"

Nyko's E3 2013 console product line-up includes:

The Smart Clip conveniently holds your smart phone onto your controller allowing for an integrated, hands-free second screen experience. Coming to Xbox 360 followed by editions for Xbox One and PlayStation 4, the Smart Clip will easily hold any generation iPhone, Android, Windows Phone or Blackberry device up to 3.5 inches wide. The Smart Clip is ideal for utilizing the Smart Glass™ or PlayStation App on your phone during gameplay, or looking at walkthroughs, codes, tips and more. The Smart Clip will be released for Xbox 360, Xbox One and PlayStation 4 later this year.

The Charge Base continues Nyko's market leading innovation in the charging category with two new models being announced for Xbox One and PlayStation 4. The next generation Charge Bases will be AC powered and feature dual controller ports, allowing for two controllers to be stored and rapidly charged simultaneously. Each model is custom designed for their respective controllers. The Xbox One edition will come packaged with 2 rechargeable batteries; while the PlayStation 4 model will feature Nyko's patented USB charging dongle system. These designs both allow for easy drop and charge usability. The Charge Base for Xbox One and PlayStation 4 will be released in the launch window of both consoles. Additional information on availability and pricing will be announced later this year.

The Headset Adaptor for Xbox One plugs into the HDMI port of the console, and provides stereo RCA audio output for use with most gaming headsets. The HDMI pass-through port provides a high fidelity audio source for your analog audio components, while allowing full 1080p output to the TV. No additional batteries, wall outlet, or software is required to use the Headset Adaptor. Headset Adaptor is compatible with any gaming headset that utilized RCA connectors for in-game audio. The Headset Adaptor will be available this holiday.

Nyko Unveils New Accessories Product Line for NVIDIA SHIELD at E3
LOS ANGELES - June 11, 2013 -Nyko Technologies®, the premier gaming peripherals manufacturer, is unveiling their latest products at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). A stalwart exhibitor at the video game industry's headline event, Nyko is proud to announce a line of charging and video products for use exclusively with the ultimate gaming and entertainment portable, NVIDIA® SHIELD™.

"SHIELD is a unique piece of hardware; it's high performance gaming that meets portable entertainment," said Chris Arbogast, director of marketing, Nyko Technologies. "We are excited to be working with NVIDIA to provide SHIELD gamers unique ways to power, charge and enhance their devices."

Nyko's E3 2013 SHIELD accessory line-up includes:

The SHIELD Dock utilizes Nyko's patented dongle charging system to provide a sleek and easy alternative for powering the device and utilizing its HDMI capabilities. The dongle attaches directly to SHIELD, and works seamlessly with the device. Simply place the unit into the dock and SHIELD will begin to charge while outputting to the attached display. The SHIELD Dock is powered by the same AC adapter that ships with SHIELD, and features a full-sized HDMI port allowing for easy connection to any HDTV screen. Users can also pair a Nyko PlayPad with SHIELD while in the dock to turn the device into an ultra-portable console playing and streaming their favorite Android and PC titles. The SHIELD Dock will be released later this year.

Nyko is also showing two separate cases for SHIELD. The Travel Case is an EVA soft case while the Shell Case is a high-impact hard case. Both cases fully encapsulate SHIELD, providing total protection. Each case is custom fitted to the exact specifications of the device and features a rubberized interior for added protection against bumps and scrapes. A detachable accessory bag is included to store the AC adapter and any necessary cables while traveling. An included carabineer allows the case to be conveniently attached to a laptop bag or backpack. Both the Travel Case and Shell Case will be available this summer.

The Power Kit provides all the necessary adapters and cables to recharge SHIELD at home, while traveling, or in the car. The kit includes one AC adapter, one car adapter and one extra-long Micro USB cable with Velcro strap. The Power Kit is an ideal replacement or secondary bundle for those looking to recharge SHIELD. The Power Kit will be available this summer.

Additional pricing and availability details will be released at a later time.


