
 
Oh, Nyko -- always keeping us on our toes. After showcasing the Wii Pistol Grip at CeBIT, the company is swinging big at E3 with a few new accessories. Starting things off is the abomination you see above, which sure looks an awful lot like some janky knockoff cellphone we peeked back in August. Officially, the Zoom Case for DSi protects your handheld and provides an 8x zoom for magnifying the external camera; never mind the fact that it makes your DSi infinitely less portable. Moving on, there's the Charge Grip Flex, a accessory for the PSP-2000 and PSP-3000 that sports a built-in rechargeable battery and a bonus gripping surface. For the Xbox 360, there's the SpeakerCom 360, which enables your parents to hear all those whining tweens brag in fantastically high tones about how they just "pwned you." Lastly, there's the Type Pad Pro for Wii, a wireless keypad (via USB) that makes typing in Opera or messaging your pals a heck of a lot simpler. Mum's the word on pricing and availability right now, but all that should change soon enough.






NYKO Announces Product Line-up for E3 2009 and Launches the New Nyko.comType Pad Pro, SpeakerCom, Charger Grip, and Zoom Case Unveiled at Show LOS ANGELES – June 2, 2009 – Leading gaming peripherals manufacturer, Nyko Technologies®, today announced the upcoming product line-up to be showcased this week at E3, taking place June 2nd–4th. The line-up includes innovative accessories for Wii™, Nintendo DSi™, Xbox 360®, and PSP®."Nyko has been a participant of E3 for 10 straight years and we're excited to be using the show as the launching pad for our 2009 products," said Chris Arbogast, Director of Marketing at Nyko Technologies. "We have been hard at work developing new patent pending technologies like Trans-Port™ that we feel add a unique gameplay experience that is not available elsewhere."Nyko is exhibiting in the West Hall, booth #4512. Type Pad Pro for Wii The ergonomic wireless keypad for Wii features Nyko's Trans-Port Technology allowing players to control, type, and browse with ease. Nyko's Type Pad Pro cradles either the Nyko Wand or Wii Remote, allowing for pointer functionality while utilizing the full QWERTY Keyboard to chat, type, search and more. The Type Pad Pro communicates with the Wii wirelessly up to 25 feet away using a USB dongle and is fully compatible with applications that utilize keyboard functionality like the Opera® Browser and Wii friend messaging. When used with the Wand Wireless Controller, Trans-Port Technology allows for both the A and B buttons to be replicated directly on the Type Pad Pro for smoother and easier scrolling, zooming and clicking while browsing your favorite web sites. SpeakerCom 360 Xbox 360 gamers can now customize how they communicate over Xbox Live® with SpeakerCom 360, which provides the choice to talk and listen over a loud speaker or through a traditional headset, giving players two communication options in one device. In Headset mode, the SpeakerCom provides a comfortable, stereo, in-ear solution. When switched over to the Loud Speaker mode the self-muting microphone and volume-controlled speaker are activated so everyone in the room can hear and participate via one headset. The patent pending design allows for easy switching between both headset and loud speaker mode. Zoom Case for Nintendo DSi™Nyko's Zoom Case, a protective case with an 8x zoom lens for the DSi, significantly magnifies the handheld's external camera. The Zoom Case wraps around the DSi, protecting it from bumps and scratches while the removable 8x optical zoom lens allows for closer, clearer shots from a greater distance. The zoom lens easily locks onto the Zoom Case, and when not in use can be safely stored in its own hard case for easy travel. The case's textured grip provides a more comfortable hold for extended gameplay sessions.Charge Grip FlexA new level of comfort awaits the PSP 2000 and 3000 series with Nyko's Charge Grip Flex with built-in rechargeable battery. The Charge Grip Flex provides 1.5 times more play time and a more familiar, customizable grip. With a sleek black look that complements the PSP, the Charge Grip Flex features a unique fold-out, lightweight design making it ideal for travel. Please visit the redesigned www.nyko.com to learn about, purchase, share testimonials, and read reviews about Nyko products.To schedule a meeting with Nyko Technologies during E3, please email paula@triplepointpr.com, or stop by Nyko's booth in the West Hall at the Los Angeles Convention Center.About Nyko Technologies, Inc.Nyko Technologies ® develops, manufactures and markets innovative peripherals to enhance the digital lifestyle. The company's mission is to deliver products that solve problems and improve user experience for work and play. Nyko specializes in interactive entertainment, computing, consumer electronics, portable audio, as well as online and wireless technologies. The company has distribution through major U.S. and Canadian retailers, along with distributors worldwide. Founded in 1995, Nyko is headquartered in Los Angeles, Calif. Please go to www.nyko.com or call 1-888-444-6956 for more information.

       

 