
 
 Remember late last year when Recon Instruments introduced its MOD Live Android-enabled heads-up display for the likes of ski goggles?Joining the ranks of other optics makers, Oakley's partnered with the company to seamlessly integrate the unit into its own goggles, dubbed Airwave. It's not just another shell for the system, either, as Oakley will be providing a companion app that'll work with iOS -- which seems to be first official instance as such since Recon itself said it would be coming earlier this year. The MOD Live itself is otherwise the same right-eye positioned system (providing a perceived 14-inch display at five feet away) we've seen for almost a year now, so don't expect to get the clearest picture if you're left eye dominant or use contact lenses for distance. Furthermore, there's still GPS for tracking friends / navigation, and Bluetooth to work with a water-resistant wrist remote that allows you to control your smartphone and the display itself. Of course, this also means Recon's Android SDK will also be workable, as will your Contour camera.

 If you're interested in Oakley's spin on the MOD Live, the Airwave will hit Apple stores on October 31st for $600 in your choice of black with a black Iridium lens, or a white with black graphics and a "fire" colored variant of the lens -- yes, they're interchangeable just like most of Oakley's other specs. If you're curious for further details in the meantime, check out the simulation video and press release after the break. Now, how about those full-on smart glasses to take on Google Glass as the company's CEO mentioned in April? 




 
  Show full PR text   OAKLEY INTRODUCES AIRWAVE GOGGLE WITH HEADS-UP DISPLAY Unrivaled Optics Performance Meets State-of-the-Art Technologies
  FOOTHILL RANCH, Calif., Oct. 31, 2012 – Oakley, Inc. today announced the release of a revolutionary new snow goggle called Airwave. It combines the company's best goggle technologies with a heads-up display developed by Recon Instruments, integrating GPS, Bluetooth®, and more with a host of onboard sensors to bring new possibility to the alpine experience. And for the first time, Oakley's performance optics are available in select Apple® stores and Apple.com.
  "Our icon defines the leading edge of performance innovation, and the new Airwave goggle brings alpine sports into the future with a stunning array of capabilities," said Oakley CEO Colin Baden. "It utilizes cutting-edge electronics to give skiers and riders instant access to a world of information. Airwave represents the power and possibility of technology, and it comes with world-class optical performance, comfort and protection engineered over decades of Oakley innovation."
  With Airwave, alpine sports enthusiasts can access a full range of information transmitted directly to the eye. Snowboarders and skiers can view jump analytics, pinpoint their location on a resort map alongside navigational information, and even locate and track others in their group.* Additional sensor information includes distance traveled, altitude, speed and vertical descent data. Pairing with a smartphone allows immediate viewing of incoming calls and text messages, and music playlists on a Bluetooth-enabled device can be easily accessed and controlled by the glove-friendly wireless remote that can be strapped to the user's body or goggle depending on their preference.**
   Integrated within the goggle, the heads-up display uses innovative prism technology to display information perceived by the wearer to be the size of a 14-inch screen that is five feet away, so refocusing the eye is not necessary.
  Airwave is compatible with both Apple® and Android® operating systems. Low Energy Bluetooth connectivity allows the goggle to interface with the wearer's smartphone, heart rate monitor and more. The Oakley Airwave App, available at http://www.oakley.com/airwave, offers wide-ranging capabilities to reinvent the alpine sport experience and will be upgraded frequently for even more features.
  All these attributes are in addition to Oakley goggle innovations including SwitchlockTM Technology that makes the process of lens changing quick and hassle-free, allowing the wearer to take advantage of the company's wide array of premium performance lens tints that optimize vision for environmental conditions. The heads-up display is designed for an unobtrusive view, and semi-flush lens geometry ensures wide peripheral vision. F3 anti-fog technology is paired with a dual-vented lens design to help keep vision clear. Oakley Plutonite® lens material filters out 100% of all UV, and Iridium® lens coatings balance light transmission.
   Designed for a comfortable fit on medium to large faces, the chassis is made of durable yet lightweight O Matter® that stays comfortably flexible. Oakley's O-Flow Arch technology reduces nasal pressure to maximize airflow for free breathing. Attachment points for the interchangeable strap design, the rigid O Matter outriggers maintain a balanced fit – with or without a helmet – while all-day comfort is ensured by a moisture-wicking triple layer of fleece foam at the area of facial contact.
  "Oakley is dedicated beyond reason to exceed the limits of possibility, and Airwave will let winter sports enthusiasts do the same with technology that offers the ultimate in performance, convenience and capability," Baden concluded.
  A unisex design, the Oakley Airwave goggle will initially be available in two SKUs. The first has Gun Metal / Black coloration and is matched with a Black Iridium® lens engineered for improved contrast in moderate to bright sunshine. The second features a White frame embellished with Factory Text graphics, and its Fire Iridium® lens provides enhanced comfort
  in bright sun. Both lenses improve visual contrast and boost depth perception. Accessory lenses are available in a range of performance tints.
  Oakley Airwave is available for purchase at Oakley Stores and Oakley.com; Apple.com and Apple Stores in North America, Europe and Japan; SunglassHut.com; ReconInstruments.com; and select retail locations including a range of resort destinations.
  Visit Oakley.com to learn about the new Airwave alpine goggle and discover more about the company's performance and lifestyle innovations.
 
