
 We've already seen a few attempts at some premium 3D glasses, and it looks like you can now also count Oakley as being aboard the bandwagon. The company has just announced that it's developed what it describes as the first 3D eyewear with "optically correct" lenses, and that it will be rolling out its first 3D glasses sometime before this holiday season. Those glasses will be of the passive polarized variety, and use Oakley's so-called HDO-3D technology, which promises "unparalleled visual clarity," along with a wider peripheral viewing angle and a truer alignment of 3D images. No word on pricing just yet, but Oakley will apparently be rolling out a range of different designs that will be sold though premium optical distribution channels in the US -- a worldwide launch will follow in 2011. Full press release is after the break.

[Thanks, Colin]
      

 

Show full PR textOakley Innovation Achieves Unrivaled 3D Eyewear First 3D Eyewear on Earth with Optically Correct LensesFOOTHILL RANCH, Calif., Sept. 15 /PRNewswire/ -- Oakley, Inc. today announced that it has engineered innovative new 3D eyewear that both complements and optimizes the technology used in the majority of 3D movie theaters around the world. The company's proprietary frame innovations have been combined with lens technologies that will maximize the 3D experience with an unrivaled level of performance. Taking advantage of Oakley's new HDO-3D™ technology, premium editions in the new line will be the first 3D eyewear on Earth with optically correct lenses."Oakley once again confirms that it's a truly extraordinary brand," commented Andrea Guerra, CEO of Luxottica, Oakley's parent company. "We are very proud of this technological breakthrough, which is the result of our outstanding R&D activities and which we believe will drive the evolution of the whole category.""Oakley 3D eyewear will be a milestone in 3D entertainment," said Oakley CEO Colin Baden. "Through our products and partnerships, Oakley will set the standard for optical performance in 3D."Baden continued, "We have been collaborating with key industry partners for some time, including making use of DreamWorks Animation's facility for testing purposes. Oakley is developing a premium product segment with a range of 3D eyewear offerings, and our R&D has achieved unparalleled visual clarity while extending the wearer's peripheral viewing angle and providing truer alignment of 3D images. This is in addition to the quality, comfort, durability and precise fit of Oakley frame technology, along with styling that sets the high mark for today's eyewear designs."Baden added, "With shutter-based 3D systems, you're wearing glasses with added weight because they hold a battery, and it requires recharging. Oakley 3D eyewear utilizes the popular system known as 'passive polarized' to let the lenses do the job with no need for a battery.""It is inspiring that a company with such a rich heritage of innovation has entered into the 3D entertainment market," said Jeffrey Katzenberg, CEO and Director of DreamWorks Animation. "With all of our work in creating 3D cinematic experiences, we are thrilled that Oakley has advanced the performance of 3D lenses to help audiences get the most out of these films with superior clarity and color," Katzenberg concluded.Oakley 3D eyewear will be available prior to the 2010 holiday season. It will initially be sold through premium optical distribution channels in the U.S., followed by a global launch in 2011.Oakley is pursuing partnerships with manufacturers of home 3D systems that utilize passive polarization. This will allow consumers to use the same eyewear for home and cinema 3D entertainment.Oakley will provide a range of 3D eyewear designs to address the scope of needs and desires of movie enthusiasts, aficionados and those who will utilize Oakley 3D eyewear for home systems. For its premium editions of this eyewear, the company invented HDO-3D. Oakley High Definition Optics® (HDO®) was developed to give athletes the highest possible levels of clarity and visual performance, and now HDO-3D will do the same for audiences all over the globe as they experience 3D entertainment with a never-before-seen degree of fidelity.In addition to the first optically correct 3D eyewear in the world, Oakley has achieved the first 3D lenses ever made with high-wrap curvature, essential for maximizing the wearer's field of vision. A full panoramic view can be experienced without the need to turn one's head in order to see what is happening at the corners of the theater screen.The proprietary optical technologies of Oakley 3D lenses are combined with the company's industry-leading frame innovations. Oakley 3D eyewear is composed of durable yet lightweight materials. The company's renowned Three-Point Fit retains the lenses in precise optical alignment and keeps the frame comfortably in place without the unbalanced pressure points common with ordinary frames.Visit Oakley.com to learn more about the company's optical innovations.About Oakley, Inc.Established in 1975 and headquartered in Southern California, Oakley is one of the leading sports brands in the world. The holder of more than 600 patents, Oakley is continually seeking problems, solving them with inventions and wrapping those inventions in art. This philosophy has made Oakley one of the most iconic and inimitable brands on the market, with innovations that world-class athletes around the globe depend on to compete at the highest level possible. Oakley is famed for its insuperable lens technologies such as High Definition Optics® (HDO®) which is incorporated into all Oakley sun and prescription eyewear, and goggles. Oakley has extended its leadership position as the world's leading sports eyewear brand into apparel, footwear and accessories collections. Laser focused on the consumer, Oakley has both men's and women's product lines that target Sports Performance, Active and Lifestyle consumers. Oakley is a subsidiary of Luxottica Group. Additional information is available at www.oakley.com.About Luxottica Group S.p.A.Luxottica Group (MTA: LUX; NYSE: LUX) is a global leader in premium fashion, luxury and sports eyewear with more than 6,300 optical and sun retail stores in North America, Asia-Pacific, China, South Africa and Europe and a strong and well-balanced brand portfolio. Luxottica's key house brands include Ray-Ban, the best-known sun eyewear brand in the world, Oakley, Vogue, Persol, Oliver Peoples, Arnette and REVO, while license brands include Bulgari, Burberry, Chanel, Dolce & Gabbana, Donna Karan, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tiffany and Versace. In addition to a global wholesale network covering 130 different countries, the Group manages leading retail brands such as LensCrafters, Pearle Vision and ILORI in North America, OPSM and Laubman & Pank in Asia-Pacific, LensCrafters in China and Sunglass Hut globally. The Group's products are designed and manufactured at its six manufacturing plants in Italy, two wholly-owned plants in China and a sport sunglass production facility in the US. In 2009, Luxottica Group posted consolidated net sales of 5.1 billion euro. Additional information about the Group is available at www.luxottica.com.SOURCE Oakley, Inc.
 