
 
Condition One launched its first 3D, 360-degree film, Zero Point, on Steam today. The movie requires an Oculus Rift to view, and is compatible with both the first and second development kits for the headset. It also needs a minimum of 4 GB of memory, 2 GB of hard drive space and a processor at least as good as the Intel Core i7-2600. Viewers can download a free demo of the film through Steam as well.

Zero Point was directed by Danfung Dennis, whose 2011 film Hell and Back Again was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. Our brief time with a few scenes of Zero Point in February found it to be a "clip collection" of sorts that provided viewers the illusion of being in different environments. Those scenes included moments with soldiers during a training exercise as well as a trip across E3's show floor. Zero Point is 20 percent off ($11.99) until Monday, November 3.

[Image: Condition One]
 

Show full PR textOCULUS RIFT-ENABLED VIRTUAL REALITY FILM "ZERO POINT" LAUNCHES ON STEAM TODAYACADEMY AWARD® Nominated Director's Virtual Reality Documentary Revolutionizes Traditional Film MakingSAN FRANCISCO - Oct. 28, 2014 - "Zero Point," the first 3D 360-degree film created exclusively for the Oculus Rift was released today by virtual reality startup Condition One. The movie is available on Steam and plays on all Oculus Rift developer kits.Audiences of "Zero Point" experience true "presence" through the art of film presented in 3D 360-degree immersion. Created and directed by ACADEMY AWARD® nominated director Danfung Dennis ("Hell and Back Again" - Best Documentary Feature, 2012), the film follows the pioneers of virtual reality, as well as, the contemporary researchers and developers behind virtual reality's reemergence."Filmmakers have always strived to create cinematic experiences that captivate audiences. With Oculus Rift's virtual reality capabilities, 'Zero Point' teleports the viewer into realms that they might otherwise never experience," said Dennis. "With 'Zero Point,' we've created a truly immersive experience with the hopes that the film inspires others to further innovations in virtual reality filmmaking.""Zero Point" transcends the normal limitations of traditional film making, immersing the viewer with relaxing beach scenes, hectic halls of the electronic trade show E3, and visceral military rescue exercises. Due to Condition One's unique capture device, player, and the Oculus Rift head mounted display, audiences experience the film from all possible angles and in 3D - as if they were actually in it."Zero Point" is now available exclusively for Oculus Rift development kits, and is currently on sale for $11.99 on Steam until Nov. 4. Once the sale ends, "Zero Point" will be available at its regular price of $14.99.To download "Zero Point" on Steam, visit:http://store.steampowered.com/app/268710/For more information on "Zero Point" and Condition One, visit: http://conditionone.com/About Condition OneCondition One is a visual technology startup pioneering powerful immersive experiences for next generation wearable displays. Condition One combines advanced 3D graphics, high-resolution video and experiential storytelling to create a fundamentally new form of visual communication to enable better understanding of the human experience.
 