
 
Hello, speedsters! OCZ Technology has just busted out a new trio of solid state solutions here at CES, so we won't waste any time getting down to business. Up first is the performance-oriented, MLC-based Vertex 3 Pro, which runs along quite hastily on the SATA 6Gbps interface. We're told that it's built with a next-generation SandForce controller, enabling it to approach 80,000 IOPS and demonstrate 550MB/sec transfer rates. Up next is the Vertex 3 EX, which also utilizes a SATA 6Gbps interface but relies on SLC Flash memory. It's also capable of pushing a similar read rate (and the write rate of 525MB/sec ain't too shabby, either), with both the EX and Pro to be offered in capacities of 50GB, 100GB, 200GB and 400GB. Finally, the third-generation Z-Drive is being officially revealed, with the Z-Drive "R3" PCI Express SSD being the company's first SandForce-drive PCIe SSD. It's engineered for Tier-0/1 data applications, and offers performance rates of 1GB/sec and 135,000 IOPS. Those with absurdly deep pockets can buy one with up to 1.2TB of onboard storage, but alas, OCZ's not serving up MSRPs on any of these guys. The full release is after the break, complete with details on its new ZX Series of power supplies. 





Show full PR textOCZ to Showcase New Client and Enterprise-Class SSDs January 6-8, 2011, at the Aria Hotel in Las Vegas, NevadaSAN JOSE, CA-January 6, 2011-OCZ Technology Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:OCZ), a leading provider of high-performance solid-state drives (SSDs) and memory modules for computing devices and systems, will showcase the Company's latest SSD solutions at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) at the Aria Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada January 6-8. OCZ's commitment to advancing flash technology for enterprise, professional, and consumer applications makes this year's CES an ideal opportunity to demonstrate the latest solid state storage solutions at the nation's most exciting CE tradeshow."We are pleased to introduce ground breaking solid state drive technology at this year's CES show, including next generation enterprise class SATA, SAS, Fibre Channel and PCIe SSDs that bring to the forefront both throughput levels and capacities that push speed, reliability and densities to previously unheard of levels," said Ryan Petersen, CEO of OCZ Technology. "These exciting products represent OCZ's commitment to driving solid state storage innovation in both the client and enterprise space to the highest levels."Introducing an array of next generation storage, as well as power supplies during the show, OCZ will continue to exhibit solutions designed for a wide range of customers including gamers and prosumers to enterprise and OEM. OCZ will showcase live SATA 6Gbps MLC-based Vertex 3 Pro SSDs, built with the next generation enterprise SandForce controller technology with incredible new performance of up to 80,000 IOPS* and 550MB/s transfer rates.OCZ strives to push the envelope by delivering higher performance, reliability and storage capacity to meet the demands of the enterprise market. The follow-up Z-Drive "R3" PCI-Express SSD is OCZ's first SandForce-Driven PCI-Express SSD for Tier-0/1 data applications, and offers staggering performance at over 1GB/s and 135,000 IOPS and up to 1.2TB of capacity in a small and elegant footprint. An on-location technology demo includes the IBIS "XL" based on OCZ's proprietary High Speed Data Link (HSDL) interface unveiled last quarter, featuring 4TBs of storage capacity at over 1.8GB/s transfer speeds and 200,000 IOPS.Along with the latest storage solutions, OCZ will introduce the ZX Series power supplies, featuring 80-Plus Gold efficiency and available in 850W, 1KW, and 1.2KW configurations for high-end©2011 OCZ Technology Group, Inc. OCZ reserves the right to change prices, products, or specifications without notice.OCZ TECHNOLOGY TO UNVEIL LEADING-EDGE SOLID STATE DRIVES AT CES 2011gaming, multimedia, and professional systems. Furthermore, OCZ will highlight the newest PSU offerings from its subsidiary, PC Power & Cooling, with the refreshed line of the renowned Silencer PSU series.Join OCZ Technology Group at the International CES as it aims to further increase the advantages of SSDs over traditional hard disc drives for OEMs, enterprise clients, and enthusiast consumers who place a premium on performance, reliability, and total cost of ownership (TCO).*IOPS (input/output per second) are quoted in random write 4KB file sizesAbout OCZ Technology Group, Inc.Founded in 2002, San Jose, CA-based OCZ Technology Group, Inc. ("OCZ"), is a leader in the design, manufacturing, and distribution of high performance and reliable Solid-State Drives (SSDs) and premium computer components. OCZ has built on its expertise in high-speed memory to become a leader in the SSD market, a technology that competes with traditional rotating magnetic hard disk drives (HDDs). SSDs are faster, more reliable, generate less heat and use significantly less power than the HDDs used in the majority of computers today. In addition to SSD technology, OCZ also offers high performance components for computing devices and systems, including enterprise-class power management products as well as leading-edge computer gaming solutions. For more information, please visit: www.ocztechnology.com.
 