
 

OCZ Technology's pushing SSDs on step further this morning, with the introduction of the Octane SATA 6Gbps and Octane-S2 SATA 3Gbps SSDs. These guys promise "record-breaking access times" and up to 1TB of capacity, with Indilinx Everest internals playing things out on the inside. Oddly enough, the company claims that this is the world's first SSD to hit 1TB, but in fact, we saw the first one from pureSilicon way back in early 2009. At any rate, the company claims that these guys can deliver up to 560MB/sec of bandwidth and 45,000 IOPS, and they rely on a proprietary page mapping algorithms allow for steady mixed-workload performance. The Octane series also includes a number of features unique to Indilinx -- including latency reduction technology -- enabling both read and write access times as low as 0.06ms and 0.09ms, respectively. Aside from that 1TB flagship, there will also be 128GB, 256GB and 1TB models, and while no pricing details are being outed just yet, we're told to expect around $1.10 to $1.30 per gigabyte. Interested? They'll start shipping on November 1st.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  OCZ Technology Introduces Octane SATA 6Gbps and Octane-S2 SATA 3Gbps Solid State Drives with Record-Breaking Access Times and Up to 1TB Storage Capacity 		New 2.5 inch High-Capacity Octane SSDs Leverage the Indilinx Everest Platform to Deliver Superior Performance and Endurance for a Wide Range of Workloads 		SAN JOSE, CA-Oct 20, 2011-OCZ Technology Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:OCZ), a leading provider of high-performance solid-state drives (SSDs), today launched the Indilinx Everest-based Octane SATA 3.0 and SATA 2.0 SSD series, striking the ideal balance between capacity, physical size, and speed. In addition to being the world's first SSD to achieve up to a 1TB capacity in a compact 2.5 inch format, OCZ's Octane SSD series combines high-speed data transfer rates with record-breaking access times to provide a superior user experience and improved application performance. 		"OCZ has reached an important milestone in the development of its own controller technology," said James E. Bagley, Senior Analyst with Storage Strategies NOW. "The high sustained performance, even with compressed files, the rapid boot feature and high access speeds using SATA 3.0 protocol puts their controller technology in the major league." 		"Until now SSDs have been tailored for specific applications, forcing users into a product which maximizes performance for a narrow band of applications, but is significantly lacking in others," said Ryan Petersen, CEO of OCZ Technology. "The Octane Series solves this problem by providing the highest level of performance across varied workloads including mixed file sizes and mixed compressible and uncompressible data, all while nearly doubling NAND flash endurance." 		The Octane series leverages the cutting-edge Indilinx Everest platform to deliver up to 560MB/s of bandwidth and 45,000 IOPS and is optimized for the complete spectrum of file types and sizes. In particular, the Octane's proprietary page mapping algorithms allow for steady mixed-workload performance, mirroring real world conditions across a wide range of applications. The Octane series also includes a number of advanced features unique to Indilinx, including innovative latency reduction technology, enabling both read and write access times as low as 0.06ms and 0.09ms respectively, the lowest of any commercially available SSD. This enhances application responsiveness and enables features such as "fast boot" in consumer applications. 		Octane SSDs also come equipped with Indilinx's proprietary NDurance™ technology, increasing the lifespan of the NAND flash memory, ensuring the most consistent and reliable performance as well as minimizing performance degradation even after the drive's storage capacity is highly utilized. In addition, Octane series drives support AES and automatic encryption to secure critical data. 		Octane Product Features: 		- Dual Core CPU		- Up to 512MB DRAM cache		- 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, and 1TB models		- High sequential speeds:		Octane (SATA 3.0) Read: 560MB/s; Write: 400MB/s		Octane-S2 (SATA 2.0) Read: 275MB/s; Write: 265MB/s		- High transactional performance - Optimized for 4K to 16K compressed files		Octane (SATA 3.0) 45,000 random read 4K IOPS		Octane-S2 (SATA 2.0) 30,000 random read 4K IOPS		- Industry-low latency:		Read: 0.06ms; Write: 0.09ms		-Strong performance at low queue depths (QD 1 – 3)		- Up to 8 channels with up to 16-way Interleaving		- Advanced BCH ECC engine enabling more than 70 bits correction capability per 1KB of data		- Proprietary NDurance™ Technology: increases NAND life up to 2X of the rated P/E cycles		- Efficient NAND Flash management: Dynamic and static wear-leveling, and background garbage collection		- Boot time reduction optimizations		- NCQ support up to 32 queue depth		- End-to-end data protection		- TRIM support		- Industry standard SMART reporting 		The OCZ Octane SSD Series will be available November 1st in models ranging from 128GB-1TB capacities throughout OCZ's global channel.
 