
 
That's right! Once again, Samsung's gotten all four of the major US carriers in its court -- and just as we'd heard, the 7-inch Galaxy Tab will be heading to Verizon, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile sometime during the October / November timeframe. We wish we had more to share on the availability part, but Samsung's leaving that and the pricing announcements to the carriers. (We do know that the keyboard dock will cost $100 and the desktop dock $50.) We got to check out the US version of the Galaxy Tab earlier today, and its raw specs -- 1GHz Hummingbird, Android 2.2, 7-inch, 1024 x 600 WSVGA resolution display, front and rear cams -- were exactly the same as the one we previewed last week at IFA. However, Samsung tells us that TouchWiz will be tweaked slightly for the stateside crowd -- it won't have the Reader or Music hubs, but will have the social networking apps and a new Media Hub. There will also be preloaded carrier apps -- for instance, AT&T's version will come with its Connection Manager. Obviously, we can only hope that Verizon's wised up and isn't planning to totally Bing-out its Tab. No word on an unlocked or WiFi version hitting the US, but apparently it's being talked about internally. We'll be bringing you some more hands-on shots soon and trying to dig up more on pricing, but hit the break for the full press release.

Updated: Samsung just confirmed that a WiFi-only version will come at some point...
 
 
 

Show full PR textSAMSUNG MOBILE EXPANDS GALAXY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO WITH LAUNCH OF SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB™ WITH MULTIPLE U.S. CARRIERS Designed as a true mobile tablet, Samsung Galaxy Tab™ powered by 7-inch touchscreen, Android 2.2 platform with Flash Player 10.1 and front and rear-facing cameras for video chat support landing soon with AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon DALLAS, September 16, 2010 -Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile)1, the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S., today announced the upcoming availability of the Galaxy Tab™ in the U.S with AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless. The first mobile tablet from Samsung shares many of the powerful characteristics of the Galaxy S smart phone lineup that launched this summer. The Galaxy Tab is designed with several enhancements to create a unique mobile experience that other products can't deliver. The Galaxy Tab features a brilliant 7-inch enhanced TFT display screen, 1GHz Hummingbird Application processor supporting 3D graphics and smooth Web browsing and front and rear-facing cameras for video chat while on-the-go. The Galaxy Tab is powered by Android 2.2™, including full support for Adobe® Flash® Player 10.1. Just like the Galaxy S smart phones, the Galaxy Tab includes Samsung's Social Hub application and the new Media Hub content service, offering a robust collection of premium movies and TV episodes from some of the biggest entertainment companies. "The addition of Galaxy Tab to the Galaxy product portfolio is a powerful proof point of Samsung's commitment to bring new and innovative mobile experiences to U.S. consumers," said Omar Khan, chief strategy officer for Samsung Mobile. "The 7-inch display and thin, lightweight design, combined with premium content and productivity tools makes the Galaxy Tab a true mobile tablet that is as comfortable to use standing on a crowded train as it is relaxing on the couch at home. The Galaxy Tab is perfect for watching a movie, reading an e-book or catching up with your favorite TV shows or chatting with an old friend. Plus, the Tab's design makes it completely pocketable in your pants or jacket." Powerful Display, Portable DesignThe Galaxy Tab's 7-inch display features enhanced TFT technology, offering brighter colors and clearer pictures, whether watching a movie or reading a book. The display delivers 1024 x 600 WSVGA resolution, offering full support to the Android 2.2 operating system. With support for Flash Player 10.1, the Galaxy Tab delivers an enhanced content experience when compared to other tablets currently available in the U.S. Users can engage with thousands of sites with rich Flash based applications and content including games, animations, rich Internet applications (RIAs), data presentations and visualizations, ecommerce, video, music and more. Samsung's mobile tablet also provides access to the more than 80,000 applications currently available on the Android Market™. Many of the built-in productivity services and Android applications are scalable to fit the Galaxy Tab's full 7-inch screen. For example, the user's email, calendar and contacts will all rotate from portrait to landscape format through the tablet's accelerometer and then open as a split-screen to create a PC or laptop viewing experience on the Tab. Likewise, many Android Market applications will open in full screen. Non-scalable Android Market applications will be framed and centered on the Galaxy Tab screen. The Samsung Galaxy Tab is designed for people who want a premium mobile entertainment experience on the go, but don't want to be weighed down by a bulky device. The Galaxy Tab fits in a pocket or purse, weighs only 13 ounces and is 12 millimeters thin. Those super-light and sleek dimensions, matched with the 7-inch touchscreen display allows the Galaxy Tab to easily fit into a jeans' backpocket or the inside pocket of a jacket. The compact design of Galaxy Tab also makes it easy for the user to type on the virtual keyboard with both thumbs or with one hand using Swype technology to type with one continuous finger motion across the keyboard. Two Cameras, One-on-One Video ChatThe Galaxy Tab is designed with a rear-facing 3 megapixel camera for taking pictures on-the-go and sharing with family and friends. The Tab is also outfitted with a front-facing 1.3 megapixel camera and camcorder, enabling video chat with other people who have video conferencing capabilities. Users can align the Galaxy Tab with video chat clients including Qik and Fring and seamlessly talk with other people over a WiFi connection.Google Mobile Services BenefitsServices like Google Maps™ Navigation (Beta) and Google Goggles are available on Google's Android platform. With useful location-based services like Google Maps™, consumers can search in Standard English instead of entering an exact address. A search-by-voice function is just as intuitive, meaning searches can also be completed easily on the go. Google Goggles™ is a powerful, visual search tool that uses the Samsung GALAXY Tab's camera to uncover information – an image of a landmark or artwork is automatically used to perform a search, delivering relevant content like a description or history. In addition, with a camera, users can enjoy various augmented reality services which are downloadable in the application market.Samsung Social Hub Simplifies Just like the Samsung Galaxy S smart phone portfolio, the Galaxy Tab keep users connected with Samsung's Social Hub application. Social Hub works with the user's Messaging and Contacts to initiate the sending and receiving of information, whether it is e-mail, instant messaging, social network updates or SMS messages. Additionally, calendar information from portal calendars, such as Google Calendar, and social networking services are displayed together in one calendar with two-way synchronization. Additional features of the Galaxy Tab include:• Daily Briefing: Offers instant access to weather, news, stocks, and schedules.• Impressive Onboard & Expandable Memory: Galaxy Tab can add 32 GB of external memory to store and manage your favorite video content and pictures.• AllShare DLNA Technology: Take video or pictures shot with Galaxy Tab and send content wirelessly to other DLNA-enabled devices (HDTVs, laptops, PC monitors, etc.)• Document Viewer & Editor: Open and make changes to any Word, Excel, Powerpoint or PDF document• 4,000 mAh Battery: Super-sized battery provides ample power to watch movies, share content and surf the WebSamsung Media Hub – Entertaining the MassesIn addition, the Galaxy Tab will include future access to Media Hub, Samsung's own content service, offering a vast lineup of critically acclaimed films and TV programs for rent or purchase. Samsung is working with the biggest and best names in entertainment, including MTV Networks, NBC, Paramount and Universal Studios Home Entertainment to assemble a full library of movies and TV programming, including new release films, next day TV episodes and even full TV show seasons. Media Hub also allows the user to expand the entertainment experience, allowing content purchased to permanently own to be shared with up to five devices that carry the Media Hub application.Premium Accessories Portfolio To enhance the Galaxy Tab user experience even further, a set of accessories designed specifically for the mobile tablet are available for purchase from www.Samsung.com including:Keyboard Dock - $99.99• Ergonomic, comfortable full-size keyboard with 7" Galaxy Tab replaceable inserts that doubles as a charger for power and synchronization of media and data • Dock contains convenient stereo audio output jack for connecting to speakers or home stereoDesktop Dock - $49.99• Doubles as a Galaxy Tab charger using the Micro USB wall adapter that comes with the Tab; allows users to view movies, display as a digital picture frame and listen to music • HDMI output to view HD content on HDTV enabled with 1080p resolution and provides HDTV connection to play content from the Galaxy Tab to a television Car/GPS Dock - $99.99• Conveniently positions 7" Galaxy Tab display screen inside car for turn-by-turn GPS navigation instructions and traffic updates • Attachable to either the windshield or car dashboard and rotates freely between landscape and portrait modes Upcoming AvailabilityThe Samsung Galaxy Tab portfolio of mobile tablets from AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless will be available in the coming months. For additional information on the Samsung Galaxy Tab portfolio, please visit www.samsung.com/galaxytab.1 Number one mobile phone provider in the U.S claim for Samsung Mobile based upon reported shipment data, according to Strategy Analytics, Q2 2010 U.S. Market Share Handset Shipments Reports.About Samsung Telecommunications AmericaSamsung Telecommunications America, LLC, a Dallas-based subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., researches, develops and markets wireless handsets and telecommunications products throughout North America. For more information, please visit www.samsungwireless.com. About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 188,000 people in 185 offices across 65 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.Verizon Wireless Announces Its First Mobile Tablet, the Samsung Galaxy Tab™Delivers Premium Mobile Entertainment Experience through 7-Inch Touch Screen Display, Android 2.2 Platform, Front and Rear-Facing Cameras, Entertainment Applications and 1GHz Application ProcessorBASKING RIDGE, N.J., and DALLAS, Sept. 16 /PRNewswire/ -- Verizon Wireless and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) today announced that the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ will launch in the coming weeks. Equipped with a brilliant 7-inch touch screen and a 1GHz Cortex A8 Hummingbird Application processor, the Galaxy Tab will provide customers with a robust HTML Web browsing experience."The Samsung Galaxy Tab is an exciting addition to the Verizon Wireless Android portfolio," said John Stratton, executive vice president and chief marketing officer for Verizon Wireless. "Coupled with the nation's largest 3G network, the Galaxy Tab is a powerhouse that will be as exciting to use as it is practical for both consumers and business customers."Verizon Wireless will introduce the Galaxy Tab with a number of exclusive applications such as V CAST Music with Rhapsody®, V CAST Video on Demand, V CAST Song ID, VZ Navigator®, along with games "Let's Golf" and "N.O.V.A.""As we head into the holiday travel season," Stratton added, "We expect customers will find the Galaxy Tab is the perfect traveling companion – download a book to the Kindle™ eReader, and you won't miss your favorite paperback. Tune in to Slacker Radio, and create your own custom station or choose from over 100 expert, preprogrammed radio stations from every genre. You can even download a movie and take advantage of a screen large enough to enjoy all the action." The Galaxy Tab refines the mobile multimedia experience by offering full support for Adobe Flash 10.1 for video and mobile gaming and an integrated entertainment, multimedia and social networking experience. An image of the Galaxy Tab is available at: http://news.vzw.com/images/releases/Samsung-Galaxy-Tab.jpg. The Galaxy Tab will be available in the coming weeks in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com. Key features:* Enhanced TFT display with WSVGA resolution – Offers brighter colors and clearer pictures and delivers 1024 x 600 resolution whether watching a movie or reading a book* Rear-facing, 3MP camera and camcorder – AutoFocus captures DVD quality video* Front-facing, 1.3-megapixel camera and camcorder – Enables video chat (Wi-Fi® only) with other people who have video conferencing capabilities (applications available in Android Market™).* Corporate Email – Supports Android 2.2 Exchange ActiveSync e-mail to synchronize corporate e-mail, contacts and calendars from office e-mail accounts* Wi-Fi® connectivity (802.11 b/g/n) and 3G Mobile Hotspot support* Built-in 2 GB internal memory with 16 GB pre-installed microSD™ expandable to 32 GB* 4,000 mAh Battery – Provides ample power to watch movies, share content and surf the Web for hours* Ultra thin and weighing less than a pound – For users who don't want to be weighed down by adding a mobile tablet to their pocket or purse Lifestyle features:* Samsung Social Hub – Built around messaging, contacts and calendar sync, which allows users to send and receive daily activities, whether it is e-mail, social network updates or SMS messages* Customizable touch screen menu with drag-and-drop widgetsAbout Verizon WirelessVerizon Wireless operates the nation's most reliable and largest wireless voice and 3G data network, serving more than 92 million customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 79,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, Nasdaq: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.About Samsung Telecommunications AmericaSamsung Telecommunications America, LLC, a Dallas-based subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., researches, develops and markets wireless handsets and telecommunications products throughout North America. For more information, please visit www.samsungwireless.com.SOURCE Verizon WirelessBack to topRELATED LINKShttp://www.verizonwireless.com### 
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

