
 
Short on cash but wishing you could stock up on Girl Scout cookies? Then you no longer have an excuse -- at least if you're in Northeast Ohio -- as the local Girl Scout group there has teamed up with Intuit to accept credit cards using the company's GoPayment app (and accompanying card reader) for iOS and Android. What's more, while the Ohio group is the first to sign up, Intuit is now also extending the same offer (which includes reduced transaction fees) to Girl Scout organizations across the US -- something tells us it won't have much trouble getting attracting interest.
 
 

Show full PR textGirl Scouts Accepting Cards for Cookies with GoPaymentTroops Preparing to Take Plastic on Their Mobile PhonesMOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--If a lack of cash has ever kept you from buying your favorite Girl Scout Cookies, you are in for a treat! For the first time, the Girl Scouts of North East Ohio (GSNEO) will be ringing up cookie sales by accepting credit cards on their mobile phones with GoPayment, a mobile payment app for processing credit cards.To celebrate the Girl Scouts upcoming 99th anniversary in March, Intuit Inc. (NASDAQ:INTU) has equipped the Girl Scouts of North East Ohio with its GoPayment mobile payment app, including a free Intuit credit card reader, and reduced pricing on transaction fees. GoPayment provides them with an easy and affordable way to process credit card payments on their mobile devices while protecting sensitive credit card information with industry-leading data encryption."We're glad to put the latest mobile technology in the hands of America's future business leaders to help them increase cookie sales," said Chris Hylen, vice president and general manager of Intuit's Payment Solutions division. "For this generation of girls in particular, running a business and being able to take payments anywhere with mobile apps like GoPayment will become second nature. We're eager to see how sales will increase now that they take credit cards with GoPayment."Girl Scout leaders agree that credit cards and cookie sales are a winning recipe!"We've lost out on sales in the past because many potential cookie customers did not carry cash," said Marianne Love, director of business services for GSNEO. "But that's all about to change with GoPayment. For the first time ever, we'll be able to say yes to credit cards and process payments quickly right on our phones. And now that people can pay by credit card, it will make it easier to buy a bundle of cookies to donate to U.S. Troops overseas through our Gift of Caring service project called Operation: Sweet Appreciation."For a limited time, Intuit is extending this same offer to all Girl Scout councils across the country so they can maximize their cookie sales. Councils and troop leaders can get more information by calling Intuit's GoPayment Girl Scout hotline at: 800-871-3334.GoPayment was introduced two years ago as one of the first mobile payment services on the market. It was designed to help people easily and quickly get paid via their mobile devices wherever they do business. To protect credit card data, GoPayment does not store data on the phone. Data is also encrypted via the GoPayment app and the moment the card is swiped using a supported credit card reader. GoPayment is available for iOS, Android and Blackberry devices. For more information on GoPayment, go to http://gopayment.com/.About Intuit Payment SolutionsIntuit is one of the largest small business payments processors in the U.S. It processes annually more than $17 billion in transactions for approximately 300,000 small businesses. Over the last 10 years, Intuit has helped small businesses get paid and improve cash flow with a complete family of end-to-end electronic payment solutions. This includes services to process credit cards, e-checks and online payments via a variety of channels including mobile devices, web and retail stores and integrated solutions such as QuickBooks.Resources:* GoPayment (http://gopayment.com/)* GoPayment on Facebook (http://www.facebook.com/#!/IntuitGoPayment)* GoPayment on Twitter (http://twitter.com/gopayment)About Intuit Inc.Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses; financial institutions, including banks and credit unions; consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks®, Quicken® and TurboTax®, simplify small business management, payment and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries® and Lacerte® are Intuit's leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Intuit Financial Services helps banks and credit unions grow by providing on-demand solutions and services that make it easier for consumers and businesses to manage their money.Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $3.5 billion in its fiscal year 2010. The company has approximately 7,700 employees with major offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, India and other locations. More information can be found at www.intuit.com.Intuit, the Intuit logo, and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
 