
 
Ha, and you thought Dell's Streak was pushing the boundaries of what's acceptable to hold to one's ear. In a bid to make even the xpPhone look diminutive, Olive Telecom has just announced India's first 3.5G Android (2.1 for now) tablet in the Olive Pad VT100. This 7-inch slate is said to boast an 800 x 480 resolution on a capacitive touchpanel, not to mention Bluetooth, WiFi, an SD card slot, 512MB of internal memory (plus 512MB ROM), a 3.5mm audio jack, 3 megapixel camera, mini USB socket and a 3,240mAh battery. There's also a mysterious front facing camera for video calls, and sure enough, this thing actually supports voice, which may very well make it the largest smartphone to launch in 2010. If all goes well, it'll seep out in India next month, with a price of around Rs.20000 to Rs.25000, or $425 to $530 in terms of Greenbacks. We wouldn't get our hopes up for an immediate launch in North America, but word on the street has it that Russia and Europe could see this bad boy in the not-too-distant future.

[Thanks to everyone who sent this in]
      

 

Show full PR textOLIVE TELECOM LAUNCHES INDIA'S FIRST 3G TABLETOLIVEPAD-VT100~ Launches industry's first next-generation Tablet powered by Android ~OLIVEPAD - VT100New Delhi, July 22, 2010: Riding high on innovation, Olive Telecom, India's leading Convergence Solutions Device Developer, today announced the launch of OlivePad - VT100, India's first 3.5G Pad. The device was unveiled by Mr. Arun Khanna, Chairman, Olive Telecom Mr. David Hind, CEO, Olive Telecom, Americas and Mr. Artem Orange, CEO, Olive CIS/CEE.After the successful launch of many Industry firsts including the OliveFrvrOn (India's 1st Hybrid Phone), OliveZipbook (India's 1st 3G embedded Netbook), OliveWiz (India's 1st Triple SIM Qwerty device), OliveGenie (India's 1st 3G Music Modem) & OLiveNexus (India's 1st Pocket Router) Olive brings India to the forefront of convergence technology with the OlivePad.Designed as a multi functional device, Olive Pad operates on an Android Operating System and supports 3.5G HSUPA, Wi-fi, and Bluetooth. With an inbuilt three mega pixel camera and a front camera, the Olive Pad can be used as a touch notebook allowing browsing, Multimedia, Instant Messaging and easy access to the world of social networking, GPS for maps and turn by turn directions, gaming console, an e- book reader, Television and it is also a Smart Phone allowing voice and Video Calling.Speaking at the launch of India's First Pad, Mr. Arun Khanna, Chairman, Olive Telecom said, "At Olive, it has been our constant endeavor to create products driven by technology at the forefront. With this launch, we are bringing consumers to experience cutting edge technology that the world has been talking of. It is the true convergence device that brings together the Computer, Mobile Phone and Entertainment on one platform. The Olive Pad is aimed at today's technology savvy generation who want easy on the move connectivity."Unveiling the new product, Mr. David Hind, CEO, Olive Telecom, Americas said, "We are excited to launch the much awaited OlivePad in India. This latest creation from Olive willOLIVE PAD - VT100bring revolution in the field of technology with its magical features & stylish looks. Our global consumers are going to love this device because of the experience that it provides."Mr. Artem Orange, CEO for Olive Telecom, CIS/CEE said " With Olive Pad we launch a new generation of mobile devices which become your true window to the world in your pocket. With the same concept, we will evolve into more and more convergence devices giving the same reach and affordable experience to customers in India and across the world. We have received tremendous response from operators and consumers in highly sophisticated markets of Central, Eastern Europe and Russia and expect to launch Olive Pad in that market in the near future." OlivePad is equipped with distinctive features which include flash support, mini USB port, Camera and a Smartphone.The OlivePad will be available countrywide at all Croma stores from August.The new Olive Convergence portfolio is complete with WCDMA, CDMA, GSM and EV-DO handsets and smart-phones, Mobile Computing Devices and Advanced data modems for wireless broadband.
 