
 
A lack of surprise isn't necessarily a bad thing. It seems the best bullet points of Olympus' CES unveils have been leaked in some way, shape, or form, but that doesn't detract from the quality. There is, in fact, a 12.3 megapixel PEN E-PL2 with a new "silent autofocus" lens that should clear the air a bit when shooting 720p HD video. The E-PL1 follow-up also has new creative filters with fine-tuned adjustments, face / eye detection, RAW support, an ISO range up to 6400, a 3-inch LCD, SDXC slot, and a second generation accessory port compatible with both previous E-PL1 dongles and new ones like a MAL-1 macro spotlight or a PENPal Bluetooth transfer. That MSC lens, too, is compatible with various "affordable" conversion lenses (fish eye, wide-angle, macro). Look for this body and lens kit later this month for a cool $599.

The other Olympus shooter making its away around the rumor mill, the 10 megapixel XZ-1 (also due out in January), is a pretty interesting device. Though not quite a Micro Four Thirds (that Zuiko lens is firmly affixed), it boasts full manual controls (including focus), 4x optical zoom, RAW support, an SDXC slot 720p 30fps HD video, a 3-inch OLED screen, and support for peripherals like an external mic and electronic viewfinder -- and it's pretty light, to boot. We got only a brief chance to play around with it but walked away mighty impressed with what we saw. The only catch is that $499.99 price tag, which we do understand for its pricing but would also lament not forking over the extra Benjamin for something more versatile like the E-PL2. 

Hold on, we've got three pocket shooter subcategories to satisfy. There's the $139.99, 14 megapixel VG-120 budget camera due out in January, with 5x optical zoom, 720p video, and a 3-inch LCD. The waterproof / shockproof / freezeproof TG-310 and TG-610 are coming in February with a 14 megapixel sensor, 720p video and a 3D photo mode ($199.99 and $299.99, respectively). Lastly, the 14 megapixel SP-610 wide angle ultra zoom also boasts 3D photo mode, along with a 22x zoom -- that one's marked $229.99 for spring 2011. Okay, now that we have all that out of the way, enjoy our hands-on shots and press imagery below, and a tome of press releases after the break.








Show full PR textPOWERFULLY SIMPLE OLYMPUS PEN® SYSTEM GROWS WITH INTELLIGENT ENHANCEMENTS AND BLUETOOTH® CAPABILITY: THE OLYMPUS PEN E-PL2 CAMERAEnhance Your High Definition Videos and Stills with Movie and Still Compatible Lens Technology, New Live Guide II, More Robust Art Filter Effects and a New Range of AccessoriesCENTER VALLEY, Pa., January 5, 2011 – Today Olympus announces the new powerfully simple PEN E-PL2, the fourth generation of the award-winning and pioneering Olympus PEN family of compact interchangeable lens digital cameras. Known for pro quality, point-and-shoot simplicity and high-definition video, the PEN E-PL2 continues the PEN family's legacy of simple design, intuitive interface and Digital Single Lens Reflex (DSLR) image quality. The new camera also expands your creative potential with Live Guide II, new in-camera creative features, new auxiliary lenses, a new Close-Up Spotlight accessory (MAL-1) and the new Olympus PENPal™ Bluetooth accessory. Capturing amazing still images and HD video just got a lot more fun. Further proof that Olympus lets you capture it all.Outstanding Features:• MSC Lens - the new Movie & Still Compatible (MSC) ED m14-42mm f3.5/5.6 zoom lens (28mm-84mm equivalent) features a high-speed, silent autofocus during still shooting and high definition (HD) video capture; • New 3" 460,000 dot LCD - for bright and easy image composition;• Live Guide II - preview HD video and still image effects on the E-PL2's high-resolution LCD screen to achieve the perfect result effortlessly; • Art Filter Variations and Enhancements -- choose from different art filter looks to expand your creative horizons or overlay different art filters to create something new, now with full manual control;• ISO 6400 - take great low-light photos with the camera's increased ISO sensitivity; • New Ergonomic Body Design - shoot stills and videos comfortably with a more ergonomic grip and updated button placement and functionality for ease of use; andFace Detection with iDetect - an amazing new function makes it easier to capture the spirit of your subject, automatically making a person's eye the focus point of the image. The E-PL2 further reduces the chance of blurred subjects in images by recognizing up to eight faces, tracking them within the image area, and automatically focusing and optimizing exposure for sharp portraits. At an affordable $599.99 with the new MSC ED m14-42mm f3.5/5.6 zoom lens (28mm-84mm equiv.), the 12.3 megapixel ergonomically-designed E-PL2 is perfect for everyone from beginners, who want to expand their creative horizons, to experienced photographers who desire high-quality results without the size and weight of a traditional DSLR. "The innovative PEN E-PL2 is designed to go with you and grow with you – it's the total compact multimedia package," said Katie Roseman, product manager, Olympus Imaging America Inc. "We've expanded everything but the size of the camera. Live Guide II, new art filter variations and enhancements for instant gratification, three converter lenses and MAL-1 close-up spotlight will all help grow your creative potential, while the Olympus PENPal lets you send images straight from the camera to your smart phone for social sharing."New Lens Optimized for Video and Image Stabilization for Every LensThe E-PL2 comes with the new Movie & Still Compatible (MSC) ED m14-42mm f3.5/5.6 zoom lens. This new kit lens has a smooth, silent and uses a quick inner focus mechanism to make it exceptionally fast and nearly silent when recording high-definition movie. The M.Zuiko Digital MICRO Four Thirds® lenses are designed to be more compact and portable, just like the E-PL2 itself. In addition to the kit lens, choose from the ED m17mm f2.8 lens (34mm equivalent), the super wide-angle zoom ED m9-18mm f4.0-5.6 lens (18-36mm equivalent), the high-power wide to telephoto zoom ED m14-150mm f4.0-5.6 lens (28-300mm equivalent), the wide zoom ED m40-150mm F4.0-5.6, or the super telephoto ED m75-300mm f4.8-5.6 (35mm equivalent 150–600mm).If you're looking for even more options, the MMF-2 Four Thirds™ System Lens Adapter makes the E-PL2 compatible with all Olympus Zuiko® Digital Specific lenses and other Four Thirds System lenses from Sigma, Panasonic and Leica. Olympus OM film-based lenses can be attached to the E-PL2 with the MF-2 OM Lens Adapter, and third-party adapters have been developed for lenses from most other manufacturers.New Live Guide II for Stills and MoviesThe PEN E-PL2's Live Guide II takes the E-PL1's popular Live Guide interface for stills and expands it to preview effects for HD videos. Live Guide takes the guesswork out of great photography and videography by previewing effects at the touch of a button. Want more vivid or muted color in your shot? Want warmer or cooler color? Want a brighter or darker subject, or a sharper or softer background? Or maybe you want to capture the fast-moving action of your subject with a little artistic blur, or perhaps freeze the action? Simply select Live Guide and turn the wheel on the back of the camera to slide through numerous photographic and videographic effects. Make adjustments and watch the LCD as the effects are made live – before the image is captured! Don't worry about learning technical things like f-stops, shutter speed and white balance; jump right in by composing, adjusting exposure and more before the shot is taken.Seeing the results before snapping the image or shooting a video ensures you are getting the results you want, and it will change the way you use your camera. Shooting Tips are also available with Live Guide, so you can leave the manual at home.Limitless Creativity with New Art Filter Variations and EnhancementsOlympus pioneered easy-to-use in-camera art filters for still images captured inside its E-System DSLRs and was the first company to offer the ability to apply art filters to HD video recordings captured with the PEN E-P1 camera. The E-PL2 features six art filters: Pop Art, Soft Focus, Grainy Film, Pin Hole, Diorama, and Dramatic Tone. For the first time, the E-PL2 also features art filter variations and enhancements to maximize your creativity and expand the potential results. Give your images a different look by choosing from six art filters. Overlay an art effect over an original image with or without an art filter. Shoot a sunset with Pop Art and then add the Pin Hole Effect. Take a portrait in Grainy Film and then add a funky art frame. The possibilities are limitless. Whatever you create, it will be easy to display on the big screen. When you're ready to share your work, just plug the E-PL2's camera into any high definition television (HDTV) using the camera's HDMI output with an optional HDMI cable (sold separately) and show it off from the comfort of your living room.HD Videos and HDMI Control for a Home Theater ExperienceThe E-PL2 shoots gorgeous 720p HD video, so you'll always capture the moments you cherish in clear, crisp high-definition at the touch of a button. With HDMI Control, playback is also a breeze. You'll be the hit of the party or any family event when you proudly display your brilliant images and movies on HDTVs. Simply connect the camera to an HDTV with an optional HDMI cable. With HDMI Control, you can use your HDTV's remote to control playback functions and navigate the camera's menus from the comfort of your couch.New Optional Accessories for Every Shooting ChallengeAlong with the E-PL2, Olympus unveils five new accessories to further expand what you can do with PEN cameras. • Add-on Conversion Lenses - Olympus has three new affordable and compact conversion lenses that mount on the new MSC ED m14-42mm f3.5/5.6 zoom lens to further expand what you can do with the E-PL2:o Fish-eye Lens Converter (FCON-37): captures a distorted hemispherical image covering 120° - to generate dramatic shots and edges that wrap around the frame of your image;o Wide-angle Lens Converter (WCON-37): enables the user to capture a broader shot, for example, to include more people in a photograph. It dramatically alters the proportions of close and distant subjects. Subjects close to the lens appear much larger, while subjects in the background appear smaller – creating a dynamic sense of depth; ando Macro Lens Converter (MCON-58): Enables the user to capture fascinating close-ups from as little as 24cm. away from the subject (depending upon the lens in use). The MCON-58 is also compatible with the ED m14-150mm f4.0-5.6 lens (28-300mm equivalent), ED m40-150mm F4.0-5.6, and ED m75-300mm f4.8-5.6 (35mm equivalent 150–600mm) for close focusing shots.• Macro Arm Light (MAL-1) - Not one, but two bright LED lights – each on the end of its own fully flexible metal arm and powered by the camera. Both arms extend up to 17cm. from a sleek and slender unit mounted on the camera's Accessory Port. For macro shots or attractive close-ups of small items or for online auctions, the MAL-1 is ideal for getting the lighting just right.• PENPal - A sleek communication unit for storing up to 2600 images and transferring them via wireless Bluetooth to other Bluetooth-enabled devices, such as a mobile phone, PC or even another PENPal-equipped camera. From there it's easy to share them with friends in online communities or via e-mail.In addition to these accessories, the E-PL2 is compatible with the optional VF-2 detachable electronic viewfinder, which provides 1.15x magnification and a 100 percent field of view with sharp resolution, brightness and contrast, and the optional SEMA-1 external microphone adapter set for those who want to capture enhanced audio with any microphone that has a 3.5mm plug. These optional accessories easily slide into the camera's accessory port and hot shoe.In-camera Image Stabilization that Supports a Wide Range of LensesOlympus has Image Stabilization built right into the body of the E-PL2. This means that any lens (MICRO Four Thirds, Four Thirds and any third-party lens) attached to the E-PL2 will deliver blur-free images thanks to three modes of in-body Image Stabilization that automatically compensate for camera shake, including in low-light situations or when shooting without a tripod. Achieve More with Automatic Features Including New iDetectThe E-PL2 features Face Detection with a new Eye Detection function called iDetect to make it easier to capture the spirit of your subject. This feature automatically makes a person's eye the focus point of the image. The E-PL2 further reduces the chance of blurred subjects in images by recognizing up to eight faces, tracking them within the image area, and automatically focusing and optimizing exposure for sharp portraits. In addition, the E-PL2 has a variety of automated technologies to free you up to focus on your subject instead of the camera settings. • 22 Scene-Select Modes -- from portraits to sunset shots, the E-PL2 is equipped with 22 Scene-Select modes for effortless picture taking, including Fireworks, Sunset, Children, Macro and Panorama, to name a few. Capturing beautiful portraits is easy with the ePortrait mode that enables you to smooth your subject's complexion. There are even three scene modes that are specific to shooting with the new conversion lenses to optimize the performance of those lenses;• Intelligent Auto (iAuto) Mode -- when you don't want to use the scene-select modes, the iAuto mode automatically identifies what you're shooting and adjusts settings to ensure you capture the best result for each situation you encounter;• In-Camera Panorama -- capture three images and stitch them together to create one amazing, seamless panoramic picture. Or use the included OLYMPUS [ib] software to stitch up to 10 images together for the ultimate panorama; and• iEnhance -- with this mode the warm yellow and orange colors of a sunset are heightened to a dramatically lifelike color that's truer to what you see with the naked eye. iEnhance is available in any mode, and automatically engages when using iAuto to enrich color in any subject.Large Sensor for Excellent Image QualityThe E-PL2 features a large image sensor similar to the one inside the top of the line Olympus E-System cameras. The only difference between this sensor and what the pros use is that this big sensor is inside the much smaller body of the E-PL2. This high-performance 12.3-megapixel Live MOS Sensor (eight times larger than the average point-and-shoot camera sensor) delivers excellent dynamic range, accurate color fidelity, and a state-of-the-art amplifier circuit to reduce noise and capture fine image details in both highlight and shadow areas.True-to-Life ColorThe E-PL2's Live MOS image sensor is complemented by Olympus' TruePic™ V Image Processor, which produces clear and colorful photos using all the pixel information for each image to provide the best digital images possible. The image processor is noted for accurate natural color, true-to-life flesh tones, brilliant blue skies and precise tonal expression; it also offers a maximum ISO sensitivity of 6400, to reduce image noise in photos shot at higher ISO settings, enabling great results in low-light situations.World-renowned Dust Reduction SystemThe Olympus dust reduction system is an industry first and a proven technology. You don't have to worry about dust spots on your sensor ruining the perfect image every time you change lenses. Spend more time shooting with the E-PL2 and less time worrying about dust with the superior dust reduction system producing spot-free photos with the exclusive Supersonic Wave Filter, a patented ultrasonic technology that silently vibrates to remove dust and other particles from the front of the image sensor. Dust will no longer get between you and a great shot.Flash Alternatives for Everyone For low-light shooting situations photographers can select the built-in flash or choose an optional external unit. Wireless flash control is also possible with the E-PL2, making customized lighting set-ups an easy reality.Underwater Housing for Aquatic AdventuresThe new camera's compact design makes it the perfect companion for all of your dive trips. Olympus has designed a custom underwater case for the PEN E-PL2, the PT-EP03, which is waterproof to a depth of 40 meters (approximately 130 feet). With its durable, high-quality polycarbonate construction, this Olympus housing protects the camera from water while also cushioning it from knocks and bumps on land. The housing enables viewing from either the camera's LCD screen or an optional electronic viewfinder. Use up to two UFL-2 underwater flash units via fiber optic cable with the case's flash connectors. A non-removable front lens port accommodates multiple MICRO Four Thirds lenses.AvailabilityThe Olympus E-PL2 Kit will be available in January 2011. It includes the E-PL2 Body, M. ZUIKO MSC DIGITAL ED m14-42mm f3.5/5.6 Zoom, USB Cable, Video Cable, Li-Ion Battery Pack (BLS-5), Li-Ion Battery Charger (BCS-1), Shoulder Strap, OLYMPUS [ib] software CD-ROM, Manuals and Registration card.U.S. Pricing / Product ConfigurationsE-PL2 Body with MSC M. ZUIKO DIGITAL ED m14-42mm f3.5/5.6 Zoom Lens Estimated Street Price: $599.99Journalists interested in more information, review units and high-resolution images of the Olympus PEN E-PL2 camera and PEN lenses and accessories should contact Jeff Hluchyj, Mullen Public Relations, 617-226-9939, jeff.hluchyj@mullen.com, or Jennifer Colucci, Olympus Imaging America Inc., 484-896-5719, jennifer.colucci@olympus.com, or visit the Olympus website: http://www.getolympus.com.ABOUT OLYMPUS IMAGING AMERICA INC. Olympus Imaging America Inc. is a precision technology leader, designing and delivering award-winning products for consumer and professional markets.Olympus Imaging America Inc. works collaboratively with its customers and its ultimate parent company, Olympus Corporation, to develop breakthrough technologies with revolutionary product design and functionality that enhances people's lives every day. These include:• Digital Cameras• Professional and Interchangeable Lens System Cameras• Related Underwater Products and Accessories• Digital and Microcassette Recorders• Digital Media• BinocularsOlympus Imaging America Inc. is responsible for sales in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. For more information, visit: www.olympusamerica.com.Show full PR textOLYMPUS X FACTOR: CREATING A NEW BREED OF COMPACT CAMERADim the Lights and Get Ready to Shoot Brilliant Still Images and HD Videos With the X-tremely Bright, X-tremely High-Quality XZ-1CENTER VALLEY, Pa., January 5, 2011 – On the heels of the PEN® interchangeable lens digital camera revolution, Olympus takes their compact digital cameras to the X-treme with the introduction of an ultra-compact flagship camera and first of a new series, the XZ-1. Developed for the photographer or enthusiast who is looking for the ultimate high-quality, high-performance premium compact camera, the XZ-1 offers all of this, and more without sacrificing image quality. Never fear the darkness with the XZ-1's super-bright built-in Olympus iZUIKO lens – the first built-in Zuiko® lens on a compact digital camera. The X-factor that achieves this category-defying quality: A combination of three state-of-the-art features: the X-tremely large, super-sensitive CCD sensor, the X-tremely fast TruePic™ V image processor and the X-tremely bright, fast f1.8-2.5 iZUIKO digital lens. Further proof that Olympus lets you capture it all."The XZ-1 features one of the world's brightest built-in lenses on a digital compact camera to enable you to shoot high-quality still images and HD videos in any shooting environment, including difficult low-light conditions," said Katie Roseman, product manager, Olympus Imaging America Inc. "This camera will give you the versatility needed to take on any challenge without weighing you down."Outstanding features:• X-factor Style - full manual controls in a slim, stylish pocket-sized camera; • X-ceptional Image Quality - a range of new features offer superior image quality, together with 10 megapixel CCD sensor with the TruePic™ V Image Processor to produce sharp photos;• X-cellent Low-Light Performance - iZUIKO f1.8-2.5 6.0-24mm lens for improved shooting in low-light scenarios, enhancing image clarity and drastically reducing grain. Also featuring Dual Image Stabilization and an AF Illuminator to maximize performance in low-light settings; and• X-treme Creativity -The XZ-1 offers six Art Filters, each of which uses different settings to create incredible photographic effects that would otherwise require additional lenses, filters or complex editing. Additionally, the Live Guide on-screen setting offers quick tips for shooting different subjects (kids, pets and flowers, for example) assists the photographer with some of the more complex in-camera settings (aperture, shutter speed and exposure compensation, for instance).X-factor StyleWhether you're an experienced Digital Single Lens Reflex (DSLR) or PEN shooter who wants a second smaller camera for trips and nights out, without sacrificing image quality or performance, or the aspiring enthusiast who is ready for a higher-powered camera, the new trendy XZ-1 has the features you need for high-quality images. With its thin, attractive matte black body, you'll be inconspicuous while you use the XZ-1 to take candid photos and videos in the shadows at a wedding reception. The XZ-1's body is small enough to easily fit in your pocket, yet feels solid in your hands and you can easily take it with you everywhere.X-ceptional Image QualityWhether composing still images or HD videos, photographers will appreciate the XZ-1's sharp 3.0-inch OLED monitor to frame and show off still images and High Definition (HD) movies in detailed 720p. The LCD displays 610,000 dots in vivid color, reproduces colors and shades more accurately with deeper black tones and consumes less power. The monitor also provides a wide-viewing angle ensuring that images can be composed from even the most obscure angles. A new graphic interface makes it easier to read text and find the settings you need on the fly, and Live Control enables intuitive operation allowing you to shoot photos while viewing the effects on the camera's LCD.Shooting video is as easy as ever with the new Olympus XZ-1 camera. The camera captures all the action in crisp 720p HD video at 30 frames-per-second. The XZ-1's easy-to-reach record button on the back of the camera body makes recording videos a breeze. If you're about to snap a photo and you realize a video would capture the spirit of the scene even better, simply press the record button and instantly you're capturing videos! Easily toggle back and forth between capturing stills and videos by using your index finger to press the shutter button or your thumb to press the record button. Having the ability to shoot still images and videos opens up a world of imaging possibilities.The XZ-1 pairs a high sensitivity 10 megapixel CCD sensor with the TruePic™ V Image Processor to produce clear and colorful photos using all the pixel information from each image to provide the best digital images possible. The image processor is noted for accurate natural color, true-to-life flesh tones, brilliant blue skies and precise tonal expression; it also lowers image noise in photos shot at higher ISO settings (ISO 100 to ISO 3200), enabling great results in low-light situations.The XZ-1 also offers the advanced manual controls that experienced photographers expect from digital SLR cameras. Shoot full manual, and also with a control ring around the front of the lens and the wheel controller on the back, the XZ-1 gives immediate access to the most important manual settings like ISO, aperture and shutter speed to make it easy to adjust the camera on the move. Three levels of exposure control using a neutral density (ND) filter distributes light offering greater flexibility to change the aperture and exposure time in different situations while allowing the photographer to take the best picture in any condition.X-cellent Low-Light PerformanceThe iZUIKO f1.8-2.5 6.0-24mm (28-112mm equivalent angle of view in 35mm cameras) digital lens is a newly-developed 4x compact version of the legendary, high-quality ZUIKO digital lenses featured with Olympus DSLRs. With a minimum aperture of f1.8 at wide-angle and a maximum aperture of f2.5 at telephoto, this lens boasts super-fast shutter speeds for sharp, low-light images. This aperture range also allows photographers to take portraits that highlight the subject by defocusing the background, a capability that is not normally possible in compact cameras. The lens is specifically designed for clear, high-quality photographic performance.Apart from the speed of the f1.8 lens, the camera's low-light mode automatically adjusts the ISO sensitivity up to ISO 3200 to take sharp, full-resolution photos in dark places. The camera's iAuto mode automatically detects low-light scenes and adjusts the ISO accordingly for the best image quality. The camera also features an AF illuminator to make it simple to focus in low-light locations. The XZ-1 also features a low-light mode for even quicker access to maximize low-light situations.If you're going to an evening at the theatre, the XZ-1 also offers Dual Image Stabilization to further assure you'll get the shot you want while holding the camera. Mechanical Sensor-Shift Image Stabilization compensates for camera movement in low-light conditions when shutter speeds are slower while Digital Image Stabilization freezes the action with high ISO sensitivity and fast shutter speeds that prevent blurry images often caused by a moving subject.The XZ-1 has an easily accessible built-in pop-up flash to illuminate low-light subjects, reduce red-eye and fill in dark areas. The camera also is compatible with a range of optional external flashes, including the Olympus FL-14, FL-36R and FL-50R, so you can dynamically control lighting as your photography skills grow.X-treme CreativityOlympus pioneered easy-to-use in-camera Art Filters for still images captured inside its E-System DSLRs and was the first company to offer the ability to apply Art Filters to HD video recordings captured with the PEN cameras. The XZ-1 features six Art Filters that photographers can apply to still images and HD video: Pop Art, Soft Focus, Grainy Film, Pin Hole, Diorama and Dramatic Tone. You even can create an in-camera slideshow that mixes still images, movies and sound. The camera incorporates five kinds of background music as well as slideshow control functions, including still image fade-in/out, sound recording volume and background music volume adjustment.The XZ-1's Live Guide interface simplifies great photography and provides the results you desire at the touch of a button. Want more vivid or muted color in your shot? Want warmer or cooler color? Want a brighter or darker subject, or a sharper or softer background? Or maybe you want to capture the fast-moving action of your subject with a little artistic blur? Simply select Live Guide and press the up and down arrows on the back of the camera to slide through numerous photographic effects. Make adjustments and watch the LCD as the effects are made live – before the image is captured! X-cessorizeTo expand the camera's versatility, the XZ-1 includes an accessory port so photographers can attach optional accessories like the SEMA-1 external microphone adapter, the VF-2 electronic viewfinder or the newly introduced MAL-1 Macro Light. These optional accessories easily slide into the camera's accessory port and hot shoe. The new camera's compact design makes it the perfect companion for all of your dive trips. The PT-050 underwater case has been customized for the Olympus XZ-1 and is waterproof to a depth of 40 meters (approximately 130 feet). With its durable, high-quality polycarbonate construction, this Olympus housing protects the camera from water while also cushioning it from knocks and bumps on land. The XZ-1 makes sharing your content easier than ever. Just connect it to your HDTV with an optional HDMI cable and use your HDTV's remote to control playback functions and navigate the camera's menus from the comfort of your couch.Colors and AvailabilityThe Olympus XZ-1 comes in black and white and will be available in January 2011. It includes the XZ-1, USB Cable, Video Cable, Li-Ion Battery Pack, Li-Ion Battery Charger, Shoulder Strap, OLYMPUS [ib] software CD-ROM, Manuals and Registration card.U.S. Pricing / Product ConfigurationsXZ-1 Street Price: $499.99Journalists interested in more information, review units and high-resolution images of the Olympus XZ-1 and accessories should contact Jeff Hluchyj, Mullen Public Relations, 617-226-9939, jeff.hluchyj@mullen.com, or Jennifer Colucci, Olympus Imaging America Inc., 484-896-5719, jennifer.colucci@olympus.com, or visit the Olympus website: http://www.getolympus.com.ABOUT OLYMPUS IMAGING AMERICA INC. Olympus Imaging America Inc. is a precision technology leader, designing and delivering award-winning products for consumer and professional markets.Olympus Imaging America Inc. works collaboratively with its customers and its ultimate parent company, Olympus Corporation, to develop breakthrough technologies with revolutionary product design and functionality that enhances people's lives every day. These include:• Digital Cameras• Professional and Interchangeable Lens System Cameras• Related Underwater Products and Accessories• Digital and Microcassette Recorders• Digital Media• BinocularsOlympus Imaging America Inc. is responsible for sales in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. For more information, visit: www.olympusamerica.com.Show full PR textNEW OLYMPUS VG-120™: SMALL, STYLISH BODY + SMART FEATURES + LOW PRICE = BIG TIME IMAGING FUN More Megapixels, Impressive Zoom Power, 720p HD Video, and Large 3.0-inch LCD Display Add Up to a New Level of Potential for Everyone!CENTER VALLEY, Pa., January 5, 2011 – Today Olympus reveals an ultimate value with the introduction of the Olympus VG-120™, the first in a new line of pocket-friendly, creativity-enabling, and budget-conscious cameras aimed at photographers of all ages and experience levels. This smart, portable point-and-shoot camera offers incredible new features that let you capture it all.The value begins with an impressive feature set that includes: 14 MP, 5x wide-angle optical zoom lens, 720p HD video capture, and a large 3.0-inch LCD to capture and review your images. Add pocketable portability, Digital Image Stabilization, AF Tracking, and the shot-enhancing Magic Art Filters. Top this combination off with an affordable price point ($139.99) and you have a multi-function camera in a slim body that far surpasses other models in its class. High-Definition with High Impact: 720p HD Video A picture is worth a thousand words. So what do 30 frames per second say when shot in gorgeous HD? Extend your creativity with the option of capturing the action as it happens and seeing it unfold all over again – on your television screen or on YouTube®. The VG-120 shoots gorgeous 720p HD making every day a movie day. Playback is also a breeze. Gone are the days of friends and family huddling around a tiny LCD to see the pictures you just snapped. See the Whole Picture on an Extra-Large 3.0-inch LCD DisplayComposing your shot has never been easier. With an extra-large, 3.0" display, composing that perfect shot is a breeze. See what you've been missing with smaller displays! This large, crisp 230,400-dot LCD makes it a pleasure to share shots on the spot with family and friends.Frame Your Work Before You Frame Your Work: 14 Megapixels and 5x Wide ZoomForget post-edits with the VG-120. Simply zoom in and crop right in the camera to frame your shot perfectly the first time. With a 26mm wide-angle lens and 5x zoom, get closer to the action than ever before. 14-megapixels ensures that each shot will look beautiful, even when printed poster-size.Express Your Inner Artist with Magic FiltersThe VG-120 is equipped with in-camera Magic Filters that enable users to enhance and customize images as they're being captured. Have more fun and flexibility without expensive and time-consuming computer software. The Magic Filters include:• Pop Art – enhance and saturate colors to create vivid, high-impact pictures that express the joyful, lighthearted feeling of the Pop Art style of the 1960s;• Pin Hole – reduce the peripheral brightness of an image as though it were shot through a pin hole, connecting the viewer intimately with the subject at the center;• Fish-Eye – emulate the wide-angle of a fish-eye effect lens by taking extremely wide, hemispherical images and magnifying the center of the frame; • Soft Focus -- encloses the foreground of an image in gentle, pastel colors with a soft, elegant focus; similar to effects achieved in a studio.• Drawing – turn your image into a sketch outline for children to color.• New! Sparkle – shoot photos with the luxurious feel of added twinkling lights; and • New! Punk – create two-tone images full of rock and roll spirit. Digital Image Stabilization to Eliminate Blurry ImagesThe VG-120 features Digital Image Stabilization (DIS) to capture crisp, clear pictures. By boosting the camera's ISO sensitivity and shutter speed, DIS freezes the action and provides virtually blur-free images, even when you or your subject is moving.Easier Group Shots with Face Detection!Wedding, birthday and family reunion group shots have never been easier with Face Detection. The VG-120 detects up to 16 faces within the frame and automatically focuses and optimizes exposure to capture sharp, brilliant portraits and group shots. Intelligent Auto Thinks for YouWith the Intelligent Auto Mode in the VG-120, your camera knows and it automatically identifies what you are shooting (i.e., Portrait, Night + Portrait, Landscape, Macro and Sports) and adjusts the camera's settings to capture the best quality results. Anyone has the ability to jump into this quick and hassle-free feature that does the thinking for them and produces incredible images.Lock Onto the Action with AF Tracking AF Tracking technology locks on your fast-moving subject and continuously adjusts focus and brightness. This enables you to keep fast-moving, unpredictable subjects like small children and pets in focus for the perfect shot. Perfect Fix In-Camera EditingOlympus' Perfect Fix feature offers quick solutions for unanticipated image quality issues, which may be caused by several adverse conditions. Lighting Fix can be used to adjust any underexposed areas and Red-Eye Fix can be used to reduce the effects of red-eye sometimes caused by a direct flash. Additional in-camera editing functions can be quickly accessed right in the camera by the touch of a button; features available include resizing and trimming.High-Quality Stylish Cameras in a Range of ColorsYour creativity is not limited to just what's in the camera. The VG-120 will be available in three colors - silver, black, and red - to suit anyone's style. Sharing is Caring: SD CompatibilityWith SD compatibility, the VG-120 allows users to share their work easily through SD-compatible computers, digital picture frames and HDTVs.OLYMPUS [ib] Software Makes it Even Easier to Share and Print Your PhotosAll Olympus digital compact cameras now offer the new OLYMPUS [ib] photo organizing and editing software. It includes photography workflow, browsing, editing and unique photo organizing functions. You can organize photos by person with automatic face-recognition technology, by place with a map-tagging function, or by event. All information will be tagged in each photo's data. You can then easily upload images to the integrated online service, [ib on the net], to share and backup photos, as well as order prints and photo merchandise. The name [ib] stands for image bridge, because the software is designed to create a bridge to help you get images from your camera to services where you can do more with your photos.AvailabilityThe Olympus VG-120 will be available in January 2011. It will ship with a Lithium Ion Battery, USB Cable, Audio/Video Cable, Wrist Strap, Instruction Manual, Warranty Card and OLYMPUS [ib] software.U.S. Pricing / Product ConfigurationsEstimated Street Price:VG-120 - $139.99Journalists interested in more information, review units and High-Resolution images of the Olympus VG-120 should contact Geoff Brownell at Mullen Public Relations, 617-226-9947, gbrownell@mullen.com, or Jennifer Colucci, Olympus Imaging America Inc., 484-896-5719, jennifer.colucci@olympus.com, or visit the Olympus website: http://www.getolympus.com.ABOUT OLYMPUS IMAGING AMERICA INC. Olympus Imaging America Inc. is a precision technology leader, designing and delivering award-winning products for consumer and professional markets.Olympus Imaging America Inc. works collaboratively with its customers and its ultimate parent company, Olympus Corporation, to develop breakthrough technologies with revolutionary product design and functionality that enhances people's lives every day. These include:• Digital Cameras• Professional and Interchangeable Lens System Cameras• Related Underwater Products and Accessories• Digital and Microcassette Recorders• Digital Media• BinocularsOlympus Imaging America Inc. is responsible for sales in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. For more information, visit: www.olympusamerica.com. GO THE DISTANCE WITH THE OLYMPUS SP-610UZ 22X WIDE-ANGLE ULTRA-ZOOM Expand Your Creative Horizons with Magic Filter HD Video, 3D Photos, and In-Camera Panorama with New S-series UZCENTER VALLEY, Pa., January 5, 2011 – Olympus today unveils the full-featured SP-610UZ, a lightweight, 22x wide-angle ultra-zoom camera with HD Video capability, delivering the celebrated strengths of this pioneering family of cameras: sophisticated long-zoom, go-anywhere photography. The SP-610UZ packs fun features and superb image quality in a user-friendly camera, providing further proof that Olympus lets you capture it all.Whether shooting wildlife, a school performance or a soccer game, consumers want powerful zooms without the bulk. The all-black SP-610UZ comes packed with a variety of features that deliver a superior imaging experience far and wide:• New Magic Filters – make it possible to create special artistic effects in still images and/or movies directly in the camera;• HD Movie & HDMI™ Control – high-definition video (HD video) delivers a broadcast-quality movie experience when played back on an HDTV;• 3D Photo Mode – captures two shots of a scene from two different angles to create still photos that can be viewed with the added excitement and realism of 3D.• Eye-Fi™ Card Compatibility – enables automatic wireless uploading of images to the website or PC of your choice;• In-Camera Panorama – offers quick and easy panorama shots; and• AF Tracking – tracks a moving subject automatically and keeps it in focus for optimal image quality."The new SP-610UZ combines the zoom power that has made Olympus ultra-zooms famous with fully automatic controls ideal for amateur photographers looking to capture it all at the touch of a button and in-camera Magic Filters for artistic control in a portable body" says Jennifer Schmell, product manager, Olympus Imaging America Inc. "The 22x wide-angle optical zoom on the SP-610UZ is an upgrade to the SP-600UZ, which provided a 15x wide-angle zoom. We're continuing to push the boundaries of what camera optics and software can do for the consumer." Ultra-Powerful Zoom in a Stylish PackageThe SP-610UZ packs a 22x wide-angle optical zoom lens into a compact, easy-to-hold body. With an f2.8 (Wide) / f5.6 (Tele) wide-angle lens providing the equivalent of a 28-616mm focal length, users can get closer to the action with zoom performance comparable to that of a 500mm equivalent telephoto lens for Digital Single lens Reflex (DSLR) cameras. The wide-angle lens makes it easy to take a picture of the entire stadium, while the powerful zoom lets you focus on your favorite player. Whether capturing fast-action, life's everyday snapshots or HD videos, this S-series camera provides the versatility to get the job done like never before. Express Your Inner Artist with New Magic Filter MovieThe SP-610UZ is equipped with in-camera Magic Filters that enable users to enhance and customize images as they're being captured. Have more fun and get more flexibility without expensive and time-consuming computer software. Magic Filter Movie is a new feature that allows you to apply Magic Filters to your high-definition movies, taking them to a new level of artistic expression.The Magic Filters for stills and HD movies include:• Pop Art - enhance and saturate colors to create vivid, high-impact pictures that express the joyful, lighthearted feel of the Pop Art style of the 1960s;• Pin Hole - reduce the peripheral brightness of an image as though it were shot through a pin hole, connecting the viewer intimately with the subject at the center;• Fish-Eye - emulate the wide-angle of a fish-eye lens by taking extremely wide, hemispherical images and magnifying the center of the frame; • Soft Focus - encloses the foreground of an image in gentle, pastel colors with a soft, elegant focus; similar to effects achieved in a studio;• Drawing - turn your image into a sketch outline for children to color;• New! Watercolor - transform your images with a finish like that of watercolor paintings;• New! Sparkle - shoot photos with the luxurious feel of twinkling lights; and • New! Punk - create two-tone images full of rock-and-roll spirit. HD Videos and HDMI Control for a Home Theater ExperienceThe SP-610UZ shoots gorgeous 720p HD video, so you'll always capture the moments you cherish in clear, crisp high-definition at the touch of a button. With HDMI Control, playback also is a breeze. Gone are the days of friends and family huddling around your camera's tiny LCD to see the pictures and movies you just captured. Now, you'll be the hit of the party or any family event when you proudly display your brilliant images and movies on high-definition televisions. Simply connect the camera to an HDTV with an optional HDMI™ cable. With HDMI Control, you can use your HDTV's remote to control playback functions and navigate the camera's menus from the comfort of your couch.New 3-D ModeNow you can add even more dimension to your photographs by shooting dynamic 3D photos in any mode from macro to landscape. Recreate a sense of depth like that of the original scene. Simply select the 3D Photo shooting mode, release the shutter for your first shot, slowly pan until the camera automatically takes a second image from a slightly different perspective. The 3D data is processed in-camera resulting in an .MPO file, the universal industry 3D format for easy display on 3D televisions or laptops.Share Images Instantly with New Eye-Fi Card CompatibilityReady to upload and share your party images live as they happen? The SP-610UZ is compatible with an optional Eye-Fi SD card, adding Wi-Fi capability so you can automatically upload images to your computer as you take them. Be the life of the social media party by uploading your shots immediately. New Large High-Resolution LCDThe SP-610UZ boasts a bright, 3.0-inch LCD monitor, an upgrade over its predecessor, the SP-600UZ (2.7" LCD). Ideal for viewing, composing and sharing all your favorite images and HD videos. Cut Out the Blur with Dual Image StabilizationDual Image Stabilization combines two technologies – Mechanical Sensor-Shift Image Stabilization and Digital Image Stabilization – to provide one powerful anti-blur solution for capturing great images whether the photographer or the subject is moving. Olympus' mechanical Sensor-Shift Image Stabilization keeps images sharp by adjusting the internal image sensor to compensate for camera movement, even in low-light conditions when shutter speeds are slower. Additionally, Digital Image Stabilization freezes the action with high ISO sensitivity and fast shutter speeds to prevent blurry images often caused by a moving subject.Broaden Your Horizons with In-Camera PanoramaThe places you can take the SP-610UZ-national parks, weddings, sporting events or city streets-are locations where you want to capture as much of the scene as you can. In-Camera Panorama mode makes it possible by capturing three images and stitching them together to create one amazing panoramic picture. Simply press the shutter button and slowly pan across the scene. The second and third images will be captured automatically and stitched together with the first image – resulting in one seamless panorama-size picture. To create the ultimate panorama, consumers can use the OLYMPUS [ib] Software to stitch up to 10 images together.Easier Group Shots with Face Detection!Wedding, team shots and family reunion photos have never been easier with Face Detection. The SP-610UZ detects up to 16 faces within the frame and automatically focuses and optimizes exposure to capture sharp, brilliant portraits and group shots. Even more remarkable, the SP-610UZ comes equipped with Beauty Mode. Designed to touch up the appearance of your subject's skin as the photo is captured, enhancements that typically would necessitate retouching in a graphics editing program.Lock Onto the Action with AF Tracking AF Tracking technology locks focus on your fast-moving subject – everything from house cats to Siberian tigers – and continuously adjusts focus and brightness. This enables you to keep quick-moving and unpredictable subjects like kids and pets in focus for the perfect shot. There's even two newly designed "Pet Modes" for animal lovers, offering the ability to recognize the faces of a variety of breeds of both cats and dogs.Intelligent Auto Thinks for YouTaking a moonlit stroll on the beach? Intelligent Auto Mode automatically identifies what you are shooting (i.e., Portrait, Night + Portrait, Landscape, Macro or Sports) and adjusts the camera's settings to capture the best quality results. Amateurs can jump into this quick and hassle-free feature that does the thinking for them and produces incredible images.New TruePic™ III+ Image Processor Delivers Superior Quality and PerformanceWhether you are globetrotting or attending a sporting event, the SP-610UZ offers a 14-megapixel sensor, enabling consumers to achieve consistently sharp and vivid images when producing large-format prints or cropping/enlarging a portion of a photo. Olympus developed its exclusive TruePic III+ Image Processor for the demanding performance of DSLRs and has migrated the technology to the S-series cameras for amazing image quality. Olympus' enhanced TruePic III+ Image Processor produces crystal clear photos using all the pixel information for each photo to deliver exceptional clarity with more accurate colors, true-to-life flesh tones and faster processing speeds. TruePic III+ also captures crisp, clear photos at high ISO settings, which are traditionally associated with increasing noise or producing grainy photos.OLYMPUS [ib] Software Makes it Even Easier to Share and Print Your PhotosAll Olympus digital compact cameras now offer the new OLYMPUS [ib] photo organizing and editing software. It includes photography workflow, browsing, editing and unique photo organizing functions. You can organize photos by person with automatic face-recognition technology, by place with a map-tagging function, or by event. All information will be tagged in each photo's data. You can then easily upload images to the integrated online service, [ib on the net], to share and backup photos, as well as order prints and photo merchandise. The name [ib] stands for image bridge, because the software is designed to create a bridge to help you get images from your camera to services where you can do more with your photos.SD CompatibilityOlympus' new spring 2011 digital compact cameras have SD compatibility for up to 32 gigabytes of capacity.AvailabilityThe SP-610UZ will be available in February 2011. The SP-610UZ includes four standard AA-size Dry-Cell Batteries. The camera also includes a Neck Strap, WIN/Mac USB cable, Audio/Video cable, Manual, Warranty Card and OLYMPUS [ib] software.U.S. PricingSP-610UZ Estimated Street Price: $229.99 (U.S.)Journalists interested in more information, review units, product specifications and high-resolution images of the new SP-610UZ should contact Jeff Hluchyj, Mullen Public Relations, 617-226-9939 or jeff.hluchyj@mullen.com, or Jennifer Colucci, Olympus Imaging America Inc., 484-896-5719 or jennifer.colucci@olympus.com or the Olympus Web site: www.getolympus.com.ABOUT OLYMPUS IMAGING AMERICA INC. Olympus Imaging America Inc. is a precision technology leader, designing and delivering award-winning products for consumer and professional markets.Olympus Imaging America Inc. works collaboratively with its customers and its ultimate parent company, Olympus Corporation, to develop breakthrough technologies with revolutionary product design and functionality that enhances people's lives every day. These include:• Digital Cameras• Professional Digital Interchangeable Lens System Cameras• Related Underwater Products and Accessories• Digital and Microcassette Recorders• Digital Media• BinocularsOlympus Imaging America Inc. is responsible for sales in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. For more information, visit: www.olympusamerica.com.ROUGH AND READY: NEW OLYMPUS TOUGH DUO CAPTURE ALL THE ACTION WITH EASE Waterproof Shockproof and Freezeproof Cameras Tackle All of Life's Moments with HD Video, AF Tracking, In-Camera Creative Filters and New 3D ModeCENTER VALLEY, Pa., January 5, 2011 – Olympus, known for its robust line of ruggedized digital cameras today has added the new Olympus TG-610 and TG-310 Waterproof, Shockproof and Freezeproof models. They build on the Tough series' reputation of delivering amazing images while enduring extreme expeditions and everyday adventures, including life with kids.The new Tough cameras are Waterproof (to 16 feet for the TG-610 and 10 feet for the TG-310), Shockproof (to 5 feet) and Freezeproof (to 14 degrees Fahrenheit) to deliver amazing images even when you take them to extremes. Beyond their durable exteriors, the TG-610 and TG-310 deliver superior image quality thanks to 14 megapixels, high-definition (HD) video, wide-angle optical zoom lenses (5x on the TG-610 and 3.6x on the TG-310) and dual image stabilization. The cameras come in a variety of colors to complement your own individual style. Whether at the local pool, a tropical reef or the ski slopes, consumers want a camera tough enough for life's thrills. The new Tough cameras come packed with a variety of new features that deliver a worry-free use, anytime, anywhere.• HD Movie & HDMI Control – high-definition video (HD video) delivers a broadcast-quality movie experience when played back on a high-definition television (HDTV);• 3D Photo Mode – captures two shots of a scene from two different angles to create still photos that can be viewed with the added excitement and realism of 3D;• Eye-Fi Card Compatibility – allows automatic wireless uploading of images to the website or PC of your choice;• New Magic Filters – make it possible to create special artistic effects in still images and/or movies directly in the camera;• In-Camera Panorama – offers quick and easy panorama shots; and• AF Tracking – tracks a moving subject automatically and keeps it in focus for optimal image quality."Because life's an adventure, you need a camera that's tough enough to make the journey with you," said Jennifer Schmell, product manager, Olympus Imaging America Inc. "When you're swimming with the dolphins, the powerful underwater functions like Underwater Snapshot Mode and Underwater HD Movie in 3D will ensure that your trip is more memorable than ever before." HD Videos and HDMI Control for a Home Theater ExperienceThe TG-610 and TG-310 shoot gorgeous 720p HD videos above and below the water's surface, so you'll always capture the moments you cherish in clear, crisp high-definition at the touch of a button. With HDMI Control, playback is also a breeze. Gone are the days of friends and family huddling around your camera's tiny LCD to see the pictures and movies you just captured. Now, you'll be the hit of the party or any family event when you proudly display your brilliant images and movies on high-definition televisions. Simply connect the camera to an HDTV with an optional HDMI cable. With HDMI Control, you can use your HDTV's remote to control playback functions and navigate the camera's menus from the comfort of your couch.New 3-D Mode Now you can add even more dimension to your photographs by shooting dynamic 3D photos in any mode from macro to landscape, and even under water. Recreate a sense of depth like that of the original scene. Catch a shot of your friends jumping into the water and view it in 3D. Simply select the 3D Photo Mode on either your TG-610 or TG-310, release the shutter for your first shot, and slowly pan until the camera automatically takes a second image from a slightly different perspective. The 3D data is processed in-camera resulting in an .MPO file, the universal industry 3D format for easy display on 3D televisions or laptops. Share Images Instantly with New Eye-Fi Card Compatibility Ready to upload and share images of your adventures live, as they happen? The TG-610 and the TG-310 are compatible with Eye-Fi SD cards (sold separately) adding Wi-Fi capability to the camera enabling you to automatically upload images to your computer as you take them. Share your pictures of sandcastles right from the beach by uploading your shots immediately.New High-Resolution Display for High-Definition VideoWhether composing still images or HD videos, photographers will appreciate the sharp 3.0-inch HyperCrystal III scratch-resistant LCD monitor on the TG-610. The LCD boasts 920,000 dots, making it one of the highest resolution screens in any digital compact camera. It reproduces colors and shades more accurately with deeper black tones, while consuming less power. The wide-viewing angle enables you to view small details clearly, even in strong sunlight. See that fish you just caught clearly in the LCD without glare.Express Your Inner Artist with New Magic Filter MovieThe TG-610 and TG-310 are equipped with in-camera Magic Filters that enable users to enhance and customize images as they're being captured. Have more fun and get more flexibility without expensive and time-consuming computer software. Magic Filter Movie is a powerful new feature that allows you to apply Magic Filters to your high-definition movies to take them to a new level of artistic expression and put you in the director's chair.The Magic Filters include:• Pop Art - enhance and saturate colors to create vivid, high-impact pictures that express the joyful, lighthearted feeling of the Pop Art style of the 1960s;• Pin Hole - reduce the peripheral brightness of an image as though it were shot through a pin hole, connecting the viewer intimately with the subject at the center;• Fish-Eye - emulate the wide-angle of a fish-eye lens by taking extremely wide, hemispherical images and magnifying the center of the frame; • Soft Focus - encloses the foreground of an image in gentle, pastel colors with a soft, elegant focus; similar to effects achieved in a studio;• Drawing - turn your image into a sketch outline for children to color;• New! Watercolor - transform your images with a finish like that of watercolor paintings;• New! Sparkle - shoot photos with the luxurious feel of added twinkling lights; and • New! Punk - create two-tone images full of rock and roll spirit. Point-Dunk-and-Shoot with Powerful Underwater FunctionsThe TG-610 and TG-310 cameras can perform as well in the water as they do on land because their lightweight, rugged exteriors are matched with interior rubber gaskets and o-rings to seal out the elements. The TG-610 can venture 16 feet underwater, while the TG-310 can dive 10 feet underwater. The inclusion of four preset underwater scene modes in the TG-610 and one in the TG-310 make these cameras perfect to play in the water right along with you. They also capture HD movies with audio even in 3D and under water – perfect for bringing back memories that other cameras would miss. The TG-610 even comes with Automatic Underwater White Balance, eliminating the need to adjust white balance under water, a Macro LED, a convenient function for capturing close-ups in dark places and an Underwater 3D Movie function. Both cameras feature a water-repellent lens coating to prevent water droplets from forming on the lens, enabling you to get crystal-clear shots no matter how wet the shooting environment. To go even deeper, the optional underwater case for the TG-610 (PT-049) enables photographers to explore the fascinating world underwater up to 131'.Wide-Angle Optical Zoom Captures It AllThe TG-610 has a 5x wide-angle optical zoom (28-140mm equivalent in 35mm photography), and TG-310 has a 3.6x wide-angle optical zoom (28-102mm equivalent), ideal for shooting various journeys such as camping, hiking, climbing, mountain biking, skiing or simply your family vacation.Nothing Can Shock These Tough CamerasTaking lots of photos is a vital part of any vacation, but it's no fun to lug around a digital camera if you are constantly worried that it might break. The TG-610 and TG-310 can withstand a 5-foot drop, thanks to their shock-absorbing technology, which minimizes the impact on the lens and circuitry, so they'll take more punishment. These vacation-ready digital cameras can take a beating and keep up with just about any active lifestyle. There's no need to think twice about bringing it along on a mountaineering trek or letting the kids take a few pictures at a picnic. Even for shots at the beach or capturing the wonder of marine life while snorkeling. Don't Fear the Frost with these Freezeproof CamerasWhether you're cruising the Alaskan ice highway in a snowmobile or building a snowman in your backyard, the new TG-610 and TG-310 can still perform when the temperature dips well below freezing (14 degrees Fahrenheit; -10 degrees Celsius). Enjoy consistently sharp and vivid high-resolution images in freezing situations where most traditional cameras would fail.Fight the Blur with Dual Image StabilizationDual Image Stabilization combines two technologies – Mechanical Sensor-Shift Image Stabilization and Digital Image Stabilization – to provide one powerful anti-blur solution for capturing great images whether the photographer or the subject is moving. Olympus' Mechanical Sensor-Shift Image Stabilization keeps images sharp by adjusting the internal image sensor to compensate for camera movement, even in low-light conditions when shutter speeds are slower. Additionally, Digital Image Stabilization freezes the action with high ISO sensitivity and fast shutter speeds to prevent blurry images often caused by a moving subject.Can't Hide with Face Detection!Portrait and group shots make your vacation photos live beyond the short event, and with Face Detection you'll capture even the most bashful relatives. The TG-610 and TG-310 can detect up to 12 faces within the frame and automatically focuses and optimizes exposure to capture sharp, brilliant portraits and group shots. Even more remarkable, the TG-610 and TG-310 come equipped with Beauty Mode. Designed to touch up the appearance of your subject's skin as the photo is captured, enhancements that typically would necessitate retouching in a graphics editing program.AF Tracking for Friends and Man's Best FriendWhether you've got skiers or surfers in your sites, the AF Tracking technology on the TG-610 and the TG-310 locks your subject in focus and continuously adjusts focus and brightness whether you or your subject is moving, and is perfect for unpredictable situations like photographing skiers on a mountain, tropical fish while snorkeling or children at play in the backyard. There's even two newly designed "Pet Modes" for animal lovers, offering the ability to recognize the faces of a variety of breeds of both cats and dogs.Tough Cameras, Not Tough to UseSkating at night? You won't be the last one on the ice thanks to Intelligent Auto Mode. It automatically identifies what you are shooting (i.e., Portrait, Night + Portrait, Landscape, Macro and Sports) and adjusts the camera's settings to capture the best quality results. Amateurs can jump into this quick and hassle-free feature that does the thinking for them and produces incredible images.Broaden Your Horizons with In-Camera PanoramaYou take the TG-610 and TG-310 to places where you want to capture as much of the scene as you can. In-Camera Panorama mode makes it easy by capturing three images and stitching them together to create one amazing panoramic picture. Simply press the shutter button and slowly pan across the scene. The second and third images will be captured automatically and stitched together with the first image – resulting in one seamless panorama-size picture. To create the ultimate panorama, consumers can use the OLYMPUS [ib] software to stitch up to 10 images together. New TruePic™ III+ Image Processor Olympus developed its exclusive TruePic III+ image processor for the demanding performance of digital SLR (single lens reflex) cameras. Olympus' enhanced TruePic III+ Image Processor produces crystal-clear photos using all the pixel information for each image to deliver superior picture quality with more accurate colors, true-to-life flesh tones and faster processing speeds. TruePic III+ also captures crisp, clear images at high ISO settings, which are traditionally associated with increasing image noise or producing grainy photos.OLYMPUS [ib] Software Makes it Even Easier to Share and Print Your PhotosAll Olympus digital compact cameras now offer the new OLYMPUS [ib] photo organizing and editing software. It includes photography workflow, browsing, editing and unique photo organizing functions. You can organize photos by person with automatic face-recognition technology, by place with a map-tagging function, or by event. All information will be tagged in each photo's data. You can then easily upload images to the integrated online service, [ib on the net], to share and backup photos, as well as order prints and photo merchandise. The name [ib] stands for image bridge, because the software is designed to create a bridge to help you get images from your camera to services where you can do more with your photos.SD CompatibilityOlympus' new spring 2011 digital compact cameras offer SD capability for up to 32 gigabytes of capacity.What Color Fits Your Adventuresome Personality? Tough Cameras in a Range of ColorsThe Tough cameras come in a variety of colors: the TG-610 in black, red and silver and the TG-310 in blue, orange, red, silver and white - to suit everyone's style. AvailabilityThe TG-610 and TG-310 will be available in February 2011. They ship with a wrist strap, WIN/Mac USB cable, audio/video cable, Li-Ion rechargeable battery, manual, warranty card and OLYMPUS [ib] software.U.S. PricingTG-610 Estimated Street Price: $299.99 (U.S.)TG-310 Estimated Street Price: $199.99 (U.S.)Journalists interested in more information, review units, product specifications and High-Resolution images of the new Tough cameras should contact Jeff Hluchyj, Mullen Public Relations, 617-226-9939 or jeff.hluchyj@mullen.com, or Jennifer Colucci, Olympus Imaging America Inc., 484-896-5719 or Jennifer.colucci@olympus.com or the Olympus Web site: www.getolympus.com.ABOUT OLYMPUS IMAGING AMERICA INC. Olympus Imaging America Inc. is a precision technology leader, designing and delivering award-winning products for consumer and professional markets.Olympus Imaging America Inc. works collaboratively with its customers and its ultimate parent company, Olympus Corporation, to develop breakthrough technologies with revolutionary product design and functionality that enhances people's lives every day. These include:• Digital Cameras• Professional Digital Interchangeable Lens System Cameras• Related Underwater Products and Accessories• Digital and Microcassette Recorders• Digital Media• BinocularsOlympus Imaging America Inc. is responsible for sales in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. For more information, visit: www.olympusamerica.com.
