
 
 While there has been a lot of speculation recently about which platforms the OnLive Google TV app will support for gameplay, the company is confirming support for / collaboration with Marvell's 1500 HD SoC Google highlighted for its v2 hardware. While no specific devices are mentioned, there's a Marvell brain in the Sony Google TV box we recently reviewed and the upcoming Vizio Co-Star, so unless a manufacturer blocks it, we'd expect to be able to install it and get playing -- Gaikai purchases notwithstanding. Not mentioned in the press release (after the break) is LG's custom CPU for its Google TVs, but since we've already got video evidence of it running there, we're simply left waiting for the app to launch for the full console gaming experience sans-console.



  Show full PR text   A Winning Play: Marvell and OnLive Team Up to Deliver Next Generation Cloud Gaming  Marvell ARMADA 1500 HD Media SoC powers cloud gaming and digital entertainment for today's connected lifestyle   SANTA CLARA, Calif. (July 11, 2012) – Marvell (Nasdaq: MRVL), a worldwide leader in integrated silicon solutions, today announced that OnLive is using the ARMADA 1500 HD Media SoC to power on-demand gaming in Google TVs and Google TV devices. OnLive delivers hundreds of high-end video games directly from the cloud to PCs, Macs, TVs, tablets and now, leveraging the ARMADA 1500 chipset, to Google TV, with no game console necessary.   "I believe this is a major breakthrough that demonstrates Google TV's progress in addressing the interactive big screen for any type of live content. We are thrilled to collaborate with OnLive in transforming any TV with gaming capabilities," said Weili Dai, Co-Founder of Marvell. "Together with our customers and partners across the ecosystem, Marvell is leading and driving a new era of the digital lifestyle by seamlessly connecting all screens and devices with better performance, affordability and versatility for the mass markets."   "OnLive's focus is to make the highest quality gaming accessible to everyone, anywhere and anytime they want it. With Marvell under the hood, we are able to deliver the highest-quality, on-demand gaming experience on groundbreaking devices and systems like Google TV," said Steve Perlman, OnLive Founder and CEO. "The ARMADA 1500 is an impressively high-performance, low-power SoC that accommodates OnLive's highly advanced technology and delivers a mind-blowing gaming experience."   Both Marvell and OnLive are aligned in their vision of supporting best-in-class smart devices and providing the ultimate user experience. To that end, the OnLive® Game Service is now integrated with next-generation Google TVs and stream players that offer video games on demand with just a few clicks of the OnLive Wireless Controller or any Google TV-compatible controller, eliminating the need for users to own an independent game console.   Featuring a superscalar dual-core CPU, with more than 6000 Dhrystone MIPS of computing horsepower, the ARMADA 1500 delivers the full spectrum of rich multimedia entertainment on a single-chip architecture, making it the ideal processor to power tomorrow's "smart" entertainment center. The ARMADA 1500 also integrates award-winning Qdeo® video processing technology with support for 3DTV that provides consistently high-quality, full HD video despite the source and enables compelling, interactive user interfaces.   Additionally, the ARMADA 1500's small form factor and fan-less chip design, coupled with Marvell's family of Avastar® wireless products support a broad scope of smart, slim, power-efficient devices-including networked DTV platforms, Blu-ray players, digital media adapters (DMA), and HD set-top boxes-and delivers best-in-class features at highly competitive price points.   About OnLive  OnLive is the pioneer of on-demand, instant-action cloud computing and instant-play video game services, delivering real-time interactive experiences and rich media through the Internet. With groundbreaking video compression technology, OnLive harnesses cloud computing to provide the power and intelligence needed to instantly deliver full-featured, media-rich applications and the latest, premium game titles to tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs and HDTVs via the OnLive® Game System or connected TVs. OnLive is available in North America and the UK and will continue expanding into Europe and Asia. OnLive's technology is backed by hundreds of patents and patents pending worldwide. The company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California. OnLive investors include Warner Bros., Autodesk, Maverick Capital, AT&T, British Telecommunications (BT), The Belgacom Group, HTC and Juniper Networks. More information is available at www.onlive.com and www.onlive.co.uk.   About Marvell  Marvell (NASDAQ: MRVL) is a world leader in the development of storage, communications and consumer silicon solutions. Marvell's diverse product portfolio includes switching, transceiver, communications controller, wireless and storage solutions that power the entire communications infrastructure, including enterprise, metro, home and storage networking. As used in this release, the term "Marvell" refers to Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries. For more information, visit Marvell.com.  ###   Marvell, ARMADA, Qdeo, Avastar, and the M logo are registered trademarks of Marvell and/or its affiliates. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.   OnLive and Brag Clip are trademarks or registered trademarks of OnLive, Inc., in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

 
