
 
 Are you way into cloud gaming and own an LG Smart TV of the G3 series variety? You're in luck, as OnLive this morning announced support for that very line of Google TV-powered LG televisions, bringing a library of "over 300 titles" to the platform. The G2 series already got that support back in November, if you recall, but it appears that OnLive's reach is expanding across a variety of LG Smart televisions. Should you wish to get in on the action, you'll need a Universal OnLive Wireless controller to actually play any of the games available. We'll be giving it a look later on this week during CES 2013 to see what's different -- if anything -- from OnLive's presence on other platforms.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text    LG And OnLive To Show The Power Of Integrated, On-Demand Cloud Gaming At CES   LG Smart TV with Google TV delivers the best in video game entertainment direct from the Cloud, no console required   Las Vegas, Nevada.- January 07, 2013 - OnLive, the leader of on-demand cloud gaming, will be demonstrating its OnLive® Game Service, now fully integrated with the LG Smart TV with Google TV™ (G3 Series), at this year's CES show in Las Vegas, Nevada.

   Showing at the LVCC, Central Hall, LG booth (8204) from 8-11th January, OnLive combines the power of the Google TV platform with the speed of LG's dual-core chipset and a new user-friendly interface, making console-quality games instantly playable as part of the TV experience-no discs, downloads or console required. The G3 Series is LG's first TV to make OnLive cloud gaming an integral part of an out-of-the-box offering and is currently available in the United States.

   The growing OnLive catalog of over 300 titles includes games from more than 80 publishers, with everything from blockbuster new releases to classic franchises to family-friendly sports, racing and action-adventure games.

   Unique to OnLive, an LG Google TV owner can play with (or against) friends on PCs, Macs and Android™ tablets. Users can even start a game on one device and continue playing on any other OnLive compatible device, with full saved game data intact in the cloud, whenever and wherever they want.

   Games can be demoed free and purchased or rented a la carte. Players can also subscribe to the OnLive PlayPack for unlimited play of more than 200 games, with more titles added monthly. OnLive also offers free access to unique social features such as game spectating in the OnLive Arena, recording ten-second Brag Clip™ videos of players' best gaming moments, and sharing videos and Achievements with friends on OnLive and Facebook.

   "LG's dual-core performance Google TVs, coupled with OnLive's innovative games-on-demand service, makes access to the latest videogame entertainment quicker and easier than ever before," said Georg Rasinski, Director of Home Entertainment Brand Management, LG Electronics USA. "By integrating cloud gaming into our powerful G2 series TVs, the entertainment possibilities for consumers are virtually limitless."

   "Our partnership with LG demonstrates the exciting future for cloud gaming as an integrated offering for connected TVs," said Gary Lauder, OnLive Chairman. "OnLive's proven gaming on-demand technology enables consumers to enjoy a vast catalog of console-quality games, with no additional hardware necessary beyond an OnLive controller and LG's sophisticated and feature-rich Google TV."

   To find out more about OnLive or to purchase a Universal OnLive Wireless Controller, visit www.onlive.com or www.onlive.co.uk.

   About OnLive

   OnLive is the pioneer of on-demand cloud gaming and computing services, delivering real-time interactive experiences and rich media over the Internet. With ground-breaking video compression technology, OnLive harnesses cloud computing to instantly deliver full-featured, media-rich applications and the latest, premium game titles to tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs, HDTVs via the OnLive Game System, the VIZIO Co-Star, and the new G3 Series of LG Google TVs. The OnLive Game Service makes games playable instantly, with no need for lengthy downloads or waiting in line for a physical copy. OnLive is available in North America, the UK and Belgium. OnLive's technology is backed by hundreds of patents and patents pending worldwide. The company is headquartered in Mountain View, California. More information is available at www.onlive.com, www.onlive.co.uk and www.onlive.be.

   # # #

   OnLive and Brag Clip are trademarks or registered trademarks of OL2, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

   Google and Android are trademarks of Google, Inc. in the United States and other countries.

 
