
 

If you aren't content streaming video games to your PC, MicroConsole, Android device or iPad, you're about to get another option: Google TV. Following the same slow rollout it used when it launched the cloud gaming service for Android devices, OnLive is launching OnLive viewer for Google TVs today. Not enough, fine, fine -- the streaming outfit is also demoing a full gameplay update for Google TV on the CES show floor, and promises that you'll be pwning newbs soon enough. Not a Google TV user? Onlive casually mentioned the service would be hitting Blu-Ray players and other set-top boxes soon as well. Read on to see for yourself, the press release awaits.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  OnLive Console-class Gaming to be Integrated into All Google TV Devices 		OnLive Viewer Available Now for All Current Google TV Devices		Full OnLive Gameplay Coming Soon as Standard Offering		OnLive Gameplay Showcased on VIZIO VAP430 Stream Player at CES		Current and Future Google TV Devices Support OnLive Wireless Controller 		Palo Alto, CA – January 11, 2012 – OnLive, Inc., the pioneer of instant-play videogames and instant-action cloud computing, announced today that Google will be integrating the revolutionary OnLive cloud gaming service as a standard feature of the Google TV platform on all devices from all manufacturers. OnLive brings to Google TV users instant on-demand gameplay from a rapidly growing library of the latest high-performance console-class titles, as well exclusive social features such as worldwide massive spectating and Brag Clip® videos with full group voice and text chat. The OnLive Viewer, enabling OnLive social features, is available immediately on all Google TV devices currently in the market and is compatible with standard Google TV remote controls as well as the OnLive Wireless Controller and standard USB game controllers. Full OnLive gameplay is coming soon to all current and future Google TV devices, including TVs, Blu-ray players and Media Streamers, making Google TV the first integrated TV platform with console-class gameplay capability, and bringing OnLive capability to most major TV manufacturers. 		OnLive instant on-demand gameplay of about 200 console-quality titles, including top-tier recent releases, such as Saint's Row: The Third and Assassin's Creed: Revelations, is being demonstrated on the VIZIO VAP430 Stream Player with OnLive's Wireless Controller in Las Vegas during the CES show this week. Simultaneously, OnLive is demonstrating soon-to-be-released full OnLive gameplay capability on current Google TV devices. Over 50 game publishers, including virtually every top console publisher, is supporting the OnLive game platform. 		"We're excited that OnLive will be making the highest-quality videogames available to all Google TV users," said Shanna Prevé, Google TV Content Partnerships. "OnLive's groundbreaking instant-play service truly demonstrates the versatility and power of Google TV." 		The OnLive Game Service is currently available on TVs, via Google TV or the OnLive MicroConsole, PCs, Mac®, tablets and smartphones, and soon will be available on Blu-ray players, media streamers and set-top boxes. The just-announced OnLive Desktop service, delivering a seamless, full-featured, media-rich PC desktop with full collaboration capability, is based on the same patented OnLive instant-action cloud computing technology, and will also be available on Google TV as well as all of the above platforms, enabling business presentations, sharing of family of videos and photos, as well as other media-rich PC applications. 		"OnLive integration into Google TV is a huge leap forward for videogames," said Steve Perlman, OnLive Founder and CEO. "Consumers have come to expect instant gratification with music, movies and video. Now, with OnLive, players in the US and soon in the UK can just as easily stream the highest-quality games to their Google TV devices for play instantly on demand, without discs or downloads."  				Show full PR text 				OnLive Console-class Gaming to be Integrated into All Google TV Devices 				OnLive Viewer Available Now for All Current Google TV Devices				Full OnLive Gameplay Coming Soon as Standard Offering				OnLive Gameplay Showcased on VIZIO VAP430 Stream Player at CES				Current and Future Google TV Devices Support OnLive Wireless Controller 				Palo Alto, CA – January 11, 2012 – OnLive, Inc., the pioneer of instant-play videogames and instant-action cloud computing, announced today that Google will be integrating the revolutionary OnLive cloud gaming service as a standard feature of the Google TV platform on all devices from all manufacturers. OnLive brings to Google TV users instant on-demand gameplay from a rapidly growing library of the latest high-performance console-class titles, as well exclusive social features such as worldwide massive spectating and Brag Clip® videos with full group voice and text chat. The OnLive Viewer, enabling OnLive social features, is available immediately on all Google TV devices currently in the market and is compatible with standard Google TV remote controls as well as the OnLive Wireless Controller and standard USB game controllers. Full OnLive gameplay is coming soon to all current and future Google TV devices, including TVs, Blu-ray players and Media Streamers, making Google TV the first integrated TV platform with console-class gameplay capability, and bringing OnLive capability to most major TV manufacturers. 				OnLive instant on-demand gameplay of about 200 console-quality titles, including top-tier recent releases, such as Saint's Row: The Third and Assassin's Creed: Revelations, is being demonstrated on the VIZIO VAP430 Stream Player with OnLive's Wireless Controller in Las Vegas during the CES show this week. Simultaneously, OnLive is demonstrating soon-to-be-released full OnLive gameplay capability on current Google TV devices. Over 50 game publishers, including virtually every top console publisher, is supporting the OnLive game platform. 				"We're excited that OnLive will be making the highest-quality videogames available to all Google TV users," said Shanna Prevé, Google TV Content Partnerships. "OnLive's groundbreaking instant-play service truly demonstrates the versatility and power of Google TV." 				The OnLive Game Service is currently available on TVs, via Google TV or the OnLive MicroConsole, PCs, Mac®, tablets and smartphones, and soon will be available on Blu-ray players, media streamers and set-top boxes. The just-announced OnLive Desktop service, delivering a seamless, full-featured, media-rich PC desktop with full collaboration capability, is based on the same patented OnLive instant-action cloud computing technology, and will also be available on Google TV as well as all of the above platforms, enabling business presentations, sharing of family of videos and photos, as well as other media-rich PC applications. 				"OnLive integration into Google TV is a huge leap forward for videogames," said Steve Perlman, OnLive Founder and CEO. "Consumers have come to expect instant gratification with music, movies and video. Now, with OnLive, players in the US and soon in the UK can just as easily stream the highest-quality games to their Google TV devices for play instantly on demand, without discs or downloads."  
 