
 

We already got a chance to try out OnLive on the HTC Flyer early but now the company has made its plans official at E3, announcing a Player app will bring internet-streamed gaming to the iPad and Android tablets this autumn. Just as we saw, the apps allow for tablets to be used as the screen and touch / motion controller, touch / motion controller for games on an HDTV, or screen for games being played with the new universal wireless gamepad. The fun isn't limited to just tablets though, the app will work the same way on smaller Android and iOS mobile devices. We'll head over to South Hall and get some hands-on experience with the apps for ourselves shortly, until then you can check out an E3 trailer and all the details in the press release and after the break.

Update: We just got our hands on an early build of the tablet app on a Motorola Xoom, and we have to say it looks fairly promising -- OnLive added a basic touchscreen overlay that could make sense for games that don't require dual-analog support. Of course, you'll want that fancy new universal wireless controller if you plan to take a hardcore FPS (like Homefront) on the go. Sadly, the tablet-as-TV-controller functionality wasn't ready for prime time, but we did get a peek at a game designed specifically for the touchscreen interface: Ubisoft's From Dust will have an OnLive-specific SKU. Get a glimpse at Homefront and From Dust via OnLive in the video below.

Update 2: We're hearing that the OnLive Player will probably come to the HTC Flyer in August, and begin hitting other tablets in September and October.





   		Show full PR text  OnLive Unveils iPad/Android Tablet App that Far Outperforms New Consoles 		iPad, Android Tablet Instantly Becomes Touch/Motion Controller		or Standalone Cloud Gaming System with Touch/Motion or Game Controller 		Seamless Integration of Tablet with or without HDTV 		First Touch/Controller Game from Major Publisher Unveiled for OnLive 		Unparalleled Multiplayer Mobile or In-Home Experience 		Available in Autumn 2011 in US and Europe 		Los Angeles (E3 Expo 2011) - June 7, 2011 - OnLive, Inc., the pioneer of cloud gaming, is pleased to report that gamers throughout the world can immediately experience the seamless integration of tablets and HDTVs with high-end gaming. Their current iPad or Android tablet and current HDTV will not only provide this experience in 2011, but will provide it with far higher performance, richer gameplay and deeper social integration than any console announced for 2012, with more than 100 games available today. 		OnLive is pleased to announce the OnLive® Player App for iPad and Android. Like the recently announced consoles, the OnLive Player App will enable gameplay of virtually all OnLive games on an iPad and Android tablet with touch or OnLive's new Universal Wireless Controller. In addition, the OnLive Player App allows the tablet to be used as a touch and motion controller combined with an HDTV (or PC/Mac® if preferred), and allows both synchronized or independent video on the tablet and HDTV screen, enabling combined gameplay with tablet and HDTV, or separate gameplay on tablet and HDTV. 		Full voice chat-enabled multiplayer is supported, both in-room and with others throughout the world, providing a complete multiplayer experience whether at home or on the go with a mobile device. 		Core patent-pending exclusive OnLive cloud gaming features such as massive spectating of live gameplay throughout the world, instant no-obsolescence gameplay, Facebook integration with Brag Clip™ videos, etc., will work seamlessly on both tablets and HDTVs and will continue to distinguish OnLive from consoles, both in 2011 and beyond. 		"The power of the cloud is definitely the theme this week, displacing what had been assumed to be platforms that could never be displaced," said Steve Perlman, Founder and CEO of OnLive. "The OnLive Player App for iPad and Android shows how with the power of the cloud, the question is not whether cloud gaming will be able to catch up to consoles, it will be whether consoles will be able to catch up to cloud gaming." 		OnLive is excited to demonstrate the first game from a major publisher supporting both OnLive's iPad/Android tablet touch and game controller, as well as running seamlessly on an HDTV, PC and Mac, to be released later in 2011. Come to OnLive's booth (South Hall, Booth #801) for a demo. 		For gamers preferring a smaller screen, OnLive will provide the exact same functionality on iPhone and Android smartphones, allowing them to be used both as game systems themselves with touch and the OnLive Universal Wireless Controller, or as a controller to an HDTV (or PC/Mac), for simultaneous or independent play. 		OnLive is also unveiling as part of this experience the first 10 gigabit cloud-based full-featured browser for iPad, Android and HDTV; bringing the full richness of the Web loading from ultra-fast 10 gigabit/second Web connections to OnLive's cloud-based servers, including support for full-featured Flash and video sites. Mobile and home devices will no longer be limited to the speed of their local connection for Web browsing or Web plug-in compatibility, opening up access to Flash games and social gaming for tablets and HDTVs. 		All OnLive games played using the OnLive Player App will play seamlessly across all OnLive-compatible devices, including iPad, iPhone, Android, on HDTV via the OnLive Game System, on connected HDTV and Blu-ray/media players and on PC and Mac. 		The OnLive Player for iPad and Android is being showcased live at OnLive's booth (South Hall, Booth #801) and will be available later this year. For a video presentation please visit http://www.onlive.com/corporate/pressroom. 		About OnLive		OnLive is the pioneer of instant cloud gaming, delivering real-time interactive experiences and rich media through the Internet. With groundbreaking video compression technology, OnLive harnesses cloud computing to provide the power and intelligence needed to instantly deliver the latest, premium game titles to any HDTV via the OnLive Game System or nearly any PC and Mac via a small browser download. The OnLive Viewer app is available for the iPad and full gameplay is coming to both iPad and Android tablets. OnLive is currently available in North America, and will be available in the UK and expanding into Europe later this year. OnLive technology is backed by hundreds of patents and patents pending. The company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California. OnLive investors include Warner Bros., Autodesk, Maverick Capital, AT&T, British Telecommunications (BT), The Belgacom Group and HTC. More information is available at www.onlive.com. 		# # #Sean Hollister and Sean Buckley contributed to this report.
 