
 

We told you that OnLive was coming to tablets, TVs, and other devices a while back, but perhaps you were vexed by the thought of controlling Duke Nukem via touchscreen or IR remote. Well, worry no more, as OnLive's made a Universal Wireless Controller to give you console controls on any OnLive-compatible device. The company's secret sauce lets it connect directly to your slate or smartphone, and there's also a USB dongle for use with PCs and non-Vizio TVs. We asked company CEO Steve Perlman what was in his wireless witches' brew, but all he would tell us is that the black magic isn't Bluetooth. We got to see the new controller in person, and there's no discernible difference between it and the one that comes with the MicroConsole -- they look the same and they play the same, plus the new gamepad has an 802.15.4 radio for backwards-compatiblity with the MicroConsole, too. Unfortunately, that dongle's not yet ready for prime time, but we're told that it'll be a "little bit bigger" than Logitech's tiny Unifying Receiver.

When we went hands-on with the new controller, it was paired with the HTC Flyer. We'd been waiting to see OnLive's service on HTC's new tablet, and the experience didn't disappoint -- in our brief time with the device, gaming was as good on the Flyer as it is on a PC, with little lag and the same quality graphics. In addition to the Flyer and Vizio's VIA hardware, many more devices are set to join the OnLive family this year, though Steve wouldn't tell us who's manufacturing them. He did say that no matter what brand-name is on the front of the box, the company hopes to have 50 million Blu-ray players and 25 million internet TVs shipped with the service on board by the end of the year. To hit that goal, the company has partnered with Intel to bring streaming gameplay to devices with Atom CE4100 silicon starting this fall.

Hot hardware not getting your gaming juices flowing? Well, how about some seamless integration with The Social Network? That's right, OnLive's been playing footsie with Facebook and will let users launch games directly from their profile pages. There's also automatic "Brag Clip" video uploads (to share your greatest gaming hits) and wall posts to let folks know when you start playing -- with accompanying links so they can watch or join in. All these new goodies will be on display at E3 next week, but if you're starving for more details right now, video and PR are after the break.

Update: By the by, OnLive also revealed that it's launching in the UK this fall, and in about four days, you can get a signup code.





  		Show full PR text   OnLive Unveils Universal Wireless Controller			Works with Almost any OnLive-compatible Device, Including OnLive MicroConsole™, Internet TV, PC, Mac®, Tablet/Smartphone, Blu-ray/Media Player, IPTV/Cable Box 			Los Angeles, Calif. (E3 Expo, 2011) - June 2, 2011 - OnLive's revolutionary cloud gaming technology delivers the hottest high-performance games to just about any video Internet-connected device, including TVs, PCs, Macs and tablets. Even more OnLive-compatible devices are coming, ranging from Blu-ray and media players to IPTV and cable set-top boxes. Rather than locking gamers to a particular gaming device, the OnLive Game Service delivers universal high-performance gameplay wherever and whenever they want. The OnLive Game Service's pioneering user interface was the first to work optimally with any input method, be it game controller, keyboard/mouse or touch screen. But, some games either require a game controller, or provide the best gaming experience when one is used. 			OnLive is excited to announce a Wireless Controller that is as universal as the OnLive Game Service itself. The Controller not only works with OnLive's own MicroConsole™ TV adapter, but works with almost any OnLive-compatible device, either establishing a wireless link directly with the device, or via a small USB dongle plugged into the device. So, whether gamers are playing an OnLive game on TVs across the living room, on computers at their desks, or on tablets on their laps, with OnLive's Universal Wireless Controller gamers can experience high-performance games to their fullest, with a comfortable and responsive game controller in their hands. 			OnLive is announcing today that it will showcase the new OnLive Universal Wireless Controller at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles June 7-9. The demonstrations will include OnLive gameplay on the HTC Flyer tablet and VIZIO HDTVs with VIA Plus™. 			"We set out to make OnLive available everywhere," said OnLive Founder and CEO Steve Perlman. "Now that this is a reality, consumers need a way to enjoy the full OnLive experience on any device. The new OnLive Universal Wireless Controller places high-quality gameplay in your hands whether on a TV, computer, tablet/smartphone device or on future OnLive-compatible devices yet to be introduced." 			Maintaining the gamer-optimized shape and control layout of OnLive's current Wireless Controller and featuring OnLive's exclusive media buttons, OnLive's Universal Wireless Controller brings top-tier gaming control to general-purpose consumer electronic devices for the first time. Optimized to minimize latency, up to four controllers can be used simultaneously, along with optional keyboard/mouse and Bluetooth headset for voice chat. Some legacy devices may support a limited number of simultaneous controllers and/or other input devices, but using the supplied USB dongle, a full complement of four controllers are supported simultaneously. 			The OnLive Universal Wireless Controller will be available this fall, both in the United States and in other countries where OnLive is available. 			OnLive will be showing the controller in action with a number of supported consumer electronic devices at its E3 booth (South Hall, #801). More information about OnLive is available at www.onlive.com.    OnLive Integrates Facebook Social Gaming Features with Console-Class Games 			Launch or Join Games from Facebook Instantly, Post Brag Clip™ Videos			or Spectate Others Playing 			Los Angeles, Calif. (E3 Expo 2011) - June 2, 2011 - Social gaming isn't just a hot category in gaming, it's white hot. Each month hundreds of millions of people play social games, seamlessly shifting into and out of Facebook and social games, and just as seamlessly shifting their social gaming experience from mobile device to PC/Mac® to TV, all the time remaining real-time connected with their friends. 			To achieve such seamless continuity across every manner of device, social games have been limited to relatively simple gaming experiences that every device can handle. 			Until the E3 show opens on June 7, that is. 			OnLive is pleased to announce that it has integrated the OnLive® Game Service with Facebook, not just providing static text and image notifications, but providing direct launch from Facebook pages into high-performance OnLive games, demos and spectating, as well as providing automatic Brag Clip™ video posting of your most awesome gameplay moments on your Facebook wall. 			You'll see a wall post instantly when your Facebook friends are starting up an OnLive game. Just click the "Watch Me" link on the post and spectate their gameplay instantly at HD resolution. Tell them what you think through OnLive voice chat. Click "Play" and instantly start up the game yourself, either as a free demo or to join them in multiplayer. Your friends will see a wall post when you start an OnLive game, and with one click they can spectate you or play with you instantly as well. Seamlessly social, but with the hottest AAA game titles. 			But Facebook isn't just a place to meet up. It's also a place to share about your greatest moments. So, we've integrated OnLive's exclusive Brag Clip videos directly into Facebook. Now, when you pull off some awesome moves in an OnLive game and snap a Brag Clip video, it will be instantly posted on your wall, viewable within Facebook at HD resolution. Or, feel free to post someone else's cool Brag Clip video with comments. When your friends view your Brag Clip posting, with a single click they can launch into the OnLive Service where they can rate your Brag Clip video or, if they think the game is cool, instantly play a free demo of the game. 			"The OnLive Facebook integration is a watershed event for the videogame industry," said OnLive Founder and CEO, Steve Perlman. "No one questions the massive appeal of social gaming, but before OnLive there was no frictionless way to integrate AAA core games into the global social network fabric. OnLive's Facebook integration not only achieves this, but OnLive's spectating, voice chat and Brag Clip videos add a media-rich social dimension unlike anything that has existed before." 			Just like the massively successful social games of today, the OnLive/Facebook experience is utterly seamless: users shift instantly between Facebook and the OnLive Game Service, and seamlessly shift from one OnLive-compatible device to another, be it almost any PC/Mac, tablet or TV today, and soon smartphones, Blu-ray/media players and IPTV/cable set-top boxes. Even if you travel, both your social network and your OnLive gaming experience will travel with you. OnLive just announced expansion to the UK and Europe later this year, and trials are underway in Asia. Before long, you'll have instant access to OnLive everywhere. 			"We took it as a given that to be completely social meant being completely inclusive, and that meant working on just about any connected device anywhere," said Joe Bentley, OnLive's VP of Engineering. "OnLive is already available, or soon will be available, on TV devices, PC/Mac and iOS and Android platforms. OnLive is either available or in trial on three continents, and all of OnLive's data centers are seamlessly interconnected. OnLive will be everywhere on every major device." 			The OnLive social gaming features announced today are just a taste of what's to come. Not only will more aspects of the OnLive Game Service be integrated with Facebook, but OnLive's Software Development Kit (SDK) for game developers will enable new games to directly utilize OnLive and Facebook social features, such as posting in-game achievements, shouting out to friends when you need help during a game, or gifting/receiving in-game assets. With OnLive's high-performance game servers, massive spectating/voice chat, and complete cross-device compatibility, game developers now have the ability to explore previously impossible social gaming concepts. 			"The social gaming features we are showing today are the tip of a very big iceberg," said John Spinale, OnLive's VP of Games & Media. "Developers of high-end core games have been frustrated that they are unable to bring a seamless social gaming experience into the rich experiences of their games. OnLive's new SDK features open the door for an unprecedented level of social gaming creativity within the sophisticated worlds of state-of-the-art games." 			Of course, not everyone wants to be social all the time. OnLive's Facebook Connect integration is opt-in, and you can decide what, if anything, to share.    OnLive to Support Intel-based Consumer Electronic Devices 			Millions of Intel® Atom™ CE4100-powered Internet TVs, Blu-ray Players, Set-top Boxes to Deliver OnLive Cloud Gaming Service 			Los Angeles, Calif. (E3 Expo 2011) - June 2, 2011 - OnLive, the pioneer of on-demand, instant-play video games is pleased to announce that Intel-based consumer electronic devices-from the latest Internet TVs and Blu-ray players, to IPTV set-top boxes-will be able to deliver the full OnLive cloud gaming experience with ultra-fast response times at HDTV resolution and full 5.1 surround sound. Once OnLive begins to offer 3D games, Intel devices that support 3D will deliver a full, immersive 3D experience as well. 			The Intel CE4100 Embedded Processor packs the processing power and features to deliver the full OnLive Game Service experience on any HDTV without the need for a videogame console. The potent combination of Intel and OnLive technology enables console-class gaming (and beyond) with no console at all. 			"The OnLive gaming experience on Intel-based consumer devices is superb," said OnLive Founder & CEO Steve Perlman. "Intel enables instant HDTV gameplay and demos from OnLive's growing library of over 100 high-performance games, as well as OnLive exclusive social features, such as massive spectating, Brag Clip™ videos, and automatic Facebook video postings. OnLive is delighted to be working with Intel to bring high-performance cloud gaming into millions of homes throughout the world." 			OnLive's pioneering cloud gaming service runs the latest high-end videogames on vast numbers of high-performance servers in data centers distributed throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Intel's server-class processors are at the heart of many of OnLive's most powerful servers. Using OnLive's patented technology, low-latency compressed video from these servers is delivered reliably over consumer-grade wired and wireless Internet connections to almost any Intel-based PC or Mac®, any HDTV via the OnLive MicroConsole™ TV adapter, and to iOS and Android tablets-and soon Intel-based Internet-connected TVs, Blu-ray players, media players and IPTV set-top boxes. 			Literally, from Intel-based servers to Intel-based PC, Mac or consumer electronic devices, OnLive is delivering a seamless, low-latency high-end videogame experience, despite spanning a thousand miles or more through the Internet. 			The first Intel-based consumer electronic devices powered by OnLive will be shipping this fall. 
 