
 
Flash on an iPad? No problem, and neither is QuickTime on a Samsung Galaxy Tab -- assuming you're running both from a virtualized Windows 7 PC using OnLive's new app. OnLive may have originally pitched itself as a streaming games service, but founder Steve Perlman revised his ambitions at the D: Dive into Mobile conference today, showing off a host of Windows 7 programs (including 3D modeling software Maya, above) running on the pair of ARM-based tablets. Like always, OnLive requires a nearby server and fast internet connection to function adequately, and the apps themselves would need touch controls, but Perlman said it's actually easier to deliver apps than games since they're less sensitive to lag. OnLive didn't provide a date when we can expect full cloud functionality, but you can get a sneak peek at a pared-down version right now -- the brand-new OnLive Viewer app, which lets you spectate games in progress (and will eventually let you play them) is now available for iPad.
      

 

Show full PR textOnLive Available Now for iPad Android Version in BetaFirst system to enable live video game spectating across TV, computer and mobilePalo Alto, Calif. - December 7, 2010 - OnLive, Inc., the pioneer of on-demand, instant-play video games, today announced immediate availability of the free OnLive® Viewer mobile app for iPad®, a demonstration of OnLive Viewer beta for the just-released Android™ Samsung Galaxy Tab™ as well as a series of mobility breakthroughs in entertainment and computing.Gaming as a Spectator Sport The OnLive Viewer mobile app-the first cloud gaming app for a mobile device-enables live spectating of any of millions of OnLive video game sessions as they are played around the world.Check out gameplay of new-release top console games, view and rate Brag Clip™ videos of incredible moves and engage in live chat and friending with OnLive players-all with just a few taps on your iPad or Android tablet screen."Spectating of other players is by far the most popular OnLive activity after gameplay itself, and the convenience and mobility of iPad and Android tablets adds an incredible dimension to it," said John Spinale, OnLive VP of Games and Media. "Watching live games and interacting with the people playing them takes social gaming to an entirely new level. It's unlike any other experience. And people love it."Tip of a Vast Iceberg The OnLive mobile app released today provides a first glimpse into the possibilities of OnLive mobile technology. The high-performance games hosted by OnLive were developed for consoles and high-end PCs and are not yet tuned for the touch-based tablets, so this version of the OnLive Viewer app is focused on spectating and social features. Full game play capability and more complete integration with mobile device features will be supported in future versions."We're delighted to welcome OnLive to the Android ecosystem," said Andy Rubin, VP of Mobile Platforms at Google. "OnLive has been able to take advantage of Android's open platform to deliver an advanced user experience in record time. The pairing of OnLive and Android is extremely powerful."Today, at the first D: Dive into Mobile conference, OnLive Founder and CEO Steve Perlman took the OnLive mobile app beyond gaming and demonstrated previously impossible high-performance applications, running on an iPad and an Android Samsung Galaxy Tab™ using the OnLive Viewer, including ultra-high-end enterprise applications such as Autodesk® Maya® and high-speed browsing with full-feature Adobe® Flash® and Microsoft® Silverlight® website compatibility. Perlman then showed full-featured Microsoft Windows® 7 Touch running seamlessly on both iPad and Android platforms. This demonstration marks the first time high-end enterprise applications or full-featured Flash, Silverlight and Windows 7 have run on iPad and Android platforms."The OnLive Viewer mobile App is the last piece of the puzzle to unify the worlds of TV, computing and mobile all under one real-time cloud-based platform, enabling previously inconceivable experiences, capabilities and live, video-rich social interaction," said OnLive Founder and CEO Steve Perlman. "Today we showed the tip of the iceberg for what you'll be seeing from OnLive, delivering high-performance gaming, entertainment, enterprise and Web applications wherever and whenever people want them, on virtually any device."
 