
 
Opera has always been the little browser that could, and the company is now embracing that spirit more than ever with its new ad campaign for the just-released Opera 11.10. To that end, it's launched a new ad campaign that it proudly boasts is its most expensive ever -- a record-setting $8,517.26, including a hefty $1,500 that they splurged on some "trendy Swedish clothes." Of course, the browser itself is the real story here and, while it's an incremental upgrade, it does boast a few fairly big new features, including support for Google's new WebP image format, a "SpeedDial" for your favorite websites, and a turbo mode that promises to compress and load web pages faster when you're on a slow connection. Just how does that work? We'll let Opera's Christen Krogh explain in the no-expenses-spared video after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textOpera spends record budget on campaignOslo, Norway - April 12, 2011Google, Microsoft, Mozilla and Apple - Opera today joined the ranks of those web giants as the company unveiled the most expensive ad ever created by the company to promote the launch of the Opera 11.10 browser. Opera spared little expense to showcase a major overhaul of the Opera Turbo feature, the crowning achievement in the new version."In order to win, you have to spend," commented Kei Grieg Toyomasu, Director of Marketing, Opera Software. "And, this time, we really did. We're spending a fortune to make Opera, a household name. We see our competitors doing million dollar campaigning on TV and on billboards, and we've been so impressed that we decided to put budget into a little something-something ourselves."Opera Software is committed to prudent financial governance. Here are a few of the receipts:Some guys with a video camera $3000Trendy Swedish clothes $1500Laptop $850Rental of Audi RS4 $700Racetrack, so we can go fast $500Fake tans $400Tacos (both crunchy and soft) $385Emergency medical supplies $315Beer (consumed after driving) $300Gasoline $230Flu shots (not really needed, but we got it approved, so we just went for it) $200Parking ticket $50Disco ball $30Deodorant and cologne (fear leaves a distinct musk) $20Party hats $153 bottles of generic Pepto-Bismol $15Gum $5Paperclips $2.26Total $8,517.26"We risked a lot to share this campaign with the world," said Jan Standal, VP of Desktop Products, Opera Software. "We even got a parking ticket. But it's all so we can play in the big leagues with the other fancy pants of the Web. We posted our video on YouTube, so you know it has to be good.""This is the Internet. And this is serious business," noted Rolf Assev, Chief Strategy Officer, Opera Software.By the way, Opera Software also released a new browser today. Download it before the warm glow from our expensive ad fades: http://www.opera.com/. You can even read more about the Opera Turbo feature and how it can help make your web connection faster: http://www.opera.com/browser/turbo/.Watch the video on YouTube.About Opera Software ASAOpera Software ASA has redefined web browsing for PCs, mobile phones and other networked devices. Opera's cross-platform web-browser technology is renowned for its performance, standards compliance and small size, while giving users a faster, safer and more dynamic online experience. Opera Software is headquartered in Oslo, Norway, with offices around the world. The company is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol OPERA. Learn more about Opera at http://www.opera.com/.
 