
 At last, the wait is over for Oppo's latest flagship device. Launched in Beijing earlier, the Find 5 comes with pretty much all the top ingredients in the current market -- many of which had been teased by the company multiple times already: 5-inch 1080p display, Qualcomm's quad-core Snapdragon S4 Pro APQ8064 chip with 2GB RAM, a 2,500mAh battery and Android 4.1.2. There's also NFC, and on top of that, the Find 5 will come with two NFC tags (remember LG's Optimus LTE Tag and Sony's SmartTags?) plus a special version of Sina Weibo that uses the phone's NFC to let users instantly follow each other.

 The 13-megapixel, 5fps camera on the back isn't just about numbers, as it also packs fast hardware-enabled HDR for both photos and video! Oppo claims it's the first in the mobile industry to carry this awesome feature. Additionally, the main camera can capture slow motion of up to 120fps, though it isn't clear whether the resolution is reduced to achieve this. On the other side of the device there's also a 1.9-megapixel front-facing camera, which beats most phones these days. Audio-wise the Find 5 features Dirac HD, a technology that's embraced by the likes of BMW, Bentley, Rolls Royce and Datasat; making Oppo the first mobile phone brand to join the party. The included earphones are fine-tuned for Dirac, naturally.

 Alas, much like the Droid DNA, this Chinese superphone also suffers from the lack of microSD expansion, so users may struggle to fully appreciate the 441ppi screen with just 16GB of built-in storage. As for pricing, we already know that the US will offer the Find 5 for $499, and luckily, it'll just be ¥2,998 or about $480 in China, but it'll be about a month before the phone reaches its various markets, including the US. Stay tuned for our hands-on, and there's also a press release after the break for the time being.

 Update: Our hands-on is up!





  Show full PR text   Quality Meets Style with the OPPO Find 5 – The Fifth Element Unfolds
   OPPO Find 5 Unveiled With 5" 1080P Screen, 13 Megapixel HDR Camera and More

   BEIJING －December 12, 2012 －At the OPPO Find 5 "The Fifth Element" Launch Event held in 798 Art District today, OPPO introduced one of this year's most mysterious and anticipated mobile products, the OPPO Find 5. The all new, industry leading OPPO Find 5 was announced to an audience of over 500 members of the international press, OPPO fans, developers, and partners, in what marks a spectacular end of year for the mobile industry.

   See - like you've been blind all along  The OPPO Find 5 features a 5.0" 1080p IPS screen with a staggering 441 PPI pixel density, allowing you to experience a world of crystal clarity and the most realistic colors. With OGS technology that combines touch sensors with display, colors are more vivid and lifelike, and you'll feel as if the screen contents are floating on its surface.

   Despite its large screen, the OPPO Find 5 is easy to hold thanks to its super slim 3.25mm bezel. When the screen is off, the front becomes a borderless sheet of pure black, mysteriously calming yet satisfying to the eye.

   Touch - and your fingers won't stop  Industrial design has always been one of OPPO's core strengths. An example is the Find 5 front frame. Although it only weighs a mere 6.3 grams, the front frame alone takes four hours to craft. Starting with a 210 gram piece of stainless steel, it undergoes 12 manufacturing processes, after which it is given a black chrome plating in a 1470 °F (800 °C) vacuum environment. The result from this demanding process not only protects the screen from impact, it also contributes to the Find 5's amazing look and feel.

   The overall design of the Find 5 is minimalist, relying on straight lines and simple shapes that removes distractions, while at the same time being built using the best materials and techniques available, giving OPPO Find 5 a simple and understated, yet refined and premium look and feel.

   Cherish and share, the beauty from every journey  On the backside, OPPO Find 5 comes with the most advanced 1/3.06-type 13-megapixel camera sensor available on the market, adept at taking great photos in low light conditions. With market-leading Stacked CMOS technology, it features an f/2.2 aperture, 4-layer coating and blue glass filters. On the front, Find 5 it is fitted with a 1.9-megapixel camera.

   OPPO Find 5 is the world's first smartphone with hardware supported HDR photography and video recording. It redefines smartphone video recording, with its capability of recording video in 120 FPS, five times the speed that the human eye can perceive. Apart from videos being silky smooth in normal playback, they will also be smooth during slow-motion playback and clear during freeze-frames. In addition, the camera on the Find 5 is capable of taking 100 photos at 5 per second with Burst Mode.

   OPPO Find 5 will bring you into a new era of wireless sharing. With NFC functionality, gently touching two phones will pair them in less than a tenth of a second, 50 times faster than Bluetooth pairing. OPPO's NFC SmartTags with preset actions will add simplicity and convenience to your life. Find 5 also supports Wi-Fi Display and DLNA, two technologies that allow you to wirelessly project screen contents onto your television in HD.

   Listen, and rhythm will touch your heart  Find 5 comes with the powerful Dolby 3D surround sound technology and the exciting Dirac HD technology, combination of hardware and software usually only found in high-end audio and cinema sound systems. With Dirac, you will clearly hear a difference, and become immersed in music the way the artist originally wanted to express it.

   Love, for it is the Fifth Element  OPPO never set out to create the most powerful phone. Internally, we have always said that we create products in the intersection of romance and technology, and Find 5 is a product that OPPO employees worked passionately and relentlessly on. Just like Plato was convinced of quintessence, an element beyond thematerial world, there is more to the Find 5 than the mere sum of its parts. There is an element beyond the purely rational, and that element is love. OPPO Find 5 is infused with of our love, a love we wish to explore with the world.

   OPPO Find 5 is set to launch in early 2013 across selected markets.

  OPPO Find 5 Specifications
   Network: UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA/HSPA+/HSPA+42 (850, 1700, 1900, 2100MHz), GSM/EDGE (850, 900, 1800, 1900MHz)  Processor: Qualcomm APQ8064 Quad-Core 1.5GHz  Display: 5.0" 1080P 441PPI IPS (1,080x1920)  Memory: 16GB ROM, 2GB RAM  Camera: Main: 13 megapixel Stacked CMOS sensor with HDR, Front: 1.9 megapixel, 120 FPS video recording, f/2.2 aperture, blue glass filters  Connectivity: 802.11a/b/g/n Wi-Fi (802.11n 2.4GHz and 5GHz), Wi-Fi Direct, Bluetooth, NFC  Features: Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean), GPS, Wi-Fi Display, DLNA, Gyroscope, Digital compass, Microphone, Sensors (light, proximity, magnetic and gravity)  Battery: 2500 mAh built-in lithium-ion battery  Included Accessories: Power adapter, USB Cable, Headphones

 
