
It's easy to think that Chinese smartphone makers are thriving solely on sales of ultra-cheap devices, but that's only partly true. In many cases, they're striking careful balances between features and pricing -- handsets like the Vivo X3 tout sleek designs and big screens, but their modest processing power keeps costs in check. Oppo wants to bring that high-value philosophy to the rest of the world through the international version of the R819. For $349, it's an exceptionally thin phone with perks you don't always get at this price, including dual SIM slots and better support for custom firmware. However, it faces stiff competition from new rivals like the Moto G and Nexus 5. Is the R819 still worth buying when it's not the fastest or cheapest in the pack? That's what we're here to find out.





Hardware
The R819's design won't turn any heads. Whether you're looking at it in black or white, it's very nondescript outside of the metal trim. The front has little more than the necessary speaker, a 2-megapixel front camera and capacitive navigation keys; the back is relatively featureless aside from the 8-megapixel back shooter, a tiny secondary microphone and a speaker grille. Its glossy plastic shell doesn't exactly convey a premium feel, either. It's very comfortable to hold, though, and we're not fretting over the build quality.

It's when you look at the side that the cleverness of Oppo's design becomes apparent. At 7.3mm (0.29 inch) thick, the R819 is one of the slimmest phones we've seen in its price class. It's quite light, too, at 110g (3.9 ounces). While it's not as slender as the 5.75mm-thick Vivo X3, we doubt many of you will have trouble stuffing it into a tight pants pocket. Just be prepared for some initial confusion over the button layout if you're unfamiliar with Oppo hardware. As with the Find 5, the R819's power key (on the left) and volume rocker (right) have traded places versus what we're used to on many American and Korean phones. Indeed, we had a few early slip-ups where we cranked up the sound instead of putting the handset to sleep.

Our biggest gripe is that there's no expansion, which is a significant issue for a budget phone that doesn't have much headroom. Although 16GB of built-in storage and a 2,000mAh battery are certainly acceptable at this price, you can't augment either; you'll want to turn elsewhere if you have a big media library. The dual 3G SIM slots will please both globetrotters and prepaid phone customers who want to quickly switch providers, however, and there's both 802.11n WiFi and Bluetooth 3.0 for short-range wireless. Other phone elements are sensibly placed. There's a headphone jack at the top-left corner, while both the primary microphone and a micro-USB port sit at the bottom right.

As for frills? There aren't any, really. You won't get much more than Dirac HD audio processing, an FM radio and media sharing through both DLNA as well as WiFi Display. We won't grouse too much given the cost, but it's notable that the comparably priced Nexus 5 supports wireless charging.

Display
We're getting used to seeing color-rich IPS LCDs just about everywhere, even on relatively cheap devices like ASUS' MeMO Pad HD 7. It's no surprise, then, that Oppo has slipped one into the R819. The 4.7-inch, 720p (312-ppi) panel isn't going to fare well against the 1080p displays of other Android devices, including the Find 5 and Nexus 5, but it ticks off most of the right boxes. It's bright enough to read on a sunny day; colors are vibrant without appearing oversaturated; and viewing angles are wide. However, it's evident that Oppo cut a few corners here. We could spot both a small amount of backlight bleeding and a pink shimmering effect at sharp angles. While these flaws aren't visible when looking at the LCD head-on, they're not-so-friendly reminders that this is a lower-end handset.

Software
Oppo doesn't modify Android as aggressively as local rivals like Huawei or Meizu, but there's no way you'll mistake the R819's Android 4.2-based ColorOS layer for the stock Google interface. There are a slew of custom icons, adjustable quick settings in the notification bar and a home screen dedicated to showing any currently playing music. It's simple to customize home screens, lock screens, wallpapers and widgets. The company hasn't bundled many additional apps in this international device, although you'll find a few basic utilities (such as flashlight and note-taking apps) as well as Kingsoft Office for document editing.

We're fine with the derivative software extras, since Oppo stresses functionality over gimmickry.Dig deeper and you'll find features that amount to a greatest hits collection from other phone designers. We most liked the option of double-tapping the screen to wake it up, much like on the LG G2 or Nokia's more recent Lumia phones. A few Samsung-like camera- and motion-driven actions have also made the cut, such as keeping the screen awake while you look at it (yep, kind of like Smart Stay). There are also notifications that appear as soon as you pick up the phone. We're fine with the derivative software extras, since Oppo stresses functionality over gimmickry; we just wish there were more original features as well.





