
 

When it comes to music subscription services, Spotify isn't the only game in town -- but you knew that already. Here in the States we've got Rhapsody and Rdio to name but a couple, and in Europe, Deezer has been making a bit of a name for itself over the past few years. The French service will likely be expanding its reach in the UK, thanks to a deal struck with Orange. Deezer is now available as part of the carrier's Panther plan -- Orange customers on other plans will have to pay £9.99 a month to get their stream on. Press release after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Music to your ears: Orange unveils partnership with premier music streaming service Deezer 			Orange today announced an exclusive partnership for their customers, with music streaming service Deezer. The launch of Deezer Mobile which is exclusively available to Orange pay monthly customers means that for the first time customers can stream music on their phones as part of their tariff. 			Deezer will be offering a standalone service at £9.99 per month which gives customers access to millions of music tracks and albums, as well as 30 radio channels in 12 music genres, 30,000 artist based radio channels and thousands of artists' discographies, biographies and reviews on their mobile or PC. However, Orange mobile customers will be able to get an exclusive mobile only package, Deezer Mobile, included as part of their tariff which means they can stream up to 13 million tracks from all major labels without the interruption of advertisements, as well as the ability to download music and play it offline1. 			"We know that our customers love music, and so we're really excited about being the only network to be able to give them access to their favourite artists on their phones wherever they are," Pippa Dunn, Chief Marketing Officer, Orange UK. 			Deezer is fast becoming the music streaming service of choice, having launched in France and already boasting 20 million users worldwide, 6 million unique visitors to their website per month and more than 1.2 million premium subscribers. Offering hints and suggestions through reviews, bios and more as well as unlimited streaming of an impressive catalogue., In addition, Deezer features a dedicated editorial team who live and breathe music. Easily accessible reviews, artist bios and more allow users to discover brand new artists and genres as well as share their favourite tracks, playlists and albums with friends. Deezer's ambition is to become the number one destination for all UK music fans. 			Streaming music packages to be introduced will include: 			Deezer Mobile - This exclusive mobile package is available for Orange pay monthly customers on Panther as part of their existing tariffs, offering unlimited access to Deezer's full music catalogue via mobile-only, with enhanced sound quality and no ads 			Deezer Premium+ - For music lovers looking for seamless music enjoyment between their PC and mobile, this premium service is available for £9.99 per month 			"Deezer has always aimed to put fans in control of their own music – whether at a desk or on the move," said Mark Foster, MD Deezer UK. "We're delighted to be partnering with Orange to offer a truly flexible mobile music experience, and look forward to seeing all the tapping feet on the tube." 			Deezer will be available to Orange customers from the 6th September. For more information visit your local Orange store. 
 