
 
We did ponder how you can rename the Orange and T-Mobile coalition (topical word, eh Britain?) without offending either party, and the strategy seems to have been to just go for a name so bombastic that it overshadows all other concerns. Say hello to Everything Everywhere. Such is the strident new moniker attached to the joint venture between the French and German telecoms, with the justification being that the resultant "super-network" will be the biggest in the UK and therefore capable of providing both universal coverage and limitless services. We'll see how that works out, but for now it's important to note that the high street brands won't be changing. T-Mobile and Orange will retain their separate identities (and eye-searing color schemes), while offering you all the synergistic benefits resulting from the scale of the new company. Full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textLondon. 11 May 2010. Britain's biggest communications company was unveiled today, promising to transform the industry and give UK consumers the best coverage, devices, service and communications experience possible.The company – called Everything Everywhere™ – will run two of Britain's most famous brands, Orange and T-Mobile, and has a customer base of 30 million people: over half of the UK adult population.Orange and T-Mobile will continue as leading brands in the market, with each brand having its own shops, marketing campaigns, propositions and service centres. However, behind the scenes, the two brands will be run by one company, with one team and one vision to give consumers instant access to the people, places and things they want, wherever they are. Everything Everywhere™ is the name of the company that runs Orange and T-Mobile, and the company that all 16,500 employees will work for. The company will be officially integrated on July 1.Tom Alexander, Chief Executive of Everything Everywhere™, said: "Together, we are Britain's biggest communications company, with over 30 million customers. "We are on the verge of a communications revolution. Up until a few years ago, mobile was just about voice and text – not now. Multimedia phones have already started to change the way our customers access the world – for entertainment, education, information – wherever they are, whenever they want."That is why, through our scale and Britain's only super-network with its unsurpassed coverage and capacity, we will be leading this revolution, giving customers instant access to everything, everywhere."We are Everything Everywhere – it's our name, our vision, and our ambition – and we run two of the UK's biggest brands Orange and T-Mobile. It's our vision to give our customers instant access to everything everywhere, opening up a world of endless possibilities."
 