
  While this might not be the first kid-centric tablet we've seen, it's certainly got the coolest name. All we know about the MEEP! kiddie-slate right now is that it's made by Oregon Scientific, has a 7-inch Neonode zForce touchscreen display, WiFi, an SD card slot, a "G-sensor" for screen rotation -- and runs on an as yet unspecified version of Android. The makers claim it's suitable for ages six and up, and parents can monitor and limit web access via an online control panel. We're told that accessories will soon be on their way, including every parent's favorite: musical instruments. The full unveiling will be at the TIA toy fair this weekend. Road-run over the break for the full press release. MEEP! MEEP!
      

 

  Show full PR text  Android-Based MEEP! Tablet to Feature Music, Movies, e-books, Parental Controls and more OREGON SCIENTIFIC MEEP!   Oregon Scientific Unveils MEEP!, a new Android-based tablet for kids! (PRNewsFoto/Oregon Scientific) NEW YORK, NY UNITED STATES  NEW YORK, Feb. 10, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Oregon Scientific, a leading designer and worldwide marketer of personal electronics, today announced its entry into a hot new category: kid's tablets. Leaving cartridge-based devices behind in the dust, the new Wi-Fi enabled MEEP! tablet runs on the Android operating system and offers music, movies, e-books, and apps from leading developers - all on a large, 7-inch color touch screen! The MEEP! tablet will be unveiled for the first time at the Toy Industry Association's (TIA) 109th American International Toy Fair this weekend.  (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120210/NE51475 )  Sharing a mobile device is a tough feat, especially for parents, when there is a risk it could be dropped, broken, scratched or rendered useless. The MEEP! tablet is an affordable fix for a tech –hungry generation of kids, featuring a tough design and an enhanced rubber silicon sleeve for added protection. Geared for children age 6 and up, the MEEP! tablet is Wi-Fi enabled, allowing access to a sea of web content that can be downloaded to its internal memory or SD card and viewed from any angle courtesy of the tablet's internal G-Sensor. All websites and content can be monitored through intuitive parental controls that are adjusted remotely on any computer or mobile device with a browser and an Internet connection.  The MEEP! tablet from Oregon Scientific will feature a variety of accessories sold separately, including musical instruments.
 