


Like the look of Digital Storm's VELOCE gaming notebook, but have strong loyalties with another system builder? Don't worry -- Origin PC has just announced another gaming rig with the exact same chassis: the EON13-S. The similarity is no coincidence, both models are based on the 13.3-inch Clevo W230ST, carefully branded and customized by each company.


Origin's twist on the laptop includes a 4th Generation Intel Core processor, NVIDIA GTX 765M graphics and up to three storage devices. The company didn't announce specifics, but Clevo's own product page outs Intel's 2.8GHz i7-4900MQ, 2.70GHz i7-4800MQ and 2.40GHz i7-4700MQ chips as possible options. The base model also supports up to 16GB of RAM, though its Digital Storm variant tops out at 8GB. Naturally, Origin says that many of these elements will be customizable and upgradable, with the most frugal configuration ringing in at $1,474. Additionally, customers that order before August 5th can score free overclocking and a gratis Corsair M95 mouse. Not bad, if you're looking for tiny gaming machine. Check out the company's official press release after the break.



Show full PR textORIGIN PC Deploys a New EON 13-inch Custom High-Performance Laptop with an Exclusive Back-to-School PromotionIntroducing the EON13-S: The Perfect Combination of Power and Portability That's Just Right
Miami, FL – July 29, 2013, 9:00 a.m. Eastern – ORIGIN PC announces a brand new member to their line-up of award-winning EON laptops, the EON13-S custom high-performance laptop; the perfect balance of power and portability for gamers, artists, professionals and enthusiasts! Slim enough at a weight of only 4.4lbs, the new EON13-S is upgradable and features a stunning IPS 1920 x1080 high-definition display, Intel's 4th generation mobile processors, NVIDIA GeForce GTX 765M graphics and up to 3 storage drives including dual mSATA with RAID support; making this one of the most powerful, portable, and customizable laptops in its class. With its upgradability, power and performance in such a small package, the EON13-S is the perfect choice for both work and play.ORIGIN PC is also celebrating the back to school season with an exclusive promotion for one week only! Starting today through August 5th, purchase any ORIGIN PC system and receive free U.S. ground shipping, free ORIGIN PC professional GPU overclocking*, a free Corsair M95 high-performance mouse and a free Corsair MM200 mouse-pad while supplies last! Whether you're a student, gamer or professional, now is the perfect time to choose ORIGIN PC!

The EON13-S starts at $1474 and features:1080p IPS High-Definition Display: Enjoy the gorgeous IPS 1920x1080 High-Definition Display with its stunning graphics, rich detail and vibrant colors

Intel's 4th Generation Mobile Processors: The highly anticipated Intel Haswell mobile processor offers a significant performance and battery life increase with enhanced security features

NVIDIA GeForce GTX 765M Graphics: NVIDIA's powerful next-gen mobile graphics with 2GB of gDDR5 memory that runs all of the latest PC games at smooth frame rates and stunning high detail

Customizable and Upgradable: The EON13-S provides the most upgradability and customization options in its class allowing you to customize a variety of different components such as CPU, Memory, HDD and more

Lightweight Design: Weighing approximately 4.4lbs, the EON13-S is the perfect companion for travel and light enough to easily transport

Backlit Keyboard: The EON13-S features a beautiful backlit keyboard for maximum visibility in dark surroundings

Up to 3 Storage Drives with Dual mSATA Raid Support: Take full advantage of the optional Dual mSATA drives with RAID support and a storage drive. Get increased speeds and high capacity drive options to store all your data and content

Free Lifetime 24/7 Support: Every ORIGIN PC comes with industry leading Lifetime 24/7 Support based in the United States

"ORIGIN PC continues to raise the bar for high-performance portable gaming by offering only the best experiences and the most innovative products like our new EON13-S." said Kevin Wasielewski ORIGIN PC CEO and co-founder. "The EON13-S offers the perfect balance of power and portability that's just right and with no compromises. With its gorgeous IPS 1920x1080 High-Definition display, high-performance components, the most upgradeability/customization options, and lifetime 24/7 support, the EON13-S easily outclasses any other gaming laptop in its class."


