
 
Who says you need a vat of liquid nitrogen and a voided warranty to push your gaming rig to 5GHz? Here at CES, Origin PC has just announced one killer upgrade for its Genesis and Big O desktop range: an overclocked Core i7 2600k processor that's pushed to 5GHz from the factory. Naturally, the release coincides with Intel's new Sandy Bridge rollout, with this particular chip touting Turbo Boost 2.0 and an integrated memory controller. You'll also get three-way SLI, a customized liquid cooling setup (phew!) and a refreshed EFI BIOS from ASUS that features "convenient mouse controls and an entirely new user interface." If you're looking for something a wee bit more portable (but not exact bantam), you'll be thrilled to know that its Eon 15 and 17 gaming laptops will also start shipping soon with Intel's second-generation Core i5 / i7 CPUs; pair that with a GeForce GTX 485M, an optional TV tuner and four slots of DDR3 memory, and you'll have yourself a sufficient little LAN party rig. There's no mention of dollars and cents, but we're confident the build sheets will be updated soon on Origin's order pages.
      

 

Show full PR textORIGIN Empowers GENESIS and Big O Desktops with Intel's Next Generation Core i7 2600k Overclocked over 5.0GHzORIGIN's award-winning desktops available startingJanuary 9, 2011 with Intel's next generation processorsEON notebooks to ship with new overclocked Core i5 and i7 processors in Q1 featuring the latest & most powerful CPU & GPU combination in a mobile chassisEON17 now available with the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 485M GPU, the world's fastest notebook GPUGENESIS on display at CES – Fractal Design Suite in the VenetianBig O on display at CES - Creative Labs Booth South Hall 1, 20913Miami, FL – January 5, 2011 – ORIGIN PC is proud to unveil a new era of powerful computing with the introduction of Intel's next generation Core i5 processors and Core i7 processors. The GENESIS and Big O high performance PCs are now equipped with Intel's second generation 32nm Core i7 processor featuring Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0 and Integrated Memory Controller (IMC) – 2ch DDR3, 2 DIMMs/ch, up to 1333. ORIGIN kicks things up a few levels by overclocking this processing powerhouse to over 5.0GHz ensuring you achieve maximum performance from the new Core i7 processor. The revamped systems also feature up to three-way SLI, customized liquid cooling options for processors and video cards and a new user friendly EFI BIOS from ASUS featuring convenient mouse controls and an entirely new user interface.Origin's EON 15 and 17 high performance notebooks will ship with the second generation Intel Core i5 and i7 processors in Q1. These coveted mobile solutions will feature the latest & most powerful CPU & GPU combination on a Mobile chassis by combining the power of Intel's latest mobile Core i7 processor technology with Nvidia's most powerful Mobile GPUs (GeForce GTX485M) on 15.6" & 17.3" inch platforms. Additional features will include Intel's new Core processor overclocking technology, up to four memory slots supporting dual-channel DDR3 memory, and an optional built-in TV Tuner.The ORIGIN EON17 is available now with the new NVIDIA GeForce GTX 485M GPU in single or dual configurations running in SLI. The GeForce 485M is the world's fastest notebook GPU featuring DirectX11, PhysX technology, and interactive raytracing. "Intel's latest technology delivers gamers and creative professionals a new level of processing power and intuitive convenience" said Kevin Wasielewski, CEO and Co-Founder of ORIGIN. "ORIGIN delivers the most aggressive and rock solid overclocking in the industry and we have Intel's Core i7 processors running at over 5GHz while remaining cool and passing every single one of our stability tests. The Intel Core i7 2600K processor is an amazing processor and with ORIGIN's award-winning overclocking our customers will dominate the playing field.""The ORIGIN GENESIS built with Intel's second generation Core i7 Processors is one of the most powerful platforms on the market for gamers, power users, and professionals" said Eric Thompson, Director of North America Channel for Intel Corporation. "ORIGIN's GENESIS is powered by ASUS' P8P67 Motherboard to deliver the best experience for gamers and professionals. Leveraging the motherboard's onboard DIGI+ VRM and EFI BIOS for accurate performance tuning, ORIGIN is able to overclock next-generation Intel processors to 5GHz and beyond." said Jerry Dien for ASUS Computers International. GENESIS and EON systems feature a 1 year free shipping and free part replacement warranty backed with the best in class integration, quality testing and support. ORIGIN offers a free life-time phone and online service guarantee and each customer has a dedicated support team and free life-time labor for upgrade needs. The GENESIS is the only truly custom pc in the industry featuring name brand components with ORIGIN giving customers the option to customize every component including the chassis.  Systems can be configured one on one with an ORIGIN specialist through 1-877-ORIGIN-0 (674-4460 or sales@originpc.com.
 