
 
Oh, sure -- we've seen an Xbox 360 enclosure stuffed with x86 innards, but we can't say we've ever seen anything quite like this. Gaming upstart Origin PC has just shattered every preconceived notion about its potential with the Big O, an appropriately titled luxury machine that combines a liquid-cooled gaming PC with a liquid-cooled Xbox 360 Slim. In one box. A pair of base configurations are available (though customizations are limitless), with both of 'em rigged up to run the PC and Xbox concurrently. In other words, these bad boys can actually crunch SETI@home data while you explore the vastness of Halo: Reach. The $7,669 build includes an overclocked 4.0GHz Core i7-930 CPU, Rampage III Extreme mobo, twin NVIDIA GTX480 graphics cards, 6GB of Corsair memory, a 1,500 watt power support, 12x Pioneer Blu-ray burner, two 50GB OCZ SSDs wired up as a boot drive, Windows 7 Home Premium, a liquid-cooled Xbox 360 and bragging rights the size of Texas Alaska. For those still unsatisfied, there's a $16,999 version that's frankly too lust-worthy to spell out here (but is in the gallery below). Hit the source link if you're feeling ambitious, but don't blame us for blowing your kid's college fund in one fell swoop. 






Show full PR textORIGIN Unleashes Benchmark Shattering Gaming PC-Xbox 360 HybridPosted on: 7 September 2010'The Big O' delivers unparalleled gaming experience with total customization, insane speed, absolute power, immersive graphics, and complete liquid coolingMiami, FL – September 7, 2010 – ORIGIN PC is proud to unveil The Big O, their latest creation designed for dominance and destined to make high performance computing enthusiasts and gamers to drool uncontrollably. The Big O fuses the capabilities of the fastest computing hardware on the market, ORIGIN's expert overclocking, and a built in Xbox 360 to create the ultimate gaming weapon.The Big O is featured in CPU Magazine's annual Dream Machine review roundup, an epic competition between system builders. "If you want the ultimate PC, the Big O is it" said CPU Magazine. "By integrating an Xbox 360, the Big O offers everything and the kitchen sink."Absolute Power – With Intel's Xeon X5680 processors there is nothing you can throw at The Big O that will slow it down. Each X5680 features six-cores, twelve threads, supports ECC memory-and that's before we add a second CPU and overclock it to a lighting fast 4.3GHz. Add in up to 24GBs of Corsair GT 2000MHz memory and then dare any computer task to slow down your Big O.Quad Damage – A strong core with excellent liquid cooling is the key to lasting performance and EVGA's GeForce® GTX 480 FTW graphics cards delivers the best graphical power money can buy. This power is multiplied in a SLI multi-GPU configuration creating the most immersive visuals imaginable in gaming and beyond. The Big O provides the unmatched graphics performance that will shatter any benchmark thrown at it.The X-Factor – To empower gamers with the most comprehensive gaming platform on the planet, ORIGIN integrates a liquid-cooled Xbox 360 slim directly into each Big O. Every Big O system is strategically modified so the Xbox ports are easily accessible with liquid cooled processors for extreme performance. You can even game on the Xbox 360 while your computer is busy dominating whatever other task it is assigned.Liquid Cooled to Perfection – ORIGIN keeps your Big O cool with its state of the art liquid cooling system that maximizes performance from the CPU, motherboard, graphics card and even the integrated Xbox 360 slim. The ORIGIN custom liquid cooling system aggressively dissipates heat and eliminates fan noise ensuring your system remains cool and whisper quiet."The Big O will satisfy the demands of even the most power hungry gamer, but when you create the ultimate personal computer system it has to be designed to go above and beyond gaming" said Kevin Wasielewski, CEO and Co-Founder of ORIGIN. "From the hottest games on the market to digital video editing and 3D rendering you will have the power to perform at every level. To have the best you have to build using the latest in computer technology that guarantees unmatched performance and that is exactly what you get with the Big O.""Wow, we can honestly say we've never seen a system like the Big O before," said Ujesh Desai, general manager of the GeForce GPU business at NVIDIA. "The components selected by ORIGIN, including up to quad GeForce GTX 480 GPUs will definitely have gamers salivating for the win."The Big O features a 1 year free shipping and free part replacement warranty backed with the best in class integration, quality testing and support. ORIGIN offers a free life-time phone and online service guarantee and each customer has a dedicated support team and free life-time labor for upgrade needs. Pricing for The Big O starts from $7,669 and can be configured one on one with an ORIGIN specialist through http://originpc.com/thebigo-features.asp.
 