
  In the market for a beastly portable gaming rig that won't break the bank? Origin PC today announced availability of its EON15-S and EON17-S gaming laptops, with pricing starting at $1,525 and $1,576, respectively. You'll of course still be able to hand over an arm and a leg depending on how you opt to build out your system, but considering that the base model is priced at nearly half the amount its predecessor was when it was announced this time last year, we imagine additions will wield a softer blow than they did in 2011. Both systems include Intel HM77 Ivy Bridge chipsets, NVIDIA GeForce GTX 660M, 670M or 675M graphics with Optimus power-conservation technology, and a 5.1 ONKYO surround sound system. Both cases offer unique designs, with black, red, silver or custom finishes, and a colorful backlit keyboard. What else could you possibly need? Perhaps a press release and a few more pictures -- and we've got both for you right here.





  Show full PR text  ORIGIN PC's EON17-S and EON15-S get Upgraded with a Complete Technology Overhaul and Exclusive New Laptop Design  Award Winning Laptops Now Feature the Latest Technology from ORIGIN PC, Intel, and NVIDIA.  Miami, FL – April 8, 2012, 12:01AM Eastern – ORIGIN PC announced today the availability of their completely overhauled EON17-S and EON15-S high-performance laptops. Featuring the next generation Intel HM77 chipset, overclocked NVIDIA GeForce GTX 675M graphics cards, and NVIDIA Optimus Technology. These amazing new EON laptops are ideal for gamers, artists, enthusiasts, and professionals. They debut with the exclusive ORIGIN PC design available in silver, matte black, matte red, or with custom paint jobs.  ORIGIN PC's EON17-S and EON15-S Laptops Feature: • Exclusive ORIGIN PC Laptop Design: First shown at CES, the exclusive new ORIGIN PC laptop design will be available as a standard option in matte black, matte red, silver, or your choice of custom paint. • Customizable Backlit Keyboard: With three lighting zones and seven color options, you can customize your laptop to match any style you want. • Next Generation Intel HM77 Chipset: Stay up to date with the just released Intel HM77 chipset which is ready for today and upgradeable for tomorrow. • Intel Rapid Start Technology: Experience lightning fast resume time with Intel Rapid Start Technology. • NVIDIA GeForce GTX 660M, 670M and 675M Graphics: NVIDIA's most powerful GTX mobile graphics cards ever created are able to display games and programs in beautiful, high resolution. • NVIDIA Optimus Technology: Automatically switches between your graphics cards and onboard graphics to provide more efficient use of power, less fan noise, and up to 6.5 hours of battery life (2.5 times more than previous generation EON laptops). • ORIGIN PC CPU + GPU Overclocking : Let our overclocking experts take your system to an even higher level of performance with our CPU (EON17-S only) and GPU overclocking backed by our industry leading service and support. • THX TruStudio Pro with ONKYO Sound System: High quality ONKYO speakers in 5.1 surround sound with the ability to output to a 7.1 speaker system of your choice. THX TruStudio Pro gives you the ability to tweak your audio to perfection. • Free Lifetime 24/7 Support: Every ORIGIN PC comes with industry leading Lifetime 24/7 Support based in the United States.  The EON15-S is Fully Customizable starting at $1525.00 and the EON17-S is Fully Customizable starting at $1576.00 "The type of complete technology overhaul that the EON17-S and EON15-S laptops have just undergone does not happen often. This is the best time to upgrade to an ORIGIN laptop," said Kevin Wasielewski ORIGIN PC CEO and co-founder. "With the latest technology from Intel and NVIDIA, the customizable backlit keyboard, and the exclusive ORIGIN laptop design the new EON-S laptops offer stunning performance and they look as good as they perform."  All ORIGIN PC systems come with free lifetime 24/7 phone and online service based in the United States. Each customer has a dedicated support team and free lifetime labor for upgrade needs. ORIGIN PC's Evolve Upgrade Program allows customers to purchase a custom PC now, and trade in their parts when they want to upgrade. Every ORIGIN PC features a 1 to 3 year free part replacement warranty combined with the best in class integration, quality testing and support.
 