
OUYA CEO Julie Uhrman took to the stage at DICE 2013 today to reveal two new partnerships, one with Psychonauts creator Tim Schafer's studio Double Fine Productions, and the other with Words with Friends creator Paul Bettner. So far, that means both Double Fine's Reds and The Cave are headed to OUYA, while Bettner's Verse studio only announced it was working on two unannounced titles. "I believe we're about to see another disruption even bigger than this last," Bettner said, referring to his previous work in the mobile game space. "Gamers want the App Store in their living room. OUYA will be the first to deliver it," he said.


The OUYA arrives in March for Kickstarter backers, and in April for the rest of the world (even later for retail). It's unclear exactly when Schafer and Bettner's games will arrive on the Android-powered console, but we'd expect The Cave to be there sooner than later (it's already available on other platforms).


Update: This post originally stated that Tim Schafer created the Monkey Island series, when in fact it was created by Ron Gilbert. While Tim Schafer worked on the Monkey Island series, he is not its creator. Sorry about that, readers (and Ron Gilbert)!



Show full PR textAt the D.I.C.E. Summit today, Julie Uhrman, CEO and founder of OUYA, announced game partnerships with Tim Schafer and Double Fine Productions, and Paul Bettner, creator of Words With Friends. Double Fine will bring the upcoming game Reds to OUYA, as well as The Cave. Paul Bettner and his studio Verse is currently in development on two unannounced titles for OUYA.

Release dates for the games by Double Fine and Paul Bettner will be announced in the future.

Paul Bettner, Words with Friends creator:

"OUYA and Verse are nothing less than The Return Of Console Gaming. The last big wave was mobile ... Words With Friends is the most played game across all mobile platforms (and the With Friends franchise dominates 5 of the top 25 spots of all mobile games played today.). And yet I believe we're about to see another disruption even bigger than this last. Gamers want the App Store in their living room. OUYA will be the first to deliver it, and it's going to change everything. Again."


