
In June, Paramount and Regal Theaters tried out a $50 "Mega Ticket" promotion for World War Z, and this month Warner Bros. is testing out a similar package in Canada for Pacific Rim. Available at Cineplex theaters, it lets moviegoers pre-buy a digital Ultraviolet copy of the movie for $19.99 ($24.99 in HD) that's promised to arrive before anyone else can get it, plus 725 points for its loyalty program and some exclusive extra content, all viewable on the CineplexStore website. Unlike the WWZ promo this doesn't include an early screenings before the movie's July 12th release, but it does mean any ticket can be upgraded to the "Super Ticket" package. That the flick was shot in Toronto probably has a lot to do with the location for the offer, although it's hard to say what's needed to convince viewers to check out an action movie already getting glowing reviews from Hideo Kojima and Kanye West. Of course we'll miss the MegaTicket's included small popcorn ($75 value!), but this could be getting closer to a decent proposition -- what price would convince you to combine your movie ticket / home video copy in one purchase?



 Pacific Rim is the ultimate otaku film that all of us had always been waiting for. Who are you, if you are Japanese and won't watch this?

- HIDEO_KOJIMA (@HIDEO_KOJIMA_EN) July 5, 2013I saw a pre-screening of Pacific Rim yesterday and it's easily one of my favorite movies of all time.

- KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) July 4, 2013Show full PR textCineplex Names Warner Bros. Pictures and Legendary Pictures Pacific Rim Canada's First SuperTicket
Movie-goers can purchase a digital copy of the movie with their theatre admission ticket and access exclusive bonus features and SCENE points - all for one great price

TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - July 4, 2013) - (TSX:CGX) - Cineplex Entertainment and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. today announced that director Guillermo del Toro's highly anticipated summer action adventure, Pacific Rim, will offer Canada's first SuperTicket(TM).

SuperTicket sales for Pacific Rim open Friday, July 5, 2013, at Cineplex.com, participating Cineplex theatre box offices or automated ticketing kiosks, or using the Cineplex mobile app.

This is a first-ever bundled offering in Canada, and allows movie-goers to purchase a movie admission ticket and pre-order the UltraViolet digital version of Pacific Rim at the same time. The pre-ordered digital version will be available before the DVD and Blu-ray release date, and Cineplex SuperTicket purchasers will be the first to receive their UltraViolet version.

Pacific Rim SuperTicket purchasers also receive access to exclusive, never before seen content exploring filmmaker Guillermo del Toro's vision. In 'Cinematic Adventure,' see how del Toro's unique approach to monster films brought an unprecedented cinematic scale to the massive Kaiju and Jaeger battles. 'A Primer on Kaiju and Jaegers' traces the origins of two of Japanese cinema's most iconic creations, the Kaiju and Mecha. Get an awe-inspiring look at how del Toro's production built "to scale" fully operational sets in 'Mega Sized Sets.' Finally, 'The Importance of Mass and Scale' reveals the Pacific Rim design aesthetic of using small details to define the space occupied by the Kaijus and the Jaegers.

"SuperTicket brings Cineplex movie-goers incredible convenience and extra value," said Pat Marshall, Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations, Cineplex Entertainment. "There's no easier way to purchase a digital movie, all while benefitting from special offers and bonus SCENE points. SuperTicket is one of the most innovative offers in the movie business today."

A Pacific Rim SuperTicket will cost $19.99 for a standard definition digital download, or $24.99 for a high definition digital download, plus the cost of the theatrical movie ticket.

Pacific Rim SuperTicket purchasers will also have the opportunity to receive up to 725 bonus SCENE points.

"We are thrilled to be partnered with Cineplex to bring this exciting new opportunity to movie-goers throughout Canada," said Dan Fellman, President, Domestic Distribution, Warner Bros. Pictures. "We're excited that Pacific Rim will be our inaugural title for this program."

"SuperTicket is an intriguing way to extend the movie-going experience beyond the theatre," said del Toro. "Fans of Pacific Rim will enjoy early access to the UltraViolet title and exclusive content that really gets to the bottom of the inspiration behind the film and how it was made."

Purchasing a SuperTicket couldn't be easier:

-- Purchase a SuperTicket at Cineplex.com, a participating Cineplex theatre box office or an automated ticketing kiosk. You can also purchase a SuperTicket using the Cineplex mobile app.

-- Guests will receive two vouchers - one for their theatre admission and the other containing a unique access code, which they can redeem for the UltraViolet digital version at SuperTicket.com.

-- When the movie and bonus digital content are available, it will be automatically added to the purchaser's Cineplex Store locker - available at CineplexStore.com.

About Pacific Rim

From acclaimed filmmaker Guillermo del Toro comes the sci-fi action adventure "Warner Bros. Pictures and Legendary Pictures Pacific Rim."

When legions of monstrous creatures, known as Kaiju, started rising from the sea, a war began that would take millions of lives and consume humanity's resources for years on end. To combat the giant Kaiju, a special type of weapon was devised: massive robots, called Jaegers, which are controlled simultaneously by two pilots whose minds are locked in a neural bridge. But even the Jaegers are proving nearly defenseless in the face of the relentless Kaiju. On the verge of defeat, the forces defending mankind have no choice but to turn to two unlikely heroes-a washed up former pilot (Charlie Hunnam) and an untested trainee (Rinko Kikuchi)-who are teamed to drive a legendary but seemingly obsolete Jaeger from the past. Together, they stand as mankind's last hope against the mounting apocalypse.

Oscar(R) nominee Guillermo del Toro ("Pan's Labyrinth") directed the epic sci-fi action adventure from a script by Travis Beacham ("Clash of the Titans") and del Toro, story by Beacham. Thomas Tull, Jon Jashni, Guillermo del Toro and Mary Parent produced the film, with Callum Greene serving as executive producer.

Pacific Rim stars Charlie Hunnam (TV's "Sons of Anarchy"), Idris Elba ("Thor"), Rinko Kikuchi ("Babel"), Charlie Day ("Horrible Bosses"), Rob Kazinsky, Max Martini, Clifton Collins, Jr., Burn Gorman, and Ron Perlman (the "Hellboy" films).

Del Toro's behind-the-scenes team included Academy Award(R)-winning director of photography Guillermo Navarro ("Pan's Labyrinth"), production designers Andrew Neskoromny and Carol Spier, editors Peter Amundson and John Gilroy, and costume designer Kate Hawley. The music is composed by Ramin Djawadi. The visual effects supervisors were John Knoll and James E. Price, and Hal Hickel was the animation supervisor.

Warner Bros. Pictures and Legendary Pictures present a Legendary Pictures/DDY Production, a Guillermo del Toro film. Opening July 12, 2013, the film will be released in 2D and 3D in select theatres and IMAX(R), and will be distributed worldwide by Warner Bros. Pictures, a Warner Bros. Entertainment Company.

pacificrimmovie.ca

About Cineplex:


