
 
Voice-only wireless customers who couldn't possibly care less about messaging or data probably aren't reading this site to hear the news, but if they were, they'd find out that prepaid carrier Page Plus Cellular has just added a pretty wild new plan that lets you pay $80 in exchange for 2,000 voice minutes that expire annually. Let us phrase that a different way: $80 a year for 2,000 minutes. That's not going to do your average smartphone user much good, but if you know someone that carries a phone in their car, purse, or pocket (usually uncharged, may we add) for the sole purpose of making the occasional emergency call, this might be a solid option. Follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textPage Plus Cellular Adds Annual Cell Phone PlanHOLLAND, Ohio, Dec. 9, 2010 /PRNewswire/ -- Nationwide prepaid cell phone service provider Page Plus Cellular today announced a new annual cell phone plan aimed at low-usage, voice-only customers. The plan provides 2,000 airtime minutes for use over a one year period for $80, which equates to $.04 per minute.The plan is a modification of Page Plus' current Standard voice-only plan, which currently has a 120-day replenishment requirement. Standard voice plan cards, or PINs, are offered in denominations of $10, $25, $50 and $80, with corresponding per-minute rates of $.04 to $.10 (the higher the card/PIN value, the lower the per-minute rate). The new annual plan extends the term of the $80 card/PIN from 120 days to one year.The prepaid service provider said its pay-as-you-go customers will benefit from the low rate and extended term of the plan. It offers extremely good value for relatively low-usage cell phone customers, while providing the convenience of only having to purchase minutes once a year. Factoring in the $.50 monthly maintenance fee charged on the Standard plan, a customer can talk for 166 minutes for about $7 a month on average, and not have to pay a bill or add funds for a full year.While the plan provides voice minutes only and includes certain features such as caller ID and voicemail for free, other services such as text messaging and data transfer can also be used for additional charges, as described on the company's Web site at www.PagePlusCellular.com. In addition, an unlimited text messaging plan can be added on for $19.95 per month.Page Plus Cellular is a prepaid cell phone service provider with nationwide coverage on one of the largest wireless networks in the United States. Page Plus is consistently ranked among the top prepaid mobile providers for low rates and flexible plans. Page Plus cell phones and prepaid cellular plans are available through its large national network of dealers, and on its Web site at www.PagePlusCellular.com.
 