
 

Panasonic's bringing its Tough ways to the tablet front, unveiling two new Honeycomb slates that could be the most durable consumer entries to that field we've yet seen. First up is the 10-inch A1, running with a 1.2GHz dual-core Marvell processor backed by 16GB of integrated storage and further expansion courtesy of microSD. That display packs 1,024 x 768 pixels in a 4:3 form-factor that is said to be anti-glare and stylus-ready, the whole package clocking in at a very healthy 2.13 pounds. Remember, this is an evolution of the Tough series: it'll have more to love -- including LTE or WiMAX connectivity and 10 hours of life from a user-replaceable battery.

There's also a 7-inch B1, which we know a little less about at this point, but both are MIL-STD-810G rated to survive drops, dust and water. You know, the sorts of things that most tablet owners buy expensive cases to protect from. But, a starting MSRP of $1,299 for the A1 might make your budget keeper recoil at least a little bit, though the presumably somewhat cheaper B1 is still lacking a price. Both will quite literally drop in 2012, so watch those feet.






   			Show full PR text  ANDROID-POWERED TABLETS 			World's most reliable 10" and 7" tablets deliver the enhanced security, advanced device management and application eco-system required by business and government users 			Secaucus, NJ, November 7, 2011 – Panasonic, an industry leader in rugged, reliable handheldand tablet computers since 1996, today unveiled the Toughpad™ family of professional-grade Android™-powered tablets (#Toughpad), which includes a 10‖ and 7‖ device. The devices-targeting mission-critical and highly mobile workers-will be supported by an eco-system that includes an enterprise focused app store, peripherals, developer tools, deployment support and more. 			The 10‖ Toughpad A1, available first, is ideal for highly mobile outdoor workers in markets like aviation, construction, field sales and the public sector, where exposure to extreme environments is a constant challenge and the consequence of a failure is significant. The device can also be used as a tool to optimize business processes as a cost effective pen / paper replacement. The 7‖ Toughpad B1 targets similar markets, but in applications where screen real estate is not as critical and where device mobility and portability are critical. 			―Panasonic has been a leading force in the government and enterprise mobile computing space-including tablet, convertible tablet, and handheld devices-for over fifteen years,‖ said Rance M. Poehler, President, Panasonic Solutions Company. ―For many manufacturers this is new territory, but it's currently one of Panasonic's growing product categories. Because of this,we have the unique ability to apply our market knowledge, intellectual property, engineering and R&D resources to deliver an Android-powered tablet that is radically different from the largely consumer-based devices on the market today. The Toughpad tablets are developed from the inside out to address the needs of the business users. As a result, our customers will get the most rugged, reliable and enterprise-appropriate tablets in the world – helping to drive efficiency and productivity in ways that were never possible. The Toughpad tablets will be backed by our world class service and support infrastructure, including our U.S. dedicated hot-line support, 2day or less service turn-time, and our customer facing field engineering staff.‖ 			Panasonic has created a purpose-built line of Android-powered tablets, designed with enhanced security, long product life, and advanced device management in mind. The Panasonic Toughpad family will allow government and commercial enterprises, as well as SMBs, to realize the true potential of tablet computing without sacrificing security and while delivering a high return on investment. 			Panasonic Unveils Toughpad™ Family of Professional-Grade Android™-Powered Tablets 			Enterprise-class SecurityEnterprise-class mobile computing requires an enhanced level of device security that is not available in today's tablet market. To address this need, the new Toughpad family is designed with security in mind. The Toughpad A1 incorporates security embedded at the hardware level and offer technologies like hardware and software encryption, enhanced VPN, dual factor authentication, trusted boot and device management. This enhanced level of device security means the Toughpad A1 will be compliant with FIPS 140-2 for Federal government use and HIPAA ready for healthcare environments. 			The Toughpad™ family can be managed with a custom set of low level controls that provide IT Administrators with unprecedented power over their Android-powered devices. This level of mobile device management (MDM) is essential for successfully deploying and managing Android-powered tablets in the field. These controls allow IT managers to distribute applications in a one-to-many environment, secure devices from unauthorized use and many other granular features not found in consumer-grade Android-powered tablets. 			A Rich Application Environment for Government and Enterprise Mobility Besides having access to the existing selection of Android Market™ applications, the Toughpad is supported by the Business AppPortal™, an enterprise-focused app store offering best-of-breed vertical market specific solutions as well as applications addressing broad enterprise concerns, including Mobile Device Management, security and virtualization. 			This highly secure, cloud-based user storefront allows IT Managers and developers to store,download and test applications for use on their Toughpad devices. Panasonic will also offer private application stores within the Business App Portal, which businesses can customize to meet their specific needs. 			Purpose-built for Real-world Mobility The Toughpad A1 has a high brightness, 10.1‖ XGA capacitive, multi-touch, daylight-viewable screen so mobile workers, in markets like supply chain logistics, utilities and the military, can easily see critical data and operate the device regardless of lighting conditions. 			The Toughpad A1 offers a stylus and active digitizer, enabling flexible data entry in the field, as well as signature capture and handwriting recognition functionalities - ideal for sales, customer service and mobile point-of-service environments. Other features include integrated cameras, a serviceable battery, multiple options for peripheral connectivity and battery life that will accommodate a full day of work. 			The new Toughpad family is designed to meet many of the same durability standards as Panasonic's Toughbook PC product line. The devices have MIL-STD-810G ratings for drops as well as ingress protection ratings for resistance to dust and water. The Toughpad A1 is also rated for use in a wide range of temperatures. This elevated level of durability results in tablets that deliver reliability in almost any environment, assuring maximum mobile worker productivity. 			The Toughpad A1 offers optional 4G (LTE or WiMAX) mobile broadband as well as Bluetooth®v2.1 + EDR, 802.11a/b/g/n Wi-Fi and satellite GPS. 			Panasonic Unveils Toughpad™ Family of Professional-Grade Android™-Powered Tablets 			Panasonic Toughpad™ A1: Select Features and Specifications Operating System Android™ 3.2 (Honeycomb)Processor Marvell 1.2 GHz Dual-CoreProcessorStorage16GBOptional StorageMicroSD optional up to 32GBRAM1GB LP-DDR2Display500 nit, daylight readable,10.1‖ XGA (4:3), capacitive multi-touch with anti-reflective and anti-glare treatment andbuilt in ambient light sensor Battery Life10 hours (serviceable battery)Weight2.13lbs (without pen)Drop Rating4 ft.Ingress ProtectionIP65Temperature rating14F to 122F (operational)Inputs Micro-USB, microSDHC,micro HDMICamera5MP rear, 2MP front Connectivity/Comms4G (LTE or WiMAX), 802.11a/b/g/n, Wi-Fi Hotspot,Bluetooth v2.1 + EDR,Satellite GPS Security Features Hardware-level security, FIPS140-X and HIPPA compliant,cable lock slotDimensions10.5 x 8.3 x 0.67 in. 			Pricing and Availability The Toughpad™ A1 will be available in the Spring of 2012 starting at $1299. The Toughpad B1will be released later in 2012, with more details coming closer to availability. Both devices can be purchased through authorized Panasonic resellers. 			Sales inquiries for Panasonic's Toughpad family of Android-powered tablets should be directedto sales.psc@us.panasonic.com or 877-803-8492. 			The Toughpad family comes standard with the industry's most comprehensive 3-year warranty. 			Panasonic will offer a full set of professional-grade accessories to support the Toughpad line,including cases, mounts, printers, keyboards, magnetic stripe readers, Smart Card Readers and multi-unit storage and charging solutions. 			More information on the Toughpad tablets can be found at http://www.PanasonicToughpad.com 			Images of the Toughpad can be found on the brand's Flickr page; various Toughpad videos can be found on the brand's YouTube page and an article discussing enterprise tablet computer deployment considerations can be found on the brand's blog - Toughbloggers.com. 			Panasonic Unveils Toughpad™ Family of Professional-Grade Android™-Powered Tablets 			Follow the Toughpad™ Brand (#Toughpad):The Panasonic Toughpad brand can be followed on various social media channels, includingFacebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr and Toughbloggers.com. 			About Panasonic Solutions Company Panasonic Solutions Company empowers people whose jobs depend on reliable technology.The company delivers collaboration, information-sharing and decision-support solutions for customers in government, healthcare, education and a wide variety of commercial enterprises.Products and services within the company's portfolio include Panasonic Toughbook and Toughpad mobile computing solutions, projectors, professional displays (including both plasma and LCD), and HD and 3D video acquisition and production solutions. As a result of its commitment to R&D, manufacturing and quality control, Panasonic is known for the reliability and longevity of its products. Panasonic Solutions Company is a Division of Panasonic Corporation of North America, which is the principal North American subsidiary of Panasonic Corporation (NYSE: PC). 			All brand and company/product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of the respective companies. All specifications are subject to change without notice. Information on Panasonic Solutions Company's full line of products can be obtained by calling 877-803-8492 or at www.panasonic.com/business-solutions. 			Android and Android Market are trademarks of Google, Inc. 
 