
 

You ready to get Lumix'd to the max? Panasonic has five new point-and-shooters prepped for this fall, headlined by the well-leaked LX5. That camera aims to keep what was good about the stylish, high-end LX3 while pushing image quality up a notch, with better image processing and a better lens in front of the same 10.1 megapixel CCD resulting in better low light performance. There's also HD recording in AVCHD Lite at 720p. The FZ40 and FZ100 super zoomers are very similar in their 24x zoom lenses and 14.1 megapixels, but the latter can record 1080p and pull off some high speed burst shooting, while the former is constrained to 720p. The FX700 fulfills the stereotypical role of a "safe" 5x zoom point and shoot, though it scores 1080p recording in addition to the needlessly high-res, looks-good-on-a-Costco-placard 14.1 megapixel stills. Finally, the TS10 brings up the low-end, with a rugged design and that good old 14.1 megapixel resolution. Its 4x zoom and 720p motion JPEG recording make it the oddball of the bunch, but it's waterproof down to 10 feet, shock and dust proof, and a good bit cheaper to boot. The TS10 will be out in September for $249, while the LX5, FZ40, FZ100, and FX700 will be out in August for $499, $399, $499, and $399, respectively. Press releases are after the break. 



 


Show full PR textPANASONIC LUMIX LX5, THE ULTIMATE COMPACT HIGH-PERFORMING DIGITAL CAMERA AIMS FOR SUPERB PHOTO QUALITY, ESPECIALLY IN LOW-LIGHT ENVIRONMENTSPanasonic LUMIX LX5 Features New High Sensitivity CCD and F2.0 Leica Lens for Shooting Stunning Photography and Vivid High Definition VideosSECAUCUS, NJ (July 21, 2010) – Panasonic today announced the LUMIX DMC-LX5, the ultimate compact, high-performing digital camera offering photo enthusiasts the ideal camera for capturing professional-quality photos and High Definition (HD) video. With an ultra-bright F2.0 ultra-wide-angle 24mm LEICA DC VARIO-SUMMICRON lens, the LUMIX LX5 minimizes image distortion, resulting in stunning, true-to-life images with outstanding resolution and detail. The 24mm wide angle lens offers extraordinarily large viewing space and now the optical zoom is extended to 3.8x(90mm) making the LX5 even more versatile. "The Panasonic LUMIX LX-Series cameras have been extremely popular models for us with professional and enthusiast photographers, who understand and value the superb image quality such a compact, affordable digital camera can offer," said David Briganti, Senior Product Manager, Imaging, Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company. "We expect the same enthusiasm, if not more, for the LUMIX LX5, which features improvements to the lens and processing – resulting in even better images."The Panasonic LUMIX LX5 is a unique compact digital camera in that it offers superb image quality along with a super-bright lens and increased creative modes. The F2.0 lens is twice as bright as a F2.8 lens, making it easy to produce beautiful photos with a soft-focused background thanks to the shallow depth of field provided by the extra light. In addition to the newly-designed lens, the LUMIX LX5 features an image processing engine that combines technologies resulting in professional-quality photos, especially in low-light situations. Like its predecessor, the LUMIX LX5 features the highly-acclaimed 10.1-megapixel CCD, but it has an expanded dynamic range by increasing the sensitivity and the saturation. The newly developed Venus Engine FHD image processor enables higher-speed, higher-performance while compiling the Intelligent Resolution technology. The triple CPUs in this imaging engine dramatically speeds up processing while achieving exceptional noise reduction performance. With its high-sensitivity CCD and the brightness of the lens, minimum illumination of the LUMIX LX5 is as low as 3 lux while shooting video.In addition to capturing high-quality still photos, the LUMIX LX5 can record HD videos in AVCHD Lite, a format that allows almost doubling the recording time in HD quality compared with the conventional Motion JPEG format. Creative video shooting modes include Creative Movie mode, where users can set shutter speed and aperture manually to make even more impressive movies. My Color mode and Film mode are available for more extended expression not only in photography but also in videography. The LUMIX LX5 also features Dolby Digital Creator to record high quality audio and the 3.8x optical zoom is available while shooting video. The LUMIX LX5 has also been redesigned externally – with a thicker grip making it easier to hold and a newly-incorporated turn-and-push jog dial achieves various selection and setting more quickly. The LUMIX LX5 also features a hot shoe, which allows for the attachment of a wide-variety of accessories, such as an optional Live View Finder which helps shooting under strong daylight with high visibility or an external flash. The 1:1 square format setting is added in the aspect ratio option which can be selected with the switch at the side of the lens barrel.Other features of the Panasonic LUMIX LX5, include:The 3.0-inch large 460,000-dot high resolution Intelligent LCD also redesigned by adopting High CRI (Color Rendering Index) backlight LED to greatly increase the color reproduction, making it more visible both in shooting and playing back images in any conditions from at dark night to under bright sunlight.Battery life is extended to shoot 400 photos (CIPA) per a single charge.A wide-variety of accessories, including a Live View Finder (DMW-LVF1), External Optical View Finder (DMW-VF1), Wide Conversion Lens (DMW-LWA52), Conversion Lens Adaptor (DMW-LA6), MC Protector (DMW-MC52), ND Filter (DMW-LND52), PL Filter: DMW-LPL52, External Flashes, Leather Case (DMW-CLX5) and a Battery Pack (DMW-BCJ13). The Panasonic LUMIX DMC-LX5 will be available in late-August 2010 for a suggested retail of $499.95 and will be available in black and white models.·Leica is a registered trademark of Leica Microsystems IR GmbH.·The LEICA DC VARIO-SUMMICRON lenses are manufactured using measurement instruments and quality assurance systems that have been certified by Leica Camera AG based on the company's quality standards.·The "AVCHD" is a high definition (HD) digital video recording / playback format jointly established by Panasonic Corporation and Sony Corporation. The "AVCHD Lite" is a subset of the "AVCHD format" for HD digital video cameras with HD video recording restricted to 720P. The new "AVCHD Lite" Logo and the "AVCHD Lite" License are restricted to devices within the AVCHD Video Camera category. Digital cameras have been added to the AVCHD Video Camera category.·The "AVCHD Lite" and the "AVCHD Lite" logo are trademarks of Panasonic Corporation and Sony Corporation.·AVCHD Lite motion images recorded onto an SD Memory Card or a DVD disc cannot be played on a device that does not support the AVCHD standard.·Dolby and the double-D symbol are trademarks of Dolby Laboratories.·HDMI, the HDMI logo and High-Definition Multimedia Interface are trademarks or registered trademarks of HDMI Licensing LLC.·YouTube is a trademark of Google Inc.·All other company and product names are trademarks of their respective corporations.·This unit is compatible with both SD/SDHC/SDXC Memory Cards. You can only use SDHC Memory Cards on devices that are compatible with them. You cannot use SDHC Memory Cards on devices that are only compatible with SD Memory Cards. (When using an SDHC Memory Card on another device, be sure to read the operating instructions for that device.)·Some accessories are not available in some countries.·The use of recorded or printed materials that are protected by copyright for any purpose other than personal enjoyment is prohibited, as it would infringe upon the rights of the copyright holder.·Design and specifications are subject to change without notice.Show full PR textNEW PANASONIC LUMIX HYBRID DIGITAL CAMERA FEATURES INTUITIVE CONTROLS, HD VIDEO RECORDING AND SUPER 24X OPTICAL ZOOM WITH LEICA LENSLUMIX FZ40 features improved HD movie recording with Creative Mode to shoot superb quality video SECAUCUS, NJ (July 21, 2010) – Panasonic announced today the newest addition to its popular LUMIX FZ-Series digital cameras. The LUMIX DMC-FZ40, a feature-packed, hybrid digital camera, combines a powerful 24x optical zoom*1 and creative manual operations to offer photographers of all levels the opportunity to take crisp, artistic photos and High Definition (HD) videos. This 14.1-megapixel model features a 25mm ultra-wide angle LEICA DC VARIO-ELMARIT lens and a new image processing system which achieves high picture quality for both still images and videos. The LUMIX FZ40 joins the Panasonic LUMIX FZ100, also introduced today. "Building on the versatility and depth of the FZ-Series, the LUMIX FZ40 provides outstanding and advanced creative hybrid camera capabilities and features to photographers – giving them increased flexibility and a wide-range of features," said David Briganti, Senior Product Manager, Imaging, Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company. "In the LUMIX FZ40, consumers will find easy-to-use features they would find in super-compact point-and-shoots, but with the added 24x optical zoom and improved manual controls."The LUMIX FZ40 features Intelligent Resolution technology which leads to optimum signal processing, giving images outstanding natural clarity, specifically focusing on the finer details. The Sonic Speed Auto Focus (AF) and high-speed start-up found on the FZ40 are at the industry's fastest level, helping users to catch even the most fleeting photo opportunities. The LUMIX FZ40 has upgraded intuitive manual and creative controls including the new jog dial which helps to elevate the camera's operability. The jog dial is a focus button which allows users to change settings quickly including shutter speed and aperture, depending on the shooting conditions. Additionally, the new My Color mode which has been popular on LUMIX G Micro System cameras is available in both still and movie modes, and gives users creative freedom with a suite of options, including new Pin Hole, Film Grain, High Dynamic and High Dynamic B&W. Panasonic's hallmark Intelligent Auto (iA) mode automatically selects the most suitable Scene mode and remembers previously-registered faces. And the intuitive system also includes POWER Optical Image Stabilizer (O.I.S.), featuring double the repression power compared to that of Panasonic's previous image stabilization system, MEGA O.I.S. This system helps to eliminate blur resulting from hand-shake, a common problem when pressing the shutter button while taking photos or shooting video. Users can now enjoy easy shooting of HD movies in AVCHD Lite with double the recording time in HD quality compared with the conventional Motion JPEG format. Additionally, a separate and dedicated button located on the top of the camera allows users to instantly begin recording in video mode – so switching between capturing still photos and video is quick and seamless. Other features of the LUMIX FZ40 include a 3.0-inch 230,000-dot Intelligent LCD with 100% field of view, high energy efficiency which extends the battery life up to 580 shots (CIPA) per charge, and a new Video Divide function with which users can separate a video they've shot into two sections to shorten or delete any unwanted parts. Also, the LUMIX FZ40's Wind Cut function blocks out noise from background wind when shooting in video mode. The Panasonic LUMIX DMC-FZ40 will be available in black in late-August for a suggested retail price of $399.95. For more information about Panasonic LUMIX digital cameras, please visit: HYPERLINK "http://www.panasonic.com/lumix" www.panasonic.com/lumix.Show full PR textPANASONIC UNVEILS COMPANY'S FIRST FULL HYBRID DIGITAL CAMERA WITH MOS SENSOR AND HIGH-SPEED CAPABILITYNew LUMIX FZ100 Has Powerful 24x Optical Zoom*1 and 14.1-Megapixel MOS Sensor, Allowing for full 1080 High Definition Video CapabilitiesSECAUCUS, NJ (July 21, 2010) – Panasonic announced today the new LUMIX DMC-FZ100, a top-of-the-line model in the popular FZ-Series of LUMIX digital cameras with a newly developed LEICA DC VARIO-ELMARIT lens that features a powerful 24x optical zoom*1. As the company's first hybrid compact digital camera with a MOS sensor, the LUMIX FZ100 can record full 1080 High Definition (HD) video – giving consumers a powerful hybrid that can shoot video and still photos with ease and professional-like quality."Panasonic is excited to be introducing its first full hybrid camera with MOS sensor – pursuing a higher level in resolution, sensitivity and speed," said David Briganti, Senior Product Manager, Imaging, Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company. "This new highly-functioning MOS sensor can record high-quality 1080 full AVCHD video, making it the ideal hybrid camera for both the casual shooter and the seasoned professional."The LUMIX FZ100 has an incredibly fast burst shooting in 14.1-megapixel full resolution at 11 frames per second with a mechanical shutter, and increases the frames per second to 60 in 3.5-megapixel recording. Additionally, the LUMIX FZ100 features continuous Auto Focus up to five frames per second at full resolution for great action shots. It also features Intelligent Burst shooting. The digital camera judges the appropriate shutter speed to suppress the motion blur according to the movement of the subject, rising as high as possible, activating the high sensitivity recording.Panasonic's Intelligent Auto (iA) mode, a hallmark on all LUMIX digital cameras, now includes Motion Deblur mode*2. By updating the motion detection (Intelligent ISO Control) and brightness control (Intelligent Exposure) users can gain the highest shutter speed possible. Combined with the outstanding brightness of the lens and the POWER O.I.S. (Optical Image Stabilizer), the LUMIX FZ100 prevents any blur created from a handshake or a moving subject. The iA suite of technologies include: POWER O.I.S., Face Recognition, Face Detection, AF Tracking, Intelligent ISO Control, Intelligent Scene Selector and Intelligent Exposure. Panasonic's iA is also available while shooting video.Featuring a free-angle 3.0-inch large 460,000-dot high-resolution LCD, the LUMIX FZ100 features wide-angle viewing with Face Recognition functions that automatically remembers registered faces for future recording. The Intelligent Scene Selector automatically selects one of 6 Scene modes to best suit the shooting situation. The LUMIX FZ100 also features Dolby® Digital Stereo Creator. This high-quality stereo sound offers realistic sounds and effects to any movie. For greater sound quality, the LUMIX FZ100 has a newly-created port for an optional stereo microphone (DMW-MS1) and a Wind Cut function is available to drastically reduce background wind noise.The LUMIX FZ100 can record photos and HD video in AVCHD format on SD/SDHC/SDXC Memory Cards. Additionally, My Color mode, first introduced in the LUMIX G Micro Systems cameras, is a special option that gives freedom to the user's creativity. With a variety of options including new Pin Hole, Film Grain, High Dynamic and High Dynamic B&W, the My Color mode makes it easy to create innovative images and videos using new intensive color, brightness and saturation levels.Other features of the LUMIX FZ100 include:Bundled Software – PHOTOfunSTUDIO 5.2 HD Edition makes it possible to sort and organize photos. Videos can be uploaded directly to YouTube using the built-in YouTube uploader, while also letting the user create a 360-degree rotation panorama file in .MOV files. The software is compatible with the Windows 7.Happy Mode – An option in iA that optimizes color, saturation and brightness to make both photos and movies more vivid and true to the color of the scene you memorized.The Panasonic LUMIX DMC-FZ100 will be available in black in late-August for a suggested retail price of $499.95. For more information on Panasonic LUMIX digital cameras, please visit: HYPERLINK "http://www.panasonic.com/lumix" www.panasonic.com/lumix.Show full PR textPANASONIC PACKS ADVANCED PHOTO AND VIDEO FUNCTIONS INTO A SLEEK, SLIM AND STYLISH LUMIX DIGITAL CAMERANew LUMIX FX700 is small in size and big on features, including a MOS sensor, 3" Touch-Screen LCD and Full 1080p High Definition VideoSECAUCUS, NJ (July 21, 2010) – Panasonic announced today the addition of the new LUMIX DMC-FX700 digital camera, which records 1080p full High Definition (HD) videos in the AVCHD format and features a 3-inch touch-screen LCD. The 14.1-megapixel digital camera features a 24mm ultra wide-angle F2.2 super bright LEICA DC VARIO-SUMMICRON lens with a 5x optical zoom*1 making the LUMIX FX700 extremely versatile in low-light conditions and when capturing moving subjects. "The 24mm ultra wide-angle lens and 5x optical zoom on the LUMIX FX700 makes it a powerful and advanced addition to the FX-Series, known for being slim, sleek and high-performing," said David Briganti, Senior Product Manager, Imaging, Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company. "The LUMIX FX700 offers a complete suite of creative ways to capture superior quality photos and full HD videos in all shooting situations." The LUMIX FX700 adopts full touch-screen operation, which allows for Auto Focus (AF) to be set by touching the 3.0-inch, 230,000-dot LCD screen. Once a subject is locked with a single touch, the AF tracking function will follow the subject while moving. With the Intelligent Scene Selector, the camera automatically switches to the appropriate mode according to the subject selected. All menus settings are now available with one-touch control for shooting images and videos.The LUMIX FX700's advanced 24mm ultra-wide-angle lens, a rarity for a compact camera of this size, makes it easy to capture many subjects due to the great depth-of-field provided by the extra light. Additionally, photographers now have a wider range of composition possibilities with approximately 213% larger viewing space compared to that of a 35mm camera. The LUMIX FX700 can also record HD video in the AVCHD format, which allows for almost double the recording time in HD quality compared to the conventional Motion JPEG format. The LUMIX FX700 records in 1920x1080 full HD with enhanced picture quality and Intelligent Resolution technology. Along with this high-quality HD video with a 5x optical zoom*1, the FX700 also features Dolby Digital Stereo Creator to record high-quality audio.Panasonic's iA (Intelligent Auto) mode is further advanced in the FX700 with the addition of Motion Deblur mode* by updating the motion detection (Intelligent ISO Control) and brightness control (Intelligent Exposure) to gain the highest shutter speed possible. Combined with the outstanding brightness of the lens and the POWER O.I.S (Optical Image Stabilizer), the LUMIX FX700 reduces any blur either caused by handshake or a moving subject. Intelligent Burst mode now determines the frame rate in burst shooting according to the speed of the subject's motion, making it easy to capture any image. Included in the iA suite of technologies is: POWER O.I.S., Face Recognition, Face Detection, AF Tracking, Intelligent ISO Control, Intelligent Scene Selector and Intelligent Exposure.The LUMIX FX700 features the new Venus Engine FHD image processor which includes advanced signal processing capabilities. It also incorporates Intelligent Resolution technology, which examines three areas pixel-by-pixel, to automatically detect and enhance any degradation created during the digital zoom process. Other features of the Panasonic LUMIX FX700 include:Handheld Night Shot: Using the high-speed MOS sensor, this new mode shoots 10 consecutive shots to simulate and detect the perfect shot of any subject while simultaneously fixing the subject's position. Through the MOS sensor's short shutter speed, exposure is increased while noise is reduced to create a blurless, beautifully- illuminated night shot without the use of a tripod.Battery Life: The high-performance Venus Engine FHD is also highly energy efficient despite its high processing capabilities, extending the battery life up to 300 shots (CIPA) on a single charge.The Panasonic LUMIX FX700 will be available in black in late-August for a suggested retail price of $399.95. For more information on Panasonic LUMIX digital camera models, please visit: HYPERLINK "http://www.panasonic.com/lumix" www.panasonic.com/lumix.Show full PR textNEW PANASONIC LUMIX TS10 BRINGS AN AFFORDABLE PRICE FOR A RUGGEDIZED DIGITAL CAMERALUMIX TS10 is Waterproof, Freezeproof Shockproof and Dustproof*1 Ideal for Active UseSECAUCUS, NJ (July 21, 2010) – Panasonic today introduced the new LUMIX DMC-TS10 digital camera, the latest addition to the company's TS-Series of rugged models, ideal for active users wanting a versatile camera for outdoor use. Featuring a flat, slim profile, and a folded optics design with a 4x optical zoom lens, the new 14.1-megapixel LUMIX TS10 is waterproof to approximately 10 feet, shockproof to 5 feet, dustproof and freezeproof to 14˚F*1. For even further protection, the LUMIX TS10 comes with a silicone jacket to help prevent scratches. "Rugged digital cameras are a growing category, and the Panasonic LUMIX TS-Series continues to be very popular among consumers who are looking to use their digital camera while playing sports, at the beach, or simply to take high-quality photos and videos, regardless of the shooting environment," said David Briganti, Senior Product Manager, Imaging, Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company. "The new LUMIX TS10 is also our most affordable rugged model and extremely easy-to-use – making it attractive for any consumer looking for a waterproof, freezeproof, dustproof and shockproof, rugged digital camera."Panasonic's popular Intelligent Auto (iA) mode makes it easy for anyone to take beautiful photos by offering a full suite of shooting-assist functions. The LUMIX TS10 makes it extremely easy for consumers to engage this setting, with a dedicated iA button on the top of the camera. The MEGA O.I.S. helps reduce blur due to hand-shake and the Intelligent ISO control prevents a moving subject from being blurred by optimizing the shutter speed and ISO sensitivity setting, to produce sharp, clear images. Human faces are captured in focus and with correct exposure using the Face Detection mode and unwanted red-eyes are digitally corrected and backlight compensation automatically adjusted. Intelligent Scene Selector automatically selects one of six Scene Modes – Macro, Portrait, Scenery, Night Portrait, Night Scenery and Sunset – that best suits the shooting situation. The Quick AF system allows the camera to keep focus on the subject while the camera is in recording mode even before pressing a shutter button halfway. The LUMIX TS10 can also shoot High Definition video in 720p Motion JPG and the image-processing Venus Engine IV features advanced signal processing technology for rendering high-quality images and videos. The camera's quick response makes it easier to capture sudden, spur-of-the-moment photo opportunities. The Panasonic LUMIX TS10 features an easy-to-see, 2.7-inch 230,000-dot Intelligent LCD for comfortable viewing while both monitoring shots and playing back the results. The Intelligent LCD function detects the light condition and automatically boosts the LCD backlighting by 40% when shooting outdoors in bright sunshine, and adjusts the frame rate when shooting in low-lit situations. Detecting the lighting condition precisely and automatically controlling the brightness with a total of 11 fine steps, this function gives the display the most appropriate clarity in any situation without using extra energy. The High-Angle mode makes the LCD screen extremely easy to view when the camera is held high, such as when shooting over a crowd. The Panasonic LUMIX TS10 will be available in blue, red, black and silver in mid-September for a suggested retail price of $249.95. For more information on Panasonic LUMIX digital cameras, please visit: HYPERLINK "http://www.panasonic.com/lumix" www.panasonic.com/lumix. *1 When used according to Panasonic's operating guidelines, waterproof to a depth of 10 feet and dustproof in accordance with "IPX8" and "IP6X" ratings. Shockproof from a height up to 5 feet in accordance with the "MIL-STD 810F Method 516.5-Shock" test standard. All components including the lens unit are evaluated to endure the temperature as low as -10 degrees C to make the T10 freezeproof.
 