
 

It's that time again, folks. Panasonic has (figuratively) taken to the streets of Las Vegas in a ticker tape parade that's full of press releases. As part of the announcement, the company launched three 3D Blu-ray players for home theater systems, four stand-alone 3D models and two traditional Blu-ray units. The home theater group -- which includes the SC-BTT490, SC-BTT195 and SC-BTT190 -- each offer WiFi connectivity and DLNA certification, compatibility with the company's smartphone remote control app, and a new version of VIERA Connect that's replete with more online content. Notably, the SC-BTT490 features two HDMI inputs in addition to the traditional HDMI out. Each of the home theater models will be available in April.

Meanwhile, the four remaining 3D Blu-ray players -- the DMP-BBT01, DMP-BDT500, DMP-BDT320 and DMP-BDT220 -- each support Panasonic's VIERA Connect, while the 2D models, the DMP-BD87 and DMP-BD77, are limited to Netflix, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube. Of this group, the 500, 320 and 220 each feature a 192kHz/32bit audio DAC, although the 500 ultimately makes it to the top of the pile with high quality terminals and capacitors. If you're curious to learn more about this heapin' pile of Panasonic wares, be sure to check the PR after the break.





 		Show full PR text  Panasonic Introduces Smart Network 3D Blu-ray Disc™ Home Theater Systems With Enhanced Sound Quality 		LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire/ - Panasonic is pleased to introduce three new Full HD 3D Blu-ray Disc™ home theater systems, SC-BTT490, SC-BTT195 and SC-BTT190, that employ advanced technologies to reproduce clearer, enhanced theater-like surround sound to skillfully match high-quality 3D imagery. The integration of smart networking functions including Smartphone remote control, DLNA, Wireless LAN, digital music connection for iPod®/iPhone® and VIERA Connect™ complements traditional home entertainment for an enriched, user-friendly audio/video experience. 		Equipped with 3D Cinema Surround as a standard feature, the new models are a perfect match for high-definition 3D video. A state-of-the art Panasonic technology, Cinema Surround produces impressive theater-like surround sound through a total of 30 real and virtual speakers. Panasonic's proprietary direction perception control technology allows for sound to be perceived as coming from the correct direction. Additionally, Anti-Jitter Digital Amplifiers reduce jitter and distortion that can affect audio clarity, producing pure, brilliant high-quality sound with a full surround effect that rivals larger home theater systems. 		The home theater systems also feature a digital music connection for iPod /iPhone,(*1) which minimizes sound degradation allowing users to enjoy their favorite iPod tunes with pure sound that is highly faithful to the original source. 		Not only do the 2012 home theater systems offer improved sound quality, but they are also equipped with a variety of features to enhance the home entertainment experience. VIERA Connect™(*2) has been expanded to offer users a wider variety of online content. From sports and video-on-demand movies, as well as streaming content, to gaming and communication, users can find a wide-array of content which has been improved for greater convenience and enhanced enjoyment. Users can also utilize their home theater systems to easily connect to Netflix, Cinema Now, YouTube, Facebook and Skype(*3) to increase the entertainment options that they can enjoy with family and friends from the comfort of their sofa. 		For simple, intuitive operation, the new home theater systems are compatible with the Panasonic Smartphone Remote Control app(*4) which enables users to easily operate the system by tapping and swiping their Smartphone screen. Users can easily input characters with the key pad on their Smartphone to access their favorite sound effects, and can quickly search for additional entertainment and movie information. 		A smart home networking tool that makes it easier to share and enjoy digital photos, music, and videos in the home environment, the DLNA function allows users to access, browse and view content stored on a server while in another room without having to worry about shuffling discs. An easy-to-use feature, the smart network is made possible with the help of an internal wireless LAN capability on Blu-ray Disc home theaters which eliminates the need for a LAN cable connection. Additionally, the SC-BTT490 contains a Wi-Fi system(*5) built into the main unit so users can enjoy VIERA Connect™(*2) and BD-Live™(*6) content without having to connect their home theater with a LAN cable or wireless LAN adapter. 		The SC-BTT490 is equipped with two HDMI inputs in addition to one HDMI output for gaming consoles and set-top box connections and allows signals from connected devices to pass through the unit even when the home theater system is turned off. 		The Panasonic Full HD 3D Blu-ray Disc home theater systems will be available in April 2012. They will be on display at Panasonic booth #9405 at 2012 International CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center from January 10, 2012 through January 13, 2012.  			_____________________________________________________________________   Panasonic's 2012 Blu-ray Disc™ Player Lineup Focuses On Smart Home Networking, High-quality Picture And Sound, Ease-of-Use, New Slim Design And Eco Efficiency 		New Models Feature Expanded VIERA Connect, Improved Processor, Smartphone Remote, Improved Super Resolution Processor, Built-In WiFi System and Reduced Power Consumption 		LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire/ – Panasonic Corporation of North America (PC), a major developer and contributor to the success of the Blu-ray format, today introduced an expanded Blu-ray Disc player lineup with four new Full HD 3D models – the DMP-BBT01, DMP-BDT500, DMP-BDT320, DMP-BDT220, and two 2D Blu-ray Disc players – DMP-BD87 and the DMP-BD77. All four of the 3D models include Panasonic's proprietary IPTV platform, VIERA Connect(1), while the 2D models feature IP VOD(1), a service that offers a limited, though targeted, selection of such sites as Netflix, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube. 		The Full HD 3D Blu-ray Disc players – BBT01; BDT500, BDT320 and BDT 220 are all high-quality Blu-ray Disc players that feature an improved UniPhier chip processor, 24p output for VOD, an expanded VIERA Connect functionality, and FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec),192kHz/32bit Audio DAC (not available on the DMP-BBT01), Smartphone remote control capability, a new touchpad remote control – available on DMP-BBT01, DMP-BDT500, DMP-BDT320 – 2D-to-3D up-conversion(2), which can convert 2D images from VIERA Connect, DVDs and Blu-ray discs into 3D with natural depth perception, a new slim design and a unique slot-in drive that is found in two of the models- the DMP-BBT01 and the DMP-BDT320. The slot-in drive allows one to insert a disc without the need for a tray and prevents one from inadvertently loading a second disc. In addition, the DMP-BBT01 introduces a new design concept – the player comes with a stand and can be operated either vertically, or horizontally. 		Panasonic strives every year to improve products that already have a history of technological and critical acclaim. For 2012, the Blu-ray Disc players build upon that philosophy with a line up that includes a number of improvements over last year's models. The UniPhier single chip signal processing LSI employs a simplified circuit architecture that eliminates unnecessary wiring, resulting in reducing noise on the picture and sound signal to the absolute minimum. The UniPhier chip produces high clarity sound and turns off the analog video circuit when not needed – otherwise the analog video circuit is working even when not in use, causing interference to the other circuits. Adaptive Chroma Processing, a high quality image processing technology, precisely processes the video signal of each pixel in vertical and horizontal directions, resulting in a 50% increase in vertical color data processing as compared to 2010. A redesigned DVD Super Resolution Processor helps produce natural pictures with no false contours, higher resolution for details and a reduction in noise, all resulting in richer gradation. 		The new 2012 models can convert 2D content from VIERA Connect(2), DVD discs and Blu-ray Discs into 3D images with stunning depth. Also new for 2012 is technology that allows for VOD 24p output, thereby synching with the original 24 fps (frames per second) video format and delivering film like motion characteristics. Using 24 fps each frame is uniformly converted, so more natural and flickerless images are reproduced. 		Recognizing that audio is an essential component to any viewing experience, Panasonic has made a number of improvements to insure that the audio quality meets the same high standards as the video quality. To that end, the DMP-BDT500, DMP-BDT320 and the DMP-BDT220 utilize a 192kHz/32bit audio DAC, while the BDT500 includes high grade audio parts – gold plated terminals, high grade electric capacitor, insulator – to reproduce audio content that is faithful to the original. The BDT500 provides for 7.1 channel output and includes twin HDMI outputs, allowing one to be dedicated for audio output. Not only does this result in less interference of the video signal but the additional HDMI makes the BDT500 compatible with legacy amplifiers. Audio is further improved via Panasonic's unique clock control technology that drastically reduces jitter during HDMI transmission, thereby lessening noise and delivering pure sound. Furthermore, the 2012 players are compatible with a variety of formats such as the lossless audio codec FLAC, an audio format similar to MP3, but lossless, meaning that audio is compressed in FLAC without any loss in quality. In addition, the Blu-ray Disc players simulate the warm, comforting sound of tube amplifiers with six distinct sound environments, 		Panasonic's IPTV platform VIERA Connect, now under the Smart VIERA umbrella, has been expanded and now utilizes cloud technology to present an unlimited number of entertainment, social networking, gaming, health & fitness, sports and news sites. The 3D Blu-ray Disc players provide the user with a limitless array of sites. The user can now enjoy such sites as Skype™(3), Netflix™, Amazon VOD™, You Tube™, huluplus, CinemaNow, Vudu, Pandora, Facebook, twitter, Accuweather, AP, Wall Street Journal, MLB, NBA, NHL and MLS(4), My Space, Disney Publishing, Flixster and a number of gaming sites. The two 2D players – DMP-BD87 and DMP-BD77- provide access to IP VOD, a targeted internet solution that offers access to Netflix, CinemaNow, Vudu and YouTube. 		Connectivity and ease of use continue to be of prime importance to Panasonic. The entire 2012 line features DLNA for easy connection to other DLNA equipped products, VIERA Link – provides connectivity to other VIERA Link compatible products and NAS compatibility. This year's players are also compatible with the NTFS format HDD. Five of the six Blu-ray Disc players provide built-in WiFi, while the DMP-BD77 is wireless ready. To personalize the experience, the new multi user mode allows one to register four users and each can record individual, favorite settings. They can also select a personal icon from 16 pre-installed images, or photos from an external source. To further personalize the player, there is the option to customize the home screen with any image the consumer chooses. Also new this year is the ability to use any Smartphone(3) as the remote control. There is also a new touch pad remote control that offers simple, intuitive operation. 		Always mindful of the impact on the environment, the 2012 models are Energy Star Qualified. Additionally the DMP-BDT320 features the Smart Eco Sensor, which detects the user's movement and switches to the quick start mode (boot time approximately 0.5 seconds) automatically. When one is within16 feet of the player it is in ECO mode, using approximately 0.1 watts. When motion is detected within 16 feet the player turns on the quick start mode (approximately 3.2 watts). The new slim design cuts down on packaging, thereby saving on paper and allowing more players to be placed on a pallet, resulting in less trucks and fuel being used. 		"Panasonic is always working to improve its technology, design, and commitment to the environment, while producing products that provide the consumer with great entertainment experiences and are easy to operate. Panasonic's 2012 Blu-ray Player Alex Fried, Senior Product Manager, Panasonic, Entertainment Group. "Features such as the slot-in drive, home screen customization, enhancement of VIERA Connect allow consumers to easily personalize their entertainment experience to fit their lifestyle."   		DMP-BBT01 		Full HD 3D		Adaptive Chroma Processing		2D –> 3D conversion		High Clarity Sound Plus		Digital Tube Sound		Pure Audio on HDMI		Linear PCM/FLAC Compatibility		VIERA Connect		DLNA		NAS		HDD Playback		Built-in WiFi		Smartphone Remote Control		Touch Pad Remote Control		Multi User Mode		VIERA Link		Ultra fast Booting and Loading		Slot-in drive		Low Power Consumption		Energy Star Qualified   		DMP-BDT500 		Full HD 3D		Adaptive Chroma Processing		2D –> 3D conversion		Twin HDMI		192kHz/32bit DAC		7.1 Analog Output		High Clarity Sound Plus		Digital Tube Sound		Pure Audio on HDMI		Linear PCM/FLAC Compatibility		VIERA Connect		DLNA		NAS		HDD Playback		Built-in WiFi		Smartphone Remote Control		Touch Pad Remote Control		Multi User Mode		VIERA Link		Ultra fast Booting and Loading		Low Power Consumption		Energy Star Qualified   		DMP-BDT320 		Full HD 3D		Adaptive Chroma Processing		2D –> 3D conversion		192kHz/32bit DAC		High Clarity Sound Plus		Digital Tube Sound		Pure Audio on HDMI		Linear PCM/FLAC Compatibility		VIERA Connect		DLNA		NAS		HDD Playback		Built-in WiFi		Smartphone Remote Control		Touch Pad Remote Control		Smart Eco Sensor		Multi User Mode		VIERA Link		Slot-in Drive		Ultra fast Booting and Loading		Low Power Consumption		Ultra Slim Design		Energy Star Qualified   		DMP-BDT220 		Full HD 3D		Adaptive Chroma Processing		2D –> 3D conversion		192kHz/32bit DAC		Pure Audio on HDMI		Linear PCM/FLAC Compatibility		VIERA Connect		DLNA		NAS		HDD Playback		Built-in WiFi		Smartphone Remote Control		Multi User Mode		VIERA Link		Ultra fast Booting and Loading		Low Power Consumption		Energy Star Qualified   		DMP-BD87 		Linear PCM/FLAC Compatibility		IP VOD		DLNA		NAS		HDD		Built-in Wi-Fi		Multi User Mode		HDMI-CEC		Ultra Fast Booting and Loading		Low Power Consumption		Energy Star Qualified   		DMP-BD77 		Linear PCM/FLAC Compatibility		IP VOD		DLNA		NAS		HDD		Wireless LAN Ready		Multi User Mode		HDMI-CEC		Ultra Fast Booting and Loading		Low Power Consumption		Energy Star Qualified
 