
 
We know what you're thinking: "there's no way I'm buying a 3DTV until there's actually some content available to watch." To tide you over, Panasonic's announced a promotion for new buyers to be among the first to get Coraline and Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs on Blu-ray 3D. Buy any VT25 model HDTV (sorry VT20 suckers), send in the UPC and coupon and 8-14 weeks later (we know, lame, right?) you should be getting two discs in the mail. While two toss-in flicks might not be a good reason to spend $2 - $3 thousand dollars at a time, we can always look back to the dark ages of 2009, when you could spend in the same range and get absolutely nothing as a throw in. No word from Twentieth Century Fox or Universal Studios when they'll be unleashing either flick at retail either, so this could be the best way to get your hands on them for a while -- check out the full details in the press release after the break or on Panasonic's registration website.
      

 

Show full PR textPanasonic Announces Bundling of Two Blu-ray 3D Titles With Purchase of a Panasonic VIERA Full HD 3D TVFox's Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs and Universal's Coraline on Blu-ray 3D Available with Purchase of Select Panasonic VIERA Full HD 3D TVsSECAUCUS, N.J., May 17 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Panasonic, a leader in Full HD 3D technology, announced today exclusive agreements with two of Hollywood's premiere film studios, Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and Universal Studios Home Entertainment, to offer the Blu-ray 3D versions of Fox's Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs and Universal's Coraline, two of the industry's most successful theatrical 3D titles, with its critically-acclaimed and award winning VIERA Full HD 3D TVs.Consumers who purchase a Panasonic VIERA VT25 Full HD 3D Plasma TV between May 16 and July 10, 2010 will be able to receive the two Blu-ray 3D titles via mail-in coupon. Complete details on the offer are available on the Panasonic web site at www.panasonic.com/promos/3d-blu-ray-movie-offer.asp.Both the Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs Blu-ray 3D version and the Coraline Blu-ray 3D version were authored by the Compression and Authoring Center of Panasonic Hollywood Laboratory. To assure the highest possible image and color quality, both Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and Universal Studios Home Entertainment involved the film-makers in the process of encoding the titles for 3D. Thanks to this close collaboration, both Blu-ray 3D titles deliver dazzling color and image that is true to the original theatrical release.Panasonic's VIERA VT25 Series Plasma Full HD 3D TVs(1), which include one pair(2) of Panasonic 3D Active Shutter Lens Eyewear (TY-EW3D10U) will be available at retailers nationwide in early May in 50-inch class (49.9 inches diagonal / SRP $2,599.95) and 54-inch class (54.1 inches diagonal / SRP $2,999.95) sizes with 58-inch class (58.0 inches diagonal / SRP $3,399.95) and 65-inch class (64.7 inches diagonal / SRP $4,299.95) sizes to follow in June. Complete technical specifications for the VT25 Series are available at www.panasonic.com."Panasonic is very proud of its long-standing relationships within the Hollywood community and our work together to lead the charge into the 3D era," said Henry Hauser, Vice President, Panasonic Display Group. "A little more than a year ago at the 2009 Consumer Electronics Show, Panasonic promised to bring the immersive entertainment experience of Full HD 3D for the home to market in 2010. Working with valued partners like Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and Universal Studios Home Entertainment, we are not only bringing Full HD 3D Home Theater Systems to consumer homes now, but we're also providing VIERA purchasers with critically acclaimed content so that they can begin enjoying the immersive world of Full HD 3D immediately.""There may be a couple of times that are considered game changers in the industry and this is that moment for home entertainment. Over the last year we have seen 3D invigorate the theatrical experience and it will do the same for the living room. We are thrilled to collaborate with Panasonic with Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs as our debut title in the Blu-ray 3D format," said Mary Daily, Executive Vice President, Marketing, Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment. "Blu-ray offers the premiere high definition viewing experience for the home, and Blu-ray 3D uses the advanced quality to bring the premiere 3D experience to your home.""We are happy to partner with Panasonic on this exceptional opportunity to bring the 3D hi-def experience into homes," said Robert Read, Vice President, HD Marketing and Franchise Management. "Coraline's rich tapestry of visually stunning stop-motion animation is an ideal choice to introduce consumers to the unmatched potential of Blu-ray 3D and is sure to help stoke interest and demand for what is hands down the most dynamic and robust home-viewing experience available in high definition."Panasonic's range of Full HD 3D VIERA Plasma HDTVs, when coupled with Panasonic's 3D Blu-ray Disc players (DMP- BDT300 and DMP-BDT350)(3) bring a new era of immersive visual entertainment into consumers' homes, by creating a 3D experience that easily rivals the best that can be seen in cinemas. By delivering a full 1080p-resolution image to each eye, Panasonic's Full HD 3D technology offers consumers the highest possible visual experience. To enjoy Full HD 3D programming, users wear stylish and lightweight active-shutter eyewear. The sets are also Full HD TVs that display pristine 1080p content in two dimensions (2D) for conventional HD viewing. The VIERA VT25 Series was awarded the prestigious "Best of Show" honor at the 2010 Consumer Electronics Show. The BDT350 received the Consumer Electronics Association's prized Innovations Award for its innovative application of Full HD 3D technology.For more information on Panasonic's Full HD 3D technology, visit www.panasonic.com/3D.About Panasonic Consumer Electronics CompanyBased in Secaucus, N.J., Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company (PCEC), a market and technology leader in High Definition television, is a Division of Panasonic Corporation of North America, the principal North American subsidiary of Panasonic Corporation (NYSE: PC) and the hub of Panasonic's U.S. marketing, sales, service and R&D operations. Panasonic is pledged to practice prudent, sustainable use of the earth's natural resources and protect our environment through the company's Eco Ideas programs. Information about Panasonic products is available at www.panasonic.com. Additional company information for journalists is available at www.panasonic.com/pressroom.About Twentieth Century Fox Home EntertainmentTwentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment, LLC (TCFHE) is a recognized global industry leader and a subsidiary of Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, a News Corporation company. Representing 75 years of innovative and award-winning filmmaking from Twentieth Century Fox, TCFHE is the worldwide marketing, sales and distribution company for all Fox film and television programming, acquisitions and original productions on DVD, Blu-ray Disc Digital Copy, Video On Demand and Digital Download. The company also releases all products globally for MGM Home Entertainment. Each year TCFHE introduces hundreds of new and newly enhanced products, which it services to retail outlets from mass merchants and warehouse clubs to specialty stores and e-commerce throughout the world.About Universal StudiosUniversal Studios Home Entertainment is a unit of Universal Pictures, a division of Universal Studios (www.universalstudios.com). Universal Studios is a part of NBC Universal, one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production, and marketing of entertainment, news, and information to a global audience. Formed in May 2004 through the combining of NBC and Vivendi Universal Entertainment, NBC Universal owns and operates a valuable portfolio of news and entertainment networks, a premier motion picture company, significant television production operations, a leading television stations group, and world-renowned theme parks. NBC Universal is 80%-owned by General Electric, with 20% owned by Vivendi.(1) Current 3D content will be limited and may include certain Blu-ray Disc titles and satellite programming. Additional equipment and/or subscription fees will apply. 3D Blu-ray Disc Player and discs sold separately. 3D Eyewear required for viewing. One pair of 3D Eyewear included with TV purchase.(2) Additional pairs of Panasonic 3D Active Shutter Lens Eyewear (TY-EW3D10U) are available at retail (SRP $149.95).
 