
 
 Modern Blu-ray players also make full-featured media streamers so in addition to Panasonic's four new Blu-ray players for 2013, there are two new boxes with Viera Connect (Netflix, HuluPlus, Amazon Instant Video, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube) sans optical disc drives. The 2D DMP-BD79 Blu-ray player is the only one in the lineup without built-in WiFi, while the high-end DMP-BDP330 is the only new Blu-ray model with 4K up-scaling, a web browser and two HDMI outputs. Like the 330, the DMP-BDP230 also does 2D-3D conversion and features Display Mirroring with select Andriod phones and tablets as well as featuring Miracast -- the DMP-MST60 and DMP-MS10 media streamers also do mirroring and Miracast. The entire lineup will be available in February, but there's no mention in the following press releases of the price.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   PANASONIC EXPANDS ON AWARD-WINNING DEVICES WITH 2013 BLU-RAY DISC™ PLAYER LINEUP, FOCUSING ON HIGH-QUALITY PICTURE, SOUND, DESIGN AND SMART NETWORKING
   Panasonic Introduces Two New 3D-Capable Players Featuring Wireless Capabilities for Added Content Viewing

   LAS VEGAS, NEVADA (January 7, 2013) – Panasonic, a major developer and contributor to the success of the Blu-ray format, today introduced an expanded Blu-ray Disc Player lineup with two new Full HD 3D models – the DMP-BDT330, DMP-BDT230, and two 2D Blu-ray Disc Players – the DMP-BD89 and DMP-BD79.

   Additionally, Panasonic maintains the successes of FULL HD 3D 2012 models – the DMP-BDT500 and DMP-BBT01. All four of the 3D-capable models include Panasonic's proprietary IPTV platform, VIERA Connect1, while the 2D models feature IP VOD, a service that offers a limited, though targeted, selection of such sites as Netflix, HuluPlus, Amazon Instant Video, Vudu, CinemaNow and YouTube.

   "Panasonic is committed to the best in-home entertainment and this year's Blu-ray Players are at the forefront of design, performance and green technology," said Alex Fried, Product Manager, Panasonic Consumer Marketing Company of North America. "With new features including expanded VIERA Connect applications, seamless web browsing and display mirroring allowing interaction with a tablet or smartphone, Panasonic continues to create products with the needs of today's consumer top-of-mind."

   A new feature, Display Mirroring, takes into account the increased smartphone and tablet use while viewing programming on your TV. Now simply with a flick of the hand, users can take content on their smartphone or tablet (Android 4.2) operating system or higher) and view the same images, videos or games on a large screen to share with family and friends. Display Mirroring is available on the BDT330 as well as the BDT230.   Panasonic's reputation for creating quality video products is on high display with the entire line of 2013 home entertainment products, specifically the BDT230, the direct successor to the 2012 CEA Innovation award-winning and critically acclaimed BDT220. The BDT220 features built-in Wi-Fi, 2D-3D conversion, a web browser with pointer cursor, and Panasonic's proprietary IPTV platform, VIERA Connect.

   All 2013 Blu-ray Disc Players include built-in Wi-Fi with the exception of the BD79 which is wireless-ready, enabling users to access additional content and services through the internet without the need to tether your device.

   Panasonic's line of Blu-ray Players also features high-quality network audio (DLNA compatable) as well as 192kHz/32bit Audio DAC on the 3D-capable models (BDT500) and built-in 4K up-scaling (BDT330). Additionally the BDT500, BBT01, BDT330 and BDT230 feature 2D-3D conversion for any content and the BDT500 and BDT330 models also include twin HDMI ports.

   In addition to Panasonic's recognized commitment to the highest audio and video standards, the 2013 devices all were created with a focus on design. Matching some of the design innovations seen with VIERA televisions, these new slim and sleek players match the décor in any home. Featuring sharp angles to take up less surface area, the compact main unit includes cardboard cushions to prevent any damage to furniture.

   As with all of Panasonic's products, environmental stewardship and specific energy- reducing technologies are brought into the 2013 line of Blu-ray Players to give the consumer the best at-home viewing experience without sacrificing performance.

   The two new 3D-capable Blu-ray models include Miracast – a display mirroring feature which enables users to transfer their own photos and videos captured on Smartphone and Tablet devices to their HDTV screen with the swipe of a finger. The 3D-capable Blu-ray models also feature a Web Browser with pointer cursor for easy maneuvering, while all models in the 2013 lineup also feature external HDD Playback and personalized menu options on the Blu-ray lineup.

   The Panasonic 2013 Blu-ray Players will be available in February 2013. They will be on display at the Panasonic booth #9406 at the 2013 International CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center from January 8, 2013 through January 11, 2013.

  PANASONIC LAUNCHES TWO NEW STREAMING PLAYERS TO VIDEO PLAYER LINEUP
   Sleek and Slim Media Players Feature Built in Wi-Fi for Easy and Versatile Video Viewing

   LAS VEGAS, NEVADA (January 7, 2013) – Panasonic, an industry leader and pioneer in emerging video technology, launches two new streaming media players, the DMP-MST60 and the DMP-MS10 featuring VIERA Connect and IP VOD respectively. The two media players continue Panasonic's innovation in the A/V category and feature VOD up-conversion and DLNA certification with other networking and video quality features.

   "We're proud to introduce these new and innovative streaming media players into our already extensive lineup of award-winning video players," said Alex Fried, Product Manager, Panasonic Consumer Marketing Company of North America. "Featuring the same great technology found in Panasonic's Blu-ray players, the MST60 and MS10 are simple and seamless devices giving consumers a new option for disc-less viewing."

   Panasonic's 3D-capable streaming media player, the MST60, features Panasonic's proprietary IPTV platform, VIERA Connect1, which allows users to access their favorite online services including gaming, music, social networking, sports and VOD applications. The MS10 includes built-in Wi-Fi and contains access to IP VOD, giving users the ability to stream many of their favorite TV shows, movies and music from a variety of applications including Netflix, Hulu Plus, CinemaNow, Vudu, Amazon Instant Video and YouTube. The MST60 includes a Web browser with cursor for easy maneuvering, while both models feature Miracast, external HDD Playback, and a 2D-3D conversion function.   Panasonic's streaming media players also feature display mirroring which takes into consideration the increased smartphone and tablet use while viewing programming on your TV. Now simply with a flick of the hand, users can take content on their smartphone or tablet (Android 4.2 operating system or higher) and view the same images, videos or games on a large screen to share with family and friends. Display mirroring is available on the both streaming media players.   In addition to Panasonic's commitment to the highest audio and video standards, the 2013 devices all were created with a focus on design. Matching some of the design innovations seen with VIERA televisions, these new slim and sleek players enhance the décor in any home. Featuring sharp angles to take up less surface area, the compact main unit includes cardboard cushions to prevent any damage to furniture.

   As with all of Panasonic's products, environmental stewardship and specific energy- reducing technologies are featured in the 2013 line of media players to give the consumer the best at-home viewing experience without sacrificing performance.

   The Panasonic 2013 media players will be available in February 2013. They will be on display at the Panasonic booth #9406 at the 2013 International CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center from January 8, 2013 through January 11, 2013.

 
