
 
 It's been nearly half a year since Panasonic's Lumix series of cameras got any new members, but today the company is introducing three more shooters to the family. First up is the DMC-G5, the latest addition to the company's Micro Four Thirds lineup. It's the successor to the G3 and packs a 16-megapixel sensor capable of shooting 1080p videos at 60fps and stills in up to 6fps bursts at a max 12,800 ISO at full resolution. The G5's LVF has a proximity sensor to automatically switch between it and the camera's 920,000-dot capacitive screen depending on which one you're using to frame your shots. When the G5 goes on sale next month, you'll have your choice of black, silver and white models.




 
 We're big fans of mirrorless cameras (this editor carries around an NEX-C3) and the new G5 looks to be another quality entrant into the market. It's a lightweight camera, but its body is quite a bit bigger than its main competition from Sony, the NEX-5N. Like the Sony, the G5 has a touchscreen round the back, and it is an absolute pleasure to use. It might just be the finest LCD we've seen on any mirrorless camera, with stellar viewing angles and crisp, color-correct reproductions of whatever you're shooting. Sure, it still suffers in direct sunlight, but it's got a handy feature that allows you to touch-to-focus while you're using the LVF, giving you the best of both worlds. Its spun-metal shutter button is handsome, but we would have liked a bit more definition between its two stages, as a few times the camera took pictures when we were only trying to focus our shots.

 The build quality is quite good, and lends the G5 a solid feel, but it is a bit bulky -- even with Panasonic's svelte 14-42mm X-series zoom lens mounted on the front. Such an impression may largely be due to the fact that we carry around a comparatively thin NEX-C3, but the G5 doesn't feel that much smaller than entry-level DSLRs like Sony's A37. Regardless, we found shooting with the G5 to be quite easy, as it's got programmable buttons and a lever right behind the shutter button, plus a thumb dial to provide easy access to controls and settings. Those hardware controls were much appreciated coming from someone who regularly suffers Sony's arduous wheel-based UX.

 As for the results after a day of shooting? Our pictures turned out pretty darn well, if we do say so ourselves. Unfortunately, we weren't able to get a sample video during our time with the G5, as the camera couldn't hold focus -- Panasonic's rep confirmed that the camera hadn't gotten the firmware update needed to correct the problem. Regardless, you don't have to take our word for it, just take a look at our gallery of sample shots.



These photos were taken using a pre-production camera model and do not reflect final picture quality.