
 
 In the audio department, Panasonic has six new personal audio units, one new wireless tablet prop -- not a docking station -- and three new home theater audio systems. Everything except the 2.1 channel SC-NP10 wireless prop will be available in March -- tablet users will have to wait another month. The entire lineup features Bluetooth, and select models also support DLNA and AirPlay. Only the SC-NE5 sports Apple's latest Lightening connector, but most feature USB ports for more universal wired listening. The press release for all the models are available after the break, but prices are yet to be announced.





  Show full PR text   PANASONIC DEBUTS NEW LINE OF WIRELESS SPEAKERS AND EXPANDS COMPACT STEREO SYSTEM LINE FOR SUPERIOR SOUND QUALITY AND ENHANCED VERSATILITY  New Panasonic Music Streaming App Available for Apple and Android Devices Allows Users to Control Where Their Music is Played Wirelessly Across All Devices

   LAS VEGAS, NV (January 7, 2013) – Panasonic today announced six new personal audio units including three new streaming wireless speakers, many featuring Bluetooth® technology. The HC Series, comprised of the SC-HC58, SC-HC38 and SC-HC28, features a USB cable connect and a dock that works with iPhone5/iPod touch (5th generation), allowing users to play music from a variety of sources including iPod/iPhone/iPad, while the new NE (Network Era) Series includes the SC-NE1, SC-NE3 and SC-NE5 and features the ultimate in sound quality with full wireless connectivity.

   "Panasonic is committed to providing the listener with the highest quality audio products and the 2013 speaker and stereo system lineups produce unparalleled sound quality with the finest in design innovation," said Troy Livingston, Product Manager, Entertainment Group, Panasonic Consumer Marketing Company of North America. "We're always striving to make the listening experience richer and as easy as possible. With new, advanced networking features, users can listen to their music seamlessly in the home."

   Panasonic's new NE series has the latest in advanced networking features with enhanced high-quality sound for the ideal listening experience as well as a curved aero stream port to control the airflow and reduce the noise emitted from the ports, resulting in clearer, more robust sound. This new wireless speaker concept is designed with the consumer in mind, allowing for streaming music without the need to dock the device.

   The NE5 includes a lightening pin connection to seamlessly work with the iPhone 5 /iPod touch (5th generation). It also includes a USB cable connect while the NE5 and NE3 can be synced through DLNA, AirPlay® and Bluetooth® for other Apple or Android devices. AirPlay® allows users to wirelessly stream music from an iPad, iPhone, iPod or MAC/PC directly into the device through a wireless LAN network.

   The NE5, NE3 and NE1 all include a Nanosized Bamboo Cone Speaker, pure direct sound system, direct-vocal sound and 2-way Speaker System. Providing rich and strong sounds from treble to bass, the 2-way Speaker System treats listeners to clear, well-balanced sounds. The rigid lightweight Nanosized Bamboo Cone speaker with high acoustic velocity is used to achieve sounds with high sound pressure and clarity. Enclosed in the system is a three-inch Long Stroke Woofer which employs large-amplitude vibrations to produce the genuine deep base sounds. The clearest treble sounds are also produced with the embedded one-inch Tweeter providing the listener with an unmatched audio experience.

   The Panasonic HC Series of micro stereo systems improves upon 2012 with both high-quality sound offerings and smart networking. The HC58 features the Nanosized Bamboo Cone Speaker and also includes a Dual Passive Radiator and Direct-Vocal Sound (found on HC38 as well). Networking capabilities are also further advanced with a re-mastered Bluetooth® on the HC58 and HC38, easy setup for AirPlay® (HC58) and iPod/iPhone/iPad Connection through USB (HC58 & HC38) as well as a lightening pin connection on the HC28 to work with the iPad mini/iPhone5. These sleek and slim devices featuring a pure direct sound system also include high-quality metal to enhance the luxurious look of the product. The HC58 and HC38 can be wall-mounted with brackets included.

   Additional advancements to Panasonic's 2013 compact audio lineup includes the new Panasonic Music Streaming App (not available on the HC28), allowing users to wirelessly stream music from a smartphone or tablet with just the press of a button. The app, which is available in the Apple Store or through Google Play, provides users the option to choose which device they want to listen to their music on without the need for a physical connection to the device**. Once the app is installed, a user can select from a list of all available devices and begin transmitting music wirelessly to audio devices. The Panasonic Music Streaming App is available through DLNA, Bluetooth® or AirPlay®.

   The Panasonic 2013 HC and NE Series Personal Audio products will be available in March 2013. They will be on display in the Panasonic booth #9406 at the 2013 International CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center from January 8, 2013 through January 11, 2013.

   *"Made for iPod", "Made for iPad" and "Made for iPhone" mean that an electronic accessory has been designed to connect specifically to iPod, or iPhone, respectively, and has been certified by the developer to meet Apple performance standards. Apple is not responsible for the operation of this device or its compliance with safety and regulatory standards. Please note that the use of this accessory with iPod, or iPhone may affect wireless performance.

  PANASONIC OFFERS FLEXIBLE LISTENING OPTIONS FOR TABLET USERS WITH THE NEW SC-NP10 WIRELESS SPEAKER
   LAS VEGAS, NV (January 7, 2013) – Panasonic today unveiled the SC-NP10 Wireless Speaker, an addition to the company's 2013 lineup of home stereo and speaker systems. Designed as an optimal surround sound system for tablet viewing and listening, the Panasonic SC-NP10 offers users unique functionality for a variety of spaces and listening scenarios.

   Designed for use with any Bluetooth®-enabled tablet device, the Panasonic SC-NP10 allows users to prop their tablet, rather than dock, and wirelessly stream music or movie sound. Because the system is not a "docking station" it is compatible with various tablet models and sizes, making it easy for a family with different tablets to share the SC-NP10. At just 3.5 lbs, the compact device can be placed virtually anywhere in the home – in the kitchen, a bedroom or home office - giving users the freedom of watching movies from a distance rather than from their lap.

   "Tablets have become widely popular especially in the past year and more and more consumers are using them as a way to both to listen to music and view their movies, anywhere in their home. But, as many tablet user know, tablets tend to have poor sound quality and volume making it nearly impossible for more than one user to hear and enjoy what is playing on a tablet," said Troy Livingston, Product Manager, Entertainment Group, Panasonic Consumer Marketing Company of North America. "As an innovator in sound technology, Panasonic decided to create the new SC-NP10 Wireless Speaker to engage consumers in the tablet market and produce a products that allow users to experience true-to-life quality sound while watching a movie or listening to music, enhancing their overall tablet experience."

   For users worried about the listening experience when sitting close-by, the Panasonic SC-NP10 utilizes Near Field Stereo Sound to produce realistic sound even from a nearby distance. A 12-degree slant structure allows for the reproduction of stereo sound faithful to the original, even when listening at a close distance from the device. The SC-NP10 Wireless Speaker also offers users 2.1-channel Surround Sound to produce sound with life-like realism that offers crisp, clear playback for movie sound. A 3-1/8 inch integrated subwoofer produces robust bass sounds, packing powerful sound into a slim wireless speaker system. Bluetooth® Re-Master technology for music which restores frequencies lost during Bluetooth transmission offering users an uninterrupted listening experience.

   The Panasonic home audio products will be available in April 2013. They will be on display at Panasonic booth #9406/9806 at 2013 International CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center from January 8, 2012 through January 11, 2013.

  PANASONIC EXPANDS AND ENHANCES 2013 HOME THEATER LINEUP WITH NEW, ADVANCED DESIGNS AND MULTI-POSITIONAL SPEAKER LAYOUTS
   LAS VEGAS, NV (January 7, 2013) – Panasonic, today debuted the new 2013 lineup of Home Theater Systems. The new SC-HTB770, SC-HTB370 and SC-HTB70 Home Theater System models have been crafted with the consumer's needs in mind. Compatible with various TV sizes, the new lineup offers superior sound quality with stylish and flexible layouts.

   The new 2013 SC-HTB series of Home Theater Systems offer options for the entire home. The latest lineup can be paired with screens ranging from 42-65 inches, allowing consumers to choose the ideal system based on the size of their televisions. Equipped with wireless or built-in* subwoofers and Bluetooth® capabilities, all three models promote an easy, customizable setup and eliminate messy wires in the living space.   "The new HTB series of Home Theater Systems continue Panasonic's long standing focus on providing innovative, high-quality products consumers look for in a home theater system ," said Troy Livingston, Product Manager, Entertainment Group, Panasonic Consumer Marketing Company of North America. "The new 2013 models are designed specifically for large-screen TVs and deliver an improved, dynamic sound quality to enhance the user's home entertainment experience."

   The SC-HTB70 model offers a unique, sleek solid bar design for free and flexible layouts. A user can choose from four types of placements, with wall-mounting capabilities at 90 degrees. A built-in sensor automatically detects the bar direction and switches the directional characteristics to suit the layout. With an Anti-Vibration Integrated Subwoofer inside the speaker unit, the SC-HTB70 provides high-quality, clear sound playback in each of its four layouts.

   Both the SC-HTB770 and SC-HTB370 models sport a luxurious, stainless mesh design that compliments the decor of any room in the home. With a versatile and stylish design, users can choose a modern horizontal layout for a wall-mount setup or TV-sized stand, or detach to create two separate freestanding vertical speakers for a classic tabletop style. In addition, while providing flexibility in layout, the SC-HTB770 features a 3.1-channel speaker for vivid sound localization and crisp and clear sound sensation.

   The new 2013 Panasonic Home Theater Systems will be available in March 2013 and will be on display at Panasonic booth #9406 at the 2013 International CES at the Las Vegas Convention Center from January 8, 2013 through January 11, 2013.

 
