
 
Panasonic's Toughbook line hasn't only been impressing in extreme durability lately, but also in extreme weight-loss. Joining the 3.2-pound Tougbook C1, is the newest 12.1-inch Toughbook S9, which weighs just three pounds. And yes, Panny's claiming it's the lightest 12-incher with an optical drive, and our quick research seems to prove that claim right. Even more impressive is the power that's packed into the featherweight chassis -- it's got a Core i5-520M processor, 2GB of RAM, and a shock-mounted 320GB hard drive. Thought that Panasonic gave up the durability for that weightage? You'd be wrong -- the magnesium alloy case can still withstand a 2.5-foot operating drop, meets all the Mil Spec 810-G drop procedures, has a spill-resistant keyboard, and can take more than 220 pounds of pressure on its lid and base. It does sound great for when someone drops it off the airport security belt, but that's until you hear about the physical beating it'll take on your bank account -- it'll retail for $2,499. Yeah, we wish we had better news to end on, but perhaps the press release and pictures below will turn that frown upside down.




Show full PR textPANASONIC INTRODUCES THE TOUGHBOOK® S9 - WORLD'S LIGHTEST 12.1" LAPTOP WITH DVD DRIVEIdeal Road Warrior Device Features Intel® Core™ i5 Processor, 11 Hour Standard Battery and 30" Drop Rating in 3lb PackageSecaucus, NJ, September 28, 2010 – Panasonic Solutions Company, provider of collaboration, information-sharing and decision-support solutions for government and commercial enterprises, today introduced the Panasonic Toughbook® S9, the world's lightest 12.1" laptop with an integrated DVD drive. Powered by the Intel® Core™ i5-520M vPro™ processor, delivering up to 11 hours of battery life with a standard battery and weighing only 3.0 pounds, the Toughbook S9 offers high performance in a lightweight and highly mobile form factor that is ideal for road warriors and mobile workers in a variety of markets. The new notebook offers exceptional durability, optional Gobi2000™ mobile broadband and a host of other features designed to maximize return on investment and reduce the total cost of ownership. Real World DurabilityIn order to withstand the demands of a highly mobile work environment, the Toughbook S9 has been designed to endure drops, bumps and spills. The notebook is engineered to survive a 30" (just over the typical height of a desk or table) drop to the base of the unit while operating. Despite its widescreen LED display, the Toughbook S9 successfully survives drops of 12" from any angle using the MIL-STD-810G drop procedure. The unique Panasonic spill-resistant keyboard design protects against liquid spills of up to 6 ounces (200 cc), and both the lid and base of the notebook are designed to withstand more than 220 lbs (100 kg) of pressure. In addition, Panasonic's commitment to quality-at both the component and finished goods level-results in a total of more than 500 quality checks and tests during and after production.Embedded Wireless ConnectivityThe Toughbook® S9 offers a variety of embedded wireless technologies, including Wi-Fi 802.11a/b/g/n, Bluetooth® 2.1 and optional Gobi2000™ mobile broadband technology from Qualcomm. Gobi simplifies complex multi-carrier wireless deployments for IT departments and allows mobile employees improved connectivity options while traveling at home or abroad. The Toughbook S9 will be certified on the Sprint and Verizon Wireless networks, allowing workers to stay connected at all times.Security Options Vital for Mission-Critical ComputingThe Panasonic Toughbook S9 notebook provides significant data security features including trusted platform module (TPM) security chip version 1.2, the Computrace theft protection agent in the BIOS, Intel Anti-Theft technology, a cable lock slot, password security and an optional fingerprint reader. "Increased workforce mobility can improve efficiency and drive profit as long as the mobile device on which your business depends does not become a burden to your IT department," said Kyp Walls, director of product management, Panasonic Solutions Company. "The only way to ensure you maximize your mobile computer investment is to purchase a device with proven reliability. The Toughbook brand has an average annual failure rate in the low single digits, while most commercial-grade laptops have double digit failure rates. Not only will the new Toughbook S9 provide exceptional reliability, it will also deliver the light weight, long battery life, connectivity and performance needed to satisfy the most demanding mobile users."Panasonic Toughbook® S9: Select Features and Specifications • Genuine Windows 7® (with XP downgrade option)• Intel® Core™ i5-520M vPro™ Processor (2.4 GHz)o Turbo Boost up to 2.93 GHzo 3MB Intel Smart Cache• 320GB shock-mounted flex-connect hard drive • 2GB RAM (DDR3), expandable to 6GB• 12.1" widescreen WXGA (1280 x 800) LCD display with LED backlighting• Anti-glare screen treatment• Up to 11 hours of battery life with standard battery (MobileMark)• 3.0 lbs • DVD super multi-drive• HDMI and VGA video outputs• Business-ruggedo 30" operating drop (to base only)o 26 sides 12" drop (non-operating)o 220 lb compression-resistanto Magnesium alloy caseo Spill-resistant keyboard/touchpad (protects against 6 ounces spills)• Embedded Connectivityo Optional integrated WWAN / Gobi2000™ mobile broadband (EV-DO and HSPA)o Intel® Centrino® Advanced-N 6200 802.11a/b/g/no Bluetooth® v2.1 + EDR (class 2)o Gigabit Ethernet• Optional Integrated Security Features: o Fingerprint reader• 11.1" (H) x 8.3" (W) x 0.9-1.5" (D)Pricing and Availability The Panasonic Toughbook® S9 is available in the United States at an estimated street price of $2,499 from authorized Panasonic resellers and distributors. The Toughbook S9 includes a standard three-year limited warranty.Toughbook S9 Images & VideoA video overview of the Toughbook S9 can be found on the Toughbook brand's YouTube channel; images of the Toughbook S9 can be found on the brand's Flickr page, and a post discussing the importance of engineering laptops for a mobile workforce can be found on the brand's blog - Toughbloggers.com.Follow the Toughbook BrandThe Panasonic Toughbook brand can be followed on various social media channels, including Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr and Toughbloggers.com. For more information on the Toughbook S9 and other Toughbook mobile computers, go to www.toughbook.com. About Panasonic Solutions CompanyPanasonic Solutions Company empowers people whose jobs depend on reliable technology. The company delivers collaboration, information-sharing and decision-support solutions for customers in government, healthcare, education and a wide variety of commercial enterprises. Products and services within the company's portfolio include Panasonic Toughbook® mobile computing solutions, projectors, professional displays (including both plasma and LCD), and HD and 3D video acquisition and production solutions. As a result of its commitment to R&D, manufacturing and quality control, Panasonic is known for the reliability and longevity of its products. Panasonic Solutions Company is a Division of Panasonic Corporation of North America, which is the principal North American subsidiary of Panasonic Corporation (NYSE: PC).All brand and company/product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of the respective companies. All specifications are subject to change without notice. Information on Panasonic Solutions Company's full line of products can be obtained by calling 877-803-8492 or at www.panasonic.com/business-solutions. # # # 
 