
 
 Panasonic may not have dedicated much time to its 2013 Lumix and WiFi camcorder lineup in its CES 2013 press conference, but we're going to break it down for you.

  The HC-X920, HC-V720 and HC-V520 comes with built-in Wifi, a level shot function and real-time broadcasting, letting you relay the images straight to a smartphone.  The HC-V210 and V210M have 72x optical zoom, optical image stabilization and a F/1.8 lens. On the Lumix side, it's announcing the Lumix DMC-TS5, a ruggedized model with a 16.1 megapixel sensor that can dive to depths of 43 feet and is shockproof from a height of 6.6 feet.

  The LZ30 bridge camera has a 35x optical zoom and a 35mm lens  The XS1 has a 14mm thick body and a 14.-4 megapixel sensor.  The ZS30 has an 18.1-megapixel sensor, 20x optical Zoom and integrated WiFi and NFC. The company is also shuttling out a GoPro rival in the form of the HX-A100 wearable HD camcorder, which we'll try to get our greasy mitts upon to show you more.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


 
  Show full PR text    Panasonic Introduces Full Lineup of Full-HD Camcorders

   HC-X920 with 3 MOS System PRO with BSI Sensor Achieves New Level of High-Sensitivity Image Quality

   HC-X920, HC-V720, HC-V520 with Built-in Wi-Fi Functions Allow

   Easy Image Sharing

   Las Vegas, NV (January 7, 2013) – Panasonic announces five new Full-HD camcorders to expand its product lineup for 2013. The new lineup includes the HC-X920, HC-V720, HC-V520, HC-V210 and HC-V110. The high-end HC-X920 model is equipped with the New 3MOS System PRO with BSI (Backside Illumination) Sensor to enhance the three MOS sensors for excellent shooting performance even in dim lighting situations. The use of the BSI Sensor reduces noise to 50% of previous models. The X920 captures and records momentous scenes in high-definition in any environment, including the bright outdoors to dimly lit indoors.

   The X920,V720 and V520 all feature the new Level Shot function, which automatically adjusts tilting images, in addition to 5-Axis Correction HYBRID O.I.S., which thoroughly suppresses blurring. The camcorders also offer Built-in Wi-Fi functions that allow live view control from a smartphone and enable Real Time Broadcasting to family and friends who live far away. These models allow users to shoot, play and share images more easily and conveniently. All of the new models also offer new levels of performance and function. Panasonic's wide lineup of camcorders meets the diverse lifestyles of consumers. The cutting-edge technologies incorporated in Panasonic camcorders add to the fun of capturing, viewing, archiving and sharing images.

   HC-X920

   Ultrafine Image Quality. 1080 TV Lines Horizontal Resolution. 20.4-Megapixel Still Picture Recording.

   Assist Functions for Professional Shooting

   Manual Ring satisfies the needs of high-end amateur photographers wanting full control of camcorder operation. The large manual ring allows intuitive operation of zoom, focus, iris, shutter speed and white balance.

   Level Gauge to detect the horizontal/vertical angle of view with its internal level working with an acceleration sensor. This function corrects even slight tilting that is difficult to see with the naked eye.

   Electronic Viewfinder (EVF) is an extendable 263,424-dot equivalent viewfinder is easy to use and convenient for focusing and other adjustments. The EVF makes it easy to see the shooting scene under bright sunlight when the LCD might be difficult to view.

   Built-in Wi-Fi Functionality

   Built-in Wi-Fi function enables Real Time Broadcasting of important events via Ustream, while recording images in Full-HD. This lets users deliver live images to people with Internet access around the world. There is also a function to send

   e-mail to notify the start of streaming to preregistered e-mail addresses.

   By using the dedicated Panasonic Image App, users can remotely check audio recording, zoom In/Out and shutter ON/OFF, while viewing the live image on a smartphone or tablet. Highlight Playback of recorded images is also possible with a smartphone or tablet. Favorite scenes can be shared on SNS with simple drag-and-drop operation.

   Home Monitoring lets users check on pets or family at home from the outside. They can even talk to their pets or family while viewing them on the screen, and record images remotely from a smartphone.

   DLNA / Wi-Fi Compatible* via an access point at Home that can be used to transfer data wirelessly to the TV or a tablet in the living room, kitchen or other rooms in the home and play back images on the large-screen TV.

   * DLNA wireless playback availability depends on the Recording Mode.

   Dynamic Wide 29.8mm to 25x Zoom Shooting with Tilt and Blur Correction

   The wide shooting range expands the breadth of photographic expression, extending from 29.8mm wide angle to Intelligent 25x zooming. This makes it possible to capture everything from panoramic scenery to telephoto images for obtaining dynamic images of subjects at a distance.

   HC-V720

   New High Sensitivity Sensor Records Clear, Beautiful Images Even in Dim Lighting Situations. Versatile Camcorder with Wi-Fi Functions for Easy Image Sharing.

   High-Quality Images Even in Dim Lighting Situations

   The combination of the newly developed New High Sensitivity Sensor and the Crystal Engine PRO, with its superb noise reduction performance, records bright, high-quality, and low-noise images in both bright and dim lighting situations. Beautiful images can be recorded under a variety of situations, including indoor shooting and night scenery shooting.

   Horizontal resolution of 1080 TV lines* makes it possible to shoot high-resolution Full-HD images that express even extremely small details.

   20.4-megapixel Still Picture Recording with high resolution

   Dynamic Wide 28 mm to 50x Zoom Shooting with Tilt and Blur Correction

   Built-in Wi-Fi Functions for Extra Convenience and Shooting, Viewing and Sharing of Images

   Real Time Broadcasting with Full-HD Recording

   NFC (Near Field Communication) and Remote Shooting with Smartphone

   Highlight Playback and Easy Share

   Home Monitoring and Remote Video Recording

   DLNA / Wi-Fi Compatible

   * According to the JEITA ITE chart and CIPA (for digital cameras) ISO 1233 resolution chart.

   HC-V520

   Super-Powerful Optical 50x/Intelligent 80x Zoom in a Compact Body. Built-in Wi-Fi Functions Allow Highlight Playback and Image Sharing the Easy Way.

   Equipped with Intelligent 80x Zoom/Optical 50x Zoom, these models can capture even the images of craters on the moon in Full-HD image quality. The V520 Series lets users easily shoot distant subjects that are too far away to capture clearly with conventional zoom functions.

   5-Axis HYBRID O.I.S. + and Level Shot

   Built-in Wi-Fi Functions for Extra Convenience and Shooting, Viewing and Sharing of Images

   Real Time Broadcasting

   NFC (Near Field Communication) and Remote Shooting with Smartphone

   Highlight Playback and Easy Share

   Home Monitoring and Remote Video Recording

   DLNA / Wi-Fi Compatible*

   2.25-Megapixel BSI Sensor with 10-Megapixel Still Images

   * DLNA wireless playback availability depends on the Recording Mode.

   HC-V210

   Light Weight and Compact Size for Extra Portability, and a 135-Minute Battery* for Extended Shooting. Full-HD Camcorder with a Wealth of Convenient Functions Including Intelligent 72x Zoom and POWER O.I.S.

   * 135 minutes of recording time with a fully charged battery (HG mode) in NTSC areas.

   Intelligent 72x Zoom with POWER O.I.S.

   The HC-V210/V210M enables ultra-telephoto Intelligent 72x zoom shooting with a compact body. These models are also equipped with POWER O.I.S. that eliminates blurring without any degradation in image quality. As a result, the original image quality captured by the lens remains intact, all the way from wide-angle to powerful zoom.

   32.3mm wide-angle lens will fit an expansive landscape or a large group of people into the frame. This lens boasts F1.8 brightness to allow shooting in dim lighting situations.

   Full-HD 1920 x 1080/60p Recording and 10-Megapixel Still Pictures with

   2.20-Megapixel BSI Sensor

   HC – V110

   Full-HD Recording and Intelligent 72x Zoom Compact Camcorders Suitable for Easy Recording of High-Quality Images.

   Intelligent 72x Zoom

   Full-HD Recording and 8.9-Megapixel Still Pictures with 2.07-Megapixel BSI Sensor

   Image stabilizer to suppress blurring

   ---

  Panasonic unveils 2013 LUMIX compact line-up at CES 
  Las Vegas, NV (January 7, 2013) - Panasonic has today unveiled its 2013 line-up of LUMIX compact cameras, showcasing the optimum combination of picture quality, intelligent functionality, and stunning design to allow photographers of all levels to capture the perfect moment. The line-up also features new connectivity options, including in-built Wi-Fi and NFC (Near Field Communication) technologies, to provide the widest range of remote shooting options, remote viewing and instant sharing on social networks.
  The newly announced models include the LUMIX ZS30, Panasonic's most advanced photo and video hybrid compact camera to date; the ultimate tough still and video shooting camera, the LUMIX TS5; the new high-power zoom bridge camera, the LUMIX LZ30; the new slim and stylish LUMIX XS1; and the LUMIX SZ3, which packs a large zoom in a sleek design.
  The LUMIX ZS30: The perfect camera for every situation
  The latest in its acclaimed ZS series, the LUMIX ZS30 is Panasonic's most advanced photo and video hybrid compact camera to date. Boasting exceptional image quality with an improved 18.1 megapixel high sensitivity MOS Sensor, 20x Optical Zoom, 60p Full HD video recording capabilities and a host of creative features, the ZS30 is ideal for those looking for a camera that ticks all the boxes, without compromise.
  With the addition of integrated Wi-Fi and NFC capabilities, the ZS30 offers the widest shooting, sharing and viewing options. You can frame and shoot an image remotely with your smartphone or tablet, share images instantly with your favorite social network, and browse your images and videos via your TV or smartphone. 
  For users that don't require the connectivity options of the LUMIX ZS30, the new LUMIX ZS25 also offers similar features and functions, and a 16.1 megapixel, high sensitivity MOS Sensor.
  The LUMIX TS5: The ultimate tough still & video camera for the adventurous photographer 
  The new LUMIX TS5 is the ultimate hardy camera, ensuring you can rely on your camera for perfect shots and video wherever you are, even when underwater swimming with sea life or hanging from a rock face. Waterproof to a depth of 43 feet, shockproof from a height of 6.6 feet, freeze proof down to a temperature of 14 degrees Fahrenheit and pressure resistant to 220 lbs, the LUMIX TS5 is the tough man of the compact camera market
  With a 16.1 megapixel high sensitivity sensor, Full HD 1920x1080 AVCHD Progressive movie recording, Wi-Fi connectivity and NFC capabilities, the TS5 doesn't compromise on picture quality or functionality to ensure adventurous photographers can capture their exploits with absolute clarity and creativity.
  Alongside the TS5, the new FT25 is a stylish tough camera for everyday usage. The TS25 is waterproof to a depth of 23 feet, shockproof from a height of 5 feet and freeze proof down to a temperature of 14 degrees Fahrenheit. it's perfect for those less extreme adventurers.
  The LUMIX LZ30 – Putting creative high-power zoom photography in the palm of your hands
  Panasonic's newest bridge camera, the LUMIX LZ30, allows more freedom in your photography with a powerful 35x Optical Zoom lens and a host of creative options and modes. The high-power zoom allows you to bring distant subjects up close in 16.1-megapixel full-resolution, while the camera's 25mm ultra wide-angle lens provides around twice the shooting area of a standard 35mm lens. 
  The LZ30 also provides you with additional creative options and modes, allowing you to truly express yourself through your photography. You can set the aperture to control the depth of field, adjust the shutter speed to freeze moving subjects and create motion blur to exaggerate movement. The Panorama Shot Mode allows you to take beautiful panoramic shots with ease, while the Creative Control and Creative Retouch modes allow you to take total control of your shots.
  The LUMIX XS1: the slim and stylish model to step up your everyday photography
  Panasonic has also announced the first in a new range of slim and stylish compact cameras – the LUMIX XS1. With a 16.1 megapixel sensor, and a beautiful and ultra-slim design at just 14mm thick, the XS1 is ideal for the smartphone user who is looking to step up the quality of their everyday photography. 
  Aspiring photographers can also take advantage of the XS1's wide range of creative and artistic features and functions, including Creative Control which allows you to choose from a selection of different filters before you capture your photos or video. Options such as 'Retro', 'Pop' and 'Miniature Effect' provide a new level of creativity and control to your photography, spicing up even the simplest of snaps 
  Two similarly stylish LUMIX compact cameras are also newly available from Panasonic in the shape of the LUMIX FH10 and LUMIX F5. The FH10 provides identical performance to the XS1 (without Creative Control filters) in a slightly larger camera. The new, entry-level LUMIX F5 retains the stunning design of the XS1 and FH10 and includes a 14.1 megapixel sensor.
           The LUMIX DMC-SZ3: Slim and ready shoot
  Finally, Panasonic's new compact LUMIX SZ3 is packed with features to cater for every kind of photography, whether you're looking to capture family and friends, holiday scenery or a night out in the city. With a 16.1 megapixel sensor, 10x Optical Zoom LEICA lens and 12 creative effects, all packed into a sleek slim design, the SZ3 is every photographer's friend.
   ---

  Panasonic Introduces a New Wearable – Full HD Camcorder 
  HX-A100: Point-of-View Active Lifestyle Camera
  LAS VEGAS, NV (January 7, 2013) - Panasonic is pleased to announce the HX-A100 Wearable Camcorder, designed to let users easily capture and share images of everyday life such as sports and events.
  The compact, lightweight design of the A100 makes it comfortable to wear. By setting the camera on the included Earhook, users can enjoy hands-free shooting without a helmet. A Multi-Mount option is also available for mounting the camera to a helmet or backpack. The waterproof design enables even greater shooting freedom in situations where the camera might get wet.
  Another feature of the camera is its built-in Wi-Fi functions, which allows users to broadcast live video with simultaneous Full-HD recording. It also makes it easy to upload recorded images to SNS using a smartphone or tablet.
  Despite its compact size and lightweight design, the A100 achieves excellent image quality. Featuring a host of image-enhancing technologies, including a bright F2.5 lens, the BSI Sensor, and Advanced Image Processing LSI, this wearable camera captures clear, low-noise images in both bright and dim lighting situations. It also minimizes shooting mistakes, with an Image Stabilizer to suppress blurring, and a Level Shot function to automatically correct tilted images.
  The A100 also offers a large number of advantages that are made possible by Panasonic's long history of camcorder development. This is what makes it possible to shoot and share images with the user's precise line-of-sight perspective for special events, sports activities, and everyday situations.
  Features of the A100
  - Features an IPX8-compliant waterproof design for safe outdoor shooting in water depth down to -1.5m / 5ft for up to 30min duration. 
  - Dustproof design allows shooting safely in sandy or dusty environments.
  - The Wi-Fi connectivity makes it possible to broadcast live streaming video on Ustream as it is recorded in Full-HD Quality
  - Recording can be turned ON/OFF with a smartphone or tablet while watching in live view
  - Content can be easily shared on SNS using a smartphone or tablet
  - High low-light performance with an F2.5 bright lens, 1/4.1" BSI Sensor, and Advanced Image Processing LSI
  - Level Shot for automatic correction of tilting images, which often occur unnoticed
  - Image Stabilizer suppresses blurring for crisp and clear images
  -  Sharp, impressive slow-motion video in HD quality
  - Recording formats: 1920 x 1080/60 fps, 1280 x 720/120 fps, 640 x 360/240 fps
  - Wind Noise Cut function suppresses excessive wind noise
  - 140 minutes of battery life* for extended shooting on a single battery charge
 
