
       
We tell ya -- all this tablet talk sure has us feeling like it's 2003. You know, minus all that Y2K hangover stuff. Anywho, Panasonic has today outed what it's calling the planet's lightest 12.1-inch convertible tablet PC, with the Toughbook C1 offering the line's iconic rigidity while boasting 10 hours of battery life, an optional Gobi 2000 mobile broadband module and Intel's decidedly potent 2.4GHz Core i5-520 processor. All told, the device weighs just 3.2 pounds with a single battery (3.7 pounds with twins), and there's full support for digitizers and multitouch. Other specs include a shock-mounted, flex-connect 250GB hard drive, 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi, up to 8GB of DDR3 memory, a WXGA (1,280 x 800) LED-backlit panel, a triple hinge design and the ability to survive a 30-inch plummet. It's available to (quite literally) smash iPads starting this June, though that $2,499 starting price may be somewhat off-putting to those without copious amounts of disposable income.





Show full PR textPANASONIC INTRODUCES THE TOUGHBOOK® C1 - WORLD'S LIGHTEST 12.1"CONVERTIBLE TABLET PCInnovative design and exceptional performance ideal for professionals in healthcare and other highly mobile marketsSecaucus, NJ, March 2, 2010 – Panasonic Computer Solutions Company, manufacturer of durable, reliable Panasonic Toughbook® mobile computers, today introduced the Panasonic Toughbook C1, theworld's lightest 12.1" convertible tablet PC. The new device delivers up to 10 hours of battery life, a 30" (to base) drop rating, optional Gobi2000 mobile broadband and a host of other features designed to maximize return on investment and reduce the total cost of ownership. Powered by the Intel® Core™ i5 processorand weighing only 3.2 pounds with one battery (3.7 lbs with two), the Toughbook C1 offers desktop-class performance in a lightweight, convertible tablet form factor that is ideal for road warriors and mobile workers in a variety of markets, including healthcare, field service, sales and education.Innovative DesignThe Toughbook C1 is one of the first laptops to support multi-touch and digitizers, offering the input of afinger, gesture or an electronic stylus pen for handwriting recognition and greater precision. By leveragingPanasonic's advanced battery technology, the Toughbook C1 delivers up to ten hours of battery life, enabled by a twin hot-swappable battery design that allows for continuous use, pushing productivity in the field to a new level. The Toughbook C1 also features a shock-mounted, flex-connect 250GB hard drive with quick-release for enhanced data protection.The Toughbook C1 is the first convertible to employ a unique triple hinge design – one set of hinges for opening and closing the screen and another hinge for rotating the screen to tablet mode. The Toughbook C1's triple hinge design significantly reduces hinge failures (a common problem with current generationconvertible tablets) by separating the two actions normally required of a single hinge. Toughbook C1 also offers an ergonomic strap and dome hand support system that cradles the hand for comfortable long term use as well as providing a natural keyboard tilt.Meets Needs of Medical Professionals"One of the main markets for the Toughbook C1 is healthcare," said Greg Davidson, healthcare senior business development manager, Panasonic Computer Solutions Company. "We have been working withour healthcare customers to design a convertible tablet that truly addressed their needs. To date, the market has been making do with tablets that fail to offer the light weight, ergonomics and battery life needed by healthcare professionals. We believe the new Toughbook C1 addresses all these issues, while offering the additional benefits of excellent performance and durability."Desktop PerformanceThe Toughbook C1 is powered by the Intel® Core™ i5 (2.4GHz) processor, giving the device desktop performance in a light weight and highly mobile form factor. "The Toughbook C1 is an example of a convertible tablet PC that has been designed for a mobileworkforce," said Erik Reid, mobile client marketing director, Intel Corporation. "Intel® Core™ i5 with Intel® vPro™ technology makes the Toughbook C1 more valuable by helping to address remote managementand security issues. This creates a compelling solution for organizations that want the most out of their mobile employees."Real World DurabilityIn order to withstand the demands of a highly mobile work environment, The Toughbook C1 has been designed to endure drops, bumps and spills. The Toughbook C1 successfully survived drops of 12" from any angle for the unit itself and from 30" for the shock-mounted, flex-connect hard drive. Additionally, theToughbook C1 survived a 30" (just over the typical height of a desk or table) drop to the base of the unit while operating. The unique Panasonic spill-resistant keyboard design protects against liquid spills of about 6 ounces (200 cc), and both the lid and base of the notebook are designed to withstand more than 225 lbs (102 Kg) of pressure. In addition, Panasonic's commitment to quality-at both the component and finished goods level-results in a total of more than 500 checks and tests during and after production."An exceptional level of engineering has gone into the Toughbook C1," said Kyp Walls, director of productmanagement, Panasonic Computer Solutions Company. "The unique triple hinge design, the hot- swappable twin batteries, integrated hand strap and quick-release hard drive exemplify our commitment togo beyond 'good-enough' and delivering products that map to how our customers use them. The Toughbook C1 sets the standard for what an enterprise convertible tablet should be."Panasonic Introduces the Toughbook® C1 Convertible TabletEmbedded Wireless ConnectivityThe Toughbook C1 offers a variety of embedded wireless technologies, including Wi-Fi 802.11a/b/g/n,Bluetooth® 2.1 and optional Gobi2000 mobile broadband technology from Qualcomm. Gobi simplifiescomplex multi-carrier wireless deployments for IT departments and allows mobile employees improvedconnectivity options while traveling at home or abroad. The Toughbook C1 is also designed so Wi-Fi,WiMAX and 3G mobile broadband modules can be embedded in the same unit, while allowing exceptionalreception and flexibility for data access on the go. The Toughbook C1 will be certified on the Sprint andVerizon Wireless networks, allowing workers to stay connected at all times. Other wireless carriercertifications will be announced soon.Integrated FeaturesTo enable advanced communication and collaboration, the Toughbook C1 offers integrated features, suchas an optional webcam for mobile video conferencing and a standard built-in dual array microphone forsuperior speech recognition. Multiple security features are also available, including options for SmartCardand fingerprint readers, to ensure sensitive data is kept secure and private.Panasonic Toughbook® C1: Select Features and SpecificationsGenuine Windows 7® (with XP downgrade option)Intel® Core™ i5-520 processor (2.4GHz)250GB shock-mounted flex-connect hard drive with quick-release2GB RAM (DDR3-800), expandable to 6GBChoice of two 12.1" WXGA (1280 x 800) displays with LED backlightingo Multi-touch + digitizer screen allowing input via finger, gestures and electronic styluspeno Gloved multi-touch screen allowing input via finger and gestures (available Fall 2010)Anti-glare screen treatment6 backlit tablet buttons (5 user-definable)Hot-swappable twin batterieso 5 hour battery life (with one battery); 10 hour battery life (with two batteries)3.2 lbs (with one battery); 3.7 lbs (with two batteries)Optional webcamBuilt-in dual array microphoneBusiness-ruggedo 30" operating drop (to base only)o 26 sides 12" drop (non-operating)o 225 lb pressurized vibrationo Magnesium alloy caseo Spill-resistant keyboard (protects against 6 ounces spills)o Triple hinge design with screen rotation locko Ergonomic strap and dome hand supportEmbedded Connectivityo Optional integrated WWAN / Gobi2000™ mobile broadband (EV-DO and HSPA)o Intel® Centrino® Advanced-N 6200 802.11a/b/g/no Bluetooth® v2.1 + EDR (class 2)Panasonic Introduces the Toughbook® C1 Convertible TabletSecurity Features:o Fingerprint readero SmartCard reader11.8" (H) x 8.9" (W) x 1.2-1.7" (D)Optional desktop dock with DVD multi-driveOptional 4-bay battery chargerPricing and AvailabilityThe Panasonic Toughbook C1 will be available worldwide starting June 2010. In the United States, the Toughbook C1 is expected to be available at an estimated street price of $2499 from authorized Panasonic resellers and distributors.The Toughbook C1 includes a standard three-year limited warranty.
 