
Welcome to Panasonic's first attempt to crack the increasingly competitive world of Android phones outside of Japan. Its efforts have crystallized into a plastic slab that had a curious appeal when we first handled it at Mobile World Congress a few months ago. We were surprised at how comfortable it felt in the hand and while its spec sheet won't cause any jaws to drop, there's plenty of respectable features -- a 4.3-inch AMOLED display, dual-core processor and a very solid, soft-finish shell that protects that delicate Android hardware against dust and water.


Panasonic's not the only Japanese manufacturer looking to branch out from a contracting domestic market, however, and we have a few concerns with whether the Eluga (£370 / $583) can make a dent in European countries dominated by Apple, Samsung and HTC. Will it bring the same awkward Android skins found on several Japan-only Android phones? Is it really all that waterproof? Dive in after the break to see.




HardwarePanasonic kept the design ethos simple and clean -- and it's paid off. While the top and bottom edges are straight, the sides gently taper from front to back, widening to a flat 7.8mm surface at the phone's thickest point. Despite being light and enveloped in plastic, the Eluga holds steady in the hand, and there's no unseemly creak -- presumably due to the non-removable battery and waterproof shell. The matte plastic covers the entirety of the back, while both the top and bottom have a glossier finish. Along the bottom edge, it's interrupted only by a space for the call mic. On the top edge are waterproof covers for both the micro-USB port and micro-SIM card, while the headphone socket, located between the two, is left open to the elements.

Not that it matters all that much, as the Eluga borrows one of Japan's more popular phone tricks by waterproofing the whole device -- provided you keep the micro-USB and micro-SIM covers closed (something the phone will constantly remind you of when you boot it up). While it stands up to rainfall, spillages and the obligatory throw-the-phone-into-a-bowl-of-water test, the device won't function underwater. In fact, any water on the touchscreen surface will interact with the device -- frustrating if you want to use the device in a watery setting, but the handset will at least survive the encounter. The non-replaceable battery is an inadequate-sounding 1,150mAh -- more on that in our battery test section. However, the biggest oversight is on-board storage, with just over 4GB of useable space. There is no option to expand this through microSD storage. It's a pretty miserly offering and we soon filled it up with a handful of Spotify playlists, apps and camera shots.


The phone's face is (nearly) all screen, with a relatively minor black trim outlining the 4.3-inch AMOLED display. This includes the single speaker that doubles as the ear piece, located above the screen. It isn't the best-sounding smartphone speaker and cranking up the volume on our latest Spotify playlists resulted in heavy distortion and a generally tinny sound -- although that's what headphones are for. Three capacitive buttons are tightly grouped along the base of the phone. Panasonic has gone with a three-button layout similar to Samsung's international handsets, with keys for menu, home and navigating backward. Each is signified by an icon and a light-up dot, although you'll need to recall which dot is which in low-light settings, as the icons themselves remain unlit. The steeply contoured sides are home to both the power button and volume rocker, but they didn't seem as awkward as the Xyboard 10.1's power button. Instead, they felt just barely accessible. For us, it's still preferable to placing the buttons along the top edge-- especially on a bigger-screened device like the Eluga. The 8-megapixel autofocus camera stood out from the largely blank back, with no companion flash. NFC is neatly printed below the lens and there's even a spare card included in the box to test out the feature.

Screen
Alongside that classy design, the AMOLED screen remains one of the best features of the Eluga -- despite its PenTile nature. The 4.3-inch, qHD (960 x 540) display proves that Panasonic's on the right track with its phone screens. While it finds itself squarely in the middle of the smartphone screen league, it's a confident first effort. Viewing angles are strong and the AMOLED technology keeps those blacks black, but anyone with PenTile issues will find the same off-white hues are still here.

Camera
This is where the drawbacks begin. Despite Panasonic's heavy involvement with cameras, the Eluga bears all the hallmarks of a beginner smartphone maker. There's no flash, and while eight megapixels has become the standard for middleweight Android phones and above, we were underwhelmed with the results and frustrated with the UI. Our photos were noisy even in decent lighting, and lacked the pop of more established smartphone families. Following a general trend with recent Android devices, there's no dedicated camera button and no way of locking focus and exposure to reframe shots.



