
 
The act of scanning a photo generally entails something along the lines of placing the photo onto a device, loading some photo software, waiting while the scanner groans away, cropping the resulting image, and then shuffling the resulting bits off into a folder somewhere. Pandigital's latest, the Personal Photo Scanner/Converter, helps to cut down on that process -- a little bit, anyway. You can simply feed documents through it (up to 8.5 x 11 in size) and have them written straight to memory card (SD, Memory Stick, etc.) at 600dpi resolution, which could certainly speed up your workflow and let you run through reams of photos without lugging that dusty 'ol album to your computer. (You can still connect it via miniUSB and do it the old fashioned way, if you like.) The one thing we're not seeing in the specs is a battery, which would make this thing truly portable, but for $149.99 you can't have everything. It is, at least, available now.

Update: We've updated the post to include a pic of the new model.
 

Show full PR textPandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter Digitizes Images up to 8 ½ x 11-inches, Making Them Easy to Share and EnjoyNew scanner features one-touch scanning and fast transfer for immediate enjoymentDublin, Calif., July 12, 2010 – Pandigital announced today that it has expanded its line of innovative photo scanners with a new model – the Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter – that can scan print photos up to 8 ½ x 11-inches large.Incredibly simple to use, the Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter requires no PC to convert print photos into digital images. Consumers can simply plug it in, insert their photo through the slim device, and, with a single touch of a button, scan photos onto the included SD card. Consumers can then insert the SD card loaded with full-color JPEG images into their computer to upload the photos or insert the card into their Pandigital digital photo frame to immediately view the images.While the Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter (PANSCN06) can accommodate photos up to 8 ½ x 11-inches large, it can also scan in photos as small as wallet-sized or any size in-between."Consumers everywhere have photos that they want to preserve for future generations," said Dean Finnegan, CEO and founder, Pandigital. "The new Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter lets families easily archive precious moments and milestones such as weddings, yearly school photos, and sporting events are often captured as large 8 x 10-inch prints."Pandigital's award-winning line of scanners have been acclaimed for their ease-of-use and excellent performance. The scanner does not require any expensive or confusing software and employs a new twin-roller feeding system to ensure that the photos are scanned evenly each time. Further optimizing the quality, images are scanned at up to 600 optical dpi for resulting scans that have a crisp and clear 3800x7200 24-bit color depth resolution. In addition to being able to scan images onto the included SD memory card, the scanner accepts other popular memory cards (SD, MS, MS Pro, MMS, XD) and can also be connected directly to either a Mac or PC computer via its mini-USB port.Weighing in at less than a pound at only 13.79 ounces and measuring only 10.59(L) x 1.73(H) x 2.32(D) inches, the Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter is incredibly portable and can be taken nearly anywhere to quickly and simply preserve images.The new Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter extends Pandigital's line of photo scanners which also includes the Pandigital PhotoLink One-Touch 5x7 Scanner and the Pandigital Photo & Negative Scanner that can scan print images up to 4x6-inches large as well as negatives.Product Availability and PricingThe Pandigital Personal Photo Scanner/Converter is available now for a Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price of $149.99.About PandigitalPrivately held, Pandigital® develops and markets digital entertainment products. The company recognizes the growing digital lifestyle market as well as the convergence of digital media such as photos, video, published content, and audio, and is delivering high quality products to utilize and share that content by combining innovative technology with contemporary style and simplified user interfaces. Pandigital sells its award-winning line of Pandigital® and PanTouch® digital photo frames and PhotoLink® scanners through more than 33,000 well-known national retail storefronts in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America and Central America. The company has received numerous accolades and industry awards for its outstanding products that are renowned for their easy-to-use features and high-quality, elegant design, and providing exceptional value to consumers. Pandigital is headquartered in Dublin, Calif. For more information, please visit http://www.pandigital.net.All offers subject to change without notice or obligation and may not be available through all retail partners. Prices listed are manufacturer's suggested retail prices and may vary by retail location. Applicable taxes extra. Trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Pandigital. Other product or service names mentioned herein are the trademarks of their respective owners.
 