
 

Fancy yourself an amateur photog, but find yourself stymied by a dearth of killer apps on Windows Phone 7? Well, Debacle Software's got a remedy for what ails your itchy trigger finger, as its popular Pano app hits the marketplace today priced at $2.99. For the uninitiated, the company's software, already available on Android and iOS, uses a proprietary tech that stitches together a maximum of 16 wide-angle images to create one seamless panoramic photo. The three person team's also rejiggered the UI, with its simple three button interface, to mesh with WP7's clean, Metro style. So, if you're heading out into the woods or are just keen to capture urban tableaus, hit up the source below to get your download on.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Debacle Software Brings Pano to Windows Phone 		TORONTO, Canada – January 9, 2012 – Debacle Software today announced the launch of their award-winning panoramic photography app Pano for Windows Phone devices. First launched on iOS in 2008, Pano is used by over 500,000 iOS and Android users around the world.		Using powerful proprietary image matching and blending algorithms, Pano creates stunning, seamless wide-angle shots from up to 16 photographs, right on a user's mobile device. Since its launch in 2008, Pano has been used to create millions of stunning and moving images, from weddings to protests to scenic vistas and land- scapes.		"There is nothing we like more than bringing Pano to more people," said Debacle partner Julian Lepinski, "We've been working on this in secret for quite some time, and we're excited to finally get it out there into peoples' hands."		Eric Akaoka, Debacle partner and design lead noted, "The Metro design language introduced in Windows Phone 7 is a radical, refreshing departure from the norm, and redesigning Pano's UI to match was a rewarding challenge."		Pano has won numerous awards, including iLounge's Essential Apps two years in a row, O'Reilly's Best iPhone Apps and Best App Ever's Best Photography App.		Pricing and Availability:		Pano will launch on Windows Phone for $2.99 (€2.99, £2.29), and will be initially available in both English and Spanish. Pano will be available for purchase in all Win- dows Phone Marketplace countries.
 