
 
 We've already been alerted to the existence of a Pantech phone by the name of Flex, but we only got teased with the fact that it's heading to AT&T and will offer LTE connectivity and few (if any) other details. Fortunately, both the manufacturer and carrier are now ready to make the phone official, complete with images, pricing and availability. As you can see, the Flex is the device we leaked last week as the Magnus -- and it's actually much more unique than even the outer design would have us believe. First, the juicy specs: the Flex uses a 4.3-inch qHD Super AMOLED display and will run Ice Cream Sandwich (Android 4.0). It'll be powered by a 1.5GHz dual-core Qualcomm MSM8960 Snapdragon S4 SoC, and we'll be able to enjoy 8GB onboard storage, a microSD slot, 2MP front-facing cam and an 8MP rear camera capable of taking 1080p video. Finally, powering the device is an 1,830mAh battery.

 The Flex, which weighs 4.6 ounces and will be available beginning September 16th for $50 after a two-year commitment, also has another clever feature: dual Android skins. While the main UI should be standard fare for Pantech devices running ICS, the secondary skin is a simplified system dubbed the "Easy Experience" mode, which has pretty much the same type of feel as Verizon's Pantech Marauder. According to the press release, the new system is meant to appeal to new smartphone users hoping to ease into the transition from featurephones without too much trouble, though going back and forth between modes shouldn't be terribly difficult. The announcement doesn't go into much detail pertaining to what you'll be able to do in Easy Experience (or exactly what makes it easier, aside from "[prioritizing] apps on the home screen in an easy-to-read format"), so we'll choose to remain intrigued until we hear more from Pantech or AT&T on how it works. In the meantime, we have a few press shots below showing off the new UI as well as a press release past the break.





  Show full PR text   NEW PANTECH FLEX FROM AT&T PROVIDES ADDED  CHOICE FOR SIMPLICITY SEEKERS
   First 4G LTE Smartphone to Feature "Easy Experience" Mode Runs  Android 4.0

   DALLAS, Sept. 4, 2012 – The first smartphone at AT&T to offer customers the option to choose between the traditional Android operating mode and a more simplified version ideal for new smartphone users, the Pantech Flex will be available exclusively from AT&T* online and in company-owned retail stores for $49.99 with a two-year agreement, beginning Sept. 16.

   The Pantech Flex offers a unique dual experience system that runs on Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich). The standard Android format is available for the customer who wants instant access to a wide range of their favorite features – social media sites, email, video and more. In addition, Flex provides the "Easy Experience" mode which prioritizes customers' apps on the home screen in a clearly organized and easy- to-read format. Easy Experience users can enjoy an intuitive experience without sacrificing any the latest in smartphone technology. By switching simply between traditional and easy modes, depending on preferences, Flex is a very customizable device.

   In addition to its dual operating systems, Flex weighs only 4.6 ounces and has a slim design that makes it easy to slip into a pocket or purse. Flex features a full touch 4.3-inch qHD Super AMOLED display for a vibrant picture and a 1.5 GHz dual-core processor. The intelligent Pantech SwiftKey technology makes typing a breeze by minimizing key strokes by learning a user's natural language for more accurate word predictions and corrections. Flex also features an eight-megapixel rear facing camera with 1080p HD video recording capabilities and a two-megapixel front facing camera.

   "The Pantech Flex is a great phone because of its versatility," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices and Developer Services, AT&T Mobility. "This phone simplifies the smartphone experience and allows someone who has been hesitant to buy a smartphone a chance to get familiar with it at their own pace, and still leaves open the possibility of having the more traditional experience."

   "Flex is a smartphone that's truly for everybody," remarked Wyatt Whaley, vice president of product planning at Pantech. "With the option to alternate between the traditional Android interface and Pantech's proprietary Easy Experience, Flex is ideal for users of all ages looking for an intuitive and flexible mobile experience."

 
