
 
 Pantech's built a reputation in the states as a budget brand, but that doesn't mean it's pushing out forgettable phones -- on the contrary, the Korean manufacturer has cranked out solid devices like the Burst and Flex over the past year. To start off 2013, Pantech is bumping things up a notch by launching the Discover (what we previously saw as the Magnus) on AT&T January 11th. For $50 on contract, it's actually a well-stocked handset: the Discover sports a 4.8-inch 720p display, 13MP rear camera / 2MP front-facing cam, 1.5GHz dual-core Qualcomm MSM8960 Snapdragon S4 Pro, NFC, Android 4.0 and a 2,100mAh battery. We're pretty intrigued by the curvacious design; from the images, it brings back memories of the Sony Ericsson Xperia arc. On the software side, the Discover will come pre-loaded with the same Easy Experience Mode option that we saw on the Flex, as well as AT&T's DriveMode app, which will send auto-replies to text messages when you're driving. We'll be getting our hands on the Discover shortly, but feast on the spec list and press release below the break while you wait.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


 Specs:

  4.8-inch 720p TFT display  12.6MP rear camera with 1080p video capture, HDR  2MP front-facing camera  NFC  DLNA  Dual 3D surround sound  Android 4.0  16GB internal memory  MicroSD external memory up to 32GB  GSM / EDGE: 850/900/1800/1900; HSPA+ / UMTS 850/1900/2100; LTE 700/850/1900/AWS  WiFi a/b/g/n  Bluetooth 4.0  GPS  2,100mAh  4.76 ounces  134.2 x 68.6 x 9.1mm (5.3 x 2.7 x 0.36 inches)  Show full PR text   AT&T's Second Smartphone to Feature "Easy Experience" Mode Provides Robust Multimedia Entertainment   DALLAS, Jan. 7, 2013 – Kicking off 2013 with one of Pantech's most impressive Android smartphones to date, AT&T* announces the Pantech Discover™, available for $49.99** with a two-year agreement, in all AT&T channels beginning Jan. 11. Pantech Discover will be the first AT&T smartphone pre-loaded with the AT&T DriveMode® application, an app designed to help prevent texting while driving.   A 4G LTE smartphone, the sleek Discover boasts a large 4.8-inch HD display (1280 x 720) and an impressive 12.6-megapixel camera with 4X zoom, as well as the ability to record and playback video in HD 1080p (1920 x 1080) at 30 frames per second. The Discover's dual 3D surround sound speakers provide a rich audio experience, ideal for listening to music and watching movies, while the built-in near field communication (NFC) technology allows users to share content, read smart tags, or pay for goods and services right from their phone. Packed with high tech features for an affordable price, the Discover provides tremendous value, fast data speeds, and high performance to entertainment seekers and business professionals alike.   The Discover features AT&T DriveMode®, an app that helps curb texting and driving. The app can be set-up to automatically send a customizable reply to incoming messages once a vehicle starts moving 25 mph. The auto-reply message is similar to an "out-of-office alert" and can reply to texts, emails and wireless callers letting your friends know that you are driving and unable to respond. The app will automatically send all calls directly to voicemail; however, the user has the option to create an "allow list" or it can also be turned off manually at any time if the user needs to make a call immediately. ***   "The Pantech Discover combines a feature-packed experience – complete with a 12.6-megapixel camera and HD display – with a cost-effective price point, giving AT&T customers yet another strong option in our 4G LTE portfolio," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president- Devices, AT&T. "AT&T is dedicated to educating customers about the dangers of texting while driving and providing real solutions to help prevent the behavior. With DriveMode pre-loaded on the Discover, we hope that users will be less likely to text and drive."   First announced for AT&T on the Pantech Flex in September 2012, Pantech's exclusive Easy Experience and Standard Experience modes, are also available on the Discover. The Easy Experience mode prioritizes customers' apps on the home screen in a clearly organized and easy-to-read format. Customers can easily switch between Easy Experience and the Standard Experience, a classic Android format available for users who prefer to access Discover's wide range of features – social media, video, email – in a highly customizable interface.   In addition, the Discover is a great option for business users as it comes with full VPN and EAS support plus device encryption for secure access to corporate email and intranets. Its 1.5 GHz dual-core processor, 16 GB on-board memory plus SwiftKey app allow for maximum efficiency, while its 2,100 mAh battery makes it easier to be productive all day.   "Pantech is taking 2013 by storm with the launch of Discover," said Gary Cherner, vice president of marketing and sales at Pantech. "By launching products at very competitive price points, Pantech is continuing to prove that high quality smartphones don't need to come with a high price tag."   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network****, covering more than 285 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.   More information on the Pantech Discover can be found at http://www.pantechusa.com/Discover.

 
