
 
For web designers, tools that give instant color codes from anywhere on their display are invaluable. How much, then, would a tool that can do that in the real world be worth? Hopefully you said $649, because that's what Pantone is charging for its new CAPSURE. It's the latest in a long line of tools and utilities designed to help graphics-minded people get accurate color information, a sort of handheld scanner -- just place it on anything and it'll ID your hue in CMYK and good 'ol RGB. Think of it as a physical eye dropper that won't get your subjects wet, a device that just about anyone who's ever created a webpage would love to have. Sadly, at that price, it's bound for only the most well appointed of utility belts.
      

 

Show full PR textPantone Introduces CAPSURE; Lets Design Professionals and Contractors Capture Color Inspiration AnywhereAccurately Capture and Match the Color of any Surface, Including Hard-to-measure Patterns, Textures and Open-weave TextilesCARLSTADT, N.J., Oct 18, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE) --Pantone LLC, an X-Rite company (NASDAQ: XRIT) and the global authority on color and provider of professional color standards for the design industries, today announces CAPSURETM, a compact, handheld device that lets design professionals, contractors, paint retailers and do-it-yourselfers confidently measure and match color inspiration instantly - from small, patterned, multi-colored textures and textiles to walls and carpeting.Created for professionals in fashion, home furnishings, interior, industrial and graphic design, as well as contractors, paint retailers and do-it-yourselfers, CAPSURE allows users to accurately identify color inspiration from any surface, material or fabric and match it to a PANTONE(R) Color for easy communication. With unsurpassed accuracy, CAPSURE significantly reduces the time it takes to measure or choose a color from a sample or any other form of color inspiration."CAPSURE's advanced image capture technology sets a new standard for accuracy and versatility in a portable device," said Giovanni Marra, director of corporate marketing at Pantone. "The real power of CAPSURE is its ability to measure the color of any surface, including small, patterned and multi-colored textures and textiles, which can confound other instruments because of their textural complexity, and quickly match them to more than 8,000 PANTONE Colors."The device uses powerful tri-directional image capture technology that eliminates the shadows and interference inherent to patterned and textured materials and surfaces. By illuminating the surface being measured from three different directions while simultaneously recording 27 color-accurate images in 1.6 seconds, CAPSURE can extract up to four dominant colors from an intricate pattern so the viewer can clearly identify the desired color."I am constantly inspired and, believe it or not, have actually started carrying CAPSURE in my bag to capture color inspiration wherever I am - it's as easy to use as an iPhoneTM," said Peter Som, American women's wear designer. "Pantone has managed to marry the design process with cutting-edge technology in this one tool - my design team and I are obsessed!""In the business of color matching tricky fabrics, patterns and plastics on-site, it's tough to trust my own eyes and harder still to be weighed down with multiple fan decks," said Jeff Miller, owner of Jeff Miller Design. "Pantone's portable CAPSURE device takes me right to the PANTONE Color number with one click, then provides dozens of additional PANTONE Color options and complementary colors which are all stored for easy use and reference in CAPSURE."CAPSURE's image capture technology lets professionals preview what they are measuring on its 1.75-inch color screen, in real time, to affirm image accuracy. Those images are then stored on the device for later reference. CAPSURE has the ability to record the last 100 colors measured for later reference. Users can also annotate colors with a voice recording as well as a time and date stamp. Additionally, the device provides harmonious shades and identifies related colors that are lighter, darker or similar in tone to the identified color.CAPSURE comes pre-loaded with all PANTONE Color Libraries allowing users to match more than 8,000 colors with a single device. Users can also toggle across multiple PANTONE Libraries and cross-match any material or surface. CAPSURE includes:The PANTONE FASHION + HOME Color System Library (paper and cotton) for fashion and home;The PANTONE PAINT + INTERIORS Library (paper and cotton) for architecture and interiors;The PANTONE PLUS SERIES Formula Guide (coated and uncoated), the PANTONE PLUS SERIES CMYK (coated and uncoated) and the PANTONE GoeTM System (coated and uncoated) for graphic design, printing and publishing; providing sRGB, Adobe RGB, HTML, Lab and XYZ values for multimedia design.Users can also upload fan decks from popular paint manufacturers, at an additional cost, to match the color of an inspirational item in paint.For convenient remote use, the device is powered by a rechargeable lithium battery that lasts for thousands of measurements on a single charge.CAPSURE Palette Application SoftwareThe CAPSURE Palette Application Software provides convenient access to saved color measurements, details and tags, and allows users to view measured color samples with selectable lighting conditions on their computer screen. Users can also create palettes with their favorite shades or custom palettes for a specific project. All palettes can be synchronized with popular design applications including Adobe(R) Creative Suite(R), QuarkXPress(R) and CorelDRAW(R).CAPSURE SyncCAPSURE Sync ensures that CAPSURE is always updated with the most current color selections, new color ranges and specialty collections.Pricing and AvailabilityCAPSURE is available immediately for U.S. $649 at www.pantone.com. Paint libraries can be purchased for an additional cost at www.xrite.com or through the CAPSURE Sync function. CAPSURE Sync is available for both PC and Mac users and is included, free-of-charge, with each CAPSURE device. The Palette Application Software is available for download, free-of-charge, upon product registration. The Palette Application Software is PC-compatible; Macintosh support is expected in January 2011.About PantonePantone LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of X-Rite, Incorporated, has been the world's color authority for almost 50 years, providing design professionals with products and services for the colorful exploration and expression of creativity. Always a source for color inspiration, Pantone also offers designer-inspired products and services for consumers. More information is available at www.pantone.com.About X-RiteX-Rite, Incorporated, is the global leader in color science and technology. The company, which now includes color industry leader Pantone, develops, manufactures, markets and supports innovative color solutions through measurement systems, software, color standards and services. X-Rite's expertise in inspiring, selecting, measuring, formulating, communicating and matching color helps users get color right the first time and every time, which translates to better quality and reduced costs. X-Rite serves a range of industries, including printing, packaging, photography, graphic design, video, automotive, paints, plastics, textiles, dental and medical. For further information, please visit www.xrite.com.PANTONE(R)...The color of ideasSM.PANTONE(R) and other Pantone trademarks are the property of Pantone LLC. © Pantone LLC, 2010. All rights reserved. Adobe, Creative Suite is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated. iPhone is a trademark of Apple. QuarkXPress is a trademark of Quark, Inc. and its affiliates in the U.S. and/or other countries. CorelDRAW is a trademark of Corel Corporation.Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6470606〈=enSOURCE: Pantone LLC
 