
 Well, this is one of the more... creative ways to tease a forthcoming product. Pantech is ready to show off its latest AT&T LTE device, the Flex, but it's taking to its popular Dew Tour to do so. Pantech is quite scant on specific information and isn't providing photos yet, but it did mention that the new device will be available in the coming months. Hopefully this is the handset we saw go through the FCC not too long ago, but we'll keep you posted as more information comes in. In the meantime, the Flex will be exhibited this weekend at the Pantech Beach Championships in Ocean City, MD. Check out the full press release after the break.



  Show full PR text   PANTECH WIRELESS, OFFICIAL WIRELESS DEVICE PARTNER OF THE DEW TOUR,  READIES FOR TITLE-SPONSORED BEACH CHAMPIONSHIPS AUG. 16-19:   Top Action Sports Athletes Bucky Lasek and Brett Banasiewicz  To Compete As "TEAM PANTECH"   NEWEST 4G LTE SMARTPHONE PANTECH Flex™ TO BE REVEALED AT EVENT   ATLANTA – August 16, 2012 – Pantech Wireless (www.pantechusa.com), the U.S.-based subsidiary of Pantech Co., Ltd., announced today that two premier BMX and skateboarding professional athletes -- Bucky Lasek, and Brett Banasiewicz -- will represent the innovative and leading wireless device manufacturer as Team Pantech when they compete in the 2012 Dew Tour.   Pantech also announced that attendees of the Pantech Beach Championships will get an early peek at Pantech's newest 4G LTE smartphone, Flex, at the Pantech Experience onsite. Flex will be available at AT&T stores and www.att.com in the coming months.   Pantech is the official wireless device partner of the 2012 Dew Tour, the world's premier action sports tour that kicks off next week and concludes in December. As the first of three events encompassing the 2012 Dew Tour, the title-sponsored Pantech Beach Championships will take place in Ocean City, Md. Aug. 16-19. (http://www.allisports.com/dew-tour/event/ocean-city-2012).   The Dew Tour Pantech Beach Championships will air live on NBC Sports Network on Friday, August 17 at 7:30 p.m. ET, on Saturday, August 18 on NBC at 1 p.m. ET, and on Sunday, August 19 on NBC at 2 p.m. ET.   This marks the second season that Pantech will sponsor Lasek and Banasiewicz. Two of the most recognizable names in action sports, these athletes were selected to represent the Pantech brand because of their superior athletic ability and dedication to their sport.   "These remarkable athletes are role models to our core audience and have a tremendous positive impact on the sport and the Pantech brand," said Erin Magee, director of channel marketing, Pantech. "Bucky and Brett are excellent brand representatives and we are excited to have such a strong roster of Pantech athletes in the 2012 Dew Tour."  "Pantech continues to show solid support for the action sports community and I'm honored to once again be part of Team Pantech," commented Lasek. "Pantech wireless products are ideal for keeping me connected to my friends, family and fans. With great speed, innovation and design, they are easy to use and offer cool features that enable me to stay on top of my life."   Lasek and Banasiewicz will participate in special autograph sessions at Dew Tour events. Dew Tour fans will also have the opportunity to interact with the Pantech brand and products, such as the new Pantech Flex, at the Pantech Experience during the 2012 Dew Tour events.   As fans enter the Dew Tour Pantech Experience, they will register on a Pantech Element, Pantech's waterproof tablet and receive a unique PIN. The PIN will be used for checking in at different interactive kiosks within the Pantech Experience to win prizes and share their interactions on their personal social media platforms. From a Social Jukebox to a Pantech Element Dunk Tank to Dew Cup photos, fans will participate in an interactive and social journey during their Pantech Experience visit.   For long-distance fans, Team Pantech will be featured in daily highlight reels on Pantech TV, available for viewing on the Pantech YouTube channel each day of competition. Fans can also keep up with their favorite Pantech athletes on the Pantech USA Facebook and Twitter pages.

 
