
 

Pantech holds no punches in its home nation, where the company's latest handset, the Vega LTE, has just become very official. In addition to 4G support, the phone features a dual-core 1.5GHz CPU, 1GB of RAM and a 4.5-inch display with a whopping 1280 x 800 resolution. Take a moment to savor that last part. Gingerbread is at the core of this large-and-in-charge beauty, which also includes an 8 megapixel auto-focus camera that captures video at 1080p, an LED flash, a 1.3MP front-facing shooter and 16GB of built-in storage. An 1830mAh battery powers the slab, which measures just 9.35mm thin and weighs 135.5g (4.8oz). Rounding out the internals, users will benefit from A-GPS, 802.11n, NFC and terrestrial DMB -- that last one is specifically for the home crowd. With specs like these, we can only hope a domestic version makes its journey across the Pacific. If you're looking for some mental exercise, a translated PR follows the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Sky, an innovative smartphone Vega LTE public 		CHANDLER, Ariz. - (BUSINESS WIRE) - October 6, 2011 - IMD (Intelligent Mobile Device) Pantech professional enterprise of any existing LTE smartphone world's highest resolution, the world's first LTE smartphones equipped with the features 'Vega LTE' and the public to declare a full-fledged 4G LTE era. Sky ( www.isky.co.kr , Vice Chairman and CEO bakbyeongyeop), which boasts the world's highest resolution LTE smartphone Vega LTE (IM-A800S) 'a six-day Seoul Sangam Digital Media City (DMC) in building Pantech has unveiled a Media Day event. 'Vega LTE' smartphones in mid of this month through SK Telecom will be sold. 'Vega LTE' 4G LTE and communication technologies built into the theoretical download 75Mbps, upload speed of 37.5Mbps data communication is possible. 		The third-generation telecommunications services, compared to more than five times faster high-quality multimedia services, high definition video telephony, multiplayer network games, a full-fledged LTE services can be enjoyed. □ top speed 4G LTE + innovative world's first and best feature + global UI flux (FLUX ) mounted a day, Sky launched 4G LTE smartphone Vega LTE 'the best rate and many new innovative features and equipped with global UI expected from 4G LTE is a premium product of the highest specification. 'Vega LTE' The Sky Vega brand 'is products expected from the highest rate in the formula was born. 		Communication technologies to support 4G LTE, and Qualcomm 1.5GHz dual-core processor, Google's latest Android operating system, to gingerbread equipped with 1GB DDR2 RAM memory can experience the true speed of 4G LTE. especially the first, innovative Vega series down first and best feature in the lives of consumers for the inconvenience haesohan products. The front of the world's first camera phone to recognize the people that work behavior is implemented with motion recognition. Hand on the screen without having to touch your hands shake it from side to side can be a phone call. In addition, the motion does not touch directly with smartphone eBooks handed a photo of the bookshelf and photo album, it is possible to listen to music. Second, the world's highest resolution, which boasts the world's first 1 million pixel LCD provides a sharper picture by mounting is. 4.5-inch WXGA LCD (1280 x 800, 102 만 4000 pixels resolution), the HD720 (1280 x 720, 92 만 1600 pixel resolution) as compared to 80 pixels wider than the horizontal can enjoy high-definition content. 335PPI (pixels per inch) to support the release LTE phone which boasts the highest resolution. third, LTE 9.35mm the thinnest smartphone design with a slim cell Saints have strengthened. 		Sky's accumulated technology, especially as both the front and rear for a clean white color product will be released first. Wait for LTE smartphone launch of the white color is expected to be good news for consumers. Fourth, the Sky's global UI flux (FLUX) equipped with Sky to provide unique and innovative environment. 'Vega LTE' a new global UI from the applied flux (FLUX) UI for the Android operating system was optimized and the sky. The domestic market in the future apply to all smartphones are enhanced with a user friendly UI looks like fury. 		Efficient use of power for the power-saving modes. Quick Setup is supported and easy to switch power saving mode, etc., users pre-set depending on the features that will conserve battery power. In particular, support for battery life according to the book on time and do not use very often saves power can be used on another PC, like the Google Chrome browser, by providing a true multi-tabbed web browsing is possible. Hwamyeongan quick look at the top of the tab can be moved through. The new tab when adding frequently visited sites, recently closed tabs categories provided by the user to your favorite sites, the move is easy in addition to 16GB of internal memory, mobile payment enabled NFC, 1830mAh capacity battery, Wi-Fi a / b / g / n support , Bluetooth 3.0 and terrestrial DMB support, etc. are the best. 		The colors white, black and white color with two kinds of market first is managing director of Sky Marketing Director imseongjae "LTE smartphones in the domestic market once again confirms its reputation sikyeodeu We'll be in the Sky," said, "By the end of the mobile-party In addition, introducing a common LTE 4G LTE smartphones in the market will keep its position, "he said.
 