
       Blu-ray needs some blockbusters in '07 (cause Fox's isn't going to cut it) and Paramount just might have the ticket to the show with Babel, Flags Of Our Fathers, Payback and Face/Off. Hopefully this isn't all Paramount is going to release this year on Blu-ray but even if it is, they are sweet films. Babel was nominated for seven Golden Globes and Flags Of Our Fathers was simply an epic movie from Clint Eastwood. Plus, the Blu-ray version of Payback and Face/Off are going to have tons of Blu-ray exclusive extras that should fill you need for HD content. Babel is slatted to arrive on Blu-ray along with the standard DVD February 20 and the rest of the titles should come out sometime this year on yet to be announced dates with yet to be announced prices. Full press release after the jump.
 

PARAMOUNT HOME ENTERTAINMENT TO LAUNCH 2007 BLU-RAY SLATE WITH HIGH PROFILE TITLESYear Kicks-Off with Seven Time Golden Globe® Nominee, BabelLOS ANGELES (January 8, 2007) – Following a well-received slate of Blu-ray releases in 2006, highlighted by M:i:III, one of the year's best-selling high-definition titles, Paramount Home Entertainment (PHE), a division of Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA), announced today that it will kick off 2007 with powerhouse new release and catalog titles. Leading off the high-profile films scheduled to debut from PHE is the critically-acclaimed Babel, arriving day-and-date on Blu-ray and DVD February 20. Directed by renowned filmmaker Alejandro González Iñárritu and starring Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett, Babel leads the year's Golden Globe® contenders with seven nominations, including Best Motion Picture-Drama. Among the additional titles slated for release on Blu-ray in 2007 are Clint Eastwood's emotionally gripping WWII drama Flags Of Our Fathers. The epic film has garnered Eastwood a Golden Globe nomination for Best Director and features an all-star cast in its action-packed story of the Greatest Generation."We've been very pleased by the reception of our initial slate of Blu-ray titles from both the press and early adopters of the format," said Kelley Avery, President of Worldwide Home Entertainment, Paramount Pictures. "Looking ahead to 2007, we're enthusiastic about growing consumer adoption and excited about the titles we have lined up for the format."Tapping into the studio's vast library, PHE also will debut a brand new director's cut of the fan-favorite action drama Payback. Starring Oscar® winner Mel Gibson, the new Payback: Straight Up Blu-ray disc features an extensive array of all-new bonus material and never-before-seen content including a behind-the-scenes look at director Brian Helgeland's efforts to capture his definitive vision for the film. Also scheduled for release on Blu-ray is a new Special Collector's Edition of Face/Off, the sensational crime-drama starring John Travolta and Nicolas Cage. Directed by action-master John Woo, the suspense-filled film earned over $100 million at the box office and celebrates its 10th anniversary in 2007. Additional titles will be announced throughout the year.About Blu-ray DiscBlu-ray Disc is the next-generation optical disc format being developed for high-definition video and high-capacity software applications. A single-layer Blu-ray Disc will hold up to 25 gigabytes of data and a double-layer Blu-ray Disc will hold up to 50 gigabytes of data.About Paramount Home EntertainmentParamount Home Entertainment (PHE) is part of Paramount Pictures Corporation, a unit of Viacom (NYSE:VIA, VIA.B), a global entertainment company that produces and distributes filmed entertainment through the Paramount Motion Picture Group. PHE is responsible for the worldwide sales, marketing and distribution of home entertainment products on behalf of various parties including: Paramount Pictures, DreamWorks SKG, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, CBS, PBS and Hasbro and for providing home entertainment fulfillment services for DreamWorks Animation Home Entertainment.

       

 