
 
 Marking the first anniversary of the AR.Drone 2.0 since last CES, Parrot has announced that it'll be offering an optional GPS flight recorder module as well as a bigger battery at some point this year. The former dongle simply plugs into the flying vehicle via the USB port, and it can record the flying parameters onto its 4GB memory, which can then be reproduced on the 3D AR.Drone Academy map. As for the larger battery, it'll come with 1,500mAh worth of juice which is 50 percent more than the original one (hence a flight time of up to 18 minutes now), though we'd imagine most hardcore enthusiasts have already modded third-party batteries for the power-hungry copter.

 On the software side, the AR.Drone 2.0 will soon be upgraded with a "Director Mode" for programming movements (including traveling, pan, crane and more) for more creative filming. Additionally there will be an "AR.Race 2.0" solo or multiplayer racing game, as well as an "AR.Rescue 2.0" adventure game in augmented reality. Sounds fun, and we'll be able to see the drone in action during our live CES interview with CEO Henri Seydoux this Thursday, so stay tuned.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Parrot  Consumer Electronics Show 2013  The best technologies serving a smart way of life

   Parrot, a global leader of wireless peripherals for mobile phones, unveils innovations that will be available in 2013. Every day, Parrot is exploring the new possibilities around Smartphones in the spirit of "Smart Living."

   The uncontested star of CES since 2010, Parrot AR.Drone is again promising new and exceptional flying experiences: GPS 'Flight Recorder, 'advanced flying camera software, a longer battery life and games.

   • GPS 'Flight recorder', the Parrot AR.Drone 2.0 black box

   Connected to the USB plug of the AR.Drone 2.0, 'Flight Recorder' is a GPS module with a 4GB flash memory that records flying parameters, like airliners. It will enable the visualization of flights in 3D on the AR.Drone Academy map and will provide developers with an additional field of creation.

   • 'Director Mode', film like a pro

   Director Mode enables pilots to program pre-registered and automatic movements (e.g. traveling, pan, crane, etc.) in order to shoot perfect videos like a movie director with Parrot AR.Drone 2.0.

   A stabilization system and video post-processing features allow clean smooth shots and the videos could be used in editing or shared via the AR.Drone Academy.

   • High Density Battery, 50 percent additional flying time!

   A new high-density Lithium-Polymer battery option increases flight time of the Parrot AR.Drone 2.0 to 18 minutes!

   • 'AR.Race 2.0' and 'AR.Rescue 2.0', compare yourself to the community

   'AR.Race 2.0', a customizable solo or multi-player race game and 'AR.Rescue 2.0', an adventure game in augmented reality, will be connected to the AR.Drone Academy for pilots to compare their scores with other members.

    Project name: Parrot AR.Drone 2.0 news Date of availability: 2013  Video: http://www.youtube.com/ardrone

 
