
After months of anticipation, Path is finally bringing its social network to the Windows Phone, and it's starting with the Nokia Lumia 1020. The app, which is still in the works and hasn't been assigned a launch date, will take advantage of the company's new imaging SDK and its plethora of photo filters. Although the main focus of Path's announcement was centered on the new Lumia, it also mentioned that the app will indeed come to "all Windows Phones." No word on if the launch will occur across the board at the same time (nor if this includes Windows Phone 7.5 or only affects WP8 users) or if it will be featured only on the 1020 at first, but we'll update you as soon as we know. In the meantime, there's a press release for you to digest below the break.


Check out all the news from today's Nokia event at our hub!


Show full PR textAnnouncing: Path and Nokia, Bringing Path to Windows

Today we are thrilled to announce a collaboration with Nokia to bring Path to the Windows Phone. This is a platform that we are especially excited to build on because it has been one of the most requested platforms by our users from all corners of the globe.

We've worked closely with the team at Nokia to build Path for Windows Phone, with a special focus on the new Nokia Lumia 1020 device. The Lumia 1020 combines the customization inherent to Windows with the great graphics and optics that Nokia is known for. The device is equipped with a 41 megapixel camera - the best on the market - along with the Nokia Imaging SDK with 50 premium Nokia filters.

We at Path believe in the power of photography as a means of capturing memories. So we are delighted that Path users on the Lumia will be able to post photo moments that are even more vibrant than ever before.

Bryan Biniak, VP and GM of global partnering and application development at Nokia says, "Path exemplifies the spirit of delivering best-in-class mobile experiences that are memorable and relevant for the user. We feel honored that Path has chosen to partner with Nokia in their quest to be your personal network."

With the help of Nokia, we can't wait to introduce Path to new people across the globe and help them stay connected with those they love. We don't have a specific app release date just yet, but stay tuned.


