
 Think you're having a good day? Try being Tim Morse, who was just relieved of the seemingly impossible task known as "being the Chief Executive Officer of Yahoo." After years of turmoil and bouts of bickering with Alibaba, Yahoo has just appointed Scott Thompson as its new CEO -- marking the introduction of a new year with the introduction of a new head honcho. Mr. Morse, who was standing in as interim CEO, will resume his role as Chief Financial Officer, and Thompson will become a member of the company's Board of Directors starting January 9th. Scott served most recently as President of PayPal, where -- so far as we can tell -- he did nothing to remove the draconian 'dispute' process that has jaded so many souls belonging to slighted eBayers. Bitterness aside, his primary focus in his new role will be to "continue the strategic review process to identify the best approaches for the company and its shareholders," and the release makes clear that Yahoo is "considering a wide range of opportunities for the company's business, as well as specific investments or dispositions of assets." Sounds fun, no?
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Yahoo! Appoints Scott Thompson Chief Executive Officer 		SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ: YHOO), the premier digital media company, today announced the appointment of Scott Thompson as Chief Executive Officer, effective January 9, 2012, at which time Tim Morse will resume his role as Chief Financial Officer. Thompson has also been appointed to the Company's Board of Directors, effective January 9, 2012. 		Thompson served most recently as President of PayPal, a division of eBay, where he continued his established track record of growing businesses by driving customer engagement built on strong technology platforms. Under his leadership, PayPal solidified its lead as the global online payment service, expanding its user base from 50 million to more than 104 million active users in 190 countries worldwide, increasing the number of merchant partners to more than 8 million globally, and growing revenues from $1.8 billion to $4+ billion in 2011. 		"Scott brings to Yahoo! a proven record of building on a solid foundation of existing assets and resources to reignite innovation and drive growth, precisely the formula we need at Yahoo!," said Roy Bostock, Chairman of the Yahoo! Board. "His deep understanding of online businesses combined with his team building and operational capabilities will restore the energy, focus, and momentum necessary to grow the core business and deliver increased value for our shareholders. The search committee and the entire Board concluded that he is the right leader to return the core business to a path of robust growth and industry-leading innovation." 		"Yahoo! is an industry icon and I am very excited about the prospect of working with one of the great teams in the online world to deliver Yahoo!'s next era of success," Mr. Thompson said. "Yahoo! has a rich history and a solid foundation to build on, and its continued user engagement is one of the many reasons for my enthusiasm. With the ultimate goal of delivering the value our shareholders expect, my immediate focus will be on getting to know the entire team and hearing more from all Yahoo!s, working closely with the engineers and product teams, and diving deeply into our products and services to learn more about what our more than 700 million users find most engaging and useful. I will also be working directly with our region leaders and sales teams globally to get a clearer understanding of the needs of our advertisers and publishers. Clearly, speed is important but we will attack both the opportunity ahead and the competitive challenges with an appropriate balance of urgency and thoughtfulness. I cannot wait to get started." 		"Scott's primary focus will be on the core business, and as CEO and director, he will work closely with the Board as we continue the strategic review process to identify the best approaches for the Company and its shareholders. As part of this process, Yahoo! is considering a wide range of opportunities for the Company's business, as well as specific investments or dispositions of assets," added Bostock. 		"We are all grateful to Tim Morse for leading the company with a steady hand during the last several months. His deep understanding of the Company and his positive approach kept the company on course and we will continue to benefit from his exceptional capabilities as he returns to his Chief Financial Officer role," Bostock concluded. 		Scott Thompson Biographical Information 		Scott Thompson has a record of deep industry experience, having most recently served as President of PayPal with overall responsibility for establishing that company as the leading global online payment service. He previously served as PayPal's Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Prior to PayPal, Mr. Thompson was Executive Vice President of technology solutions at Inovant, a subsidiary of Visa formed to oversee global technology for the organization. Thompson was also Chief Information Officer of Barclays Global Investors, where he implemented a new strategic technology platform and global infrastructure. In addition, he worked with Coopers and Lybrand, delivering information technology solutions to leading financial services clients. 		Conference Call and Webcast Information 		Yahoo! will host a conference call to discuss today's announcement at 10 a.m. Eastern Time today. A live webcast of the conference call can be accessed through the Company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.yahoo.net/. The dial-in number for the live conference call is (877) 218-7860. Participants calling from outside the United States may dial (857) 244-7400. The passcode 60719359# is required to access the call. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. An audio replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference call by calling (888) 286-8010 or (617) 801-6888, passcode: 53109628
 