
 
PBS has just announced its own app for iPhone and iPod touch, and from the looks of it, it's a doozy (if you're super into PBS, that is). That's right, the free PBS app will allow you to watch full-length PBS productions on your device -- including its popular news programs like FRONTLINE and the PBS Newshour. You won't be able to watch everything that PBS offers just yet, but the app also has a built-in calendar which should be super useful if you happen to structure your entire life around PBS programming like we know some of our avid readers do. PBS developed the app with help from Bottle Rocket Apps, and adds this to its other apps currently available, the Antiques Roadshow game app and the PBS for iPad app. This one's available right this second in iTunes and it's free. Full press release is after the break.

[Thanks, Jake]
      

 

Show full PR textPBS Launches Free Full-Length Video App for iPhone and iPod touch and Antiques Roadshow Game AppTelevision Critics Association Press Tour, Pasadena, CA – January 8, 2011 – PBS announced today the App Store debut of the PBS App for iPhone and iPod touch, featuring more than 300 hours of free video, including full-length programs. Also launching today, the PBS Antiques Roadshow game app, available for the iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, lets players virtually collect, appraise and bid on real antiques with new collectibles from different cities added regularly."With a huge library from nearly 360 member stations and 1500 public media producers, PBS is delivering a rich on-demand experience and is now one of the first broadcasters to bring full-length video to the iPhone," said Jason Seiken, SVP, PBS Interactive, Product Development and Innovation. "There has been increasing demand for our content on other platforms – the PBS video player averages 22 minutes viewing time per program among audiences 18+ and ranks 19th among video sites, with more than 104 million streams. In addition, PBSKIDS.org is the #1 children's video site in streams and unique users, according to comScore."The PBS App for the iPhone and iPod touch features more than 300 hours of free video, including full-length programming from FRONTLINE, PBS Newshour, and others, as well as scheduling details, previews, and a new tune-in reminder calendar that can be synced with iCal. This app was developed by PBS and Bottle Rocket Apps and comes on the heels of the already successful PBS App for iPad.Based on the popular television series, the Antiques Roadshow App brings out the expert collector and appraiser in every Roadshow fan. Dozens of unique game challenges let players collect and store hundreds of virtual antiques based on images of real objects and actual values. Players appraise and learn about each item's history and value. Expert players can unlock a free play mode and scoop up extra rare items for their treasure chest."Antiques Roadshow remains a huge hit on-air, and local events draw large crowds. The series is part adventure, part history and part treasure hunt, and now the app takes it to another level, allowing players to become antiques dealers-in-training," said Marsha Bemko, Executive Producer, Antiques Roadshow. "No more waiting in line to get in. We've granted VIP access passes to everyone to indulge their inner appraiser."The PBS App is available for free from the App Store on iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, or at www.itunes.com/appstore.The Antiques Roadshow App is available for $2.99 from the App Store on iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, or at www.itunes.com/appstore.About PBS PBS, with its nearly 360 member stations, offers all Americans - from every walk of life - the opportunity to explore new ideas and new worlds through television and online content. Each month, PBS reaches 117 million people through television and 20 million people online, inviting them to experience the worlds of science, history, nature and public affairs; to hear diverse viewpoints; and to take front row seats to world-class drama and performances. PBS' broad array of programs has been consistently honored by the industry's most coveted award competitions. Teachers of children from pre-K through 12thgrade turn to PBS for digital content and services that help bring classroom lessons to life. PBS' premier children's TV programming and its website, pbskids.org, are parents' and teachers' most trusted partners in inspiring and nurturing curiosity and love of learning in children. More information about PBS is available at www.pbs.org, one of the leading dot-org websites on the Internet.About Antiques Roadshow Part adventure, part history lesson, and part treasure hunt, eight-time Emmy-nominated Antiques Roadshow marks its fifteenth season in 2011. PBS's highest-rated series, Roadshow is seen by more than nine million viewers each week. In each hour-long Roadshow episode, specialists from the country's leading auction houses and independent dealers from across the nation offer free appraisals of antiques and collectibles. Host Mark L. Walberg welcomes back viewers to join the journey through America's attics and basements, starting Monday, January 3, 2011 at 8/7C on PBS.About Bottle Rocket Apps Bottle Rocket Apps (www.bottlerocketapps.com) is a full-service mobile app development firm, focused on creating mission-critical, premium brand experiences on the Apple iPhone and iPad and on Android devices. The company's apps have won numerous industry accolades for innovative and user-centered design, and frequently appear at the top of their categories on the iTunes App Store. The Bottle Rocket team of senior strategists, architects, developers and artists work their magic from the company's offices in Dallas, Texas.
 