
Yes, last night's rumors were true. Pebble just announced that it's sealed an exclusive retail deal to sell its iconic smartwatch at Best Buy locations nationwide. The wearable device is available online right now (source link below) and will land in stores starting July 7th for $150. Color choices include Jet Black today followed by Cherry Red in August. Pebble will continue taking pre-orders for the other colors (orange, grey and white) directly on its own website. The partnership with Best Buy also brings new retail packaging (above) to store shelves. We've sure come a long way since Pebble launched its Kickstarter campaign -- one of the most successful ever -- back in April 2012. Check out the promo video and full PR after the break.


Update: For folks who ordered a white Pebble straight from the source, good news: the alabaster models are now shipping!




Show full PR textPebble Brings Its Wearable Tech Exclusively to Best Buy
- Pebble is the innovative and customizable Bluetooth watch that seamlessly brings information from iOS and Android devices to your wrist.- Pebble is Kickstarter's most successful crowdfunding project ever: earning more than $10.2 million from more than 68,000 backers.- Pebble's exclusive retail launch partnership with Best Buy will help satisfy strong demand, expanding the user base for its app ecosystem.

Palo Alto, CA (July 2, 2013) – Pebble Technology proudly announces the exclusive launch of its record-breaking smart watch in Best Buy stores this summer. Jet Black versions of the programmable, waterproof, app-enabled smart watch are available online now at bestbuy.com/pebble and in all US Best Buy stores on Sunday, July 7 (MSRP $149.99). Pebble's expansion into retail distribution is a key step in meeting the tremendous public demand for its crowd-supported e-paper watch for iOS and Android.

"It's been so rewarding to see and share the great things our early backers and development partners have done with Pebble already," says CEO Eric Migicovsky. "Their work and our evolving app ecosystem has kept demand very high. Best Buy's partnership with us is a big step towards meeting that demand."

Pebble's black-and-white e-paper display is sharp and clear, with animated graphics that are fully readable in bright daylight. The watch pairs with iOS and Android devices via Bluetooth, allowing for wrist-top notifications like text messages, emails, and incoming calls as well as remote control features for music and other media playing from the phone.Pebble's watch band is fully customizable as well, compatible with any standard 22mm strap.

While offering a full-featured out-of-box experience, Pebble also gives those who are eager to build and tinker the tools they need to expand the watch's usability. Pebble's evolving, open development platform allows people to create and share watch apps-from custom watchfaces and stopwatches to fitness trackers and games-making a wide range of designs and utilities available for all. Pebble users can also enjoy existing integrations with popular sports apps RunKeeper and FreeCaddie, with more apps to come in the future.

"The outpouring of support from our Kickstarter backers was the first signal to our team that Pebble's approach to smart, wearable technology was something the world was ready for," recalls Migicovsky. "We've learned that people want their Pebbles. Thanks to Best Buy, we're giving folks more ways to make that happen."

Jet Black Pebbles are available now on bestbuy.com/pebble and in stores on July 7, with Cherry Red Pebbles to follow in August. Pebble's three other colors-Orange, Grey, and Arctic White-remain available for pre-order on getpebble.com.


