
 
This one slipped by us when it was introduced alongside the RS1000, but Pentax is once again highlighting the Optio RZ10 point and shoot here at Photokina. This cutesy compact touts a 14 megapixel sensor, a 10x optical zoomer, an upgraded Auto Picture mode (you know, for the newbies), a CCD-shift-type shake reduction mechanism, 720p HD movie mode, face detection, a pet mode for snagging better pictures of Fido and a 2.7-inch rear LCD. There's also nine-point auto focus, an ISO range of 80 to 6400, inbuilt flash, 82.7MB of integrated storage, an SD / SDHC expansion slot and a rechargeable battery good for around 260 shots on a full charge. Pentax still isn't talking dollars and cents, only noting that you'll need to contact a dealer for more. At least you don't need a liaison to decide on a favorite color below, right? 






Show full PR textPhotokina 2010: Hall 2.2, Stand A040 PENTAX Optio RZ 10: 10X Zoom in a compact Body A high-performance, casual-style digital compact camera, featuring a compact, lightweight body and 10X optical zoom lens Tokyo / Cologne, the 20th of September HOYA CORPORATION PENTAX Imaging Systems Division is pleased to announce the launch of the PENTAX Optio RZ10 digital compact camera. It provides effortless, user- friendly operation throughout the entire zoom range of its high-magnification zoom lens - from wide angle to telephoto, and even at macro settings. In addition to a 10X wide angle optical zoom lens that can handle a wide variety of subjects and occasions - from travel and landscape to action and sports - the Optio RZ10 provides a host of advanced features and handy functions that make photo shooting simple and effortless for everyone. These include dual shake reduction for effective reduction of camera shake, a 14 Megapixel sensor, a HD video function and an upgraded Auto Picture mode for hands-off selection of the most appropriate shooting mode. Sporting a simple but functional exterior design, with meticulous attention to every detail, it even offers a choice of body color from black, white and three vivid colors. The stylish Optio RZ10 is the perfect partner for all casual photographers. For sales price please contact the local Pentax subsidiary. Major Features 1. Optical 10X zoom lens for a variety of subjects and scenes Equipped with a high-performance 10X optical zoom lens covering focal lengths from 28mm wide angle to 280mm telephoto (in the 35mm format), the Optio RZ10 can capture beautiful, lively pictures with a wide range of subjects and scenes - from spectacular landscapes to fast-action sports events. It also offers high-quality macro shooting, down to just one centimeter away from the subject. When coupled with the Intelligent Zoom function, which allows for even tighter zooming in on the subject, the zoom range can be extended to approximately 67 times to cover the focal length of a 1876mm super-telephoto lens (in the 35mm format). 2. Automatic selection of the most appropriate shooting mode The Optio RZ10 features an upgraded version of the PENTAX-original Auto Picture mode, which automatically selects the most appropriate shooting mode for a given subject or scene by accurately assessing various photographic conditions on and around the subject. This user-friendly mode instantly and reliably selects one of 16 shooting modes (eight conventional modes, plus eight new modes including Blue Sky, Sunset and Pet) and optimizes various camera settings, including sensitivity and shutter speed, to assure the best results with minimal effort by the photographers. PRESS INFORMATION 3. Dual shake reduction to assure sharp, blur-free images By combining a CCD-shift-type SR (Shake Reduction) mechanism with a Pixel Track SR, the Optio RZ10's dual shake reduction system minimizes annoying camera shake more effectively than before. Thanks to this reliable system, the photographer is assured of sharp, blur-free images even under shake-prone shooting conditions - such as when using a telephoto lens, or when shooting a sunset or indoor scene without flash. 4. High-quality HDTV-proportion movie recording The Optio RZ10 captures beautiful, high-definition-TV-quality movie clips (1280 x 720 pixels).* It also comes equipped with the sophisticated Movie SR (Shake Reduction) mode,** which automatically compensates camera shake during movie shooting with the help of exclusive software. Everyone can enjoy high-quality movie shooting with minimal effort. * When the Optio RZ10's AV output terminal is used, movie clips are output as normal image-size data. If the user wishes to play back movie clips at high-definition TV proportions (1280 x 720 pixels), the data must be transferred to a personal computer for playback. ** When the Movie SR mode is selected, the angle of view becomes narrower than normal shooting. 5. Exceptional image quality By coupling approximately 14 effective megapixels assuring exceptional image resolution with a high-performance imaging engine capable of reproducing true-to-life colors, the Optio RZ10 delivers brilliant, high-quality images with well-defined details. Even when images are enlarged to large sizes, users are assured of sharp, high-resolution prints with edge-to-edge sharpness. 6. Automatic face detection for beautiful, lively snapshots The Optio RZ10 features the sophisticated Face Detection AF & AE function. This instantly and accurately detects up to 32 faces within the image field, then catches them in sharp focus and in optimum exposure in a mere 0.03 seconds - even when some of the faces are tilted or turned away from the camera. The Optio RZ10 also comes equipped with other convenient features to assist the photographer in capturing beautiful, lively snapshots. These include: the Small Face filter that makes the subject's face appear smaller than actual in recorded images; the Smile Capture that automatically releases the shutter the moment the camera detects the subject's smile; and the Blink Detection function that warns the photographer when the subject's eyes close at the time of shutter release. 7. Unique Pet mode for automatic detection of dog and cat faces The Optio RZ10 features a much-improved Pet mode, which comes in handy when taking pictures of dogs and cats. This upgraded version not only assures far greater accuracy in detecting three pre-registered faces of dogs and cats, but is also capable of automatically detecting unregistered faces of dogs and cats, unlike the previous version. www.pentax.eu PRESS INFORMATION 8. Casual, all-purpose design for every occasion The Optio RZ10's casual but stylish design makes it perfect to accompany its owner anywhere and on all occasions - on trips, for day-to-day snapshots, and at holiday events. It is designed to be functional and maneuverable, while meticulous attention has been given to every part of the camera body, including: the smoothly rounded edges; an easy-to-hold, rubber-coated grip; and a beautiful, lustrous alumite-finish black lens barrel. In addition to the standard color of chic black, the Optio RZ10 also comes in three vivid, lively colors designed to give it a sportier, cheerful appearance. 9. Other features (1) Large, easy-to-view 2.7-inch color LCD monitor with approximately 230,000 dots (2) Burst Shooting of up to 40 images at a maximum speed of 9.1 images per second (3) Digital filters, including Toy Camera and Retro, to add creative visual effects (4) Choice of three image sizes (4:3, 16:9 and 1:1) to accommodate different applications (5) D-Range setting to prevent whitewashed (overexposed) and black-out (underexposed) areas in an image (6) Digital Panorama mode to effortlessly create a single panoramic picture from as many as three images (7) MediaImpression 2.0 for PENTAX software for image viewing, editing and filing applications (compatible with the latest operating systems, including Windows 7 and Mac OS X 10.6) (8) Eye-Fi connected: optimized for use with Eye-Fi wireless memory cards ♦PENTAX and Optio are trademarks of HOYA CORPORATION. ♦ArcSoftⓇ, and its logo are either the registered trademark or trademark of ArcSoft Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. ♦Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries. ♦This product supports PRINT Image Matching III. PRINT Image Matching enabled digital still cameras, printers and software help photographers to produce images more faithful to their intentions. Some functions are not available on printers that are not PRINT Image Matching III compliant. Copyright 2001 Seiko Epson Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Print Image Matching is a trademark of Seiko Epson Corporation. The PRINT Image Matching logo is a trademark of Seiko Epson Corporation. ♦Eye-Fi, the Eye-Fi logo and Eye-Fi connected are trademarks of Eye-Fi, Inc. ♦Mac OS is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. ♦All other brands or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. ♦Design and Specifications are subject to change without notice. 
 