
  It's good to see a special edition that may actually deserve its name, for once. When the silver version of the popular K-5 came out last year, it was priced at $1,700 body-only. This new kit, which will be limited to 1,500 units worldwide and available from April, will cost just $1,600 including the bundled lens. And it's decent glass: an ultra-thin, Marc Newson designed beauty with a 40mm fixed focal length and f/2.8 aperture -- just like on the mirrorless K-01. The only thing missing? There's no sign of a "Limited Edition" stamp anywhere on it, but luckily we're too modest to notice.
      

 

  Show full PR text  DENVER, CO March 1, 2012... PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION is pleased to announce the launch of the PENTAX K-5 Silver Special Edition.  Available only as a limited edition of 1,500 sets worldwide, the package consists of the PENTAX K-5 digital SLR camera body matched with the new, ultra thin smc PENTAX-DA 40mm F2.8 XS lens.  The exclusive package combines the PENTAX K-5 - the flagship model of the PENTAX K series of digital SLR cameras - with the smc PENTAX-DA 40mm F2.8 XS lens - the world's thinnest unifocal lens*.  Marc Newson, one of the world's most renowned industrial designers, masterly designed this lens. Both the camera body and the lens barrel feature the same elegant silver finish, assuring that this package is a high-performance imaging tool that also boasts maximum visual harmony. Meticulous attention has been paid to every detail of the package, including a specially designed package, while the camera's firmware has been updated to the latest version (Ver.1.13).  * The world's thinnest interchangeable lens for lens-interchangeable digital SLR cameras, as of February 25, 2012 (based on PENTAX's research). Note: The specifications of the camera body (except for the firmware) and the lens are same as those for the standard K-5 model. The K-5 Silver Special Edition package will be available in April 2012 for $1599.95 USD and will be available exclusively through the PENTAX Web Store (www.pentaxwebstore.com) and Ace Photo (www.acephoto.net).
 