
 It's not every day that a camera company launches two major models the same day, but Pentax has done just that with the Q10 mirrorless interchangeable and the K-5 II / IIs cameras. The Q10 joins its equally tiny stablemate, the Q, to round out its line of mini-sensored, playing-card-sized cams that still let you change lenses. The new model boasts the same bokeh control and effects dial of the original Q, but adds a new grip and several color options, like the now-ubiquitous red shown above. Other features include a K-mount lens adapter, an included 15-45mm zoom telephoto, improved AF performance, full HD video recording, anti-shake technology, 5 fps continuous shooting capability and a pop-up flash. The new mini-shooter will go on sale in October at around $600 with the kit lens.

 If you have bigger (and deeper) pockets for something more sporty, Pentax has also announced its top K-5 II and K-5 IIs models to replace the popular K5, which has been around since 2010. The weather- and cold-resistant, dustproof DSLRs retain the same 16.2-megapixel resolution of their predecessor, but Pentax claims the new SAFOX X AF sensor has improved sensitivity in low-light conditions and improved auto-focus. The K-5 IIs eschews the anti-aliasing filter found on its sibling, but is otherwise the same, with a 3-inch, 925k LCD, 7fps burst mode, magnesium alloy / stainless steel body and RAW data retrieve function. These models will also appear in October and dent your wallet to the tune of $1,200 and $1,350 for the K-5 II and IIs, respectively. All that might address some of the AF and light sensitivity beefs we heard before, but we'll have wait for the next round of reviews to find out.



  Show full PR text   PENTAX Expands the Q-system with New Q10 Digital Camera and Accessories
   Super-compact, ultra-lightweight interchangeable lens camera (ILC), new Q- Mount telephoto zoom and K-Mount adapter added to the Q family of products

  DENVER, CO (September 10, 2012) - PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION (PENTAX), today expands on the innovative Q-system with the new 12.4 megapixel PENTAX Q10 interchangeable lens camera, new Q-Mount PENTAX 06 15-45mm F2.8 telephoto zoom lens and Adapter Q for PENTAX K-mount lenses, expanding its family of compact Q series products.

   The super-compact and ultra-lightweight PENTAX Q10, barely larger than a deck of cards, offers digital-SLR-quality photography for photographers of all levels. Based on the popular PENTAX Q (launched in August 2011) - the world's smallest, lightest digital interchangeable lens camera* - the Q10 features a newly adopted CMOS image sensor and an upgraded algorithm to provide users with improved performance, including higher quality images and faster autofocus (AF) operation.

   * For a digital interchangeable lens camera, as of August 31, 2012 (based on PENTAX research).

   In addition, the new Q10 retains all the creative features of its predecessor – including the bokeh control function to create a defocused effect typical of an SLR camera, and the Smart Effect modes to apply various built-in filters with a simple turn of the dial – allowing photographers to easily express their creativity. While its overall exterior design closely resembles the PENTAX Q, which was designed as a miniature version of a full-scale digital SLR camera, the PENTAX Q10 provides several upgrades in its body design, such as an improved grip for a more stable hold of the camera and attractive color options.

   "Not only does the new PENTAX Q10 have a tiny footprint but it packs a powerful punch when it comes to picture taking, especially when compared to any smart phone or digital point-and-shoot camera," explains John Carlson, Sr. Manager of Sales and Marketing, PENTAX. "With the availability of a K-Mount adapter for the PENTAX Q-series of cameras, we have extended this camera category to fulfill endless photographic possibilities for Q users, who can now use any one of 25 million PENTAX K-mount lenses with their Q system**."

  **Only manual focusing is available with K-mount lenses.
   Introduced along with the Q10 is the new super-compact and lightweight Q-Mount PENTAX 06 Telephoto Zoom lens. This high performance, interchangeable zoom lens features an F2.8 maximum aperture throughout its entire 15-45mm zoom range and is designed for exclusive use with the PENTAX Q-Mount line of digital cameras. When mounted on a PENTAX Q-mount digital camera body, it covers focal lengths from 83mm medium telephoto to 249mm telephoto (equivalent 35mm format) ideal for portraits, sports events and landscape photography.

   Also available is the new Adapter Q for K-mount lenses – a lens mount adapter that makes it possible to use PENTAX K-mount lenses on PENTAX Q series cameras. By using this adapter to attach any K-mount lens onto a PENTAX Q series camera, the focal length of the lens is extended by approximately 5.5 times in the 35mm format. For example, the extension in focal length results in the ability to use the smc PENTAX-DA* 300mm F4 ED[IF] SDM telephoto lens as a 1650mm super-telephoto lens, (35mm equivalent) making it ideal for photographing celestial bodies and very distant scenery.

   A mechanical shutter has been incorporated in this adapter to prevent "rolling shutter distortion" – a problem that results in distorted images of the subject due to the camera shake caused by photographing fast moving subjects and/or by using a super-telephoto lens. An optional tripod bracket is available to securely stabilize the camera system when longer lenses are attached.

  PENTAX Q10 Features
  Exceptional image quality  Thanks to the incorporation of a newly designed back-illuminated CMOS image sensor with outstanding high sensitivity and low-noise characteristics, the PENTAX Q10 delivers high resolution images with approximately 12.4 effective megapixels, and a top sensitivity of ISO 6400. The combination of a high-performance imaging engine, and exclusively designed, high performance Q-mount lenses, enables the PENTAX Q10 to provide clear, high contrast images rich in gradation and texture, even at the edges. With high sensitivity noise minimized, the photographer can use the entire sensitivity range from ISO 100 to the highest ISO 6400 for sharp, clear images. The photographer can even take advantage of the built-in HDR (High Dynamic Range) function, which produces one composite photo from multiple images, to create beautiful, finely detailed images free of whitewashed highlights and blacked out shadows.

  Upgraded AF performance  Thanks to the new high sensitivity image sensor and an upgraded AF algorithm, the PENTAX Q10's autofocus operation is much faster than before, even in dimly lit locations or with a telephoto lens. An AF Assist Light is provided on the camera body to optimize focusing accuracy in the dark, while the Face Recognition AF function automatically detects up to 12 faces and pinpoints the focus on a main subject.

  Quick Dial for creative visual effects  By assigning the creative Smart Effect function to the easy-to-access Quick Dial positioned on the camera's front panel, the photographer can effortlessly add the desired finishing touch to an image, while previewing the effect on the camera's 3 inch LCD display. With four positions on the Quick Dial, the photographer can assign four of their favorite effects from the nine Smart Effect modes in advance. In order to customize the PENTAX Q10 to accommodate specific shooting styles and user preferences, the user can also assign other preferences – such as a custom image setting or a digital filter or an aspect ratio setting – to this dial.

  A selection of image-processing tools to create personalized images  • Custom Image function to add distinctive finishing touches.  • Digital Filter function for artistic visual effects – a total of 19 built-in digital filters are available. Eleven filters such as Toy Camera, Invert Color and Posterization can be applied even during the shooting of still images and movie clips, while the remaining eight are applicable only during playback. The user can even apply different filters one after another to a single image to create more unique visual effects.  • Smart Effect function for simple dial control of finishing touches to quickly and effortlessly add a desired finishing touch to an image, while previewing the effect on the camera's LCD monitor. From nine Smart Effect modes, including Brilliant Color, which provides a high saturation finish, and Cross Process, with its dramatic unique-toned finish, the user can preselect up to four favorites to the dial in advance.

  High quality, Full HD movie recording of extended movie clips  The PENTAX Q10 comes equipped with a Full HD video capture function employing the H.264 recording format, allowing the user to capture high quality, extended movie clips (1920 x 1080 pixels) at a frame rate of 30 frames per second. The user can also take advantage of the advanced image processing tools like the Smart Effect modes*** and other in-body movie editing tools during movie shooting. With a push of a button, the PENTAX Q10 even offers autofocus operation during movie shooting. The PENTAX Q10 also provides a micro-HDMI terminal (type D), which allows the user to simultaneously output both Full HD movie clips and sound to external devices via a single terminal.

  *** The frame rate may vary when a selected Smart Effect mode requires nonstandard image processing.
  Effortless Bokeh control  The PENTAX Q10's unique bokeh control function allows the user to create images where their subject stands out by automatically assessing the relative distance between the in-focus subject and obtrusive objects in the field of view. Since this function simplifies the advanced, SLR-caliber technique of intentional defocusing, even a first time digital photographer can effortlessly capture high quality images with the beautifully defocused foreground and/or background.

  SR mechanism for sharp, blur-free images  The PENTAX Q10 incorporates the PENTAX-developed SR (Shake Reduction) mechanism, which automatically shifts the CMOS image sensor to offset camera shake detected by the camera's motion sensor. As a result, the PENTAX Q10 produces sharp, blur-free images even under demanding conditions that are prone to camera shake, such as when using a telephoto lens, shooting in the dark without flash illumination, or capturing landscapes in the twilight.

  Simple, user-friendly Auto Picture and Scene modes  The PENTAX Q10 features the PENTAX-original Auto Picture mode, which automatically selects the most appropriate shooting mode from such options as Portrait, Landscape and Macro for a given subject or scene, then optimizes all affecting parameters, such as shutter speed, aperture, white balance, saturation, contrast and sharpness. It also provides 21 Scene modes including Night Scene Portrait, Pet and Backlight Silhouette, allowing even an inexperienced digital photographer to choose the best exposure mode for a complicated scene by simply choosing an appropriate icon on the LCD monitor.

  Dependable, flexible exposure system available only with digital ILC systems  The PENTAX Q10's comprehensive exposure system assures all the advantages and flexibility of a digital interchangeable lens camera system. To accommodate user preferences and varying photographic applications, it offers a choice of four different exposure modes: the all-purpose Programmed AE (P) mode, which automatically selects an optimum combination of aperture and shutter speed; the Shutter Priority AE (Tv) and Aperture Priority AE (Av) modes, which allow the photographer to accurately reproduce specific creative intentions on resulting images; and the Metered Manual (M) mode. The photographer can even instantly switch the exposure mode from P mode to Av or Tv with a simple turn of a control dial.

  High speed continuous shooting at approximately five images per second  The PENTAX Q10's high speed continuous shooting mode allows the photographer to capture up to five images (in JPEG recording format) in a single sequence, at a maximum speed of approximately five images per second. This mode comes in handy when trying to preserve the action of fast moving subjects in a series of images.

  Dependable DRII mechanism for effective dust removal  The PENTAX Q10's DRII (Dust Removal II) mechanism effectively prevents dust spots from degrading captured images after the user changes lenses out in the open. Like the PENTAX K-5 II and 645D SLR cameras, the Q10 incorporates a highly effective supersonic vibration mechanism, which vibrates the image sensor at high speed to shake the dust off its surface.

  Built-in auto flash with pop-up mechanism  The PENTAX Q10 comes with a built-in auto flash (guide number 7 at ISO 200/m). The photographer is able to use it at the default position, or raise it to the pop-up position with simple operation to widen its discharge angle to cover a 28mm angle of view (in the 35mm format).

  Pricing and Availability  The new PENTAX Q10 will be available at retail outlets nationwide and online in October 2012. It will be offered in a Red or Silver kit including the 02 zoom lens at a suggested retail price of $599.95. The PENTAX-06 Telephoto Zoom lens will be available at retail outlets and online in October 2012 with a suggested retail price of $299.95. Finally, Adapter Q for K-mount lenses will be available in 2012 with a suggested retail price of $249.95.

   Additional information including product specifications is available here: www.pentaximaging.com/news and product images are available here: www.pentaximaging.com/press/pressfiles.html.

  ♦ Designs and specifications are subjects to change without notice.  ♦ Q and Q10 are trademarks of PENTAX RICOH IMAGING COMPANY, LTD.
  About PENTAX  PENTAX is a leader in the production of a variety of adventure ready digital cameras including weather-resistant digital SLRs and stylish, compact, waterproof cameras, as well as lenses, flash units, binoculars, scopes, and eyepieces. For more than 90 years, PENTAX has developed durable, reliable products that meet the needs of adventurous consumers and businesses. With new headquarters in Denver, Colorado, PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION is a subsidiary of PENTAX RICOH IMAGING COMPANY, LTD. effective October 1, 2011. Additional details may be found here: www.pentaximaging.com/news
   Show full PR text   PENTAX Introduces New K-5 II & K-5 IIs DSLR Cameras
   Versatile cameras feature newly developed AF sensor for stellar performance in low-light conditions, as well as high quality CMOS sensor, LCD monitor

  Denver, CO (September 10, 2012) - PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION today announced the introduction of its PENTAX K-5 II and K-5 IIs flagship digital SLR cameras, designed to advance the company's well-received K-5 camera, which launched in October 2010. These new dustproof, weather-resistant and cold-resistant cameras include a newly developed SAFOX X AF sensor that delivers the broadest autofocusing EV range (-3 EV to +18 EV) in its class. In addition, the PENTAX K-5 IIs is offered without an anti-aliasing filter, making it the perfect solution for photographers who practice commercial and studio photography where camera settings, lens selection, lighting, and other shooting conditions are controlled.

   The new PENTAX K-5 II / K-5 IIs offer a compact, solid body that delivers high quality image reproduction, especially when working in low light conditions. The camera's new, highly sensitive AF sensor enables photographers to work with a luminous flux based on F2.8 levels in addition to F5.6, which increases the AF accuracy when using fast lenses. The AF sensor also includes an upgraded AF algorithm as well as the Select-Area Expansion feature, which automatically tracks the subject when it deviates from a pre-assigned selection point, by assessing data from neighboring sensors.

   "The new K-5 II and K-5 IIs deliver an extensive range of photographic possibilities for the resolution-conscious photographer in all of us. As a successor to our popular K-5 camera, these new models offer upgraded features designed to produce superb image quality, including the new AF sensor which is especially useful for photographers working in low light conditions," said John Carlson, Sr. Manager of Sales and Marketing, PENTAX.

  Major features include:
  High resolution CMOS sensor for true-to-life images with minimal noise  With its large sensor measuring 23.7mm by 15.7mm with approximately 16.28 effective megapixels, the K-5 II's latest-generation CMOS image sensor ensures high-speed image data readout. By coupling the sensor with the PRIME (PENTAX Real Image Engine) II imaging engine, the K-5 II delivers super high resolution, rich gradation digital images free of digital noise over a wide sensitivity range – from ISO 100 to ISO 12800 in the standard setting, or from ISO 80 to ISO 51200 when expanded via a custom function.

  High quality LCD monitor with outstanding visibility outdoors  The K-5 II includes a 3.0 inch, wide-view, air-gap-free LCD display with approximately 921,000 dots for excellent visibility when outdoors. Situated between the front glass panel (which is coated with an anti-glare film) and the LCD screen is a unique resin layer that alleviates the reflection and dispersion of light to effectively prevent ghost images and maintain image brightness. The LCD cover is also made of tempered glass to keep it free of scratches and abrasions.

  Anti-aliasing filter-free feature of the K-5 IIs  The K-5 IIs is offered without an anti-aliasing filter, which is commonly found in many DSLRs to smooth computer generated imagery by decreasing high frequencies and distortion, but adversely reduces detail resolution. Without this filter, the K-5 IIs creates deeply rich, detailed imagery at supreme resolution levels.

  Compact, solid body with dustproof, weather-resistant construction  The K-5 II's exterior casing is made of sturdy and lightweight magnesium alloy, while its chassis is made of highly rigid stainless steel. With 77 special seals in its body, the camera offers a dustproof, weather-resistant and cold-resistant construction, assuring reliable operation at temperatures as low as 14°F (-10°C). It also features a dependable shutter unit for a top shutter speed of 1/8000 per second, and the ability to withstand as many as 100,000 shutter releases.

  PENTAX-original SR mechanism  The camera features the PENTAX-developed SR (Shake Reduction) mechanism, which compensates for the adverse effects of camera shake by approximately three shutter steps for blur-free images. The SR mechanism works with a variety of PENTAX interchangeable lenses – even those designed for film-format cameras. Thanks to its flexible design, which shifts the image sensor unit in all directions within the image place, the K-5 II offers several useful features to assist the photographer during shooting, such as auto level compensation and image composition fine-adjustment functions.

  Bright, clear optical viewfinder with a nearly 100-percent field of view  The K-5 II features a glass pentaprism finder with a 100% field of view and approximately 0.92-times magnification (with a 50mm F1.4 lens at infinity) for an exceptional view of the entire image field and improved accuracy while photographing. The camera is also equipped with the Natural-Bright-Matte III focusing screen to facilitate manual-focus operation.

  High-speed, continuous shooting to capture up to seven images in one second  The K-5 II's high-speed continuous shooting mode allows photographers to record as many as 30 images (in the JPEG format) in a single sequence at a maximum speed of approximately seven images per second. This is ideal when shooting fast-moving subjects such as athletes and wildlife – all with ease and precision.

  Innovative image processing functions  A custom image function allows users to easily select the desired finishing touch for a particular image to help express their creativity. This function provides a choice of nine distinctive custom image modes, such as Bleach Bypass, which creates a solemn visual effect used in motion pictures, and Cross Process, which produces eye-catching images with unique, dramatic colors. The K-5 II also offers 18 built-in digital filters, including sketch and posterization, to add distinctive visual effects to images without the need for software-aided computer re-touching.

  Additional features of the PENTAX K-5 II / K-5 IIs include:
   • Electronic Level function, with a vertical level scale  • Automatic compensation of distortion and lateral chromatic aberration (available only with DA,D FA and FA Limited series lenses)  • CTE mode, to automatically adjust the white balance to emphasize the dominant colors of a specific scene  • DR II (Dust Removal II) mechanism, to effectively shake dust off the CMOS image sensor using ultrasonic vibration  • PENTAX-original Hyper Control system, to swiftly and accurately respond to the photographer's creative intentions  • Dynamic range expansion function, to compensate for both whitewashed (overexposed) highlight area and blackout (underexposed) shadow area  • RAW data retrieve function to save the original RAW data of a just-recorded JPEG format image  • RAW/Fx button, for single-action switching of image file format, as well as for assignment and instant recall of a specific function  • A choice of three grid patterns while in Live View mode, including "Golden Section"  • Long battery life, for recording of approximately 980 images with a full recharge

  Pricing and Availability  The new PENTAX K-5 II will be available at retail outlets nationwide and online in October 2012 with a suggested retail price of $1,199.95 for body only, $1,349.95 for the K-5 II kit including the DA 18-55mm WR zoom lens and $1,549.95 for the K-5 II kit including the DA 18-135mm WR zoom lens. The K-5 IIs will also be available at retail outlets nationwide and online in October with a suggested retail price of $1,299.95 for body only.

   Additional information including product specifications is available here: www.pentaximaging.com/news and product images are available here: www.pentaximaging.com/press/pressfiles.html.

  About PENTAX  PENTAX is a leader in the production of a variety of adventure ready digital cameras including weather-resistant digital SLRs and stylish, compact, waterproof cameras, as well as lenses, flash units, binoculars, scopes, and eyepieces. For more than 90 years, PENTAX has developed durable, reliable products that meet the needs of adventurous consumers and businesses. With new headquarters in Denver, Colorado, PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION is a subsidiary of PENTAX RICOH IMAGING COMPANY, LTD. effective October 1, 2011. Additional details may be found here: www.pentaximaging.com/news
 
