
 Think it might be time for a new ruggedized Pentax? It looks like the company agrees -- two new models are making their debut this week at CP+. The first is actually a rebranded WG-1, now called the WG-10, which will be available exclusively at Target stores and the website beginning in April. It's identical to the WG-1, save for the obligatory red finish and a $180 price tag. The second model is more of an original number -- it's an update to last year's WG-2. The new compact, dubbed the WG-3, maintains the unique design of the other two Optios, including a nifty LED ring around the lens for lighting macro shots.

 There's a 16-megapixel, 1/2.3-inch BSI CMOS sensor, a 3-inch 460k-dot LCD, a 4x lens with an f/2 wide-angle maximum aperture, along with options for 1080/30p and 720/60p video capture. It's waterproof to 14 meters (46 feet), shockproof to 2 meters (6.5 feet) and freeze-proof to -10 degrees Celsius (14 degrees Fahrenheit). The basic version will run you $300, while a tricked-out $350 model adds GPS and Qi wireless charging, along with a secondary LCD that displays the current time, barometric pressure, a compass, altitude and underwater depth. Snag a peek in the gallery below.



  Show full PR text   PENTAX Introduces 15th Generation Ruggedized Camera –the WG-3 GPS and WG-3
   Performance meets photographic demands with fast F2.0 lens, in-camera shake reduction, and increased waterproof, crushproof and shockproof ratings

   Denver, CO (January 29, 2013)- Leveraging its long-standing and comprehensive expertise in the waterproof category, PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION (PENTAX) has introduced the 15th generation in its adventureproof line-up of point and shoot cameras, the WG-3. Boasting a diverse set of new features and improved specifications, the WG-3 is the ideal companion to capture life's planned and unplanned adventures.

   The WG-3 boasts a rich feature-set that has been optimized to meet the rigorous and demanding needs of the adventurous photo enthusiast, whose travels and exploits can take them into a variety of scenarios too challenging for the traditional point-and-shoot. Its newly designed, large-aperture, 4x optical zoom lens (with the maximum aperture of F2.0 at wide-angle end), high-sensitivity, back-illuminated 16 megapixel CMOS image sensor, and sensor-shift Shake Reduction system ensure sharp, high-quality, low-noise images.

   The rugged features of the WG-3 include an improved waterproof depth rating to 45 feet, while the WG-3 GPS offers enhanced GPS functionality for geo-tagging images that can be mapped back to your journey and a dedicated second display showing compass direction, elevation or depth below water. Additionally, the WG-3's category defining Digital Microscope mode and six LED lights surrounding the lens barrel enable focusing as close as one centimeter from the subject producing bright, shadow-free macro images.

   For the unplanned adventure, the WG-3 offers a worry-free shooting experience with an increasingly ruggedized body that is shockproof from drops of up to 6.6 feet, coldproof to 14 degrees Fahrenheit and crushproof, withstanding up to 220 foot pounds of force. The WG-3's rugged design is enhanced by its folded optical zoom lens that reduces its vulnerability to moisture and dust while ensuring a compact and pocketable size without the protrusion of a lens barrel. Finally, the sturdy construction and sharp design, unique to the WG-3, features a texturized grip for a controlled ergonomic grasp and colorful grip accents to further enrich its rugged styling.

   "The WG-3 GPS truly leverages our experience in this category," said John Carlson, Sr. Marketing Manager, PENTAX. "New features like the easy-to-read second LCD, dedicated video record button, double-locking battery door and wireless charging capabilities show PENTAX's dedication to improving our offering in this category."

   To enhance creative expression during shooting PENTAX offers an optional lens adapter with wide-angle coverage to 20mm, and the SportMount Chest Harness which allows for the hands free capture of adventures and features a quick and easy mechanism to review your images and footage without having to remove the camera from its mount.

   Pricing and Availability

   Priced at $349.95 the new WG-3 GPS is available in a choice of purple or green. The WG-3 is available in black or orange for a price of $299.95. Both models will be available at retailers nationwide and online in March 2013. To find a retailer near you, please visit: http://www.pentaximaging.com/where-to-buy

  PENTAX Announces 14th Generation Adventure Proof WG-10, Expanding Image Capturing Possibilities Beyond the Traditional Point and Shoot Camera
   WG-10 offers compact pocketability with advanced features suitable for almost any environment

   Denver, CO (January 29, 2013) - PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION (PENTAX) has today announced the availability of the compact and highly portable WG-10 adventureproof point and shoot camera, an ideal option for the on-the-go shooter who requires a capable yet sturdy image and video capturing device. Its durable assembly and robust feature-set makes the WG-10 the ideal companion camera for life's explorers; striking the perfect balance between a point and shoot and PENTAX's category defining adventure-ready features.

   Waterproof to depths of 33 feet, the WG-10 can withstand the rough-and-tumble lifestyle of an active shooter. The WG-10 bridges the gap between the common point and shoot and life's more challenging photo opportunities that might require waterproofing or the ability to function in a very cold environment; like a trip to the waterpark or an impromptu snowball fight. The WG-10 offers a 14 megapixel backlit CCD image sensor and a state-of-the-art imaging processing engine assuring rich and detailed imagery.

   "The WG-10 is a compelling offering for the active family or dynamic shooter," said John Carlson, Sr. Marketing Manager, PENTAX. "With the WG-10 you no longer need to sit on the edge of the pool at the waterpark or flinch when your six-year-old grabs the camera to take a picture. It is durable enough to withstand the elements, yet still capture vibrant images worthy of framing or sharing."

   Within its compact body, the WG-10 also features a 5X optical zoom lens with coverage from 5mm to 25mm (equivalent to approx. 28mm wide angle to approx. 140mm medium telephoto in the 35mm format). This versatile zoom lens comes in handy for a wide variety of scenes and subjects, from wide-angle snapshots, to telephoto images. Additionally, the WG-10 features PENTAX's category defining LED Macro lights coupled and Digital Microscope mode enabling focusing as close as one centimeter from the subject producing shadow-free, evenly-lit images.

   Pricing and Availability

   The WG-10 will be available in mid-April in red for $179.95.  Additional information including product specifications is available here: www.pentaximaging.com/news

 
