
 
 We heard it was coming, and confirmation arrives today of Pentax's latest model, the K-01. The manufacturer is cheer-leading the fact that it uses the world's thinnest interchangeable lens for lens-interchangeable cameras, which really rolls off the tongue. The body is compatible with the rest of your K-series lens, although they're presumably going to look awkwardly thick in comparison. The 40mm lens can cope with aperture settings down to f/1.8 f/2.8, while the camera packs a new 16.28 megapixel CMOS sensor, with an ISO range of 100 to 25,600. Video chops have also been improved; a new recording button for instant start and a stereo mic differentiate it from the K-5. Video capture can be done at 1080p with 30, 25 or 24fps settings available. The aluminum-bodied camera will arrive in yellow, black and white next month, priced at $750 for the high-design body or $900 with the DA 40mm lens included. The lens will also be available, priced at $250. You can see designer Marc Newson emote about his latest creation in the video right after the break.




   Show full PR text  PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION Introduces PENTAX K-01 Designed by Marc Newson  DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--When is a camera more than a photographer's tool? The answer is when it's an object designed by Marc Newson, one of the most acclaimed and influential contemporary designers.  PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION introduces the Marc Newson designed PENTAX K-01* interchangeable lens camera (ILC). The new PENTAX K-01 is another bold effort from the manufacturer that is known for pushing camera size, color, durability, and now, design, to the limit. Widely known for designing a wide range of objects from furniture and household products to bicycles, cars, aircraft and yachts, Marc Newson has had collected works displayed in The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City and many other major museums.  *pronounced 'kay- zero-one'  The contemporary, timeless K-01 houses a full array of advanced functions and user-friendly features in a camera body with remarkable form and function. The elimination of an optical viewfinder and quick-return mirror gave Newson more freedom in designing the camera body, and the K-01 showcases Newson originality in every detail. Available in black, white and Newson's signature yellow colors, the K-01 features the designer's autograph logo stamp on the bottom of each camera.  The famed designer's touch also is evident in a new smc PENTAX-DA 40mm F2.8 XS interchangeable lens. As the world's thinnest interchangeable lens,* the new 40mm combines with the PENTAX K-01 camera body to deliver a unique ILC system that is perfect for photographers who are as keen on design as they are on performance. Together, the K-01 and 40mm lens system mark the intersection where high technology and high design meet.  Key features of the PENTAX K-01 include:  Durable machined aluminum frame under a stylish black, white, or yellow exterior. PENTAX mirrorless body design is compatible with 25+ million PENTAX K-mount lenses spanning decades. Large 16 megapixel APS-C sized CMOS image sensor with low noise image capture and multiple aspect ratios. Bright, high-resolution 3-inch LCD with 920,000 dots. Full HD 1080p video capture at 30 FPS with h.264 compression (60 FPS at 720p) features outstanding video capture flexibility. Sensor-shift PENTAX Shake and Dust Reduction system is compatible with every mounted PENTAX lens. Fast 6 FPS burst mode is ideal for fast-action photography. Flexible ISO range of 100-25600 ensures gorgeous noise-free imaging in any lighting condition. Focus peaking mode provides fast and accurate manual focusing for critical focus applications.  * The world's thinnest interchangeable lens for lens-interchangeable cameras, as of February 1, 2012 (based on PENTAX's research).  The K-01 will be available in yellow, black and white in March 2012 for $749.95USD (body only) and $899.95USD (lens kit including new DA 40mm XS) in Marc Newson designed packaging and with the Marc Newson designed strap. The smc PENTAX-DA 40mm F2.8 XS unifocal interchangeable standard lens will ship at the same time for $249.95 USD.
 