
 Perceptive Pixel has been no stranger to massive multi-touch screens ever since it got over being so Frustrated. At this year's SIGGRAPH the company is showing off a whopping 82-inch projected capacitive LCD -- and you thought MondoPad was huge. Apparently, the "slim" 6-inch deep, optically bonded display is "the world's largest" of its type, although Perceptive does make an 88-inch DLP model if you need a bit more real estate. On-screen content is displayed in 1080p HD resolution at 120Hz, and with an unlimited multi-touch response time of less than 1ms, it's ready for all the situations Wolf Blitzer's digits can handle. We'll hopefully be checking it out on the show floor, but for now you'll find more details past the break.
      

 

    		Show full PR text  Perceptive Pixel Launches World's Largest Projected Capacitive Display at SIGGRAPH 2011 		New 82" Wall Display Provides Professional-Grade, Large-Format,		Multi-Touch Functionality in Slim LCD Form Factor 		Vancouver, British Columbia, and New York – Aug. 9, 2011 – Perceptive Pixel, the leading provider of advanced user interface solutions, today announced the launch of its latest breakthrough product at SIGGRAPH 2011, the premier international conference for computer graphics and interactive techniques. The company unveiled its 82" true multi-touch, projected capacitive (pro-cap) LCD display, the largest optically bonded flat-panel pro-cap display in the world. Featuring a remarkably slim profile, measuring just six inches in depth, the new offering expands Perceptive Pixel's line of professional flat-panel displays, which includes a recently introduced 27" pro-cap desktop display. 		Perceptive Pixel is changing the way professionals collaborate, communicate and share information, enabling more intuitive interaction with technology in industries as varied as design, government, finance, media and energy. For computer graphics and animation professionals, touch interactivity has opened up new possibilities for how they interact with and showcase their work. Perceptive Pixel's new 82" wall display is ideal for use in creative, collaborative environments such as design reviews, concept pitches, storyboarding and brainstorming sessions, among others. 		Features of Perceptive Pixel's new 82" multi-touch LCD display include: 		· Slim LCD form factor 		· 1920 x 1080 full-HD resolution 		· Optically bonded 		· Ultra-low parallax 		· 120Hz, touch response time of <1ms 		· Mission-critical reliability   		"No other company can deliver the precision and performance of our best-in-class optically bonded pro-cap displays," said David Slobodin, VP hardware engineering at Perceptive Pixel. "Our new 82" multi-touch LCD represents a technological breakthrough that sets a new standard for the display industry." 		"Multi-touch has become fundamental to the way we interact with technology," said Jeff Han, founder and chief scientist, Perceptive Pixel. "Five years ago here at SIGGRAPH, we introduced the first large-scale true multi-touch display based on rear projection technology. I'm proud to be back at SIGGRAPH 2011 with another industry first – a truly flat-panel 82" display featuring the highly responsive, unlimited multi-touch experience that is the hallmark of our company." 		Perceptive Pixel will be showcasing its advanced multi-touch solutions in the NVIDIA booth (#453) at SIGGRAPH 2011. To schedule a demonstration of Perceptive Pixel's new 82" pro-cap display and additional multi-touch offerings, contact Diane Carlson, VP of marketing for Perceptive Pixel. 		About Perceptive Pixel: 		Perceptive Pixel was founded in 2006 by Jeff Han, a recognized leader in the touch technology field, and focuses on the research, development and production of multi-touch interfaces for the knowledge worker. The company's patent-pending technologies enable users to manipulate complex datasets through intuitive, powerful and visually rich interface techniques. The company's products are used in broadcast, defense, energy exploration, geo-intelligence, industrial design and medical imaging. The company's large-screen multi-touch products gained early recognition for transforming the way CNN covered the historic 2008 U.S. presidential elections. Perceptive Pixel was awarded the 2009 National Design Award from the Smithsonian Institution in the inaugural category of interaction design. Perceptive Pixel is privately held and headquartered in New York, with offices in Portland, Oregon; Mountain View, California; and Washington, D.C. For more information, visit www.perceptivepixel.com. 		Perceptive Pixel and the Perceptive Pixel logo are trademarks of Perceptive Pixel Inc.
 