
 
To think, it's been the better part of five months since Phase One teased us with some professional-grade photography equipment, and here to satiate our cravings yet again is the new 645DF medium format camera. Along with perennial partner Mamiya Digital, the pair created what they're claiming is flash sync speeds of up to 1/1600th of a second, as well as the option to dial between predefined modes. Additionally, three new leaf shutter lenses will be released alongside, available in 55mm, 80mm, and 110mm varieties and all f/2.8. Both are available for order now but not shipping until Q4 2009, with the camera body starting at $5990 and the lenses at $2490 each -- the perfect stocking stuffer for you and your very, very much loved ones [warning: read link is a PDF]. 


Show full PR text
Announcing the PHASE ONE 645DF Medium Format CAMERA 

The Perfect Body for your Perfect Back 

COPENHAGEN, September 28, 2009 – Phase One, the world's leader in open-platform medium format camera systems and solutions, today announced the Phase One 645DF camera. Engineered in partnership with Mamiya Digital Imaging for superior quality image capture and ease of handling, it sets a new standard for high flash sync speeds – up to 1/1600 of a second. 

Also today, Phase One announced the availability of three new high performance leaf shutter lenses, 55mm, 80mm and 110mm, all f/2.8 and all designed with the Phase One 645DF camera in mind. The lenses are a result of close collaboration with Mamiya Digital Imaging and Schneider Kreuznach (see today's related announcement). 

"Our patent-pending flash sync breakthrough eases working with wide open apertures and fill-in flash on location," said Jan H. Christiansen, Phase One marketing director. "We already offer the most flexible exposure times ranging from 1/4000 of a second to one full hour. Setting new performance standards is all about expanding creative options for photographers." 

The 645DF camera is the only 645 medium format camera which supports both focal plane and leaf shutters, expanding photographers' innovative possibilities by leveraging the two shutter technologies seamlessly for world class photography, whether this involves ultra-fast flash sync speeds or extremely flexible exposure times. 

The new camera introduces many performance improvements over its predecessor. Capture responsiveness and autofocus speed is highly improved giving photographers up to 5 times faster performance in a typical fashion set up. 

The 645DF also offers a breakthrough workflow improvement -- custom-shooting modes. For the first time in a medium-format camera, photographers can "dial up" a pre-defined mode, where the camera is instantly set up for a given shooting scenario, e.g. product, portrait or landscape photography. 

Other workflow enhancements include new tactile buttons, a fully sealed eye-cup eliminating ambient light, improved viewfinder masks, and customizable audio feedback e.g. on focus lock. Several custom functions have been enhanced, without compromising simple navigation. 

Freedom to choose the best back for you Phase One builds flexible, open photographic systems to support a professional's style, needs and working preference. The Phase One 645DF camera supports the world's finest digital backs, ensuring freedom of choice and investment protection for years to come. It is compatible with digital backs designed for the Phase One / Mamiya AFD mount, including backs from Phase One, Leaf, Mamiya and others. 

Pricing and Availability 

The Phase One 645DF camera body starts at $5990/€4290 and is expected to ship Q4, 2009. The new leaf shutter lenses start at $2490/€1790 and are expected to start shipping Q4, 2009. All equipment can be ordered now from Phase One and Leaf dealers (for the dealer near you, please see: http://www.phaseone.com/partners and http://www.leaf-photography.com/dealers.asp). 

About Phase One 

Phase One is the world's leader in open-platform based medium format camera systems and solutions. Phase One medium format cameras, digital backs and lenses are designed to deliver superior quality image capture and investment value. Phase One's Capture One software helps streamline capture and post-production processes for both medium format and DSLR cameras. Phase One products are known for their quality, flexibility and speed enabling pro photographers shooting in a wide range of formats to achieve their creative visions without compromise. 

Phase One is an employee-owned company based in Copenhagen with offices in New York, London, Tokyo, Cologne and Shanghai. 

For more information about the products, visit the Phase One web site on www.phaseone.com. 

Phase One is a registered trademark of Phase One A/S. All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders. 


[Via Photography Blog]
      

 