
 
Traditional speaker docks are so 2010. This year, AirPlay is in, and Philips was on hand to demo five new wireless speaker models at the CEA LineShows in NYC, set to roll out beginning later this month through the holiday season. Its flagship Fidelio SoundSphere DS9800W will ship in June with a price tag of about $800, but didn't appear willing to pair with the iPhone Philips had on hand at the show. We did go ears-on with the more affordable DS8800W, however, which filled the small demo room with deep, rich Fire and Rain, sans-wires -- and can do the same in your own home when it ships for $400 beginning next month. That model isn't nearly as sleek as the non-functional SoundSphere, or its smaller DS6800W counterpart, which will hit stores in time for the holidays with a $500 MSRP. Philips also showed off its 360-degree DS3881W and compact AD7000W -- both of which also include AirPlay support, and will ship for $330 and $230, respectively, by the holiday season. Jump past the break for a look at all five models.






    			Show full PR text  Philips consumer electronics enhance everyday entertainment at home and on the go 			New York, NY– Royal Philips Electronics (NYSE: PHG, AEX: PHI) unveils its most innovative consumer electronics technologies today at CE Week 2011. Recognized by the Consumer Electronics Association as an "Innovation Award" winner at this year's Consumer Electronics Show, Philips continues to draw on years of heritage in sound technology to introduce a brand new range of Audio Docking Speakers with AirPlayTM and Headphones that are as durable as they are comfortable to wear. Philips will also debut a range of wireless connect devices for the home. 			"Philips looks beyond the chip set to create consumer electronics that are lifestyle driven," said Jacopo D'Alessandris, Head of Marketing for Philips Consumer Lifestyle. "Advanced technology is a given. Design, functionality, ease of use – these qualities enable our products to enhance people's entertainment experiences at home and on the go." 			Enjoy more content on your HDTV without the hassle of wires 			Philips brings a whole new world of HD entertainment to the living room with its new wireless connectivity solutions. Philips Wireless HD Net Connect allows you to wirelessly stream videos, Internet TV, games, and more from HDMI equipped laptop/PC to your television in Full 1080p/60 resolution. Simple plug-and-play technology lets you enjoy and share content on the big screen without the hassle of wires or complicated software. Available late 2011/early 2012 for $299.99. 			Exceptional Sound at Home and On-the-Go 			Experience music just as the artist intended with complete clarity and a full range of emotion. The new Philips Fidelio SoundSphere Speakers with AirPlayTM allow you to wirelessly stream music so you can enjoy rich, clear, authentic sound throughout your entire home. Engineered with Philips' FullSoundTM technology, Fidelio speakers restore quality MP3 music for a natural, deeper and wider sound impression. Compatible with iPod®, iPhone® or iPad®, Philips Fidelio Speakers with AirPlay come in a range of styles and are available for $229.99 - $799.99. 			The Philips GoGear Connect delivers a world of apps and games at your fingertips, plus exceptional audio performance for a truly engaging entertainment experience. It operates on the Android platform via high speed WiFi, instantly connecting you to over 150,000 games and apps on the Android Market. Available this fall for $179.99. 			Music to Your Ears 			For the love of music everywhere you go, Philips headphones seamlessly fit your lifestyle. The Philips O'Neill line is designed to withstand the rigors of an active lifestyle. Made with ultra durable and temperature-resistant material that retains flexibility and strength, Philips O'Neill offers a whole new level in headphone resilience. Available in a variety of styles for $24.99 - $99.99. 			For comfort that lets you listen to your favorite tracks as long as the music moves you, Philips offers a range of styles from long-wearing sport headphones, to noise-isolating ear buds, to a versatile, flat-folding headband with 40mm speakers and floating cushions that allow for multidirectional adjustment.   
 