
Philips and audio gear go together like peanut butter and soya and linseed bread (trust us), so it's with little surprise to see the company unveiling two new sets of headphones for IFA 2013. The Fidelio M1BT is a pair of Bluetooth noisyboxes that shroud 40mm Neodymium speakers inside a leather and aluminum body, with wireless controls on either can to change track and volume. If, however, you prefer something a little less fancy, then the company has launched the Fidelio L2. A subtle update on 2011's Fidelio L1, Philips promises that the tweaks offer a better audio experience for audiophiles. The M1BTs are available from today at a price of €250, while the Fidelio L2 will set you back €279 when it arrives later in the month.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!

Show full PR textPhilips Fidelio M1 Bluetooth Headphones free users from the cord
Berlin, Germany – Philips introduces the Fidelio M1BT Bluetooth® headphones today at the 2013 IFA show. Combining the freedom of Bluetooth with the sound quality of the Fidelio brand, the M1BT is natural fit for those who have a passion for sound and music. Unlike other Bluetooth headphones, the M1BT utilizes the latest Bluetooth 4.0 standard along with APT-X (Android), AAC (Apple) and SBC for the superior music streaming.

"The M1BT offers the superior sound quality and comfort that has made the M1s so successful, combining it with the freedom of Bluetooth," said Alexander van der Heijden, consumer marketing for headphones at Philips Lifestyle Entertainment. "We carried out significant research not only into crafting a premium sound experience, but also to creating a Bluetooth headphone that is light, comfortable and easy to use."

To enjoy high-definition sound, the Philips Fidelio M1BT headphones are built with 40mm high magnetic intensity neodymium speaker drivers that provide a wide dynamic range, so you can hear those very subtle details of your favorite tracks. The acoustic closed-back architecture ensures excellent noise isolation whilst delivering a controlled and dynamic bass, so you can hear every beat and every instrument with all the clarity the artist intended.

The Philips Fidelio M1BT headphones have been crafted for durability and long-lasting comfort, meaning you can enjoy your music for hours on end. Easy access controls are right on the ear cans allowing you to adjust the volume with just a touch. Deluxe memory foam ear-pads, made from breathable materials, are designed to disperse pressure and heat build-up so that they not only sound brilliant but feel exceptional too. The lightweight design is thanks to the carefully selected materials, such as aluminum hinge and real leather headband with midnight blue stitching, making these headphones stylish, durable and comfortable.

The Bluetooth functionality, new to the M1 range, allows users to enjoy both their music and phone calls wirelessly. Controls on the ear 'cans' make it easy to switch tracks without pulling out a music player. The M1 Bluetooth edition works with a wide range of Bluetooth smartphones, tablets and music players. The Philips Fidelio M1BT are now available in Europe at a recommended retail price of EUR 249.99.

For further information on the latest Philips innovations from IFA 2013 visit www.ifa.philips.com.---

Philips Fidelio L2 Headphones elevate sound and style
Berlin, Germany – Two years ago, Philips launched the Philips Fidelio L1 headphones, which have gone on to be recognized as one of the leading headphones in their class. Today, Philips is introducing a new generation: the Philips Fidelio L2. The new model features lighter materials, a new headband design and key sound improvements that will impress even the most discerning audiophile. The Philips Fidelio L2 have been tuned by the sharpest ears from Philips' 'Golden Ears' panel of audio experts, delivering exceptional sound detail for every song.

"The Philips Fidelio L2 headphones deliver a pristine audio experience," said Alexander van der Heijden, consumer marketing for headphones at Philips Lifestyle Entertainment. "We're proud of the recognition we've received for the Philips Fidelio L1s, but we also wanted to keep striving to deliver the perfect headphone in its class. So we asked users of the L1 to tell us what they liked, and what more they wanted, and the result is the Philips Fidelio L2 headphones. We've made some small but important changes, such as increasing the sensitivity in the sound technology to make for a more robust and clean sound experience."

To enjoy high definition sound the Philips Fidelio L2 headphones are built with 40mm optimally vented neodymium speaker drivers that provide a wide dynamic range, so you can hear those very subtle details of your favorite tracks. They feature a semi-open back architecture for pure and natural sound, ensuring you can hear every beat and every instrument with all the clarity the artist intended. The headphones have specially engineered aluminum ear shells for acoustic precision and the speakers are tilted to the ear's natural angle for added clarity.

The Philips Fidelio L2 headphones feature an improved headband design of fine leather that is smaller and lighter, ensuring long-lasting comfort and meaning you can enjoy your music for hours on end. These headphones offer excellent noise and a spacious listening experience to enjoy all genres of music.

The Fidelio L2 headphones not only sound incredible, but also are a style statement. Crafted with premium materials including aluminum, fine leather, detailed stitching and a larger grill they are certain to command attention. The ear shells have been redeveloped to allow the 3.5mm cable to be plugged directly into the headphone for added convenience. For those on the go, the L2 fold flat and include a soft cloth travel pouch to protect them.

The Philips Fidelio L2 are available in September with a recommended retail price of EUR 279.

For further information on the latest Philips innovations from IFA 2013 visit www.ifa.philips.com.


