
 

Consider yourself an HD junkie? You're in for a treat. A feast of treats, actually. Philips has just let loose a veritable smorgasbord of new HD kit at CES this morning, from LCD HDTVs to Blu-ray decks to complete home theater systems. Here's what you need to know:

The 4000 LED series of HDTVs are available in 40 (40PFL4706), 46 (46PFL4706) and 55 (55PFL4706) inch sizes, these mid-range sets include MediaConnect and NetTV for getting your PC to play nice on your TV (sans wires, at that), with the latter also providing easy access to Vudu, Netflix, Blockbuster and FilmFresh. These will ship by May for prices of $749, $999 and $1499 in order of mention. For those who couldn't care less about MediaConnect of NetTV, a 19-inch, 22-inch and 32-inch version will be available this month for $199.99, $249.99 and $449.99, respectively.
Moving up a bit, the 5000 LCD series will ship in 40 (40PFL5706), 46 (46PFL5706) and 55 (55PFL5706) inch sizes, with these boasting the same basic functionality as the 4000 series but gaining a Pixel Precise HD engine and 120Hz de-jitter support. Look for these in the April / May time frame for $679, $899 and $1099.
Looking to take one more step towards high-end? The LED 6000 series is where's it at, improving upon the other two lines by adding... 3D. Naturally. Check the 40PFL6706 (40-inch), 46PFL6706 (46-inch) and 55PFL6706 (55-inch) models this September for $999, $1299 and $1699 in order of mention.
If you're looking to outfit your room with a full-on home theater system, Philips is revealing five new setups today, three of which have 3D support baked right in. The whole lot includes a Blu-ray deck and support for MediaConnect / NetTV, with the more expensive sets boasting wireless rear speakers and DLNA streaming. They'll be shipping from February to May for $269.99 to $449.99.
Closing things out are the company's five new Blu-ray decks, with the $169.99 (BDP3506), $199.99 (BDP5506) and $219.99 (BDP7506) models supporting 3D Blu-ray. The 7506 also gets MediaConnect and NetTV, with the whole range shipping between next month and April.

Check out the full releases, each chock full of details, right after the break. Oh, and sink your retinas into the gallery below while you're at it.





Show full PR textP&F DELIVERS THE ULTIMATE VIEWING PACKAGE WITH THE NEW 4000 SERIES-Brilliant LED images combine with Philips MediaConnect for a TV without boundaries - LAS VEGAS– Bringing consumers the best in a viewing experience without limits, P&F USA introduces the new Philips 4000 LED series of Full HD televisions today at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES). Available in 40", 46" and 55" sized displays, this new line of ultra-thin LED televisions combines a brilliant picture with a host of features to give consumers a premium entertainment experience. With the high-powered Pixel Precise HD™ Engine, the viewer gets a crisp stunning picture packed in a sleek and energy efficient design."The 4000 series delivers on consumers' desire for amazing picture quality, great design and the ability to do more than just watch traditional television programming. The 4000 series gives the consumer the power to watch whatever they want," said Todd Richardson, senior vice president of sales and marketing for P&F, exclusive licensee for Philips consumer televisions and home theaters in North America. "With the integration of Philips MediaConnect and NetTV, consumers will have the ability to press one button and access a wealth of online content on their TV, including HD video."Total Access – the Computer and TV as One Ultimate Entertainment HubGlobally 70 percent of online consumers watched video over the Internet and many want that same experience on their television. Delivering on consumers' desire to wirelessly access their PC content without restrictions, P&F offers MediaConnect technology, the only solution on the market that delivers a simple, integrated solution allowing consumers to access all their PC content without boundaries. Unlike IPTV sets today that are limited to widgets, apps and/or selected sites, Philips MediaConnect allows for navigating anywhere on the internet. MediaConnect opens the world of PC navigation on the television without the need for physically cabling the PC to the TV. Anything and everything that can be seen on the computer can now be viewed wirelessly on the big screen. The sky is truly the limit for accessing PC content and surfing the web – if it can be accessed via the computer now consumers can access it on their televisions as well. Total access is furthered by the addition of NetTV, which gives consumers the ability to press one button and wirelessly stream 15,000 movie options including HD content, directly to the TV. NetTV also allows consumers to access VUDU® - offering them another advantage with access to view online videos and photos through popular social sites such as Facebook® and Twitter®. VUDU also offers the most HD movies available to consumers. NetTV also opens up a variety of Video on Demand options including Netflix®, Blockbuster®, and FilmFresh, as well as information sites like news, weather, or music streaming via Pandora.Pure Performance The 4000 LED series has a powerful performance upgrade that includes a brilliant LED display, Pixel Precise HD processing and SRS TruSurround HD® sound all packed in an ultra thin display. Complemented with the addition of Philips MediaConnect for unlimited access to online content, the 4000 series delivers the ultimate home theater experience.Simple Set-UpMaking the out-of-the-box experience effortless, Philips TVs offer a simply designed graphic interface menu that allows consumers to easily navigate the TV menu and add devices with ease.Setting up an HDTV has never been easier thanks to the unique Settings Assistant feature. In a few easy steps, users can select their on-screen preferences with the left and right cursor buttons. By using a program similar to an eye test, viewers can select what they perceive as the best picture. Users choose initial preferences from the five split-screen samples, creating their ultimate personal picture quality and then television will make the changes and store them for future use.Delivering a simple entertainment experience, the sets provide consumers an easy "how-to" sticker on the back panel walking consumers through the connection process. No more wondering where to connect the various wires from other components – it's as easy as following the outline.Show full PR textP&F DELIVERS SPEED AND PERFORMACE WITH THE NEW 5000 SERIES-Wireless connectivity packaged with Philips MediaConnect for limitless viewing possibilities - LAS VEGAS– Delivering on consumers' desire for an affordable connected TV, P&F USA introduces the new Philips 5000 LCD series of Full HD televisions today at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES). Available in 40", 46" and 55" sized displays, this new line of LCD televisions combines a brilliant picture with wireless connectivity to give consumers a premium entertainment experience. With the high-powered Pixel Precise HD™ Engine and 120HZ, the viewer gets a crisp, razor sharp picture packed in a sleek design."The 5000 series give consumers limitless possibilities in viewing choices at an attainable price," said Todd Richardson, senior vice president of sales and marketing for P&F, exclusive licensee for Philips consumer televisions and home theaters in North America. "With wireless connectivity, the integration of Philips MediaConnect and NetTV, consumers will have the ability to press one button and watch what they want on their TV, including a wealth of online content and HD video."Total Access – The Computer and TV as One Ultimate Entertainment HubGlobally 70 percent of online consumers watched video over the Internet and many want that same experience on their television. Delivering on consumers' desire to wirelessly access their PC content without restrictions, P&F offers MediaConnect technology, the only solution on the market that delivers a simple, integrated solution allowing consumers to access all their PC content without boundaries. Unlike IPTV sets today that are limited to widgets, apps and/or selected sites, Philips MediaConnect allows for navigating anywhere on the internet. MediaConnect opens the world of PC navigation on the television without the need for physically cabling the PC to the TV. Anything and everything that can be seen on the computer can now be viewed wirelessly on the big screen. The sky is truly the limit for accessing PC content and surfing the web – if it can be accessed via the computer now consumers can access it on their televisions as well. Total access is furthered by the addition of NetTV, which gives consumers the ability to press one button and wirelessly stream 15,000 movie options including HD content, directly to the TV. NetTV also allows consumers to access VUDU® - offering them another advantage with access to view online videos and photos through popular social sites such as Facebook® and Twitter®. VUDU also offers the most HD movies available to consumers. NetTV also opens up a variety of Video on Demand options including Netflix®, Blockbuster®, and FilmFresh, as well as information sites like news, weather, or music streaming via Pandora.Pure Performance The 5000 LCD series has a powerful performance upgrade that includes a brilliant LCD display, Pixel Precise HD processing, fast 120Hz refresh rate and SRS TruSurround HD® sound all packed in an newly designed cabinet. Complemented with the addition of Philips MediaConnect for unlimited access to online content, the 4000 series delivers the ultimate home theater experience.Show full PR textP&F UNVEILS A TOTAL IMMERSIVE VIEWING EXPERIENCE WITH PHILIPS 3D TV -Mesmerizing 3D images combine with Philips MediaConnect for a TV without boundaries - LAS VEGAS– Bringing consumers the ultimate in an immersive viewing experience, P&F USA introduces the new Philips 6000 LED series of Full HD 3D televisions today at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES). Available in 40", 46" and 55" sized displays, this new line of ultra-thin LED televisions combines active 3D technology with a host of features to give consumers a premium entertainment experience. With the high-powered Pixel Precise HD™ Engine, the living room will come to life as never before with a picture that leaps off the screen and completely immerses the viewer."Consumers are getting excited about 3D and we are thrilled to provide a display that not only delivers a brilliant 3D picture, but also offers many 2D benefits to consumers," said Todd Richardson, senior vice president of sales and marketing for P&F, exclusive licensee for Philips consumer televisions and home theaters in North America. "With the integration of Philips MediaConnect and NetTV, consumers will have the ability to press one button and access a wealth of online content on their TV, including 3D video."Total Access – the Computer and TV as One Ultimate Entertainment HubGlobally 70 percent of online consumers watched video over the Internet and many want that same experience on their television. Delivering on consumers' desire to wirelessly access their PC content without restrictions, P&F offers MediaConnect technology, the only solution on the market that delivers a simple, integrated solution allowing consumers to access all their PC content without boundaries. Unlike IPTV sets today that are limited to widgets, apps and/or selected sites, Philips MediaConnect allows for navigating anywhere on the internet. MediaConnect opens the world of PC navigation on the television without the need for physically cabling the PC to the TV. Anything and everything that can be seen on the computer can now be viewed wirelessly on the big screen. The sky is truly the limit for accessing PC content and surfing the web – if it can be accessed via the computer now consumers can access it on their televisions as well. Total access is furthered by the addition of NetTV, which gives consumers the ability to press one button and wirelessly stream 15,000 movie options including HD and3D content, directly to the TV. NetTV also allows consumers to access VUDU® - offering them another advantage with access to view online videos and photos through popular social sites such as Facebook® and Twitter®. VUDU also offers the most HD movies available to consumers. NetTV also opens up a variety of Video on Demand options including Netflix®, Blockbuster®, and FilmFresh, as well as information sites like news, weather, or music streaming via Pandora.Pure Performance The 6000 LED series has a powerful performance upgrade that includes a brilliant LED display, Pixel Precise HD processing and SRS TruSurround HD® sound all packed in an ultra thin display. Complemented with the addition of Philips MediaConnect for unlimited access to online content, the 6000 series delivers the ultimate home theater experience.Simple Set-UpMaking the out-of-the-box experience effortless, Philips TVs offer a simply designed graphic interface menu that allows consumers to easily navigate the TV menu and add devices with ease.Setting up an HDTV has never been easier thanks to the unique Settings Assistant feature. In a few easy steps, users can select their on-screen preferences with the left and right cursor buttons. By using a program similar to an eye test, viewers can select what they perceive as the best picture. Users choose initial preferences from the five split-screen samples, creating their ultimate personal picture quality and then television will make the changes and store them for future useDelivering a simple entertainment experience, the sets provide consumers an easy "how-to" sticker on the back panel walking consumers through the connection process. No more wondering where to connect the various wires from other components – it's as easy as following the outline.Show full PR textPHILIPS BRINGS THE CINEMA HOME WITH NEW BLU-RAY HOME THEATER SYSTEMS-Spectacular surround sound, picture packed and wireless connectivity in a sleek design-LAS VEGAS – P&F puts the emphasis on the "theater" experience as it unveils a new line of Philips Blu-ray Home Theater systems today at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). Taking home theater to the next level, these systems are packed with features such as 3D playback, Philips MediaConnect, NetTV, Netflix™ and Blockbuster™ streaming. A new sleek design, wireless connectivity and wireless rear speakers on certain models assure these systems will be a welcomed complement to any TV viewing environment.These sleek new systems not only bring movies to life with the latest 3D Hollywood blockbusters on Blu-ray disc but also offers consumers unlimited access between their PC and TV with Philips MediaConnect and NetTV. MediaConnect allows consumers to wirelessly connect the PC to the TV for unlimited access to online movies, photos, videos, social networking and more. The computer desktop is mirrored on the TV screen and the entire Internet is one click away. And with the addition of NetTV, consumers have the ability to press one button and stream 4500+ HD Channels through the Philips Blu-ray Home Theater directly to the TV. NetTV also allows consumers to access VUDU® - offering them another advantage with access to view online videos and photos through popular sites such as Facebook® and Twitter® via the home theater system. VUDU also offers the most HD movies available to consumers."These home theater systems offer cinema-like picture quality, media streaming options and powerful surround sound for a true entertainment experience without ever leaving the couch," said Todd Richardson, senior vice president of sales and marketing for P&F, the exclusive manufacturer and distributor for Philips televisions and home theater systems in the U.S. "The addition of Philips MediaConnect and NetTV give the added value of being able to view online content and movies on any TV, allowing consumers to upgrade their home theater without buying a new set."The entire range of Blu-ray home theater systems also features a host of streaming options such as Netflix, Blockbuster, FilmFresh and vTuner™ internet radio - making it easy for consumers to have instant access to unlimited entertainment. For a true theater experience, the new line also offers Dolby Digital and Pro Logic II combined with 1,000 watts of total power to ensure the room will be filled with the life like sound effects found in every movie. Deep Color technology delivers vivid images in more than a billion colors and eliminates on-screen color banding.Show full PR textPHILIPS EXPANDS HIGH-DEFINITION HOME ENTERTAINMENT WITH NEW 3D, CONNECTED BLU-RAY DISC™ PLAYERS-A brilliant 3D picture and streaming options packed in a sleek design-LAS VEGAS – Giving consumers the best picture and ultimate convenience, Philips is introducing its new Blu-ray players today at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). Packed with features such as 3D playback, Philips MediaConnect, NetTV, Netflix™ and Blockbuster™ streaming, these sleek new players not only bring movies to life but allow consumers unlimited access between their PC and TV. With MediaConnect, consumers can wirelessly connect the PC to the TV for unlimited access to online movies, photos, videos, social networking and more. The computer desktop is mirrored on the TV screen and the entire Internet is one click away. And with the addition of NetTV, consumers have the ability to press one button and stream 4500+ HD Channels through the Philips Blu-ray player directly to the TV. NetTV also allows consumers to access VUDU® - offering them another advantage with access to view online videos and photos through popular sites such as Facebook and Twitter via the home theater system. VUDU also offers the most HD movies available to consumers. "With the multitude of channels and movies available, the introduction of 3D movies and the simplicity of online streaming with the touch of a button, Blu-ray Disc is the consumer's choice for high-definition movies, music, games and more," said Todd Richardson, senior vice president of sales and marketing for P&F, the exclusive manufacturer and distributor for Philips televisions and home theater systems in the U.S. "Our new Blu-ray players, enabled with Philips MediaConnect and NetTV, give the added value of being able to go online on your TV, regardless of the brand."The entire range of Blu-ray Disc players also features a host of streaming options such as Netflix, Blockbuster, FilmFresh and vTuner™ internet radio - making it easy for consumers to have instant access to unlimited entertainment. These new players process full 1080p at 24fps for cinema-like images. Helping make the transition to Blu-ray quality seamless, Philips Blu-ray players will automatically upscale consumers' existing DVDs quality to 1080p to make the picture look even better regardless of the TV brand. All five models offer AVCHD playback ensuring users can watch a wealth of videos without limiting their format options. The BDP 7506 and 5506 feature a sleek design with a touch screen controls, while the rest of the line keeps with a minimalistic design that will enhance any environment, all while filling the room with powerful sound.
 