
Philips has just launched Cloud TV at IFA 2013, a service that'll work on its latest Smart TVs including the hot-off-the-press Philips 9000 4K series. It'll bring streaming of "hundreds of local, national, international and special interest channels" to 2012 or newer Philips Smart TV models. An app will also be available for those sets to scan all that content, most of which will be free. The company also announced Cloud Explorer, which will let you store your personal photos, video and audio by signing in to Dropbox or creating a new account through Philips. Both are now available in most of Europe and Russia, so if you're pining for yet another cloud streaming or storage service, check the PR after the break.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!


Show full PR textPhilips Smart TV seamlessly embraces new state-of-the-art Cloud TV services
 Philips Cloud TV further expands offering on Philips Smart TVs with hundreds of channels accessible via internet Philips Cloud Explorer allows the enjoyment of videos, photos and other content stored in the cloud Newly unveiled cloud services are compatible with all Philips Smart TV models introduced in 2012 and laterBerlin, Germany – TP Vision announced today that its Philips Smart TV platform has been expanded further using cloud-based services including Cloud TV and Cloud Explorer. Cloud TV delivers hundreds of TV channels to Philips Smart TVs streamed via the cloud. Cloud Explorer allows users to view their videos and photos stored with established and trusted cloud-storage providers. The new cloud-enabled services are available via dedicated apps in many countries in Europe and in Russia as of now*. Cloud TV and Cloud Explorer are compatible with all Philips Smart TVs introduced to the market in 2012 and later.

Cloud TV overcomes the limitations of cable TVCloud TV takes TV to the next level by streaming hundreds of local, national, international and special interest channels over the internet (Over The Top or OTT) to Philips Smart TVs*. It provides a huge variety of premium and non-premium channels, most of which are freely available. The easy to use Cloud TV app on the Philips Smart TV home screen shows all available channels neatly arranged by genre and popularity and the channels are easily searchable.

Cloud Explorer facilitates content sharingCloud Explorer on Philips Smart TVs allows users to easily access photos, videos, and other content stored in the cloud. A dedicated app called Cloud Explorer displays all playable files stored in the personal cloud space sorted by type; videos, photos, and audio files are arranged in dedicated folders. The Cloud Explorer app on Philips Smart TVs let users sign in to their existing Dropbox account, or get a new account. The Cloud Explorer app allows simple, 'single sign-on' log in through the user's TV account. Cloud Explorer is available as of today in all Philips Smart TV territories.

"We have seamlessly integrated cloud services into our Philips Smart TV platform. Users can now benefit from an even wider selection of TV services and overcome the selected choice of cable TV services."

Albert Mombarg, Head of Smart TV

* availability and specifications of services are country dependent


