
 Independent handset retailer Phones4U is set to join the cellular bullfight after it announced it was launching its very own mobile network. It'll go toe-to-toe with the Carphone Warehouse's virtual network, TalkTalk, as well as competing for your hearts and wallets with the big four operators. LIFE Mobile will piggyback on Everything Everywhere EE's backbone, but users will initially be limited to 3G plans only, with 4G services coming later in the year. If you're worried that every trip to the company's stores will see LIFE handsets foisted upon you at every turn, company boss Tim Whiting has said that staff will be rewarded for "customer satisfaction" rather than sales. We suggest you try and game the system by telling the manager you'll only be truly satisfied after a nice cup of tea and a foot rub.



  Show full PR text   Phones 4u selects EE as UK MVNO partner for the launch of 'LIFE Mobile'
   · EE signs Phones 4u as its 25th UK MVNO

   · MVNO set to launch in March 2013, offering customers access to the UK's largest and fastest 2G and 3G network

   · Phones 4u to offer 4G on LIFE Mobile later in 2013

  22nd January 2013, United Kingdom: EE, The UK's most advanced communications company, has announced that Phones 4u, one of the UK's leading independent mobile retailers, will launch an MVNO on its network in March. LIFE Mobile will offer a wide range of great value tariffs and services that include data packages as standard, reflecting the changing nature of customer usage. The strategic partnership takes EE's portfolio of MVNO partnerships to 25, and demonstrates EE's commitment to expanding opportunities for new MVNOs across the UK.

   EE offers the UK's only 4G network, and the widest 3G and 2G coverage in the UK. EE will make 4G available for LIFE Mobile customers later in 2013.

   The MVNO agreement is an extension of EE and Phones 4u's longstanding and successful partnership. EE has been selected based on the strength of its network, its strong industry reputation, and its flexible and technologically advanced MVNO platform, which will allow Phones 4u to launch its service in the UK within months.

   Launching in March, the new MVNO will have broad appeal and will offer a variety of tariffs and services that allow customers to choose the right deal for their mobile life.

   Marc Overton, Vice President of Wholesale and M2M at EE said: "We're delighted that EE has been selected as Phones 4u's MVNO partner, giving us the opportunity to further build on our longstanding and successful relationship. As the largest MVNO operator in the UK, we believe in providing our customers with a choice of deals to meet their needs, and our partners are a key part of our growth strategy."

   "By choosing the EE network, Phones 4u will guarantee its customers access to the UK's widest 3G coverage, as well as the UK's only 4G network later in 2013. Our ambition is to provide 4G to key industry players by the end of 2013, and we feel this will open up a world of opportunities for both new and existing partners alike."

   Tim Whiting, Group Chief Executive at Phones 4u, said: "We are delighted to be able to extend our longstanding partnership with EE in order to add LIFE Mobile into the wide range of products and services available at Phones 4u. Our customers see their mobile devices as an integral part of their daily lives. LIFE Mobile will enable us flexibility and creativity in designing propositions to give our customers even further choice. We will sell LIFE Mobile alongside our existing network propositions and are confident the new network will play a key role in driving further growth for our business."

 
