
 
Tired of waiting for Seiko to produce an E Ink watch that mere mortals can touch, much less afford? A little company by the name of Art Technology has been delivering mass-market wearables using the technology since 2007 -- and its latest model dials up the functionality factor just a smidge by adding support for twenty-four time zones, two of which can be displayed simultaneously. Granted, it's using a segmented display, not dot matrix -- which means it bears a closer resemblance to that Timex you owned in the late '80s than Seiko's wild active matrix model -- but again, like we said, this one's actually quite affordable and it's available right this second. Depending on your choice of band style, you'll pay anywhere from $150 to $195; follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textPhosphor Debuts E Ink Digital Watch with World Time Function A superb blend of style and technology showcased in these next generation watchesDallas, USA – October 11th, 2010 – The American watch brand, Phosphor, announced today the launch of its newest luxury chronometer, featuring E Ink's electronic paper display technology.The new World Time Curved E Ink digital watch offers the ability to select from 24 time zones for one display mode, while optionally displaying a second time zone simultaneously. The dual time zone display can also be user configured to simply display the time of day or both the date and time in either over-sized or conventional-sized segments.These unique capabilities are packaged in a sleek, ultra-thin, curved case only 9.3mm thick. Incredibly versatile, the new World Time gives you an assortment of different functions and display modes and available in several different band styles."Phosphor's new World Time Watch takes advantage of E Ink's ultra low power and highly readable SURF display technology to make a truly unique statement for both the consumer and business market." said Sriram Peruvemba, Global VP of Sales and Marketing, E Ink Corporation.Phosphor is now selling this watch from its website (www.phosphorwatches.com) and selected retailers starting at $150 – affordable for any watch enthusiast eager to own one of the first commercially available E Ink digital display watch designs, and one of the only curved digital watches on the market today.E Ink SURF products are segmented, ultra-thin, rugged, and flexible displays that enable a new generation of innovative watch designs with the following display benefits:Ultra High Contrast: The display is made up of black and pure white particles, which allow contrast comparable to that found on a printed page and more than twice the contrast of a conventional LCD panel. It can be easily read in direct sunlight.Low Power Consumption: Since the display technology is reflective, no backlighting is required. The display also requires no power to maintain an image. For these reasons, battery life can be extended.Wide Viewing Angle: With a viewing cone of 180 degrees, the electrophoretic technology overcomes the disadvantages of conventional displays when it comes to off-axis viewing. Together with its high contrast, it allows the user to read the time at a glance from any angle.ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONAbout Phosphor TMPhosphor TM is a new American watch brand focused on the relentless pursuit of watches that integrate new technologies combined with compelling design. The Phosphor TM brand is owned by Art Technology Limited, which has offices in both United States and Hong Kong. More info can be found at: www.phosphorwatches.com
 