
 

Sure, you like playing with gadgets, but have you ever tried your hand at building one of your own? Well, here's your chance! We're going to clear some space in the lab and let you create your very own Frankengadget™ -- think Zombie Keepon, iGalaxy Tab or even an iPhone with a -- gasp -- micro-USB port. Let your imagination run wild, then make some magic in the image editing app of your choice. Once you're done, you can fire off a JPEG of your creation to our intern, Dr. Frankenstein (read: Jon), who will nominate ten creations for the grand prize: a congratulatory email from the team. Oh, and your very own copy of Adobe Creative Suite 5.5 Master Collection. But first, we'll choose five of those ten submissions, then compile those contestants into a photo gallery, letting you select the winner. Looking for another chance to win? Hit up the coverage link below to enter Adobe's Imagination Challenge. You can also visit the UK site, which is hosting a similar contest -- the submission deadline has passed, though Adobe UK is giving away £50 per day (about $78) to one lucky voter. Jump past the break for our contest rules, and a link to download your very own free trial of Photoshop.
      

 

The rules:  Your image must fit within the Frankengadget category. Any image will do, but it must fit within the theme -- open to your interpretation. So no furry kitten with a Photoshopped bow ... unless you've also replaced kitty's paws with mini Roombas. You can download a free trial of Photoshop CS 5 for Windows and Mac here.  You may only enter this specific giveaway once. You may only send one email with one image.  Contest is open to all residents of the 50 States, the District of Columbia and Canada (excluding Quebec), 18 or older!  Sorry, we don't make this rule (we hate excluding anyone), so be mad at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad.  Submissions must be made via email. Save your creation as a JPEG, with a maximum (and minimum) of 1,000 pixels in either direction. Basically, your image needs to be 1,000 pixels tall or wide. Other file types and sizes will not be accepted. Send compliant images to frankengadget@gmail.com.  Attachments may be no larger than 500 kilobytes. We have a filter in place to toss larger attachments in the spam dungeon. You'll also be disqualified and stuff.  The winner will be selected by Engadget readers. Engadget staff will select five (5) images to advance to the final judging round.  The winner will be announced on the next Engadget Show. If you are chosen, you will also be notified by email after October 21st. Winners must respond within three days of the end of the contest. If you do not respond within that period, the image with the next greatest number of votes will be chosen.  Entries can be submitted until October 16th, 2011 at 11:59PM ET. Good luck!  Full rules can be found here.
 