
 Poor American Pokémon trainers that have been eying up eBay listings and import sites can breathe a sigh of relief. Nintendo has announced that the special edition yellow 3DS XL -- emblazoned with Pikachu, no less -- will arrive in the States before the end of the month. Priced at $200 and packaged with a 4GB SD memory card, it'll arrive the same day as the latest Pokemon Mystery Dungeon game -- that's March 24th if you've got your pokédiary out. Walmart, Target, GameStop and Toys R S will all be stocking the handheld, although quantities are limited, so get your trucker cap, pokéballs and unerringly small backpack ready to brave those chains in a few weeks.



  Show full PR text    The New Pikachu Nintendo 3DS XL Hand-Held is Electrifying    REDMOND, Wash., March 14, 2013 - Pokémon fans will get a jolt of excitement when Nintendo releases the Pikachu Edition Nintendo 3DS XL hand-held system on March 24. This bold yellow Nintendo 3DS XL hardware features a familiar outline of the iconic Pokémon. The system also comes packaged with a 4GB SD memory card and will be available while supplies last at a suggested retail price of $199.99.   Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity launches the same day as the Pikachu Edition Nintendo 3DS XL system, and draws players in with a deep and compelling story full of unexpected twists. While playing as one of five popular Pokémon, players travel through a near-infinite amount of randomly generated Mystery Dungeons, battle and recruit other Pokémon and collect hidden treasure. The game is available exclusively on the Nintendo 3DS and includes the ability to discover Magnagates - entrances to new dungeons - by scanning everyday circular objects with the Nintendo 3DS Camera. Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity is available at a suggested retail price of $34.99. For more information about the game, visit http://www.pokemon.com/MysteryDungeon.   Nintendo is offering a special bonus for people who buy both a Nintendo 3DS XL system and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity. Anyone who registers a Nintendo 3DS XL system and either Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity or Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon with Club Nintendo between March 21 and April 30 will receive a code to download one of five Nintendo 3DS games for free: Super Mario 3D Land, Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask, Art Academy: Lessons for Everyone!, Star Fox 64 3D or Freakyforms Deluxe: Your Creations, Alive!

 
