
   We've seen Pioneer stuff its VSX line with 3D and Bluetooth goodness in the past; now, the Japanese outfit is unveiling its 2012 AV receivers portfolio in an attempt to widen its offerings. Starting with the lower-end models, the VSX-522 and VSX-822 are both packing 5.1 surround audio, while the main difference between the two is the lack of AirPlay and Bluetooth on the former. If you are, however, looking to go the premium route, you can snag the VSX-1022 or the top of the line Pioneer VSX-1122 , which will get you 7.1 sound, DLNA, as well as 1080p upscaling. All good for your ears? Ready up your wallet, as you'll have to drop anywhere from $249 to $599 if you want to add one of these to your setup. 




  Show full PR text  Pioneer Introduces Four New Audio Video Receivers  LONG BEACH, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. today expanded its family of audio video receivers with four new Pioneer branded 5.1 and 7.1-channel audio video receivers. Pioneer's 2012 receivers offer the connections and operability options consumers are accustomed to with their iPad, iPhone and iPod touch. According to a Nielsen Mobile Insights Report, 46 percent of U.S. consumers own smartphones¹ and by 2015 it is predicted that 65 percent of the total U.S. population will own a smartphone or tablet or both². Pioneer continues to embrace the growth of these popular devices by designing its home theater products to seamlessly integrate the music and entertainment capabilities of iPad, iPhone and iPod touch. The new video receivers, the VSX-522 ($249), VSX-822 ($379), VSX-1022 ($449) and the VSX-1122 ($599), will hit the streets with a variety of powerful feature sets that include Apple's Airplay®, DLNA® 1.5, 3D HDMI connectivity, Internet radio, and more.  "Portable devices like smartphones and tablets are now primary sources for audio and video entertainment so it's extremely important that consumers can easily incorporate them with our receivers," said Chris Walker, director AV marketing and product planning for the home entertainment division of Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. "The new line of Pioneer receivers are the ideal home theater products for today's consumers."  It's All About Being Connected  Pioneer's 2012 receivers offer the connections and operability options consumers are accustomed to with their mobile devices, as well as access to high-quality audio regardless of source.  Connection Options – All models are equipped with a front USB input. The VSX-822 and above models include a USB/video cable for easy, out-of-the-box connectivity, battery charging and quick access to music libraries in iTunes. AirPlay – Starting with the VSX-822, consumers can wirelessly bring their entire iTunes library into their home theater system using the receivers' built-in Apple AirPlay3 technology. The music from iTunes can be quickly accessed through a personal computer or an iPad, iPhone or iPod touch, and the album art and audio metadata can be displayed on a connected monitor/TV4. DLNA Certified (1.5) – With the exception of the VSX-522, the new line of receivers are also DLNA Certified (1.5), enabling music content to be shared from a networked Mac or PC, iPad, iPhone or iPod touch via the consumers' home network, either through an Ethernet connection or optional wireless WiFi adapter for VSX-1122 owners. Internet Radio – Adding more music options to the lineup, the VSX-822, VSX-1022 and VSX-1122 include vTuner Internet radio for accessing thousands of web-based radio stations around the world as well as featuring other Internet radio based music services such as PANDORA®. The three models are able to play high bit-rate stations and can be controlled by Pioneer's control apps. Bluetooth® Audio Streaming – Starting with the VSX-822 and up, consumers can stream their music from their Bluetooth enabled devices (optional AS-BT200 Bluetooth adapter required). In addition, Pioneer's Air Jam app, available from the App Store on iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, lets users pair up to four devices via Bluetooth. Once connected, each user can cue songs from their music libraries to create a collective playlist to play back on their A/V Receiver. AVNavigator – For VSX-1122 consumers, Pioneer makes the installation process simple by providing an interactive owner's manual that uses a consumer's PC or iPad to communicate directly with the receiver, walking the user step-by-step through the home theater set-up procedure.  High-Quality Audio and Video to Please Any Enthusiast  Pioneer's newest receivers provide consumers with a variety of features that enable high quality audio and video from any source.  High-Resolution Playback – The new receivers can reproduce high-resolution uncompressed WAV and FLAC files up to 192kHz 24-Bits from both the front USB and network on the top three high-end models. Auto Phase Control Plus – Available on the VSX-1122, Pioneer's proprietary Phase Control automatically adjusts for the time delay of the subwoofer output so consumers hear a more accurate, robust and fully balanced 7.1 and/or 7.2 multichannel set-ups. Direct Energy Amplifiers – To deliver the highest quality audio possible, Pioneer leverages its nearly 75 years in amplifier design. Direct Energy amplifiers are designed to minimize the signal route between signal inputs, amplification, and speaker outputs, reducing internal and external distortion to produce a cleaner sound with high dynamic range. Advanced HDMI Features – All new Pioneer receivers support the latest HDMI specification and offer more HDMI inputs than ever before, with the VSX-1122 offering seven inputs for a wide range of connectivity options. They also feature a new HDMI Standby Through mode that allows high definition audio and video to pass through the receivers while in the Standby mode. Pioneer receivers also include an Audio Return Channel feature to accept audio signals sent from a compatible TV's tuner back to the receiver via a single HDMI connection. ControlApp & iControlAV2012 App – Pioneer's new ControlApp and latest generation iControlAV20125 App give users even more control of their receivers and home theater settings from the convenience of their iPad, iPhone, iPod touch. With ControlApp, available for the VSX-822 and VSX-1022, users can turn the receiver on and off, adjust sound modes, change inputs and control Internet radio and DLNA streaming content. The new iControlAV2012 app featured on the VSX-1122 provides additional receiver control on the iPad, iPhone, iPod touch. With this app, consumers also have access to the receiver's advanced sound features such as Sound Explorer, which displays more than 18 of Pioneer's unique sound adjustment functions on one screen, and Virtual Speakers, which allows users to create their ideal sound field, even when real speakers are not set up. Both apps are available for free from the App Store on iPad, iPhone or iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore.com. Video Processing – The VSX-1122 delivers a great picture from any source with Pioneer's Advanced Video Adjust suite of high definition video adjustments and 1080p/24fps video conversion as well as Pioneer's exclusive Stream Smoother feature that enhances low bit-rate video sources.  The new models are designed with a new modern brushed finish to match any home theater and will be available at authorized Pioneer retailers in March 2012.  It all began with a passion for music that Pioneer founder Nozomu Matsumoto hoped to share with the world. He started Pioneer in 1938 as a specialty speaker company, building products out of his garage. Today, Pioneer's Home Entertainment and Business Solutions Group continues Matsumoto's enthusiasm, developing award-winning audio and video home theater products including A/V receivers, Blu-ray Disc® and DVD players, and speakers. Long-standing partnerships and collaborations with the creative community have provided Pioneer unique insight in its quest to capture the purity of a movie or musical artist's original vision into its broad range of home entertainment products. The company's brands include Pioneer® and Elite®. More details can be found at www.pioneerelectronics.com.
 