
 
 Pioneer's CDJ-2000 took the spot at the top of the firm's CD turntable range a couple of years back, and has enjoyed a decent spell as the club standard. To ensure that its reign continues unchallenged, a new iteration in the form of the CDJ-2000nexus (no relation) has just been announced. The vast majority of the DNA remains the same, but there are some key new features such as WiFi (as we saw in the XDJ-AERO) for use with the rekordbox app, Beat Sync, Wave Zoom and Slip (a much wanted feature first seen in the CDJ-900). In total, you can now load tracks from CD, DVD, USB, SD, networked machines, and WiFi, meaning the player has essentially outgrown its "CDJ" labeling, becoming a true multimedia player. If you fancy taking one for a spin, you can do so starting from some time this month, for the upbeat price of $2,399. Laidback Luke demo video on rotation after the break.



 
  Show full PR text   Next Generation Pioneer CDJ-2000nexus is Ready to Change up the Music Mixing Game
   LONG BEACH, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc.'s Professional Sound and Visual Division, the leader in Professional DJ products, today unveiled its next generation flagship CDJ player, the CDJ-2000nexus, offering exciting features and technologies including Wi-Fi® connectivity, a first in the industry, compatibility with Pioneer's new rekordbox™ App for iPhone, iPad or iPod touch, and new functions such as Beat Sync, Wave Zoom and Slip. Newly enhanced features inherited by the CDJ-2000nexus include a selection screen interface for a more intuitive music search experience, increased visibility of the needle search pad, and improved master tempo sound quality.

   "Our CDJ players are the established de-facto equipment in the professional DJ community and we're making sure they stay that way by continuing to improve their functions and features"

   "Our CDJ players are the established de-facto equipment in the professional DJ community and we're making sure they stay that way by continuing to improve their functions and features," said David Arevalo, senior marketing manager, Professional Sound and Visual Division for Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. "The CDJ-2000nexus is the first player that will also enable users to prepare their music on an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch and then wirelessly transfer it to the unit for playback."

   Industry's First DJ Player with Wireless Source Capability

   The CDJ-2000nexus can utilize different music sources, from a hard drive to USB thumb drive and/or SD memory card, and now for the first time, an iPhone, iPad and iPod touch and a computer via Wi-Fi. Using Pioneer's rekordbox App to create playlists, cue/loop points, beat location settings, waveform analysis and more, users can temporarily transfer the content wirelessly through Wi-Fi to the CDJ-2000nexus. Users can also perform the same wireless function with a Mac utilizing the rekordbox music management software.

   New rekordbox Software Functions

   With the included rekordbox music management software installed on a computer, users can organize and catalog their entire music libraries. Newly added features available when rekordbox is used with the CDJ-2000nexus include music file analysis functions such as Wave Form Zoom (wave form expansion) and Key, as well as additional settings such as Active Loop and Hot Cue Auto Load.

   When music files are imported to rekordbox, the software analyzes each file and prepares it for use specifically for the CDJ player. Key elements of Pioneer's rekordbox software:

   Data Analysis – Wave Zoom, Key, Wave, Beat Grid, BPM, ID3 Tag and more  Track Settings – Active Loop, Hot Cue Auto Load, Cue, Loop  Creation and editing of Playlists  Saving of playback log information

   Full-Color LCD Display

   The CDJ-2000nexus features a large full-color WQVGA 6.1-inch (480 x 234) LCD panel for displaying song titles and album art as well as detailed track information. The Wave data of each song is also illustrated on screen and the new Wave Zoom function provides five different levels of magnification of the wave data which are color-coded according to bandwidth.

   Pro DJ Link

   Pioneer's Pro DJ Link feature enables up to four CDJ-2000nexus players to connect via the Link Port and share a single music source. Additional functions added to the CDJ-2000nexus that can be accessed when other players are connected using the Pro DJ Link are:

   Beat Sync – Tempo and beat location of music currently playing on one of the device can be matched with the push of a button.  Traffic Light – Shows the keys of music being played by any players connected via Pro DJ Link, making key-compatible music easier to find by a different color indicator.  Beat Count and Phase Meter – The Beat Count, which is the number of beats until a set point (memory cue), and the Phase Meter, which shows the beat/bar of the music, can also be displayed simultaneously by other players.

   Performance Functions

   Pioneer added Slip Mode and Quantize functions to the CDJ-2000nexus for added performance and reliability.

   Slip Mode – When activated, Slip Mode silently continues song playback during a loop, reverse or scratch and continues audible playback at the exact time when the loop, reverse or scratch is ended, resulting in smoother transitions.  Quantize – Utilizing a Quantizing feature, cue points and loops can be set perfectly on-beat. The Quantize feature ensures cue points are set accurately and automatically, correcting and synching beats during manual looping or real-time cueing to reduce off-beat mistakes.  My Settings – The function settings of a player can be saved to an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch, USB storage device, SD memory card, or other device. For additional convenience, the settings can also be can be made ahead of time on the rekordbox App or software allowing users switch to their settings when a connection is made to the CDJ-2000nexus.  Wolfson Processor – To achieve excellent sound quality, the player is equipped with the audio industry's highly respected Wolfson® DAC processor, delivering a very transparent, accurate audio signal with a highly improved signal-to-noise ratio and increased headroom.

   More Features

   DJ software MIDI/HID control – Up to 35 controls on the surface of each player can be used to trigger other devices, such as DJ effectors and software by way of HID and/or MIDI.  Active Loop – Automatically starts loops when playback begins from a specified point.  Load Previous Track – Playback of prior music that has been loaded to the player.  Rating on the Go – Users can rate tracks during play for easy reference or sorting.

   CDJ-2000nexus Demo Link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ULA8Q1djn4w&list=PLk1VCXHnvPLCjdulUe8dgzaaNSD74oGOP&feature=plcp

   The CDJ-2000nexus will be available in September with a suggested retail price of $2,399.

   The rekordbox App is available for free from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore/.

   Pioneer offers a complete line of professional DJ Equipment through its Professional Sound & Visual Division. Its DJ products are industry standards at clubs, studios, mobile rigs and homes around the world, known for their high quality sound and reliability. For more information, visit www.pioneerdjusa.com.

   Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. is headquartered in Long Beach, Calif., and its U.S. Web address is http://www.pioneerelectronics.com/. Its parent company, Pioneer Corporation, established in Tokyo in 1938, is a preeminent manufacturer of high-performance audio, video and computer equipment for the home, car and business markets.

 
