
 

We knew Pioneer's AppRadio car stereo was coming to cozy up with our iPhones, but we didn't know how much its iOS integration capabilities would cost, until now. Turns out 400 bucks buys you one, and it's picked up some new capabilities since we got handsy with the device last month. In addition to letting you listen to tunes stored on your iPhone, access Google Maps, and make calls, the AppRadio now has access to your iPhone's contacts, calendar, videos, and photos as well. Unfortunately, there's still only four other apps (Rdio, Pandora, MotionX-GPS Drive, and INRIX) available, though Pioneer says more are coming. With a name like AppRadio they ought to get here soon, as in immediately. Peep the PR after the break for the full monty.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Pioneer AppRadio Arrives Today at $399 		AppRadio Ready for Immediate Purchase 		CEA Line Shows 2011		NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--CEA Line Show – Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc., the leader in aftermarket car electronics technology, today announced that the AppRadio™ is now available for immediate purchase at a retail price of $399. 		"The smartphone continues to change the landscape of our industry and Pioneer's AppRadio is the first aftermarket product to fully embrace the iPhone 4 for use in the automobile"		The AppRadio is the first in-vehicle product designed to utilize the processing power, storage capacity, network connectivity and apps of the iPhone™ and iPod touch (4th generation) as the primary source for its information and entertainment capabilities. Pioneer's AppRadio also features the industry's first capacitive touchscreen that enables control of most functions using similar touch and motion gestures as many of today's most popular smartphones, but in a larger 6.1-inch screen designed specifically for safer in-vehicle operation1. For safety and convenience, AppRadio features built-in Bluetooth for hands-free calling2 and an input for an optional vehicle mounted rear facing back-up camera. 		"The smartphone continues to change the landscape of our industry and Pioneer's AppRadio is the first aftermarket product to fully embrace the iPhone 4 for use in the automobile," said Ted Cardenas, director of marketing for the car electronics division of Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. "With a familiar and intuitive interface and the ability to add features by simply updating or adding apps, the AppRadio is the ultimate car stereo for the iPhone 4 user." 		Feature and App Compatibility Expansion 		Today's announcement also highlights the flexibility of the AppRadio to seamlessly add features through AppRadio compatible iPhone apps. 		The latest update to Pioneer's AppRadio app now adds access to the iPhone's Contacts, Calendar and Photos apps. Contacts provides direct access to stored contact information for hands-free calling via Bluetooth, routing via Google Maps, and enables users to quickly send their current locations via e-mail. With the vehicle parked and the parking brake fully engaged, Calendar displays stored calendar and events information and Photos provides on-screen viewing of the user's photos, slide shows, geotagged photos and videos taken with an iPhone 4. 		This expansion adds to the list of AppRadio compatible apps that includes MotionX-GPS DRIVE™, INRIX®3, TRAFFIC, Rdio®, PANDORA® INTERNET RADIO plus the iPhone's Google Maps and iPod music library. 		As the library of AppRadio compatible applications continues to grow, users will be automatically notified via the Pioneer AppRadio iPhone application, with a link to the respective app(s) page within the Apple iTunes App Store. Additionally, the AppRadio software itself is updatable offering the potential for future hardware, software and as app compatibility changes. 		Pricing and Availability 		Pioneer's AppRadio is available now for a retail price of $399 at Best Buy, Crutchfield.com, Amazon.com and select Pioneer Authorized Retailers. 		Pioneer's Car Electronics Division is known for offering the kind of in-car products that make driving more enjoyable by offering high quality audio and video, seamless connectivity and ease-of-use. Its focus is on the development of new digital technologies including audio video, navigation and emerging media, while maintaining its strong heritage in products for car audio enthusiasts and sound competitors. 		Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. is headquartered in Long Beach, Calif., and its U.S. Web address is www.pioneerelectronics.com. Its parent company, Pioneer Corporation, is a leader in optical disc technology and a preeminent manufacturer of high-performance audio, video and computer equipment for the home, car and business markets. The company focuses on three core business domains including home electronics, car electronics, and Digital Network Entertainment™. 		1 Do not use your Pioneer system if doing so will divert your attention in any way from the safe operation of your vehicle. Always observe safe driving rules. In some states certain operations of devices while driving may be illegal. Where such regulations apply, they must be obeyed. 		2 Bluetooth functionality requires a compatible Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone. Certain Bluetooth features may not be supported by all compatible Bluetooth-enabled devices, and/or the functionality of such features may be limited in certain devices or by certain wireless carriers. See more details about compatible Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones at the following webpage: "http://www.pioneerelectronics.com/BluetoothCompatibility". 		3 INRIX app currently supports 4.3 only
 