


Pioneer's original DDJ-WeGO was an effort to secure some of the entry-level DJ-dollars (it does pretty well at the other end already). This time around, there's more of a focus on iOS, with a grip along the back that doubles as a stand for your iPhone or iPad (a lightning cable is included, too). This also means that as well as support for PC and Mac DJ software (Virtual DJ LE is bundled,) you can ride the fader with the fancy new Djay too. The rest of the hardware is pretty familiar ground, with two jog-wheels, effects and a tiny mixing console crammed-in to the small footprint. Learner DJs can improve their skills thanks to visual prompts provided by the LEDs (that flash with the beat etc.,) and USB power means one less cable to worry about. Importantly there's onboard audio, so you get the full DJ / headphone monitoring experience, and a decent audio line out. Prospective spinners will have to wait until October to get one, at a cost of $429. A shade more than the predecessor, but you do get three spiffy full-body colors (red, white and black) to choose from.




Show full PR textPIONEER DDJ-WEGO2 READY FOR TURNING CONSUMERS INTO DJSPioneer Mixes Music with Latest DDJ-WeGO2 Controller

LONG BEACH, Calif. (August 29, 2013) – Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. Professional Sound and Visual Division today announced its next generation DDJ-WeGO2 ultra-compact DJ controller that makes it easy to learn DJing essentials by providing users with a simple means of creating cool and unique mixes with their own music collections. Like its predecessor, the DDJ-WeGO2 offers advanced but easy to use functions and features that make the art of DJing fun and simple including Jog FX, Pulse Control, multi-color LED illumination, Virtual DJ™ Limited Edition DJ software for Windows® and Mac, and additional support for other DJ software such as Algoriddim's djay®. The DDJ-WeGO2 adds quick connection with iPhone 5 and iPad using only the included Pioneer cable with Lightning connector1, and a Multi-purpose Grip that makes the controller easy to carry as well providing a convenient stand for compatible iOS devices.

The DDJ-WeGO2 will be available in white, black and red to complement the user's taste, with each color option now covering the entire controller body. The DDJ-WeGO2 colors also match the popular line of HDJ-500 DJ headphones. The controller features multi-color LED backlighting for the Jog wheel and a color-customizable user interface for the included software.

"For everyone who has daydreamed about being a DJ, the new DDJ-WeGO2 offers a cost effective solution to make their dreams a reality until they get more experience and ready to invest in more professional Pioneer DJ equipment," said David Arevalo, director of marketing, Professional Sound and Visual Division for Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc.

DJ Performance Made EasyThe DDJ-WeGO2 utilizes visual prompts and audio cues, built-in effects and other features, and includes accessories to make DJ performances effortless.

iPhone and iPad Cable (included) – The Pioneer cable with Lightning connector enables quick connection of the unit to an iPhone 5 or iPad, while the "djay 22" application provides instantaneous access and playback of music stored in compatible iOS devices.

Jog FX – Allows users to combine multiple effects and control them simultaneously using the Jog wheel.

Pulse Control – Provides users with visual prompts with a variety of colored lights on the Jog platters:Mix Pulse – Lights around the Jog wheel show the beat of the tracks in play. The intensity of the lights is reduced as the beats go out of sync, giving novices a visual aid to beat matching.Launch Pulse – Triggers a red light on the Jog wheel to signify that music has been loaded successfully.FX Pulse – The effect being applied to the currently playing song will be heard and represented visually via the light movements on the Jog wheel.

DJ Software – The DDJ-WeGO2 is bundled with the "Virtual DJ Limited Edition" software by Atomix Productions (for Windows or Mac) that offers a broad range of functions for mixing songs, including making loops and creating samples, and mixing up to four channels for unlimited user creativity and mixes. The DDJ-WeGO2 has the ability to support other DJ software including Algoriddim djay and djay LE.3

USB Power – The DDJ-WeGO uses power from USB connections found on most computers, eliminating the need for an external power supply.

Multi-purpose Grip - The controller features a convenient dual purpose grip for transporting the unit as well as functioning as a stand for a connected iPhone 5 or iPad device.

Other featuresBuilt-in audio ports for high quality sound input and output.Built-in sound card for expanded music storage and portability.Compact (14.9" x 8.2" x 2.5") and weighs less than four pounds (without stand) for easy transportation.


