
 
 If you were twiddling your thumbs waiting for Pioneer's XDJ-AERO to come out, you might want to head on over to iTunes or the Play store instead. Why? Because the mobile rekordbox companion app for iOS and Android has just been released. If you were thinking it'd just be a basic music management tool, then you'll be pleasantly surprised. Sure, you can import tracks, to then play on the XDJ-AERO (and other Pioneer DJ products that support WiFi), but you can also set up loop points, hot cues, analyze tracks, create playlists, and even experiment with ideas on the fly. This means you can get your tracks prepped up wherever you are, and turn up to the party good to go, be it on your own gear or a friends'. This is also what you'll need if you want to make use of the forthcoming controller's WiFi functionality, although it can also be used to connect with the desktop version of the program if you're already using it. The app is free, and available now, just head down to the source to line those beats up.



  Show full PR text   PIONEER RELEASES REKORDBOX DJ MUSIC APP FOR iPHONE AND iPOD TOUCH
   LONG BEACH, Calif. (August 21, 2012) – Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. Professional Sound and Visual Division today announced the availability of its new rekordbox® DJ music management app for iPhone® and iPod touch®1. The rekordbox App enables users to prepare and manage music stored on their portable devices as well as create playlists, cue/loop point and beat location settings, perform waveform analysis, and more. The organized music in the device can also be wirelessly synched with a computer utilizing the Pioneer rekordbox music management PC software, providing the additional convenience of preparing music for playback on a Pioneer DJ system.

   "Pioneer's rekordbox music management software continues to grow in popularity within the DJ community and we're now making it available as an app for iPhone and iPod touch," said David Arevalo, senior marketing manager, Professional Sound and Visual Division for Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. "The rekordbox App will make it easy for anyone to organize the music stored on a device so it can be ready for playback on a variety of Pioneer systems."

   Much like Pioneer's rekordbox PC software, the rekordbox App makes it fun and easy to prepare songs for DJ playback. The app utilizes graphics similar to the waveforms, bars and buttons found on Pioneer players so users can simply touch the screen of the device being used to create and customize set points in their music. The new app also features music file browsing with the ability to customize browsing and sorting menus; log and play tracking for saving playlists on the device; and the ability to change the language of the display from among nine languages.

   Pioneer's recently announced XDJ-AERO DJ system takes full advantage of the rekordbox App, enabling an iPhone and iPod touch to become an additional source for music content. The XDJ-AERO also creates its own access point, eliminating the need for any hard-wired connections and allowing an iPhone or iPod touch with the rekordbox App to temporarily transfer content wirelessly to the DJ system.

   Pioneer's rekordbox DJ music management App is available at no charge from the App Store on iPhone and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore/.

   Pioneer offers a complete line of professional DJ Equipment through its Professional Sound & Visual Division. Its DJ products are industry standards at clubs, studios, mobile rigs and homes around the world, known for their high quality sound and reliability. For more information, visit www.pioneerdjusa.com.

 
