
 
With some dark moodlighting and a little bit of chill electronica, Pioneer has unveiled what it believes to be the next step in in-car infotainment, and thank goodness it entails smartphone integration -- what the company calls "the ideal personal device." But, they say that ideal device is less-so in the car, so it's time for some smarter head units. 9 Pioneer models available in 2011 will be compatible with Pandora, the cheapest costing just $150 -- but that's a catch: they only work with the iPhone.

Yes, if you're among the Apple devotees you'll be able to stream radio directly through the head unit, with the higher-end units, the AVH-P3300BT, AVH-P4300DVD and AVH-P6300BT, having a large enough display to do album art and song information and whatnot. The AVH-P4300DVD and AVH-P6300BT are top of the line, with 7-inch touchscreens -- and MSRPs at $500 and $700. Full details on all the models are in the PR below -- or feel free to look at the pretty pictures.





Show full PR text Pioneer Expands Pandora Offerings Pandora Internet Radio Capability Available in More Models and at a Lower PriceLAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--CES BOOTH #1001 – As Pandora Internet radio continues to gain popularity among consumers who enjoy personalized radio, Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. today announces that nine of its 2011 automotive in-dash products offer full Pandora® streaming and control through a connected Apple® iPhone®. Among the first aftermarket audio manufacturers to introduce Pandora connectivity in its 2010 navigation models, Pioneer's latest Pandora offerings expand throughout the car electronics line-up with two CD players, three audio/video, two digital media players and two navigation systems; with suggested prices starting as low as $150."There are now more than 65 million Pandora listeners and many of them enjoy the service on-the-go through the iPhone," said Ted Cardenas, director of marketing for the car electronics department, sales and marketing division of Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. "Our new Pandora compatible source units offer consumers a safe and easy way to bring the Internet radio experience into the car. It's simply 'plug and play', with full streaming, control and display of the Pandora content directly through the Pioneer in-dash products."Pandora Enriched CD PlayersNew to its CD player line, Pandora capability is integrated into two units, the DEH-P6300UB and the DEH-P8300UB. With a connected iPhone, users can view and select Pandora stations stored on their Pandora account directly on the CD player. Users can pause and skip tracks, bookmark songs and/or artists, and thumb up or down the currently playing song therefore providing the same Pandora functionality found on a computer or smart phone. Pandora music is enhanced by Pioneer's patented Advanced Sound Retriever (ASR) technology that restores the musical details often lost in compressed music formats including MP3, WMA and AAC, to create a fuller, more rich and enjoyable listening experience.The DEH-P6300UB features a contemporary cosmetic design with MP3/WMA/AAC playback, USB connectivity, two line LCD display (12-character), Radio Data Service (RDS), 5-Band equalizer, MOSFET 50W x 4, dual RCA outputs and auxiliary input. The DEH-P8300UB adds a third RCA high voltage output, signature Organic Electroluminescent display and optional Bluetooth® capability with a CD-BTB200 (sold separately). The DEH-P6300UB and the DEH-P8300UB are currently available for a suggested price of $150 and $180, respectivelyHeard and Seen in Audio/Video UnitsThe newest entries in Pioneer's popular AVH series audio video systems, the AVH-P3300BT, AVH-P4300DVD and AVH-P6300BT, also adopt integrated Pandora capability and further enhance the experience with the display of album art, artist, and song information and touchscreen control of thumbs up and down, pause, track skip, and more on the large TFT displays.Pioneer's intuitive Touch Slide Control further enhances the experience by enabling quick access to Pandora stations with a simple touch of the display. Pioneer's ASR technology is also included in all three units for an improved audio experience.The AVH-P3300BT features 5.8-inch TFT touchscreen display, three 4-Volt preamp outputs, DVD/CD playback, DivX/MP3/WMA/AAC, aux in, built in Bluetooth, dual zone and auto equalizer. The AVH-P4300DVD features a larger 7-inch screen, rear USB connection, rear aux in and optional Bluetooth (CD-BTB200). The AVH-P6300BT is a high-end single DIN unit with a motorized 7-inch touchscreen display, front USB, front auxiliary input and built in Bluetooth.In addition to iPod/iPhone control in all of Pioneer's A/V offerings, each unit also features Pioneer's App Mode feature, which can only be accessed when the vehicle is in park and the hand brake is fully engaged, and lets users view a connected iPhone's video content from Safari, YouTube and other select apps1 directly on the larger 5.8-inch, 6.1-inch or 7-inch high resolution screen.Pioneer's AVH-P3300BT, AVH-P4300DVD and AVH-P6300BT Audio/Video players will be available starting January for a suggested price of $450, $500 and $700, respectively.It's All Digital with MVH systemsPioneer's newest digital media receivers, MVH-P7300 and MVH-P8300BT, are also enhanced with Pandora compatibility. Their 3-inch widescreen TFT color display provide detailed Pandora information including the album art, artist, and song information.The MVH digital media receivers are designed for media playback using the iPod, USB storage devices and Secure Digital (SD) memory cards in addition to AM/FM radio. Both receivers offer three sets of 4-Volt preamp outputs, DivX/MP3/WMA/AAC file playback, aux input, iPod/iPhone control, auto EQ and Advanced Sound Retriever. The MVH-P8300BT also incorporates Bluetooth capability to enable hands-free calling.Pioneer's new App Mode is also featured in both players and enables the viewing of a connected iPhone's video content from Safari, YouTube and other select apps directly.The MVH-P7300 and MVH-P8300BT will be available in February for a suggested price of $270 and $330, respectively.More Than Just Directions: Navigation and EntertainmentJust as in 2010, Pandora capability continues into the 2011 line of AVIC series navigation systems. Both AVIC-X930BT and AVIC-Z130BT navigation models provide high resolution WVGA touchscreen displays for exceptional image quality that makes it easy for users to see Pandora album art, artist, and song information. Audio streaming and control of Pandora is made easy with a highly improved touch slide control. Three lines of information listing album, artists and song names are conveniently displayed alongside Pandora playback controls such as track pause, track skip and thumbs up and down.Aha Radio® service is a feature added to 2011 line of in-dash navigation models and provides the ability to conveniently connect drivers to the world around them with on-demand, interactive, personalized radio. Via an iPhone™ with the free Aha Radio Mobile App connected to the new AVIC systems, users can listen to the latest traffic conditions on their current road or commute road, listen to Facebook and Twitter updates, access hundreds of podcasts and other services such as the "Hungry" and "Coffee" stations which deliver real-time vicinity search results and directions to preferred restaurant categories listed on Yelp. Aha Radio offers over 100 content and podcast stations that can be conveniently accessed and controlled directly on the display of the Pioneer system.Both models will also feature App Mode and enable the viewing of a connected iPhone's video content from Safari, YouTube and other select apps directly.The AVIC-X930BT features a high resolution 6.1-inch WVGA touch screen display for superior image quality. In addition, the unit includes three preamp outputs, DVD/CD playback, DivX/MP3/WMA/AAC file playback, microSD card slot, USB connection, MusicSphere, HD Radio® capability with the optional GEX-P20HD tuner, SIRIUS XM satellite radio ready, back up camera ready, built in Bluetooth, dual zone and auto equalizer. Users can access and see live traffic information via Radio Data Service-Traffic Message Channel (RDS-TMC) with the optional Pioneer ND-TMC10 traffic tuner.The flagship AVIC-Z130BT further enhances display image quality with its large 7-inch WVGA high resolution screen. In addition to the specs found in the AVIC-X930BT, the AVIC-Z130BT features three sets of 4-Volt preamp outputs, a full-size SD Card Slot, and a motorized face with adjustable tilt. The built-in voice recognition engine allows spoken commands to be used to control key features of the system including address input by voice. Pioneer's ND-TMC10 traffic tuner is included with the AVIC-Z130BT.Pioneer's AVIC-X930BT and AVIC-Z130BT will be available in March for a suggested price of $800 and $1200, respectively.Pioneer's Car Electronics Department is known for offering the kind of in-car products that make driving more enjoyable by offering high quality audio and video, seamless connectivity and ease-of-use. Its focus is on the development of new digital technologies including audio video, navigation and satellite radio, while maintaining its strong heritage in products for car audio enthusiasts and sound competitors.Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. is headquartered in Long Beach, Calif., and its U.S. Web address is www.pioneerelectronics.com. Its parent company, Pioneer Corporation, is a leader in optical disc technology and a preeminent manufacturer of high-performance audio, video and computer equipment for the home, car and business markets. The company focuses on three core business domains including home electronics, car electronics, and Digital Network Entertainment™.NOTE: Do not use your Pioneer system if doing so will divert your attention in any way from the safe operation of your vehicle. Always observe safe driving rules. In some states certain operations of devices while driving may be illegal. Where such regulations apply, they must be obeyed.1App Mode footnote –Content must be output in QuickTime.
 