
 
The characteristic most often associated with Pixel Qi screens -- aside from their prized daylight-readable quality -- up to this point has been scarcity. Hoping to correct that supply shortage, Mary Lou Jepsen's team has today announced a partnership with Taiwanese manufacturer Chunghwa Picture Tubes to, well, produce some picture tubes. Apparently, "the teams have been working together quietly all fall" and now they're ready to make things official, while also announcing that three new panels will be coming to market at various points during 2011. The first of those, a 7-inch screen with a 1024 x 600 resolution, is set to make its debut at CES in early January, with mass production coming in the second quarter of the year. Another note of interest is the tally of three million Pixel Qi displays shipped over the past three years -- let's hope we can double that number through 2011, eh?

[Thanks, LifeBringer]
      

 

Show full PR textPixel Qi and CPT announce manufacturing partnershipby mary_lou_jepsen on December 21st, 2010Pixel Qi and CPT (Chunghwa Picture Tubes) announce today their LCD manufacturing partnership. Together the companies are developing three new screens of various sizes which will reach the market at various times in 2011.This alliance started early last summer when CPT showed a transflective screen of its own design at a Taiwanese trade show. Discussions between the two companies at that show made it apparent that Pixel Qi and CPT should work together to bring stronger product to market faster. A close alliance was formed and the teams have been working together quietly all fall. They have created samples of a 7" 1024×600 screens scheduled for mass production in early Q2 2011, which will be first publically shown at the CES 2011 exhibition in Las Vegas in early January 2011. This represents an expansion of Pixel Qi's manufacturing strength beyond its first LCD manufacturing partner who has been shipping Pixel Qi's 10" screen.CPT commented this afternoon: "We are excited to be working with Pixel Qi to bring their new transflective LCD technology to market. The combination of Chunghwa Picture Tubes expertise in volume LCD manufacturing and Pixel Qi's innovative low power and sunlight readable display technology promises innovative LCDs for smartphones, tablets and notebooks in 2011."CPT, based in Taoyuan, Taiwan, manufactures nearly 40 million screens per month, and is the #2 mid-size LCD manufacturer in the world.Dr. Belle Fu (傅珮倫 ), vice president of manufacturing at Pixel Qi, said "This great alliance will bring out a robust sequence of exciting screens during 2011 and it's an exciting development for the whole industry"Pixel Qi, based in Taipei, Taiwan (Neihu) and San Bruno, California , is the first fab-less LCD designer in the world and focuses on high-performance, low-power, innovative LCDs. Its technologies have won multiple display-industry and electronics innovation awards. Pixel Qi is a spin-off of One Laptop per Child where this screen technology was initially developed for the $100 laptop; nearly 3 million screens using this new technology have shipped in the last three years.
 