
There isn't much we don't know about the PlayStation 4 at this point. Sony has let the details slip out in drips and drabs, dragging out the mystery as long as possible. But now, the last remaining blank spot in our dossier -- the release date -- has been filled. At today's Gamescom 2013 press event, the electronics giant revealed that the PS4 will hit shelves on November 15th in the US. On that day you'll be able to run out and grab one for $399 and immediately start waving your yellow tentacles in Octodad or slaughter rooms full of people in Hotline Miami. Europe will follow shortly afterwards (with a €399 or £349 price point) on November 29th. In total Sony expects to launch the PS4 in 32 countries before the end of the holiday season. That's pretty ambitious, but with 1,000,000 preorders already in the bank, we'd say the company has plenty of reason to be optimistic. Microsoft is already losing the pricing war... now we just have to wait and see if it can get the Xbox One out the door before Sony gets a head start with early adopters.


Update: Our colleagues over at Engadget Spanish have found that Latin America will see the console on November 29th as well.


Update 2: If you're looking for a few more details about where exactly the PS4 will be launching, Sony has announced that the next-gen console will debut in Canada on November 15th alongside the US. On the 29th, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama and Peru will join the party. We've added the complete PR after the break.



Show full PR textPlayStation®4 (PS4™) Launches November 15 In North America, November 29 In Europe And Latin America

33 Diverse Launch Frame Software Titles to be Available by End of the Year From Brand New Titles to Popular Franchises.

Also Announces Support of Live Game Play Streaming Service, Twitch.

TOKYO, Aug. 20, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) today announced that the PlayStation®4 (PS4™) (CUH-1000A series) computer entertainment system will launch on November 15, 2013 in the Canada and U.S., and from November 29, 2013 in Europe including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The PS4™ will also launch in the following 10 Latin American countries on November 29: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama and Peru*1.

PS4™ is a next generation computer entertainment system that redefines rich and immersive gameplay with powerful graphics and speed, deeply integrated social capabilities, and innovative second-screen features utilizing devices such as PlayStation®Vita (PS Vita). SCE will continue to offer breakthrough gaming and entertainment experiences to users by further enriching the services available on PS4™ such as PSNSM and PlayStation®Plus*2, a membership service offering members exclusive content and features, while enhancing the PS4™ system itself through future system software updates. As part of this initiative, PS4™ will support Twitch, a live internet streaming service devoted to video gaming, concurrently with the release of the system. Since its launch in 2011, Twitch has earned remarkable popularity worldwide as a live streaming video platform oriented towards video gaming, gathering more than 38 million visitors per month*3. PS4™ users can easily broadcast their gameplay to their Twitch channel in real-time to gaming fans across the world, by simply hitting DUALSHOCK®4 wireless controller's "SHARE button."

A total of 15 Blu-ray Disc™ titles developed by SCE Worldwide Studios (SCE WWS) and numerous software developers and publishers from around the globe will be released between the launch of PS4™ and December 31st. Combined with digital download titles, an astounding 33 titles will be available before the end of the year*4.

There are currently more than 180 PS4™ titles*5 in development, and in addition to these exciting launch titles, Destiny™ from Activision Publishers, Inc. / Bungie, Inc., Diablo®III from Blizzard Entertainment, Inc., Mad Max © from Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, Witcher 3 from CD Projekt, The Divison from Ubisoft Entertainment, Dragon Age from Electronic Arts, as well as Shadow of the Beast, The Order:1886, inFamous™: Second Son, Rime, Hell Divers, Everybody's Gone to The Rapture, and Resogun from SCE WWS are expected to be released for PS4™. This incredible line-up reflects the strong support for PS4™ among virtually every software developer and publisher and within the independent development community. Since June 2013, the number of developers joining has increased from nearly 500 to 620.

Furthermore, SCE will pre-install THE PLAYROOM, in all PS4™ systems. THE PLAYROOM includes a tutorial session where users will be able to learn how to use various features of DUALSHOCK®4 Wireless Controller such as the touch pad and light bar. Those users who also own PlayStation®Camera will be able to enjoy content within THE PLAYROOM that utilizes augmented reality technology such as "AR BOTS" and "PLAY WITH ASOBI" where users can engage with robot type characters displayed on the screen, and "AR HOCKEY," an air hockey game where users can change the shape of the court by moving and rotating the DUALSHOCK®4 in different directions.

SCE will continuously expand the world of PS4™ through further introduction of attractive content and services.

*1 Country names are listed in alphabetical order.*2 Digital service offerings vary by country.*3 Information as of August 2013.*4 Information as of August 2013. Release titles may differ according to country/region. Release dates may be changed depending on individual titles. Please refer to attached sheet for game titles available only for digital downloads.*5 Includes title lineup to be released from PS4 launch through December.


