


Halo 5: Guardians launches next week on Xbox One and we're celebrating the only way we know how on Playdate -- by giving stuff away and playing video games on Twitch. What's the giveaway? A special Xbox One console packing 1TB of storage, Halo 5 stylings and the game itself. And for runners up, a pair of Astro A40 headphones decked out in the sci-fi shooter's livery. Oh, right, we're playing a game too. You can probably guess by now what that'll be, but if not it's Halo 5. Join Sean Buckley, myself and our special guest Richard Lawler as we form a Blue Team of our own and fight through Covenant and Prometheans for two hours starting at 4 PM Eastern / 1PM Pacific. You'll be able to find us in the usual places, too: Here on this post, the Engadget Gaming homepage and Twitch.tv/joystiq if you'd like to join us in chat.



#fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-147027{display:none;} .cke_show_borders #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-147027, #postcontentcontainer #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-147027{width:630px;display:block;}try{document.getElementById("fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-147027").style.display="none";}catch(e){}[We're streaming Halo 5: Guardians through OBS at 720p, so rest assured the Covenant blood will look much prettier on your TV at home.]

a Rafflecopter giveaway Entries are handled through the Rafflecopter widget above. Comments are no longer accepted as valid methods of entry. You may enter without any obligation to social media accounts, though we may offer them as opportunities for extra entries. Your email address is required so we can get in touch with you if you win, but it will not be given to third parties. Contest is open to all residents of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Canada (excluding Quebec), 18 or older! Sorry, we don't make this rule (we hate excluding anyone), so direct your anger at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad. Winners will be chosen randomly. One (1) Halo 5 edition Xbox One console and (1) Halo 5 edition Astro A40 gaming headset. If you are chosen, you will be notified by email. Winners must respond within three days of being contacted. If you do not respond within that period, another winner will be chosen. Make sure that the account you use to enter the contest includes your real name and a contact email or Facebook login. We do not track any of this information for marketing or third-party purposes. This unit is purely for promotional giveaway. Engadget and AOL are not held liable to honor warranties, exchanges or customer service. The full list of rules, in all its legalese glory, can be found here. Entries can be submitted until October 22nd at 6:00PM ET. Good luck!
