
 Wrapped up in the Sony handheld's version 2.0 update, the PlayStation Vita is finally getting PS Plus. Detailing the offering for European users, the subscription-based service will add four free games per month, with the launch line-up including Uncharted: Golden Abyss, Gravity Rush and Chronovolt.  Like its big console brother, you can expect to see discounted titles, free demos and other content arrive alongside full titles. Your Vita will also be able to tap into cloud storage for game saves, with an additional 1GB of space added for the portable console. If you're already paying for PlayStation Plus on your PS3 ( three months at $18 or a one-year plan for $50), you'll pick up the service for free on your Vita starting November 19th (and the 20th in Europe), provided they're linked to the same PSN account. There's a quick video outline (and the European press release) right after the break.



 
  Show full PR text   PlayStation Vita version 2.00 System Software Update brings PlayStation Plus to fans of portable gaming
   Current PlayStation Plus Subscribers can now enjoy PlayStation®Plus exclusive benefits on their PlayStation Vita at no additional cost

    London, 13th November, Today, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe (SCEE) announced that as part of the version 2.00 System Software Update for PlayStation®Vita (PS Vita), they will be bringing PlayStation®Plus (PS Plus), a subscription service package from PlayStation®Network, to PS Vita. Allowing fans to get even more from the world's most powerful portable system the subscription service will be available on PS Vita from the 20th November and it will be available to existing PlayStation®3 (PS3)subscribers for no additional cost.

    PS Plus offers subscribers even more with the release of PS Plus on PS Vita. As part of the Instant Game Collection, subscribers will be able to enjoy PS Vita titles including Uncharted: Golden Abyss™, Gravity Rush and Chronovolt. Members will have access to four games per month, as well as to a multitude of other perks such as free play, exclusive discounts and online storage.

    PS3 fans can rest assured, if they're already a PS3 owner with an existing PS Plus membership, they will be able to enjoy PS Plus features and services on both PS3 and PS Vita - at no extra cost.

    The Instant Game Collection across both platforms means players will have a constant library of 14 games and at least five new games a month, which means over 65 games a year for PS3 and PS Vita. Gamers will also receive automatic updates with the service to ensure they are on top of the latest PS3 and PS Vita game and software updates.

    Other cross platform benefits mean players can set their trophies and game saves to synchronise automatically, and access to online storage like never before will give fans up to 2GB of game saves online (1GB on PS3 and 1GB on PS Vita).

    Commitment to PS Plus is also convenient with subscriptions ranging from 90 days for £11.99 / €14.99 and 365 days for £39.99 / €49.99. An annual subscription available for just €49.99 will give users access to 65 games and equates to a very reasonable €4 a month.

 
