
So you want to play the new timed-exclusive Tomb Raider game, but you don't have an Xbox One. We might be able to help with that: today on Engadget Playdate, we're streaming Rise of the Tomb Raider and giving one lucky viewer a chance to win a 1TB Xbox One (with the game, of course). Want in? Simply hit the contest widget after the break. Want to see what we're giving out? Join us on Twitch.tv/Joystiq, the Engadget Gaming homepage or right here in this post starting at 6PM Eastern / 3PM Pacific. Good luck!


Winner: Congratulations to Angelina W. of Chandler, AZ!



#fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-840398{display:none;} .cke_show_borders #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-840398, #postcontentcontainer #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-840398{width:570px;display:block;}try{document.getElementById("fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-840398").style.display="none";}catch(e){}
[We're streaming Rise of the Tomb Raider on Xbox One through OBS at 720p so rest assured, this game will look much better on your setup at home.]

a Rafflecopter giveaway Entries are handled through the Rafflecopter widget above. Comments are no longer accepted as valid methods of entry. You may enter without any obligation to social media accounts, though we may offer them as opportunities for extra entries. Your email address is required so we can get in touch with you if you win, but it will not be given to third parties. Contest is open to all residents of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Canada (excluding Quebec), 18 or older! Sorry, we don't make this rule (we hate excluding anyone), so direct your anger at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad. Winners will be chosen randomly. One (1) winner will receive one (1) Xbox One Rise of the Tomb Raider Bundle (1TB). If you are chosen, you will be notified by email. Winners must respond within three days of being contacted. If you do not respond within that period, another winner will be chosen. Make sure that the account you use to enter the contest includes your real name and a contact email or Facebook login. We do not track any of this information for marketing or third-party purposes. This unit is purely for promotional giveaway. Engadget and AOL are not held liable to honor warranties, exchanges or customer service. The full list of rules, in all its legalese glory, can be found here. Entries can be submitted until November 12th at 8:00PM ET. Good luck!
