
  Wondering how you'll be able to most efficiently brag to far away friends about your new PlayStation Vita? Sony's got the answer in the form of newly announced apps for its next generation portable. Vita Facebook, Foursquare, Twitter and Skype apps will be landing in the PlayStation Store in Japan before the end of the year. The US and Europe will get their shot at the free apps in early 2012.Update: It is unclear whether the apps will be available when Vita launches. The above dates are actually for the device itself.
      

 

  Show full PR text   PlayStation Vita Expands Its Entertainment Experience by Introducing Various Applications for Social Networking Services and Communications   TOKYO, Aug. 16, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCE) today announced that it will introduce dedicated applications for Facebook, foursquare, Skype™ and Twitter*1 to PlayStation®Vita (PS Vita) which will launch in Japan by the end of 2011, followed by the U.S. and Europe early next year*2.   PS Vita users will not only be able to enjoy the immersive rich gaming content but through the addition of these social networking services and communications widely used around the globe will also have an easy access and greater opportunity to enjoy communicating with friends by simply selecting the dedicated application. PS Vita, as the next generation portable entertainment system, will deliver an unrivaled entertainment experience, through close collaboration with various social networking services and communications.   The applications will be downloadable to PS Vita directly from PlayStation®Store at no charge. Users will be able to activate the application just by selecting the icon which will appear on the PS Vita home screen and enjoy easy navigation using the touch screen. Also, PS Vita's beautiful 5-inch organic light emitting diode (OLED) screen will allow users to enjoy photos and movies shared with their friends and acquaintances via Internet in visually striking graphics. Service profiles of each service are as follows:   Facebook - Facebook is a social utility that helps people communicate more efficiently with their friends, family and coworkers. The company develops technologies that facilitate the sharing of information through the social graph, the digital mapping of people's real-world social connections. Anyone can sign up for Facebook and interact with the people they know in a trusted environment. Over 750 million active users visit Facebook each month.  Foursquare - foursquare is a location-based service that helps users explore the world around them. Using PS Vita, users can "check in" at the locations they visit to meet up with friends, and share information about places. Users can also collect virtual badges for exploring new places, and can earn points to compete against friends.  Skype - Skype is software which enables people to communicate with others around the world using Internet-connected devices. Skype has more than 170 million average monthly connected users (for the three months ended June 30, 2011). Users of PS Vita will be able to use Skype to make free calls to others on Skype, as well as low-cost calls to landlines and mobiles virtually anywhere in the world.  Twitter - Twitter instantly connects people everywhere to what's most meaningful to them. At the heart of Twitter are short messages called Tweets, which are 140 characters or less in length. Users can follow celebrities, friends or other people they find interesting to discover what's happening around the world.    SCE will vigorously promote PS Vita towards the launch as the next generation portable entertainment platform and work towards expanding the portable gaming market. 
 