
 
 We had a hint or two about its imminent arrival, but Sony's now made its next-generation DualShock 4 controller official at tonight's PlayStation 4 event in NYC. The company's Lead System Architect Mark Cerny took to the stage to reveal the all-new companion, which has been redesigned and now features a more rounded form factor as well as what appears to be a slightly rubberized grip with "enhanced rumble capabilities." There's also a touchpad now (clearly taking a cue from the Vita), a headphone jack, the long-rumored share button, a light bar that, according to Cerny, will be utilized as a "more friendly way to identify players" and a stereo camera which is used to track the 3D position of the Move-compatible controller.

 Not surprisingly, Sony's touting the addition of the "Share" button as one of the biggest features of the DualShock 4, allowing players to easily send tidbits like video clips and screenshots to places such as Ustream, Facebook and, naturally, the firm's own PlayStation Network. That's all we know thus far, but we're sure to hear more about the DualShock 4 in the coming future -- for now, head on past the break and enjoy the gallery from Sony's presentation.

 Check out our liveblog of Sony's event to get the latest news as it happens!



  Show full PR text   Sony Computer Entertainment Introduces Wireless Controller For Playstation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4) And Playstation®4 Eye
   NEW YORK, Feb. 20, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) today announced Wireless Controller for PlayStation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4) and PlayStation®4 Eye, a new camera, along with PlayStation®4 (PS4™), its next generation computer entertainment system.

   Wireless Controller for PlayStation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4)

   Utilizing a similar design as the popular Wireless Controller for PlayStation®3(DUALSHOCK®3), DUALSHOCK®4 features new innovations to deliver better gaming experiences. DUALSHOCK®4 incorporates a new highly sensitive six-axis sensor, as well as a touch pad located on the front of the controller, which offers gamers completely new ways to play and interact with games.  DUALSHOCK®4 features a light bar on the top with three color LEDs that illuminate in various colors. The light bar illuminates to match the color of characters in a game to offer a simpler, more friendly way to identify players, even when playing side by side. The light bar also changes patterns during gameplay to provide useful information to gamers, such as when a character is critically low on health or has taken major damage.

   In addition, DUALSHOCK®4 will come with a built-in speaker and stereo headset jack, enabling PS4 users to enjoy high-fidelity sound effects of games from both the TV and also from the controller. Combined with the Mono Headset that will be bundled with PS4, gamers will also be able to chat with friends playing online, while hearing sound effects from the controller in hand.  While integrating "SELECT" and "START" buttons on DUALSHOCK®3 Wireless Controller into a new "OPTIONS button", DUALSHOCK®4 is newly equipped with a "SHARE button" to further enhance PS4's social capabilities. The "SHARE button" allows gamers to easily broadcast their gameplay in real-time to friends through internet streaming services such as Ustream. Users can also share their triumphs and accomplishments by uploading video gameplay to Facebook with the "SHARE button". Unlike streaming content via PC, users no longer have to convert data formats of their recorded gameplay, but can share it with ease. Additionally, gamers can charge DUALSHOCK®4 while PS4 is on standby or through a dedicated charging station. For convenience, DUALSHOCK®4 can also be charged with smartphone chargers via USB.  During the creation of DUALSHOCK®4, Sony Computer Entertainment worked with key partners in the development community to improve the feel of the left / right sticks and the trigger buttons, the result is a much tighter sense of control over in-game actions.

   PlayStation®4 Eye

   PlayStation®4 Eye, a newly developed camera for PS4 incorporates two high-sensitive cameras that have wide-angle lenses with 85-degree diagonal angle views which can recognize the depth of space precisely. This enables PlayStation®4 Eye to cut out the image of the player from the background, or to grasp players' position in front and behind, further broadening the ways to enjoy games. Incorporated four microphones are also capable of accurate sound detection and source origination. In addition, users will be able to login to their PS4 with face recognition and are capable of using their own body movements or voices to enjoy games more intuitively. Furthermore, PlayStation®4 Eye senses the color of DUALSHOCK®4's light bar to judge the positions of multiple players, and set characters in the same positions or let a character talk to a particular player, enabling players to enjoy games in new way. PlayStation®4 Eye also supports PlayStation®Move motion controller. It detects the motion of PS Move more precisely, and reflects players' in-game motion more accurately than ever.  SCE will announce new details of PS4 and its robust lineup of games from 3rd party developers and publishers, the independent gaming community and SCE Worldwide Studios, as well as further enhancements to the entire PlayStation ecosystem between now and the holiday 2013 launch.  < Wireless Controller for PlayStation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4)>  External Dimensions  Approx. 162mm x 52mm x 98mm (width x height x depth)  (tentative, excludes largest projection)  Weight  Approx. 210g (tentative)  Keys / Switches  PS button, SHARE button, OPTIONS button,  Directional buttons (Up/Down/Left/Right),  Action buttons (Triangle, Circle, Cross, Square),  R1/L1/R2/L2 button, Left stick / L3 button, Right stick / R3 button, Pad Button  Touch Pad  2 Point Touch Pad, Click Mechanism, Capacitive Type  Motion Sensor  Six-axis motion sensing system (three-axis gyroscope, three-axis accelerometer)  Other Features  Light Bar, Vibration, Built-in Mono Speaker  Ports  USB (Micro B), Extension Port, Stereo Headset Jack  Wireless Communication  Bluetooth® Ver2.1+EDR  Battery  Type  Built-in Lithium-ion Rechargeable Battery

   Voltage  DC3.7V (tentative)

   Capacity  1000mAh (tentative)    External Dimension  Approx. 186mm x 27mm x 27mm (width x height x depth)  (tentative)  Weight  Approx. 183g (tentative)  Video Pixel  (Maximum) 1280 x 800 pixel x 2  Video Frame Rate  1280x800 pixel @ 60fps  640x400 pixel @ 120fps  320x192 pixel @ 240fps  Video Format  RAW, YUV (uncompressed)  Lens  Dual Lenses, F value/F2.0 fixed focus  Capture Range  30cm～  Field-of-View  85°  Microphone  4 Channel Microphone Array  Connection Type  PS4 dedicated connector (AUX connector)  Cable Length  Approx. 2m (tentative)   *Specifications are subject to change without notice.-   About Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.  Recognized as the global leader and company responsible for the progression of consumer-based computer entertainment, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) manufactures, distributes, develop and markets the PlayStation®2 (PS2®) computer entertainment system, the PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) handheld entertainment system, the PlayStation®3 (PS3®) computer entertainment system and the PlayStation®Vita (PS Vita) portable entertainment system. SCEI has revolutionized home entertainment since they launched PlayStation in 1994. PS2® further enhances the PlayStation legacy as the core of home networked entertainment. PSP® is a handheld entertainment system that allows users to enjoy 3D games with high-quality full-motion video and high-fidelity stereo audio. PS3® is an advanced computer system, incorporating the powerful Cell Broadband Engine and RSX processors. PS Vita is an ultimate portable entertainment system that offers a revolutionary combination of rich gaming and social connectivity within a real world context. SCEI also delivers the PlayStation® experience to open operating systems through PlayStation®Mobile, a cross device platform. Headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, SCEI, along with its affiliated companies, Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC., and Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Ltd., and its division companies, Sony Computer Entertainment Japan and Sony Computer Entertainment Asia develops, publishes, markets and distributes hardware and software, and manages the third party licensing programs for these platforms in the respective markets worldwide.  PlayStation, PS3 and DUALSHOCK are registered trademarks and PS4 is a trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. Facebook is a trademark or registered trademark of Facebook, Inc. Ustream is a trademark or registered trademark of Ustream, Inc. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 
 
