
 
 Just finished watching Sony's "see the future" of PlayStation event? We hope you didn't blink, you might have missed a quick reveal of the next PlayStation Eye The optical sensor was overshadowed by the reveal of the DualShock 4, but it's nothing to scoff at -- the second generation Eye features two 1280 x 800 cameras, four microphones and an 85-degree field of view. Put together, the setup promises facial recognition, player positioning and depth sensing and enhanced PlayStation Move support. The Kinect-like camera is designed to work with Sony's new controller standard too, recognizing each player by the color of the DualShock 4's LED light bar. Sony says the Eye will allow the PS4 to use face login, and the collection of microphones might make voice control possible as well. No word yet if the new camera device will be a PS4 pack in or sold separately, but if you're interested in mining press releases for details, you'll find one after the break.




  Show full PR text   Sony Computer Entertainment Introduces Wireless Controller For Playstation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4) And Playstation®4 Eye
   New Controller and Camera Offer New Ways to Enjoy Games on PlayStation®4

   NEW YORK, Feb. 20, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) today announced Wireless Controller for PlayStation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4) and PlayStation®4 Eye, a new camera, along with PlayStation®4 (PS4™), its next generation computer entertainment system.

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20020701/SFM066LOGO)

   Wireless Controller for PlayStation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4)

   Utilizing a similar design as the popular Wireless Controller for PlayStation®3(DUALSHOCK®3), DUALSHOCK®4 features new innovations to deliver better gaming experiences. DUALSHOCK®4 incorporates a new highly sensitive six-axis sensor, as well as a touch pad located on the front of the controller, which offers gamers completely new ways to play and interact with games.

   DUALSHOCK®4 features a light bar on the top with three color LEDs that illuminate in various colors. The light bar illuminates to match the color of characters in a game to offer a simpler, more friendly way to identify players, even when playing side by side. The light bar also changes patterns during gameplay to provide useful information to gamers, such as when a character is critically low on health or has taken major damage.

   In addition, DUALSHOCK®4 will come with a built-in speaker and stereo headset jack, enabling PS4 users to enjoy high-fidelity sound effects of games from both the TV and also from the controller. Combined with the Mono Headset that will be bundled with PS4, gamers will also be able to chat with friends playing online, while hearing sound effects from the controller in hand.

   While integrating "SELECT" and "START" buttons on DUALSHOCK®3 Wireless Controller into a new "OPTIONS button", DUALSHOCK®4 is newly equipped with a "SHARE button" to further enhance PS4's social capabilities. The "SHARE button" allows gamers to easily broadcast their gameplay in real-time to friends through internet streaming services such as Ustream. Users can also share their triumphs and accomplishments by uploading video gameplay to Facebook with the "SHARE button". Unlike streaming content via PC, users no longer have to convert data formats of their recorded gameplay, but can share it with ease. Additionally, gamers can charge DUALSHOCK®4 while PS4 is on standby or through a dedicated charging station. For convenience, DUALSHOCK®4 can also be charged with smartphone chargers via USB.

   During the creation of DUALSHOCK®4, Sony Computer Entertainment worked with key partners in the development community to improve the feel of the left / right sticks and the trigger buttons, the result is a much tighter sense of control over in-game actions.

   PlayStation®4 Eye

   PlayStation®4 Eye, a newly developed camera for PS4 incorporates two high-sensitive cameras that have wide-angle lenses with 85-degree diagonal angle views which can recognize the depth of space precisely. This enables PlayStation®4 Eye to cut out the image of the player from the background, or to grasp players' position in front and behind, further broadening the ways to enjoy games. Incorporated four microphones are also capable of accurate sound detection and source origination. In addition, users will be able to login to their PS4 with face recognition and are capable of using their own body movements or voices to enjoy games more intuitively. Furthermore, PlayStation®4 Eye senses the color of DUALSHOCK®4's light bar to judge the positions of multiple players, and set characters in the same positions or let a character talk to a particular player, enabling players to enjoy games in new way. PlayStation®4 Eye also supports PlayStation®Move motion controller. It detects the motion of PS Move more precisely, and reflects players' in-game motion more accurately than ever.

   SCE will announce new details of PS4 and its robust lineup of games from 3rd party developers and publishers, the independent gaming community and SCE Worldwide Studios, as well as further enhancements to the entire PlayStation ecosystem between now and the holiday 2013 launch.

  Wireless Controller for PlayStation®4 (DUALSHOCK®4)>
         External Dimensions

       Approx. 162mm x 52mm x 98mm (width x height x depth)

     (tentative, excludes largest projection)

         Weight

       Approx. 210g (tentative)

         Keys / Switches

       PS button, SHARE button, OPTIONS button,

     Directional buttons (Up/Down/Left/Right),

     Action buttons (Triangle, Circle, Cross, Square),

     R1/L1/R2/L2 button, Left stick / L3 button, Right stick / R3 button, Pad Button

         Touch Pad

       2 Point Touch Pad, Click Mechanism, Capacitive Type

         Motion Sensor

       Six-axis motion sensing system (three-axis gyroscope, three-axis accelerometer)

         Other Features

       Light Bar, Vibration, Built-in Mono Speaker

         Ports

       USB (Micro B), Extension Port, Stereo Headset Jack

         Wireless Communication

       Bluetooth® Ver2.1+EDR

         Battery

       Type

       Built-in Lithium-ion Rechargeable Battery

           Voltage

       DC3.7V (tentative)

           Capacity

       1000mAh (tentative)

       
         External Dimension

       Approx. 186mm x 27mm x 27mm (width x height x depth)

     (tentative)

         Weight

       Approx. 183g (tentative)

         Video Pixel

       (Maximum) 1280 x 800 pixel x 2

         Video Frame Rate

       1280x800 pixel @ 60fps

     640x400 pixel @ 120fps

     320x192 pixel @ 240fps

         Video Format

       RAW, YUV (uncompressed)

         Lens

       Dual Lenses, F value/F2.0 fixed focus

         Capture Range

       30cm～

         Field-of-View

       85°

         Microphone

       4 Channel Microphone Array

         Connection Type

       PS4 dedicated connector (AUX connector)

         Cable Length

       Approx. 2m (tentative)

              *Specifications are subject to change without notice.-

     
