
  Skimming the news later is no match for consuming it fresh, but we still live in a world with connectivity dead zones -- riding the subway, cruising the Pacific at 35,000 feet -- making an offline reading app a necessity for oft-disconnected consumers. Pocket, formerly known as "Read it Later," lets you save online content to read when you're not within web's reach, or even when you are. Pocket could also be a good resource for folks that stumble upon some interesting content, but simply don't have time to read it at that very moment. You can also grab videos and images to watch later -- everything is presented in a clean, easy to view format, searchable by publication, keyword or custom tags. And while the former version -- Read it Later -- ran you a cool 99 cents, Pocket is free, and available now for Android, iOS and the Kindle Fire.
      

 

  Show full PR text  More Than Just Reading - Top App "Read It Later's" Newest Version Becomes the Now Free "Pocket" to Easily Save Web Articles, Videos and More to View Later  New Pocket App Leads Content Shifting Category with a Beautiful New Design that Makes Viewing Later on Any Post-PC Device Easy  SAN FRANCISCO, CA, APRIL 17, 2012 - Four years ago, Read it Later was created to allow users to save their web content to view later on their own schedule. One year ago, Read It Later had 2.5 million users; now it has 4.5 million. This growth made it the number one paid news app for Android and Kindle Fire and a top app for iPhone and iPad. Today, the company announced a new version of their flagship app -- now free across all devices -- and a new name, Pocket.  Pocket is for when people discover an interesting article, video or web page, but don't have time to view it. Once saved to Pocket, the list of content is visible on any device -- phone, tablet or computer. It can be viewed while waiting in line, on the couch or during commutes or travel -- even offline. Pocket is available today for free in the App Store atgetpocket.com/ios, on Google Play (formerly the Android Marketplace) atgetpocket.com/android, and for Kindle Fire at getpocket.com/kindlefire.  "Nearly five items every second are saved to Pocket from the web and popular news apps, including videos, articles, recipes and more," said Nate Weiner, founder of Read it Later and creator of Pocket. "Pocket is the perfect name for our latest version as it expresses how simple it is to take any content users discover with them, no matter where they go."  Pocket is different than "bookmarking," apps, which organize links for long term storage. Instead, Pocket lets users save the content they discover on the web or inside any of over 300 leading apps--including Flipboard, Twitter, Pulse, and Zite--with a single tap and view it on any device.  Since its launch in 2007, over 200 million items have been saved, giving the company deep insight into how and when consumers save and view their web content. Key findings include:  • 33 percent of saved items come from 3rd party apps including Twitter, Zite, Flipboard and Pulse.  • 50 percent of items saved via Pocket are viewed on mobile screens (up from 34 percent in January).  • Web consumption peaks in the early morning and declines through the day, as consumers dig through their inboxes and find what they want to view later. iPad use peaks at night, as users view saved content in the pre-bedtime hours. Mobile consumption maps to commuting times, as users increasingly view content in transit.  • 40 percent of items saved are not articles; popular content include videos, images, things to buy, travel tips and recipes.  • YouTube is the apps' most popular source of content, as users increasingly are saving videos for later viewing.  The new Pocket update is focused on making the most important parts of the user experience as easy and simple as possible. It enhances all the features users already loved in Read it Later in a beautiful new interface.  • A Cleaner, Simpler UI. The new user interface of Pocket displays all of a user's content in a beautiful, easy-to-view layout adapted to take full advantage of high definition displays.  • Video & Image Filters. Most people save sites with videos and images, in addition to articles and text. Pocket automatically filters all content so users can quickly switch between articles, videos and images with just a tap.  • Enhanced Viewing Experience. Articles, videos and anything saved is displayed in a clean and simplified view with fewer toolbars and a redesigned full-screen mode.  • Easier to Organize. New bulk editing, favoriting and tagging modes make organizing and browsing saved items easier. Users can find content by keywords, publications or create their own custom tags.  • Favorites. Users can star favorite content so it is always available when they want to find it.  • Pocket is Free on All Major Mobile Platforms. Pocket is now available, for free, on all major mobile platforms including Android phones and tablets, iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch and Amazon Kindle Fire.  About Read it Later  Based in San Francisco, Read it Later was founded in 2007 by Nate Weiner to help users save what they find online and view it on any device at any time. The service currently has over 4.5 million registered users and is integrated into over 300 apps including Flipboard, Twitter and Zite. In April 2012 the Read it Later app became known as Pocket and focused on the most important parts of the content-shifting experience, making it easier and simpler than ever. Pocket is available for major devices and platforms including iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, Kindle Fire, all Android-based tablets and smartphones, Google Chrome, and Firefox.
 