
 
Hey, Cloud Engines -- don't say we never told you pink was a bad idea. The next generation Pogoplug has launched this afternoon, bringing with it a refreshing color change and a badly-needed WiFi module within. For all intents and purposes, the Pogoplug Pro (which, oddly enough, is a consumer device) has four USB ports and allows all four of 'em to be accessed remotely so long as your ISP provides a suitable upload speed. Users can even access content on a variety of smartphones, with apps for the iPhone, Android, iPad, BlackBerry, and webOS being readily available. The inclusion of WiFi enables users to set this up wherever their hard drives are (rather than where their router is), and if you're sold already, you can snag one today at Best Buy (in-store or online) for $99. 






Show full PR textPogoplug Unveils Latest Version of Award-Winning ProductPogoplug Pro is Available in Best Buy Stores TodaySan Francisco, CA, October 11, 2010 – Cloud Engines, Inc, today announced Pogoplug Pro, the latest version of the company's award-winning multimedia sharing device. The Pogoplug Pro delivers even more flexibility to store, access, and share personal content from anywhere on the Internet.Pogoplug allows users to easily and securely access, share, and stream their personal content from anywhere, without uploading. Content remains safely on USB hard drives connected to the Pogoplug device in their home or office, and is available from any Internet enabled device, including apps for the iPhone, Android, iPad, BlackBerry, and Palm."Pogoplug is a great option for those who want to quickly and securely share personal files over the Internet," said Ross Rubin, executive director of industry analysis at The NPD Group.The Pogoplug Pro includes all of the popular features of the second generation Pogoplug, including the ability to connect up to four USB drives and to print from any mobile device. In addition, Pogoplug Pro adds built-in wireless connectivity. Owners can place the device anywhere in their home without having to physically connect it to their router.Pogoplug Pro is available today in Best Buy stores and online for $99 (MSRP).
 