
 
Remember that second generation Pogoplug we unboxed last December? Meet its corporate cousin, fresh out of LinkedIn and ready for that 40 hour work week. For all intents and purposes, the Pogoplug Biz is really a Pogoplug with just a few extra features that business owners may appreciate, such as enabling said owners to use their own domain name(s) and customize (or "skin") the user interface and email templates. The device -- which can connect up to four external HDDs to the internet -- also keeps track of how many visits, streams and downloads your files rack up, and you can even claim your own custom email addresses to let clients email files directly to the Pogoplug. The full list of extras awaits you past the break, and you can pre-order one for $299 (with lifetime Pogoplug service) down in the source link. 






Show full PR textCloud Engines Launches New Pogoplug Biz for Business UsersPogoplug Biz is the secure and inexpensive way for a business to access, share and send files over the InternetCloud Engines, Inc, announces today the introduction of the Pogoplug Biz, a new version of the company's award-winning Pogoplug specifically designed for business use. The Pogoplug Biz offers safe and secure remotely accessible storage and a flexible system for controlling access to video, audio, photos, and documents from anywhere on the Internet.The product installs in 60 seconds and requires no modification to network or firewall settings. Pogoplug Biz lets business owners use their own domain name(s) and customize (or "skin") the user interface and email templates, enabling users to seamlessly represent their company whenever they share files online. A Pogoplug Biz, combined with one or more USB hard drives provides businesses with an extensible cloud storage solution with no monthly fees.Pogoplug Biz features include:- Usage Statistics and Auditing: quickly access a summary of how many times a file or folder has been viewed, streamed or downloaded. Keep track of the number of views, streams, and downloads.- Customization: customize the look and feel of the Pogoplug interface, including the color, logo, domain name and background image. Customize the look and feel of emails that are sent when you share files.- Custom Email Addresses: claim your own custom email addresses and let your clients email files to your Pogoplug. Create an unlimited number of custom upload folders and give them each a unique email address to share with your clients.- Cloud/Mobile Printing: print from any mobile device, including the iPhone and iPad. Print to any printer connected to Pogoplug, from anywhere.- Web View-Only Sharing: share viewable files over the web while preventing them from being downloaded. Web View is perfect for creative professionals and photographers who want to show clients previews of work but not allow them to download the files.- Multiple Users: allows an administrator to set access levels and storage quotas for individual users.- Remote backup: continuously mirror all or part of your Pogoplug storage to a second Pogoplug in a remote location. "Businesses need online storage and sharing solutions that aren't encumbered by fees or limitations," said Daniel Putterman, CEO of Cloud Engines, Inc. "Pogoplug Biz gives companies a secure, private and customizable solution to solve this problem."The Pogoplug Biz is available for preorder at Pogoplug.com/buy. Pogoplug Biz costs $299 with lifetime Pogoplug service.Useful LinksPogoplug web site: www.pogoplug.com Twitter feed: www.twitter.com/pogoplug Pogoplug online community: www.pogoplugged.comAbout the Pogoplug BizThe Pogoplug Biz is a device that connects up to 4 external hard drives to the Internet. It is designed for businesses that need to share remote storage of a variety of file types via the Internet to co-workers and customers anywhere in the world. Robust customization allows the Pogoplug Biz to represent your company or brand effectively while maintaining Pogoplug's famously easy set-up and use.About Cloud Engines, Inc. Founded in 2007 by experienced entrepreneurs from the digital media and security industries, Cloud Engines is located in San Francisco, California. The company was formed with a mission to change the way personal content is stored and distributed over the Internet. The Cloud Engines philosophy is that by making a product simple, open and affordable, the community will participate in making it better. For more information, please visit, www.cloudengines.com andwww.pogoplug.com
 