
 

We always thought the PogoPlug was a neat idea -- a miniature server that gives you access to USB devices on the go -- and today, Cloud Engines is making it a little more useful. The $200 PogoPlug Video may look just like the PogoPlug Pro that tempted your pocketbook in October, but it's got a brand-new daughterboard inside, whose purpose in life is to take your video files, convert them to variable bitrate H.264 and stream them anywhere in the world in real time. CEO Daniel Putterman claims that -- depending on device support -- it can pull footage directly from a connected camcorder and share it with your dearest relatives' computers, tablets and phones then and there. Sony's AVCHD camcorders will be compatible on day one, with other companies negotiating right now, and speaking of promises, the company says that additional printer support for all PogoPlug devices is "right around the corner." Like what you see? They'll be happy to take your money starting March 1st, and devices will go on sale just in time for April Fools' Day. PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Cloud Engines Unveils Pogoplug Video 			Instantly streams personal video library anywhere on the Internet   San Francisco, CA (January 6, 2011) – Cloud Engines Inc. today announced Pogoplug Video, a new version of the award winning Pogoplug that allows personal video content to stream instantly to any device on the Internet without requiring end users to convert video to a new format or to upload it to an external website. 			Pogoplug Video is built upon next-generation hardware video technologies. The product enables users to stream video directly to iPhone, iPad, Android and other Internet connected devices. Video can also stream to UPnP Internet-connected TVs or set-top boxes. 			"Pogoplug Video is the breakthrough product that many of our end users have requested." said Daniel Putterman, co-founder and CEO of Cloud Engines, Inc. "Now you can become your own personal broadcaster and share and stream personal video without uploading it to a website." 			Ensuring compatibility with the latest HD video formats, Pogoplug Video has been optimized to work with Sony's AVCHD camera products to make high-quality video instantly streamable. Sony has selected Cloud Engines Inc. as a featured solutions provider, and will showcase Pogoplug Video at the Sony booth at the Consumer Electronics Show 2011. 			"Sony is pleased that Pogoplug Video will support our latest AVCHD camera products and will make premium quality AVCHD recorded content accessible to anyone on the go." said Masashi Imamura, Corporate Executive, Senior Vice President of Sony Corporation. 			Daniel Putterman, co-founder and CEO of Cloud Engines, Inc., said "Sony represents high quality video. Pogoplug Video lets users easily share content without compromising quality." 			Pogoplug Video is $199, will be available for pre-order on March 1, 2011 and will sell at various retail locations, and directly from www.pogoplug.com, on April 1, 2011. 			Pogoplug Video Features 			* Share high-quality videos of supported formats immediately. Users no longer need to wait for complicated conversions and lengthy uploads to view and share personal content on mobile or networked devices. 			* Watch videos and pictures in full HD. Pogoplug Video automatically streams at the highest quality possible. 			* View multimedia on all devices. Pogoplug Video uses multiple streaming protocols to support the most popular mobile and Internet enabled devices. For local viewing, Pogoplug Video supports UPnP so users are able to play content on any UPnP set top box or video game console. 			* Stream media from many of the most popular camcorders, video cameras and mobile phones. 			About Cloud Engines, Inc.			Founded in 2007 by experienced entrepreneurs from the digital media and security industries, Cloud Engines is located in San Francisco, California. The company was formed with a mission to change the way personal content is stored and distributed over the Internet. The Cloud Engines philosophy is that by making a product simple, open and affordable, the community will participate in making it better. To this end, the Pogoplug service is available across multiple products and through partners. For more information, please visit www.cloudengines.com and www.pogoplug.com.    
 