
 
Nintendo's DSi portable gaming device not portable enough? Looking for a discrete way to keep up with your Pokeyman during mass or in your seventh grade English class? Nintendo has just the device for you: New editions of Pokemon will include the Pokewalker, a Tamagotchi-like device that you can transfer your Pocket Monsters to wirelessly. By "walking," one can catch wild Pokemon, search for hidden items, and even find new routes within the new HeartGold and SoulSilver versions of the game. Due to hit the scene March 14 for a price yet to be announced. PR after the break.

Update: To be clear, yes, this thing contains a pedometer -- meaning that you can earn experience points by walking around the neighborhood. Finally a reason to leave the apartment!
 

Show full PR textNintendo News: New Pokéwalker Lets Players Bring the Fun of Pokémon Wherever They GoREDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--For more than a decade, millions of Pokémon™ fans around the world have enjoyed training their Pokémon within their video games. The March 14 release of the Pokémon™ HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version games lets players continue to enjoy the world of Pokémon away from their Nintendo DS™ or Nintendo DSi™ systems, taking their favorite Pokémon with them wherever they go with the new Pokéwalker™ accessory. This new accessory will come included with each copy of these games.In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver Versions, players can wirelessly transfer any one of their Pokémon from one of the two games to the Pokéwalker and walk them through virtual routes as the player walks around in real life. By walking, players earn Watts, which are used within the Pokéwalker to encounter and catch wild Pokémon or search for hidden items, and can be transferred into Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver Versions to unlock new routes. There are even special versions of certain Pokémon that can only be found within routes on the Pokéwalker, giving players added incentive to keep their Pokémon with them wherever they go. The Pokémon in the Pokéwalker will gain experience points as the player walks, and can even go up one level when they are transferred back into the game. Players also can wirelessly connect two Pokéwalkers to trade items.Letting players return to the beloved Johto region first introduced in Pokémon Gold Version and Silver Version for the portable Game Boy™ system, Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver Versions introduce several new enhancements for the series that enrich these timeless adventures. Created exclusively for the Nintendo DS and Nintendo DSi systems, the games feature detailed graphics that spotlight the unique environments and hundreds of Pokémon that players can encounter and catch. Players can even see and interact with their favorite Pokémon outside of battle, selecting one from their team to follow behind their Trainer as they travel through the Johto region. The games also include robust touch-screen functionality, allowing for smoother control and seamless navigation by the player.For more information about Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver Versions, please visit www.pokemon.com. For more information about Nintendo, please visit www.nintendo.com.
 