
We've tested our fair share of activity trackers and Polar is now adding one more to the fray. That's not a Nike+ FuelBand you see, it's the Polar Loop: a wearable for your wrist that keep tabs on activity, exercise and sleep patterns. Touting the "first waterproof" gadget of this sort, the company says the device can discern between activity levels, with alerts and motivational feedback along the way. The Loop syncs to Apple smartphones via Bluetooth with its companion app, Polar Flow. Similar to Nike's wearable, Polar's offering displays goal info, calories burned, steps taken and the time on an LED display. If you're also after a heart rate monitor, the Loop can be combined with Polar's H6 or H7 heart rate sensors for that purpose when it arrives next month in black with a pink version set for release in 2014.




Show full PR textPolar Launches Polar Loop: A Smart, Stylish and Highly Accurate Activity TrackerNew smart bracelet is first to combine activity tracking with heart rate monitoring to guide users to a more active and healthy lifestyle

LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., Sept. 17, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Polar today announced Polar Loop, a stylish activity tracker in the form of a smart bracelet, which tracks daily activity and exercise levels, monitors sleep patterns, gives instant motivational feedback and provides alerts to help users achieve personalized daily activity goals. Building on more than 35 years of experience as the worldwide leader in heart rate and fitness assessment technology, Polar Loop brings precision and unmatched expertise to the activity tracker market.

Combined with Polar Flow, a free online tracking service and app for iPhone that automatically syncs via Bluetooth® Smart, Polar Loop provides smart guidance on how to improve health and wellbeing by making small changes in daily activity. Designed to be worn 24 hours a day, Polar Loop is waterproof and accurately captures all movement and exercise and distinguishes between various levels of activity.

"Polar is a trusted training partner for everyone from elite athletes to those looking to lose weight," said Herb Baer, Polar USA president. "Polar Loop brings our expertise and insights beyond time spent exercising, providing a complete and accurate picture of all daily activity and underlining the importance of every movement made throughout the day-from running, cycling and weight training to cooking, taking the stairs and walking the dog."

At the touch of a button, the Polar Loop display shows information about the user's activity goal and what they need to do to achieve it, as well as calories burned, steps taken and the time of day. The Polar Flow app and web service provides additional analysis and guidance, including illustrative graphics that showcase cumulative daily activity and periods of inactivity.

Polar Loop is also the first activity tracker to offer users the option of incorporating heart rate monitoring during workouts, which ensures that credit is given for all exercise, including activities such as cycling that an activity tracker alone will not capture. Adding heart rate monitoring also gives the user access to more Smart Coaching features, unique training guidance based on physiological expertise from Polar.

"As a company with a long history of innovation in the fitness category, we are proud to introduce the first product in this space that has waterproof capabilities and can incorporate heart rate monitoring, which brings a new dimension to tracking daily activities," added Baer. "Polar Loop is the ultimate activity tracker, providing users with a truly holistic picture of their daily movement."

Polar Loop will be available in October 2013 in black and features a red LED display set into a rubberized wristband with a stainless steel buckle.

Key Polar Loop Features

Monitor:Accurately tracks five different levels of activity and distinguishes between activities such as gentle walking and running.

Is the first waterproof activity tracker with the ability to be worn while swimming.

Provides guidance on ways to complete a user's daily activity target, which updates throughout the day. For example, it suggests whether the user should run for 30 minutes, walk for 60 minutes, or spend a few hours cleaning or cooking to reach the daily goal.

Alerts users, through a friendly message on their phone, when they have been sitting down for too long.

Offers the option of adding heart rate monitoring to workouts, providing a complete view of both daily activity and exercise. The Polar H6 heart rate sensor and H7 heart rate sensor, which utilize Bluetooth Smart technology, are compatible with Polar Loop.

Smart Coaching:Daily Activity Goal provides the user's personal activity goal with guidance on how to reach it

With optional heart rate sensor:Smart Calories – accurately calculates personal calories, taking into account gender and ageEnergyPointer – shows the impact of exercise (burning fat vs. improving fitness)

Analyze:Provides daily, weekly and monthly views of activity at the different levels of intensity through Polar Flow on desktop or mobile. These include useful guidance on how to become healthier, look and feel better, sharpen mental alertness and reduce long-term risks of lifestyle diseases such as heart disease and cancer.

Polar Loop is the only activity tracker that accurately measures all physical activity and compares it with globally recognized physical activity guidelines from the World Health Organization.

AvailabilityPolar Loop ($109.95) will be available in October 2013 in black, with a pink version featuring white LEDs expected early in 2014. Polar Loop will be available from leading sports retailers, online and at www.polar.com. The Polar Flow app will be available for a free download from Apple's App Store when Polar Loop is released. An Android version of the app is expected to be available in the coming months.


