
 
 Polaroid left little doubt that it was launching its Android-based, interchangeable lens camera at CES, and sure enough, it's here: meet the iM1836. It mates an 18.1-megapixel, 1080p video-capable mirrorless body with Android (which we now know to be Android 4.1) to quickly share imagery with social networks over WiFi, or directly to other devices through Bluetooth. Its 3.5-inch display won't put the Galaxy Camera's 4.8-inch panel to shame, but Polaroid is no doubt counting on the ability to swap optics (which includes Micro Four Thirds lenses, through an optional adapter) and a pop-up flash to clinch a sale. The iM1836 should arrive in the first quarter at a $399 price, with a 10-30mm lens included -- uncommonly cheap for a camera that could potentially outshoot its Nikon and Samsung opponents.

 That's not the only camera in the Polaroid brand's 2013 lineup, however. Non-Android parallels to the iM1836 are coming with both WiFi ( iM1232W, $349) and without (iM1030, $299) for cost-conscious photographers; those who don't mind a fixed-in-place lens can get the iS2433, a $199 bridge camera with a 24x (25-600mm equivalent) lens, a 16-megapixel backlit Sony CMOS sensor and a 3-inch LCD. One camcorder, the iD975, is joining the fray with 1080p video, 16-megapixel stills, a 3-inch touchscreen and a video-in-video mode that shows the person recording video along with the main footage. Polaroid hasn't provided launch dates for its more conventional shooters. 




  Show full PR text   Polaroid Debuts The First Android™-Powered Interchangeable Lens 'Smart' Camera at CES
   The Polaroid iM1836 Camera fuses the flexibility of interchangeable lenses with the power of Android OS to make it easy for anyone to take and share great shots with friends

   Las Vegas (January 8, 2013)-Polaroid today unveiled the first and only Android-powered compact interchangeable-lens smart camera that makes it easy and fun for anyone to capture outstanding, professional quality images and instantly share them with friends. The 18 megapixel Polaroid iM1836 camera debuted at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics show, Jan. 8-11 at the Las Vegas Convention Center and will be on display in the Polaroid Booth #13613 throughout the show.

   Produced by Sakar International, an authorized Polaroid licensee, the iM1836 camera features the latest Android 4.1 "Jelly Bean" operating system, the smoothest and fastest Android OS yet, and comes standard with a 10-30mm optical zoom lens, and will hit store shelves in the first quarter of 2013 at an MSRP of $399. The Polaroid iM1836 camera will also offer consumers the flexibility to explore their creativity with interchangeable lenses, since all existing Micro Four Thirds system lenses will work with the iM1836 with an adapter. . .

   "Throughout our 75 year history, Polaroid has been synonymous with innovation, creativity, and ease of use," commented Scott W. Hardy, President and CEO of Polaroid. "We are continuing that proud tradition at CES this year with the launch of the iM1836. This compact, connected camera is the ideal pocket-sized device to capture and share all of your most precious moments."

   Superior Quality, Simple to Use  The Polaroid iM1836 camera is the first of its kind to pair interchangeable lens options, like those typically only found on more expensive D-SLR cameras, with the ultra-intuitive and familiar Android OS. This powerful combination allows consumers of any skill level to get professional-quality results without the cost and complexity of a professional system. The lightweight device is portable and compact, perfect for dropping it into a backpack or purse, ready to capture outstanding images wherever and whenever they happen.

   With the vibrant 3.5" capacitive touchscreen LCD display and the fast and fluid Android interface/menu, anyone can simply point and shoot great photos in a snap-no more fiddling with the camera and missing the shot. Auto blink detection, auto face exposure and pop-up flash ensure a great shot every time. The Polaroid iM1836 even captures wide-angle panoramic shots for impressive landscape photography without the added cost and weight of high-end equipment.

   And, when the action calls for more than just a still image, the iM1836 camera also captures 1080p HD video. Plus, the built-in HDMI output turns this compact device into a multimedia player-just connect it to any TV or monitor to view video or photo slide shows.

   Snap and Share Instantly  Combining the flexibility and creativity of an interchangeable lens camera with the power of the Android 4.1 platform, the Polaroid iM1836 camera makes it easy for photographers of any skill level to point, shoot, share and tag great photos instantly and effortlessly. With built-in peer-to-peer Wi-Fi and easy-to-use Polaroid photo sharing apps on board, the Polaroid iM1836 camera lets users instantly upload and share stunning, professional-quality image creations with friends via Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flikr, Vimeo and more, all at the touch of a button. When Wi-Fi isn't available, built-in Bluetooth connectivity pairs the Polaroid iM1836 camera with any Bluetooth-enabled device to upload images and video through a mobile phone, PC or even iPod Touch.

   "People often take pictures with both their camera and their camera phone to get the image quality they want and the ability to share the moment with friends on Facebook or Twitter. Too often they miss the shot because they're switching back and forth," said Sakar President Jeff Saka. "This great little compact camera solves that problem, with exceptional Polaroid quality and the ability to upload and share those same images in real time."

   To check out the latest-generation digital imaging Polaroid products, visit Booth #13613 during the 2013 CES or visit www.polaroid.com.

 
