
 
 Looking to sneak in some announcements ahead of its arrival in Vegas for CES, Polaroid has taken the wraps off of a 7-inch kids tablet running Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich. The slate wields a capacitive, multi-touch display with a resolution of 800 x 480 wrapped in side and rear bumpers for added protection. Built-in parental controls monitor content and safe web browsing alongside 35 preloaded apps and streaming media. As far as internals go, the Polaroid tablet houses a 1GHz Cortex A8 processor with 512MB of RAM to power the Google OS. A 2-megapixel camera sits around back with 8GB internal storage, SD slot, a 3,500mAh battery and WiFi connectivity in tow. The $150 slate is available now from the source link below and will arrive at Kohl's later this month.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text    Polaroid Introduces A Fun, Interactive, Durable Tablet Designed For Kids

   MINNEAPOLIS, January 3, 2013– Polaroid is pleased to introduce a tablet specifically designed for children- a 7.0" kids tablet. Featuring the Android 4.0 OS, the tablet combines all the fun and entertainment kids love with the security, durability and educational content that provides parents with peace of mind. The tablet will be on display in the Polaroid Booth #13613 & Southern Telecom Booth #13022 at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show, Jan. 8-11 at the Las Vegas Convention Center.

   The Polaroid kids tablet has been named a CES Innovations 2013 Design and Engineering Awards Honoree in the Tablets, E-Readers & Mobile Computing product category. Products entered in this prestigious program are judged by a preeminent panel of independent industrial designers, engineers and members of the media to honor outstanding design and engineering in cutting edge consumer electronics products across 29 product categories.

   "Throughout our 75 year history, we've been known for creating innovative and easy-to-use products that are fun for all ages," says Polaroid President and CEO Scott W. Hardy. "The kids tablet is no exception. It epitomizes the Polaroid brand personality and brings together a host of features that will delight kids and parents alike."

   Fun and Games  Included are a customized suite of apps like Kids Cam, Music Studio and Draw that encourage children to develop creative capabilities, and show off their creative side to friends and family members with videos, pictures and songs. The tablet also features Kids Vids, an app that allows children to stream safe and filtered videos for all age groups and Free Play, a simple & unique way to display all the free games/apps available for download from the kid-friendly App Shop.

   Safe, Tough and Durable  Equipped with innovative side and rear bumpers to help protect the tablet from accidental bumps as well as built-in parental controls and a safe web browser that are quick and easy to setup, the tablet is designed to provide a safe interactive experience. Also included is the exclusive App Shop which is loaded with a variety of free and paid kid-friendly apps. The tablet even features a display lock, which locks the tablet's display and buttons, allowing young children to enjoy videos or interactive books without interruption.

   Reading options for children of all ages!  The Polaroid kids tablet is designed to make learning fun. It comes preloaded with a selection of top-rated interactive children's books, as well as NOOK for Android from Barnes and Noble. The tablet includes award-winning Dr. Seuss™ and Smithsonian interactive books which offer kids three different ways to read- "Read to me" where you listen to the book with the words highlighted, "Read it myself" where you read the book in its traditional form, and "Auto-Play" where the book plays like a movie, automatically reading and turning the pages. It also features top-rated learning apps that children will have fun with as they learn their numbers, letters and much more.

   Features and Specs

   • Display  o 7.0" capacitive, multi-touch  o Screen Resolution: 800x480 (16:9)  • Storage  o Internal Storage: 8GB with additional external SD card slot  • Processor & OS  o CPU: 1.0 GHz CORTEX-A8  o RAM: 512MB DDR3  o OS: Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)  • Camera  o 2MP Rear Camera  • Battery  o Rechargeable (Li-ion Polymer) 3500 mAh  • Connectivity  o Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n)  • Preloaded with over 35 premium apps (all full versions)

   Designed and manufactured by Southern Telecom, an authorized Polaroid licensee, the Polaroid 7.0" kids tablet and included video stand have a suggested retail price of $149.99 and will be available now at www.polaroidstore.com and in-store at Kohl's in January. The tablet will be on display at the Polaroid Booth #13613 & Southern Telecom Booth#13022 at CES January 8-11 in Las Vegas. For more information or to make a booth tour appointment, please contact Melissa at mhoistion@randjpr.com.

   The Polaroid Brand  Across several generations, people regard Polaroid as one of the most trusted, well-respected and recognizable brands when it comes to technology. The history of Polaroid began 75 years ago, with its roots stemming back to Polaroid instant film, cameras and camera accessories – thus was the introduction of the famous Polaroid Classic Border Logo which is still recognized today as a true landmark of photography.  In recent years, Polaroid has expanded its range of products in consumer electronics and photography, such as instant and digital cameras, high-definition camcorders, mobile printers, tablets, flat-screen TVs and more. People can expect to see new Polaroid products that will deliver the fun, instant gratification and value that the brand has long stood. For more information, visit http://www.polaroid.com or http://www.polaroidstore.com.  Polaroid, Polaroid & Pixel, Polaroid Color Spectrum and Polaroid Classic Border Logo are trademarks of PLR IP Holdings, LLC.

 
