
 
Polaroid's iconic instant camera may have retreated into the annals of yuppie history, but the company's original business remains: sunglasses, whose light-spinning lens technology is indeed directly responsible for the Polaroid name and whose new RealD-certified Polaroid Premium 3D variant is the latest attempt to make the brand relevant again. Yes, only seven decades after introducing polarized theater to the world the firm's at it once more, with a line of designer 3D glasses endowed with upstart RealD's enthusiastic recommendation. The glasses should appear at theaters near you soon, though we think it's safe to say that you won't see them distributed in little plastic baggies at the counter -- there's no word on price, but Polaroid's probably calling them "premium" for a reason. PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textPolaroid Eyewear and RealD Sign Global License Agreement for Polaroid® Premium 3D EyewearORMOND BEACH, Fla., ZURICH and LOS ANGELES, Aug. 18 /PRNewswire/ -- Polaroid Eyewear, a division of Stylemark AG, and RealD Inc. (NYSE: RLD), a leading provider of 3D technology for cinema, consumer electronics and professional applications, announced today that they have signed a global license agreement to use the RealD brand in conjunction with the launch of a new generation of curved 3D glasses - Polaroid Premium 3D Eyewear.Under the terms of the agreement, Polaroid Eyewear will distribute its RealD certified Polaroid Premium 3D Eyewear line to movie theaters and cinemas, eye care professionals and other retail channels through its global network of subsidiaries and distributors. Polaroid Premium 3D Eyewear will be compatible with all RealD 3D enabled movie theatres around the world. "RealD is excited to partner with a brand like Polaroid that has a heritage in polarizing lens technology," said Joseph Peixoto, President of Worldwide Cinema at RealD. "Polaroid Premium 3D Eyewear promises a range of custom frames with precisely curved lenses so moviegoers can fully experience RealD 3D with an uncompromising field of vision and a pair of glasses to match their personal style."Polaroid Eyewear's launch collection features a range of appealing designs to satisfy demand from all types of movie-goers. And prescription lens wearers are not forgotten, with a range of premium 3D cover styles that fit comfortably over any optical frame. There is even a junior style for the younger audience to enjoy. The collection has been developed under the umbrella of a full 3D vision marketing concept, supporting an easy-to-handle sales system in movie theatre and cinema lobbies, and professional optical and retail channels and will be available soon. All styles feature Polaroid Eyewear's unique 3D formed lenses, differentiating the product from standard 3D cinema glasses provided at theatres and similar products currently available on the market. The product is also fully UV-protective so that a consumer can choose to wear the product outdoors without risk of UV damage."We are a brand that is all about technical innovation, style and great value for the money" said Andy Suszko, President of Polaroid Eyewear. "This endorsement from RealD recognizes the high quality of our 3D lenses, made possible only by our unique, patented ThermoFusion™ Technology, the same technology used to make our linear polarized lenses for the highly successful sunglass collections we sell worldwide. We are delighted to be associated with RealD and look forward to working closely with them and their other technology partners as 3D pushes into the consumer electronics mainstream." 
 