
 

Polaroid's heart stopped beating a long time ago, but its brand has marched on in a number of zombified licensing agreements and celebrity hook-ups. The latest of those deals, however, might just have a glimmer of soul in its bugged-out eyes: Sakar International, the long-time owner of Vivitar, has acquired the rights to develop a "line of Polaroid-branded digital still cameras and digital video products" for sale in North America and parts of Latin America. The press release after the break gives no clue as to what might make these new Polaroids different or special, but hopefully someone is about to give that some thought.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  POLAROID ANNOUNCES LICENSE AGREEMENT WITH SAKAR INTERNATIONAL INC. 		Exclusive Partnership Provides Sakar with Rights to Design and Manufacture Polaroid Digital Still Cameras and Digital Video Products in North America and Portions of Latin America		MINNEAPOLIS– Jan. 9, 2012 – Polaroid today announced an exclusive licensing agreement with Sakar International Inc., a leading provider of consumer electronics. Sakar will leverage its expertise in designing and manufacturing Vivitar photographic equipment to continue extending Polaroid's market footprint. Under the agreement, Sakar will develop a line of Polaroid-branded digital still cameras and digital video products as part of a licensing program that has substantially expanded the Polaroid portfolio in the past year. 		"We're thrilled to unite Polaroid's unparalleled experience in the imaging space with Sakar's expertise in retail distribution and sourcing," said Scott W. Hardy, president of Polaroid. "In partnership with Sakar, Polaroid will deliver advanced digital imaging products across a variety of retail channels in North America and portions of Latin America." 		"The Polaroid brand is among the most recognizable in the world, and this agreement gives us an opportunity to leverage that brand recognition to develop digital cameras and digital high-definition camcorders with unique feature sets," said Jeff Saka, President of Sakar. "This marks a significant expansion for Sakar and demonstrates our ability to offer a broad range of digital cameras from kids' licenses to professional models." 		Sakar has over 35 years of experience designing and manufacturing high quality and innovative consumer electronic products for leading importers and retailers. With Sakar's strong experience in the field and deep relationship with Polaroid, consumers and retailers can be assured that new digital imaging products will continue to deliver on the simplicity and quality for which Polaroid has long been known. 		With licensees like Sakar, Polaroid has brought hundreds of products to market, including both classic and instant digital cameras, mobile products, accessories and 3D TVs. Consumers can expect to see new Polaroid-branded digital photography products from Sakar in North America and portions of Latin America throughout 2012. 		About Sakar International Sakar International Inc. designs and manufactures a wide range of technology, toy and consumer electronic products. Founded in 1977, the company is the owner and manufacturer of Vivitar camera equipment and accessories, a market leader in youth electronics, and a producer of licensed products for leading consumer brands. Products range from digital cameras and camcorders with related accessories to computer, iPod/iPad, GPS and gaming accessories, binoculars, MP3 players, clock radios, gift and toy electronics. With offices in the United States, Europe, Latin America, Canada and Asia, Sakar enjoys a global reach. Sakar products are distributed worldwide through a wide variety of retailers. The company is privately held and headquartered in Edison, N.J. For more information, visit www.sakar.com and www.vivitar.com 		The Polaroid Brand 		Across several generations, people regard Polaroid as one of the most trusted, well-respected and recognizable brands when it comes to technology. The history of Polaroid began 75 years ago, with its roots stemming back to Polaroid instant film, cameras and camera accessories – thus was the introduction of the famous Polaroid Classic Border Logo which is still recognized today as a true landmark of photography. 		In recent years, Polaroid has expanded its range of products in consumer electronics and photography, such as 3D TVs, tablets, instant cameras and mobile printers, e-book readers, digital high-definition camcorders, waterproof digital cameras and more. People can expect to see new Polaroid products that will deliver the fun, instant gratification and value that the brand has long stood. For more information, www.polaroid.com.
 