
 

The French didn't only invent the guillotine. They also bequeathed us something even more painful (though that's hard to prove): "Les trois sports", aka the Triathlon. A swimming-cycling-running succession of pure hurt, which Polar's latest RCX5 training computer seeks to measure using an array of sensors -- much like its rivals the Garmin Forerunner 610 and Timex Ironman Global Trainer. You can buy the RCX5 now for $350 in a basic pack, which includes the watch plus the WearLink+ Hybrid, an amphibious chest-strapped heart rate monitor. Alternatively, you can pick up a pricier bundle containing an extra sensor of your choice. The Bike bundle ($390) includes Polar's CS W.I.N.D. speed sensor that installs on a fork and spoke. The Run bundle ($420) comes with a s3+ stride sensor that clips to your laces. Finally, the top-of-the-range Multi bundle ($480) replaces both those options with a G5 GPS sensor, which ought to work equally well for both both runners and cyclists thanks to our shiny friends out in orbit. Hit the PR after the break for further details or the extra coverage link for triathlete DC Rainmaker's seriously in-depth review.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Polar USA Introduces RCX5 Training Computer and New Suite of Technology Accessories 		2011/06/01 		Lake Success, N.Y. (June 1, 2011) – Polar (www.polarusa.com), the leader in heart rate monitoring and fitness assessment technologies, today introduced the RCX5. Building on decades of experience, and a heritage of precision excellence in product design and functionality, the RCX5 combines Polar heart rate tracking accuracy with a slew of new features. Ideal for multisport endurance athletes, the RCX5 can accommodate the needs of today's triathletes who want the best in training intelligence and tracking capabilities. It will be immediately available in "smart black" and will also be sold in "striking red" later this year. 		New accessories for the RCX5 include the G5 GPS sensor – an incredibly lightweight and compact sensor which measures speed/pace and distance and provides an online map view of training – as well as the new WearLink®+ Hybrid transmitter, which provides heart rate data even when underwater. Additionally, an enhanced s3+ stride sensor is compatible with the RCX5. 		"Triathlons are one of the fastest-growing sport segments in the United States, and we understand better than anyone in the market that multisport athletes demand data, whether they are training for their first regional event or chasing a lifelong professional pursuit," said Jeff Padovan, President, Polar USA. "The Polar brand has been an established name among elite athletes for more than 30 years, and we are proud of the loyalty and knowledge we've built within the 'tri' market specifically. The RCX5 is the realization of everything we've been hearing that 'tri' users require to get to that next level, packaged in a new, sleek design." 		Key Features: 		Sport Profiles: Essential for multisport and triathletes, this feature enables users to quickly switch between sports during training. With just a few button presses, this feature quickly adjusts settings to the current sport. It automatically detects any sensors needed, so that no time or training data is lost between swims, rides or runs. Four sport profiles come pre-loaded into the RCX5, and more can be added based on the user's preferences.		ZoneOptimizer: Knowing how hard to train can be a challenge and it depends on many factors, including physical and mental state, stress, sleep, and previous training. The brand new ZoneOptimizer feature eliminates guesswork by adjusting personal heart rate zones based on a user's current physiological condition. It guides training at the right intensity, making every session more effective.		Race Pace: The perfect feature for regulating speed and race strategy, Race Pace allows users to set a target time for a certain distance, and then displays the current pace/speed, as well as how far ahead or behind the user is from the target.		Training Load: This feature within polarpersonaltrainer.com displays a color-coded graph of a user's cumulative training load, notifying a person when he or she has recovered enough for the next session, and accurately predicting training developments to prevent overtraining. This data also provides intelligence to modify training sessions as necessary.		polarpersonaltrainer.com: Several upgrades have been incorporated into the free online training journal to support the RCX5 users. Users can now create complete endurance training programs for running and cycling, including warm-up, work and cool-down sessions. The training programs can be easily synched to the RCX5 via the DataLink data transfer unit. After each session, it is easy to track progress online over time. 		New RCX5 Compatible Accessories: 		G5 GPS sensor: The extremely small G5 GPS sensor measures speed/pace and distance and allows users to see their route on the new map view at polarpersonaltrainer.com after a session. Incredibly light (34g) and worn with a soft, flexible armband, the G5 has an 18-hour battery life and can be recharged via micro USB.		s3+ stride sensor: The s3+ comes with a new, firm shoe attachment which guarantees more accurate speed/pace and distance measurement. This small and lightweight (23g) sensor is shock and water resistant, handling even the most demanding runs. By monitoring running cadence and average stride length, s3+ can help improve running technique. The RCX5 can also calculate your Running Index, which scores a run, based on speed and distance data from the GPS or stride sensor. While cycling, users can get speed, distance and cadence measured by adding Polar cycling sensors using W.I.N.D. technology.		WearLink®+ Hybrid transmitter: The RCX5 provides heart rate data even in water with a comfortable, fabric chest transmitter. It transfers data both in 5 kHz and 2.4 GHz. 		Product Sets Available: 		RCX5 Bike (MSRP $389.95): 		RCX5 training computer		WearLink®+ Hybrid transmitter		CS speed sensor W.I.N.D.		DataLink data transfer unit		Getting Started Guide  		RCX5 Run (MSRP $419.95): 		RCX5 training computer		WearLink®+ Hybrid transmitter		s3+ stride sensor		DataLink data transfer unit		Getting Started Guide  		RCX5 Multi (MSRP $469.95) 		RCX5 training computer		WearLink®+ Hybrid transmitter		G5 GPS sensor		DataLink data transfer unit		Getting Started Guide  		RCX5 Basic Set (MSRP $349.95) (Available July 2011): 		RCX5 training computer		WearLink®+ Hybrid transmitter		DataLink data transfer unit		Getting Started Guide  		The RCX5 is also compatible with the existing G3 GPS sensor W.I.N.D. and the s3 stride sensor W.I.N.D. All sensors will be available for purchase as separate accessories.
 