
Polk's at E3 showing off two new devices it's showing off at E3 this week that aren't half bad looking. Granted, they're not as slick as some of the higher end products the audio company has shown off in the past, but as far as gaming-centric devices go, they're not too shabby. According to the company, Microsoft approached it specifically to create peripherals for the Xbox, leading Polk to give the world the 133t Gaming Headphones and N1 sound bar.


The 133ts eschew the standard external gaming mic for a little nub that juts out from one ear. To mute it, you just click it back up inside the cup. The headphones also feature a mixer that plugs directly into the controller to help eliminate cords and lets you adjust sound settings on the fly. The Surroundbar, meanwhile, was designed specifically with the Xbox in mind, featuring four modes: Racer, FPS, Music and Cinema, so you can switch between gaming and standard media consumption. The N1 is set for a fall release, with the 133t coming some time in Q4. More info in a press release after the break.




Show full PR textPolk, a high-performance audio brand with 40 years of sound, engineering and design excellence, is making its debut at E3 with three new products custom engineered to immerse gamers in the fantastic worlds of driving, First Person Shooter (FPS) and other games. The N1 sound bar and 4 Shot gaming headphone were developed in collaboration with Microsoft and optimized to deliver audio finely-tuned to the new Xbox One experience. The 133t headphone was designed specifically for game play and entertainment using the Xbox 360 console.
The N1 sound bar is engineered with custom audio settings that reveal more of a game's reality than ever heard before. Polk engineers considered the profoundly complex audio of games, including music, ambient details, special effects and dialogue, as well as the unique audio associated with different types of games, to develop four immersion modes for a tailored and immersive listening experience. Gamers can select FPS or Racer modes during game play, or choose Cinema or Music when using the Xbox One for entertainment outside of gaming. The audio perfection of the N1 sound bar is matched by its simple and upscale design that complements the Xbox One's new place at the heart of the living room. Available this fall in black on black and vanilla with contrasting wood, the sound bar is an understated audio powerhouse that will reveal new layers of complex and stunning sound.
For a more personal but equally immersive gaming experience, Polk engineers created two new headphones to deliver individualized audio unparalleled in the category. The 4 Shot for Xbox One and 133t for Xbox 360 pack 40 years of Polk expertise in high-end home speaker technology into a lightweight and ergonomic design for a sonic performance that takes listeners deeper into any game. A near-field microphone allows users to chat with other gamers or take calls, while a spring steel headband and pivoting ear cups combine for an effortless and sophisticated fit and feel. The design and included control cable also make the 133t and 4 Shot perfect for daily non-gaming use. Planned for a Q4 release, the headphones will come in desert white, nova blue, and ink black."Polk brings a reputation for product excellence and a passion for sound that makes them an ideal collaborative partner for innovating new audio accessories for the Xbox One and Xbox 360," said Branden Powell, Microsoft director of strategic alliances. "These new products are customized for all-in-one entertainment and will immerse users in brilliant sound, whether they are using the console to play a game, watch TV or a movie, or listen to music."
Mark Suskind, vice president of product line development at Polk, helped lead the team of N1, 4 Shot, and 133t engineers and played an integral role in the collaboration with Microsoft. "The transformation of the gaming console into an entertainment portal for the entire family presented an opportunity to innovate new audio products that could deliver a listening experience to match the lavish visual worlds of today's games and movies," Suskind stated. "The N1 sound bar and 4 Shot and 133t headphones create a soundstage that goes far beyond the physical products and allow gamers to experience these fantastic virtual worlds in an entirely new way."

