
 Another Mobile World Congress, another round of highfalutin' talk surrounding the concept of wireless power. We already witnessed a consumer approach by PowerbyProxi, and now we're hearing that the Power Matters Alliance is getting a second wind as well. The self-proclaimed "leading ecosystem and standard for wireless power" took to Boston-area Starbucks locations last fall, and now it has notched support from BlackBerry, NEC, Texas Instruments, ZTE and dozens more. There's still no word on whether all of these factions are going to bite the bullet and come together in order to actually make some progress that consumers can appreciate, but hey -- we've got nothing but time, right?



  Show full PR text    BlackBerry, NEC, Texas Instruments, ZTE, and Dozens More Drive Exponential Growth for PMA.

   Power Matters Alliance Grows 50% in 30 Days

   BARCELONA, Spain, Feb. 26, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- (Mobile World Congress) -- Big names in the mobile world continued the surge in support for the Power Matters Alliance (PMA), the world's leading ecosystem and standard for wireless power.

   Following recent announcements of support by AT&T, Starbucks, Otterbox, IDT, NXP and many others, the Power Matters Alliance today announced that BlackBerry, NEC, Texas Instruments, ZTE, and dozens more have joined its membership role in the past month alone.

   "We're excited to see the momentum behind the PMA," said Jeff Howard , Vice President, Mobile Devices and Accessories at AT&T, and a PMA Board member. "The PMA membership has created an industry standard for wireless power and with that continues to move towards creating a real world ecosystem that turns our standard into a new reality for consumers worldwide."

   PMA was founded by Powermat Technologies and Procter & Gamble in 2012; Google's Chief Internet Evangelist, Vint Cerf , is its Honorary Chairman, and its board includes representatives from AT&T, Duracell, Starbucks and the US Government's Energy Star and Federal Communications Commission (both in non-voting capacity).The PMA's efforts to set a global standard for smart and environmental wireless power operates under the IEEE Standards Association (IEEE-SA) Industry Connections program – and PMA members are working to create a real-world ecosystem of wireless power based on the PMA standard.

   Attendees of the Mobile World Congress are invited to Hall 7 Stand #7f60 to learn more about the Power Matters Alliance.

   About the Power Matters Alliance  PMA was founded by Powermat Technologies and Procter & Gamble in 2012. Google's Vint Cerf – one of the fathers of the Internet – is its Honorary Chairman, and its board includes AT&T, Duracell, Starbucks and the US Government's Energy Star and Federal Communications Commission. A wide array of PMA-compliant products are available at leading retailers, and compatible 'wireless charging spots' have been installed at leading airports, stadiums, restaurants, gyms and hair salons. Membership of the PMA is open to all, and its technical specifications are available to all members at www.powermatters.org.

 
