
 
Move over Li-ion, Zinc is about to get all up in your area. Energizer has already announced the Zinc Air Prismatic, and now PowerGenix is gearing up to debut its variation at Ritz Camera locales across the nation. The Nickel-Zinc (NiZn) AA cells, difficultly coined Quantaray Super Z, pack up to 30% more voltage than other rechargeables (right in line with one-time use batteries) and are entirely nontoxic. Oddly enough, no price is mentioned, but you should probably go in expecting the worst in order to not be totally taken aback upon finding out. Full release is after the break.Update: A 4-pack of Super Z's is $14.99, the 4-pack and charger set is $49.99.
      

 

Ritz Camera Super Z Battery Introduces PowerGenix's AA Nickel-Zinc Technology Leading retail chain selects high performance Nickel-Zinc batteries to deliver power boost. Irvine, Calif. – December 16, 2008 – Ritz Camera, the nation's largest retail camera and photo chain, today announced the introduction of Quantaray Super Z, a Nickel-Zinc (NiZn) AA rechargeable battery and charger set. Ritz's Super Z batteries provide greater power for today's high drain consumer electronics, enabling superior camera performance compared to existing rechargeable batteries. San Diego-based PowerGenix, developer and manufacturer of nontoxic, high performance NiZn rechargeable technology will supply the batteries to Ritz. Despite rapid innovation in the capabilities of portable electronics, until recently, progress has been slow to develop batteries able to meet the demand of these power- hungry devices. With advanced NiZn performance, the Super Z has been introduced by Ritz Camera to fulfill the growing needs of high drain digital cameras and accessories. By delivering a higher voltage than existing rechargeable cells, cameras equipped with NiZn cells benefit from brighter flash, shorter flash recovery time, and more shots per charge. "Quantaray Super Z batteries exemplify Ritz's commitment to providing customers with innovative, world-class products. Responding to the demand for better battery performance, we've selected state-of-the-art Nickel-Zinc technology to deliver the advanced power required of today's camera and photo electronics," said Ritz Camera CEO David Ritz. "With greater power for better camera performance coupled with easy recharge and operation, Super Z means you'll never miss the shot. Committed to protecting the environment, Ritz Camera is an active member in the Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation's (RBRC) Call2Recycle program for the collection and proper disposal of rechargeable batteries. Earlier this year, PowerGenix's NiZn technology was certified by the RBRC for collection and recycling, becoming only the fifth rechargeable chemistry recognized by the program. Further amplifying Ritz's environmental efforts, PowerGenix's NiZn batteries contain no toxic heavy metals such as lead, cadmium or mercury and are the most recyclable rechargeable chemistry on the market. "With the Super Z, Ritz Camera has taken great strides to present their customers with high quality, eco-friendly power solutions, and in the process positioned themselves at the cutting-edge of a changing marketplace" said Dan Squiller, CEO of PowerGenix. "As the pioneer in Nickel-Zinc technology, PowerGenix is providing Ritz with the latest in battery innovation, delivering performance at the pinnacle of consumer rechargeable batteries." Quantaray Super Z will be available both in Ritz retail locations and through their online store at www.ritzcamera.com.

       

 