

 Like playing Sonic CD on your Android device but sick of those pesky virtual buttons? How will you ever keep ahold of all those rings?! PowerA has one potential solution for you in its MOGA (mobile gaming system) Bluetooth controller, which arrives at "key retailers and carriers" on October 21 for $49.99. The MOGA comes with two analog sticks, four diamond-style face buttons, two shoulder buttons, and a Bluetooth transmitter for connection with any Android-powered device (Gingerbread or newer OS required). A companion app, available free on the Google Play store, enables the MOGA to work with select titles -- not all Android games support the controller, but PowerA promises more are being added all the time; deals with the likes of Gameloft, Atari, Namco, Sega, and Remedy Entertainment are already in place. Should you decide to pick one up this October, the MOGA comes with free copies of Sonic CD (!) and Pac-Man.



  Show full PR text    MOGA™ To Finally Give Console Quality Control  to Android Gamers On October 21   MOGA To Be Available at Key Retailers and Carriers for $49.99   Top Mobile Game Developers Added to Growing Library  of MOGA Enhanced Titles   Woodinville, WA. - September 20, 2012 -- PowerA today announced that MOGA™, the first and only complete mobile gaming system for Android devices, will be available in stores and at online retailers in the U.S. on October 21, 2012. The MOGA Mobile Gaming System will come with the free downloadable MOGA PivotTM App, and a soft case. Also, with the purchase of MOGA, consumers will get two free games, Sonic CDTMand PAC-MAN® by NAMCO as part of a limited time offer at leading retailers. MOGA will be available at key videogame and mobility retailers for a suggested retail price of $49.99 USD.   "Gamers are already walking around with phones with exceptional screens and fast chips," said Eric Bensussen, president of PowerA. "For under $50, they can clip that phone into the MOGA controller and finally get console quality gaming experiences anywhere."   MOGA has attracted support from top mobile developers and publishers who want to bring console-like precision and control to their Android phone and tablet based games. Top publishers such as Gameloft, Atari, Namco Bandai, Sega, Remedy Entertainment and more have committed to developing games that will work with MOGA. New games, developers and publishers and game titles are coming on board each month. Gameloft, for example, has added MOGA support to key titles such as The Dark Knight Rises HD, Asphalt 7: Heat HD and Dungeon Hunter 3. Console developer Remedy's critically acclaimed title Death Rally has also been enhanced to work with MOGA.   "The MOGA SDK made it quick and easy to make our steering controls feel more precise and natural in Death Rally," said Aki Järvilehto, SVP at Remedy Entertainment -- creators of the Max Payne and Alan Wake console franchises. "Finally we have something that's easy to use, simple to implement, and provides console-like controls that gamers have been yearning for."   To empower this advance in mobile gaming, MOGA combines three key innovations into a single powerful system. The MOGA Controller is the first state-of-the-art, full-featured controller designed specifically for mobile devices. Pocket-sized, portable and connected via Bluetooth®, the MOGA Controller features the controls that console gamers and developers demand: dual analog sticks, two shoulder buttons, four action buttons and standardized start and select buttons. In addition, the MOGA SDK provides mobile game developers with greater precision, robust control and enhanced display abilities while enabling fast, efficient development of rich new game titles and MOGA enhancement of existing titles. Finally, the MOGA Pivot App enables gamers to easily browse, find and play a library of MOGA Enhanced games in one convenient location. MOGA Pivot App will be available free via Google Play.   The MOGA system will initially support Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) and higher mobile devices.

 
