
  Ready to make heads turn with its monochromatic stylings, LG and Prada's latest baby is presumably putting on a night-mask, ready to be unleashed on well-heeled types in the UK on Friday. Alongside the aforementioned custom Android skin (atop a Gingerbread OS), the Prada Phone by LG 3.0 packs a respectable dual-core processor, 8 megapixel camera and LG's NOVA display -- stretching up to 4.3 inches on this fashionista phone. It's set to launch on both Vodafone and O2, free on a £31 two-year contracts, while it'll also be making an appearance on T-Mobile next month. We're planning on getting these unmanicured paws on one for review very soon, but Prada fans will be able to queue up get their assistants to queue up for the handset at Phones 4u stores tomorrow.
      

 

  Show full PR text  PHONES 4u WILL BE FIRST IN THE UK TO RECEIVE STOCK OF THE NEW PRADA PHONE BY LG  London, 26.01.12 - Phones 4u is proud to announce that it will be the first retailer in the UK to stock the new PRADA phone by LG 3.0. The first batch of designer PRADA phones will go on sale for the first time in the UK tomorrow, on Friday 27th January.    With its sleek black design, unique PRADA customised black, grey and white user interface, and PRADA's signature Saffiano leather feel back, the PRADA phone by LG 3.0 is every gadget-smitten fashionista's dream. But what it exudes in style it also oozes in substance.    Currently one of the slimmest phones on the smartphone market at 8.5mm, the PRADA phone by LG has a high brightness 800-nit NOVA display to view all those crystal clear photos taken on the 8MP camera. With 1.0GHz Dual-Core/Dual-Channel processor and dual-band Wi-Fi for high-speed performance and internet browsing, it also comes with an internal memory up to 8GB, all wrapped up in a deluxe PRADA branded box with PRADA branded stereo headset included.    Scott Hooton, Phones 4u Chief Commercial Officer commented: "Our customers value their mobile phones highly, and so seek not only a powerhouse of technology, but aspirational design also. The PRADA phone by LG 3.0 delivers on both fronts, and we're excited to be putting it into the hands of our customers before anyone else."  If you take out a contract on the PRADA phone by LG 3.0 at Phones 4u before the end of February, you'll also get 12 months free unlimited* 4u Wi-Fi. The new 4u Wi-Fi offering from Phones 4u allows you access to Wi-Fi from your mobile phone whenever you're in one of The Cloud's 6000+ hotspots across the UK. What makes 4u Wi-Fi even better is that you only have to register for Wi-Fi access ONCE. Each time you then enter one of The Cloud's Wi-Fi hotspots, you will be automatically connected to wireless internet.  The PRADA phone by LG 3.0 will be available from Phones 4u stores and online FREE from £31 a month on a choice of networks from Friday 27th January. You can watch a hands-on review of the glossy new PRADA phone by LG 3.0 on the Phones 4u website now, and order yours from tomorrow.    Features of the PRADA phone by LG 3.0 include:    · Operating System: Android Gingerbread  · Memory: User up to 8GB (expandable to 32GB via microSD card)  · Screen Size: 4.3"  · Resolution: WVGA (800 x 480)  · NOVA Display: 800 nit  · Camera: 8MP  · 1.0GHz Dual-Core/ Dual Channel Processor
 