
 
Call it The Curious Case of the Pre 2: If you check the handset out on HP's site, it will cost you $100 after rebate (under contract of course). But if you wander over to Verizon's little piece of the Interwebs, the same phone has just been announced for $150 (new contract price) after rebate. So, let's suppose for a moment that you had a choice between the two -- which would you pick? That's what we thought. Available on February 17, check out the mind-bending PR after the break for more details.
 

Show full PR textVerizon Wireless' Network To Include Next Generation Of Intuitive Multitasking Platform With Pre 2 From HPVerizon Wireless Customers Have Fast, Fun Access to Work and Play on HP webOS 2.002/15/2011: Verizon Wireless, the company with the largest and most reliable wireless voice and 3G data network, announced today that the Pre 2 smartphone by HP will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com on Feb. 17. Pre 2 is the first device to run on HP webOS 2.0, allowing quick and easy multitasking of e-mail, games, music and more.Key features:3.1-inch glass multi-touch screen with a vibrant 24-bit color, 320 x 480 resolution HVGA displaySlide-out physical QWERTY keyboardSupport for Microsoft® Exchange e-mail, as well as personal e-mail support (Google Gmail™ push, Yahoo!®, POP3, IMAP)Integrated IM, SMS and MMSVZ Navigator® capable – Receive audible turn-by-turn directions to millions of points of interest and share the directions with othersTI OMAP 1GHz processor with 512 RAM5-megapixel camera with LED flash, extended depth of field, geo-tagging and video captureWi-Fi connectivity (802.11 b/g/)Bluetooth® wireless technology 2.1+ EDR with A2DP stereo Bluetooth support3G Mobile Hotspot capabilityDimensions: 2.34 inches (w) x 0.66 inches (d) x 3.96 inches (h)Weight: 5.1 ouncesLifestyle features:Contact Integration via HP Synergy – Customers can keep contacts and calendars up to date automatically with built-in integration for Facebook®, Google, LinkedIn®, Yahoo! and Microsoft Exchange.Customized Inbox – Customers can view all of their accounts together or separately to access work e-mail alone or combined in a favorites folder with personal e-mail from places like Gmail or Yahoo! Mail.Full HTML Browsing – Customers have access to full websites just like on their Macs or PCs. They can play video, upload photos, access online banking and much more. webOS also now integrates a beta of Adobe Flash Player 10.1 in the browser, which provides access to rich, Flash-based Web content.With Just Type in webOS, customers can start an e-mail, create a message, update their status and search their favorite websites – all before they even open an app.Mobile Music Store – Customers can buy and download music right from their webOS smartphones using the Amazon MP3 app when on a Wi-Fi hotspot.Skype mobile™ – webOS 2.0 supports Skype-to-Skype calls and messaging while in the United States to anywhere in the world, and low-rate calls to international landlines and cell phones.Pricing and availability:Pre 2 will be available from Verizon Wireless for $149.99 after a $50 mail-in Verizon Wireless rebate with a new two-year customer agreement. Pre 2 customers will need to subscribe to a data plan. Unlimited data plans are available to customers starting at $29.99 monthly access. Customers will receive the rebate in the form of a debit card; upon receipt, customers may use the card as cash anywhere debit cards are accepted.For additional information on Verizon Wireless products and services, visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com.About Verizon WirelessVerizon Wireless operates the nation's fastest and most advanced 4G network and largest and most reliable 3G network, and serves more than 94 million customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 82,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.Pre, Synergy, and webOS are trademarks of Palm, Inc., a subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company.####
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

