
 
 iOS device security has regularly been a concern of the government, but locking down one of Apple's devices for the government is still fresh. Precise Biometrics hopes to have the problem licked through the Tactivo, a combo fingerprint and smart card reader for the iPhone 4 / 4S (and the iPad, in the summer). Either method keeps data inside an app away from prying eyes, and while they won't tighten the security around the built-in apps, they do make sure a third-party app's data meets US and international government privacy specs without having to use a BlackBerry. We're not surprised that the Tactivo needs to engulf the iPhone in a full case to work its magic, although there's a micro-USB port to keep it powered and synced up. It's all a bit much if you're just trying to make sure your list of high school crushes stays a secret, and the price reflects that -- at $249 a pop, the Tactivo is really meant for agencies and companies for whom losing the data on an iPhone would cost a lot more. Still, if you're running an outfit encouraging BYOD phone use or just really, really want your secret passions to stay private, both the iPhone case and a BioSecrets app are ready today.



   Show full PR text   Precise Biometrics Kicks Off Global Launch of Tactivo™ for iPhone and iPad
  STOCKHOLM--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Regulatory News:
  Precise Biometrics' (http://www.precisebiometrics.com)(STO:PREC) product for mobile security for smartphones and tablets, Tactivo (http://www.precisebiometrics.com/tactivo), has now been certified by Apple. The first delivery of Tactivo for iPhone has already arrived from the company's new production partner, Flextronics, in the United States. Precise Biometrics estimates that the first orders for Tactivo will come during the summer 2012.
  The launch of "Tactivo represents a unique milestone in our company history. We have repeatedly, through extensive innovation, worked to identify additional commercial opportunities where our core technology and skills could be successfully applied outside our traditional customer base. Early indications from customers, even outside government agencies, suggests that we are on the right track and may have found a significant new growth opportunity," says Thomas Marschall, President and CEO of Precise Biometrics. Tactivo is a smart casing for tablets and smartphones that includes an embedded fingerprint and smart card reader. Together with different types of apps, Tactivo enables government agencies and companies to maintain a high level of security when employees use mobile units to access sensitive information.
  The first generation of Tactivo is being launched for iPhone 4S and iPhone 4. Apple has now certified Tactivo in its Made For iPhone (MFi) Program. Precise Biometrics will also be launching Tactivo for iPad after the summer.
  Tactivo offers a unique enhancement of the security features already available in iPhone and iPad devices. There is substantial interest from government agencies, enterprises and healthcare customers worldwide to use iPhone and iPad devices to access and share data more securely outside of a traditional office setting. Precise Biometrics is experiencing this global trend toward increased productivity via the level of interest that Tactivo has already attracted from these segments. Precise Biometrics has committed additional sales and marketing resources to effectively reach these segments over time. Customer and partner presentations are in progress across various geographic markets as the first shipments of Tactivo are being delivered from the company's production partner, Flextronics, in the United States.
  Precise Biometrics' own app, BioSecrets, is now available in Apple's App Store. Together with Tactivo, this app enables passwords and other sensitive information to be safely stored in iPhone 4S and iPhone 4. New apps, developed both in-house and by partners, will be launched at regular intervals over the near future.
  "We are expecting substantial sales of both Tactivo for iPhone and Tactivo for iPad in 2012", says Thomas Marschall, President and CEO of Precise Biometrics. "We have increased substantially our level of sales and marketing resources, and we are delighted to announce the launch of our new corporate profile and new website today. Our Web shop www.idapps.com/ will also open for purchases, initially it will only support the U.S. market. idApps (http://www.idApps.com) has been created to support the strong BYOD, or "Bring-Your-Own-Device" trend worldwide, and thus allow people to buy smaller Tactivo volumes directly from us. These smaller volumes are then expected to inspire the employers that are not covered under our initial sales and marketing efforts to buy larger quantities over time," concludes Thomas Marschall.
 
