
 PrimeSense, the folks behind the guts of the Kinect and other motion-sensing tech, has unveiled a cheaper and tinier 3D sensor that could bring motion sensors to a whole different class of products. Dubbed the Capri, the new system-on-a-chip is about ten times smaller than existing sensing devices -- not only can it be embedded in tablets and laptops, it'll likely fit in a mobile phone as well. The company will be showing it off come CES and samples will be available for OEMs starting mid-2013. If this means we can go all Jedi mind trick and wave our hands over our phones to shut it off, then we're definitely looking forward to seeing this in action. Seriously, because there's no picture to be had at the moment.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   PrimeSense™ Unveils Capri, World's Smallest 3D Sensing Device at CES 2013
   TEL AVIV, Israel, Dec. 11, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- PrimeSense™ (http://www.primesense.com), the leader in Natural Interaction and 3D sensing solutions, today announced the launch of its next generation embedded 3D sensor, Capri, demonstrating a revolutionary small form factor and low cost. PrimeSense will debut Capri as part of its World of 3D Sensing suite at the Renaissance Hotel in Las Vegas, January 8-11 at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES).

   PrimeSense's breakthrough reference design utilizes Capri - PrimeSense's next-generation of depth acquisition System on Chip, with improved algorithms including multi-modal 3D sensing techniques. Capri System on Chip together with the new Reference Design provides the most versatile 3D sensing platform available today, in the tinniest form factor, making it ideal for embedding in consumer electronics devices such as PCs, All –in-One PCs, tablets, laptops, mobile phones, TVs, consumer robotics and more. Samples for development and integration for leading OEMs will be available by mid-2013.

   "Using cutting-edge technologies, our newest generation of sensors is robust, accurate and affordable," said Inon Beracha, CEO, PrimeSense. "With a mind-blowing size reduction, Capri's size is about x10 smaller than the PrimeSense's current generation of 3D sensors and it is certainly the smallest 3D sensor in the world. Capri is small enough to fit into today's most popular Smartphones while still providing the highest depth performance (short and long range). We see Capri adding depth sensing and Natural Interaction to numerous devices and markets, revolutionizing the user experience and usability in ways that no one could imagine until now".

   PrimeSense will demonstrate the Capri at the 2013 International CES in its suite: Renaissance Hotel, second floor Capital room, Las Vegas January 8 – 11.

 
