
 
 At first it was faint -- a blurry smear bisecting the sky above, running roughly north to south and flanked by a second, even more indistinct line to the west. Soon, though, both lines began to change, coalescing and intensifying into bright green streaks impossible to miss and difficult to ignore.

 As the night began to expire and the morning matured, those lines grew brighter and brighter and then, without warning, they started to dance. Numbing feet and chilly fingers forgotten, bundled-up onlookers looked skyward to gasp and laugh out loud as the evergreen, spectral curtains far above began to waver and move, blown by a fickle celestial wind. Waves traveled from north to south and back as the luminescent lines above twisted, forming glowing knots of purple and red before slowly spreading out, covering the night sky in green, bright enough that even the snow-colored landscape glowed like an emerald wonderland. Gradually, the motion stopped and slowed, seeming to stall in the sky above, exhausted before -- encore; the heavenly dance began anew.




 
 As locals and tourists alike developed stiff necks while admiring the show, completely enraptured by the aurora borealis, members of Project Aether couldn't be bothered to look up. They were scrambling on the ground, feverishly assembling and tweaking two rigs that were also destined to create a show in the sky. The team's creations were made of carbon-fiber tubes, exotic material conventionally lashed together with PVC junctions, string and duct tape. A lot of duct tape.

 The tape was mostly for attaching the payload, blue insulated lunchboxes of the type often seen stuffed in the back of corporate refrigerators. Inside were not leftovers, rather a block of pink insulating foam with cavities carved for all manner of things: patriotic flags, plastic Easter eggs, scientific equipment and, usually, one or more GoPro cameras -- the same sort you might have seen dangling conspicuously from the helmet of your favorite extreme athlete.

 The string on the rigs, meanwhile, attached the entire contraption to a weather balloon. Torn from silvery packages, each of two balloons that would be launched that night were coupled with a large tank of helium and slowly filled, swelling to roughly 6-foot diameters before being sealed off with zip ties and, yes, more duct tape.

 The first rig's lines were attached to the first off-white orb, now eager to climb. A few quick and deftly tied knots made everything level. Gyros on and quietly whirring, GoPros recording and mutely blinking red, one team-member grabbed the whole contraption and gingerly held it up toward the green inferno in the sky above.

 
 "FIVE, FOUR, THREE, TWO, ONE!" the team counted in unison and then, a silent count later, the rig was set free, pale white weather balloon shoved upward by the dense, cold Alaskan air around. Its silent departure was a slight anticlimax to the flurry of activity leading up to its release. The white balloon quickly became a shrinking black orb above, blocking out an ever-smaller arc of the sky.

 Within moments it was gone and, a few minutes later, its larger sibling followed, both on journeys that would take them to the edge of space, atmosphere left mostly below. But they wouldn't be one-way journeys. Those balloons stretched and swelled in the chilly vacuum and finally burst upwards of 100,000 feet above the ground, sending the payloads tumbling down, slowed by two homemade parachutes, bleating GPS coordinates all the way. Over the course of two weeks nearly 20 balloons would make this trip, soaring to incredible heights while being carried away by the wind before finally crashing to the ground and calling home for a pickup. At that point the task of finding the rigs -- and the valuable scientific payloads onboard -- began.

 The Project 
 Project Aether is the creation of Ben Longmier, a man with a strong affinity for the fun, hands-on science experiments he conducted as a kid. Though Ben completed his grade school studies 12 years ago – going on to a Ph.D. in plasma physics from the University of Wisconsin, Madison – he's still a guy with an overwhelming sense of wonderment at it all. Tall, blonde and built of sturdy, Midwestern DNA, you only need to ask a brief question about outer space to bring a youthful look of excitement to his face. He may know the answer to just about any question you throw at him, but that answer is always delivered such that you'd think he was just learning the answer himself.

 That enthusiasm is infectious, and it's exactly what he's hoping to spread thanks to his work up in Alaska – and elsewhere. Though his full-time occupation sees him running the propulsion lab at the University of Michigan's Aerospace Department (he recently left a gig at Ad Astra Rocket Company, where he fine-tuned plasma-powered rockets), expanding kids' excitement of science on a broader scale is a very personal mission that's taken form in Project Aether.

 The balloons sent into the chilly Alaskan nights are certainly vessels for scientific discovery, carrying fascinating experiments aloft that help us to better understand what's behind the dazzling light show those in the north have been enjoying since the dawn of time. One experiment, relying on tinfoil balls, measured the conductivity of the air during auroral outbreaks. Another tested a low-cost and Arduino-powered altimeter while a third carried blocks of Aerogel, hoping to scoop up a few micrometeorites before coming crashing down.

 
 Then there are the cameras, of course, collections of modified and unmodified GoPro HD Hero2's that ride along to tell the researchers what the northern lights look like from within and, more importantly, how the rigs behave at extreme altitudes.

 But those cameras provide a third, even more valuable service: inspiring and teaching kids. The balloons deliver amazing footage from amazing heights that even the most science-averse student can't help but admire. Seeing 1080p clips captured at 100,000 feet, where the sky is black and the Earth curves away below, gets your attention. And, once you have a kid's attention, teaching them about the science behind what they're seeing becomes a lot easier.

  Getting a 10-year-old to appreciate concepts like the density of a gas affected by temperature is difficult. Getting that same 10-year-old excited to calculate the right amount of helium to inject into a balloon she's going to launch 20 miles into the air is, however, rather easier. For years, interest in so-called STEM disciplines (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) has been waning among American students. Classroom curricula has gradually become more advanced, but so too has it become more distanced from practical reality. Getting a 10-year-old to appreciate concepts like the density of a gas affected by temperature is difficult. Getting that same 10-year-old excited to calculate the right amount of helium to inject into a balloon she's going to launch 20 miles into the air is, however, rather easier.

 It's this captivation that has brought teachers like Elizabeth Henriquez and Rosanna Satterfield to the project, both from New Jersey and looking to develop curricula that can be shared. Both teachers help with the preparation of the rigs that will be strung from balloons and with the processing of the retrieved payloads, but during the days, while many members of the team are sleeping off a late night launch or hunting in the wilderness for a plaintive GPS signal, these two could often be found Skyping updates to students back on the east coast.

 The teachers' goal was to engage while educating. As a project, the team has done just that, sharing lesson plans with schools around the US and abroad, plans they're more than willing to share with anyone who stops by the project's website, http://projectaether.org/.

 The Air Retrieval 
 I joined members of Project Aether at their temporary home base while in Alaska, an otherwise quaint B&B in Fairbanks that looked to have been occupied by a science-loving, yet heavy-drinking, fraternity. Long-empty bottles of IPA sat next to still-warm soldering irons and well-loved breadboards. Disconnected gyroscopes could be found scattered about, looking like incredibly fine toys, and everywhere you looked was a GoPro or three. Dozens of the things were about, some mounted and ready for launch, some still frosty and cold after trips through the stratosphere -- and some in various states of disassembly, IR filters being extracted to extend low-light recording sensitivities.

 Over the course of the two weeks the Aether team set up its residence, many students with many experiments filtered through the house. Two of those students, John Guthery and Frans Ebersohn from the rather more temperate graduate program at Texas A&M, had been there for days when we came knocking. From the house they tracked the various payloads scattered to the winds across the central Alaskan wilderness. Coordinates were relayed back to the team through a number of means, most straightforward being simple Spot transmitters, which rely on satellite connectivity and integrated GPS receivers to transmit coordinates back to home base.




