
 
 While Ridley Scott's latest flick is already available on just about every downloadable movie store you could name, Prometheus is still a few weeks away from making its debut on disc and now Fox has officially released all the details. The extras listed in an earlier leak appear to be accurate, with a Second Screen iPad app that promises access to character Peter Weyland's archives, while much of the 15 minutes or so of deleted and alternative scenes have already been posted on the internet (search around if you absolutely must know what else there is and can't wait / don't want to spend the cash). Arriving October 9th, there's a four disc set with both a Blu-ray 3D edition and bonus extras disc with featurettes for a total of seven hours of bonus materials, while the two disc set trims it to just one Blu-ray and DVD / digital copy. The two disc set is currently selling for $24.99 on Amazon, while the four disc edition bumps the price another $5. A trailer with a peek at some of those extras and the full list of details awaits after the break, but an explanation for why anyone would ever try to touch some weird alien snake is something you'll have to find on your own.



   Show full PR text   RIDLEY SCOTT RETURNS TO THE GENRE HE HELPED DEFINE
  Charlize Theron and Michael Fassbender Lead an Extraordinary Cast in the Epic Sci-Fi Thriller Debuting on Blu-ray 3D, Blu-ray and DVD
   10.09.12

   Contains Over Seven Hours of Bonus Material Including an Alternate Opening and Ending, Deleted and Alternate Scenes and Access to Peter Weyland's Files

   LOS ANGELES, CA. (September 28, 2012) – Renowned director Ridley Scott takes fans on a gripping sci-fi adventure that "kicks ass so hard and often that it's impossible not to be thrilled by it" (Peter Travers, Rolling Stone). Launching into space to discover the mysterious creators of the human race, the "genuinely epic" (Tom Long, Detroit News) film, PROMETHEUS, debuts globally on Blu-ray 3D, Blu-ray and DVD October 9 from Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment. An unmatched home entertainment experience, watch the highly-anticipated blockbuster hit in the format it was meant to be viewed, stunning 3D high-definition.

   Written by Damon Lindelof ("Lost") and Jon Spaihts, PROMETHEUS features outstanding performances by Academy Award® winner* Charlize Theron (Monster), Golden Globe®-nominee* Michael Fassbender (Inglourious Basterds), Guy Pearce (Memento), Noomi Rapace (The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo) and Logan Marshall-Green (Devil).

   Archeologist couple Elizabeth Shaw (Rapace) and Charlie Holloway (Marshall-Green) discover a star map that they interpret as an invitation from humanity's forerunners, the "Engineers." Determined to find out more about them, the couple boards the scientific vessel Prometheus, created and funded by Peter Weyland (Pearce), CEO of Weyland Corporation. Lead by mission director Meredith Vickers (Theron) and monitored by Weyland's android David (Fassbender), the team of explorers find a clue to the origins of mankind on Earth and embark on a thrilling journey to the darkest corners of the universe where they fight a terrifying battle to save the future of the human race.

   Loaded with over seven hours of bonus material, the PROMETHEUS 4-Disc Collector's Edition and 2-Disc Blu-ray Combo Pack feature the original theatrical release and are available in premium packaging. Fans can get the ultimate Prometheus experience with an Alternate Opening and Ending, Deleted and Alternate Scenes, access to "Peter Weyland's Files," commentary by directors and writers, a cutting-edge Prometheus Weyland Corp. Archive Second Screen App and more!

   *2004, Best Actress in a Leading Role, Monster  **2012, Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture-Drama, Shame

   PROMETHEUS 4-Disc Collector's Edition Blu-ray Special Features  Disc 1  ● Theatrical Cut  ● Commentary by Director/Producer Ridley Scott  ● Commentary by Writer Jon Spaihts and Writer/Executive Producer Damon Lindelof  ● The Peter Weyland Files  ● Deleted and Alternate Scenes that include an Alternate Opening / Ending  ● Prometheus - Weyland Corp Archive Second Screen App  Disc 2  ● The Furious Gods: Making Prometheus  ● Enhancement Pods  ● Weyland Corp Archive  ● Pre-Vis  ● Screen Tests  Disc 3  ● 3D Theatrical Cut of Movie  Disc 4  ● DVD / Digital Copy

   PROMETHEUS 2-Disc Blu-ray Special Features  Disc 1  ● Theatrical Cut  ● Commentary by Director/Producer Ridley Scott  ● Commentary by Writer Jon Spaihts and Writer/Executive Producer Damon Lindelof  ● The Peter Weyland Files  ● Deleted and Alternate Scenes that include an Alternate Opening / Ending  ● Prometheus - Weyland Corp Archive Second Screen App  Disc 2  ● DVD / Digital Copy

   About Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment LLC  Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment, LLC (TCFHE) is a recognized global industry leader and a subsidiary of Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, a News Corporation company. Representing 75 years of innovative and award-winning filmmaking from Twentieth Century Fox, TCFHE is the worldwide marketing, sales and distribution company for all Fox film and television programming, acquisitions and original productions on DVD, Blu-ray Disc, Digital Copy, Video On Demand and Digital HD™. The company also releases all products globally for MGM Home Entertainment. Each year TCFHE introduces hundreds of new and newly enhanced products, which it services to retail outlets from mass merchants and warehouse clubs to specialty stores and e-commerce throughout the world.

   # # #

   PROMETHEUS 4-Disc COLECTORS EDITION (Catalog# 2281400)  Street Date: October 9, 2012  Screen Format: 16:9 (2.40:1)  Audio: BD:  English DTS-HD-MA 7.1  English Descriptive Audio DD 5.1  Spanish (Latin Spanish) DD 5.1  Quebecois (Canadian French) DD 5.1  Portuguese (Brazilian) DD 5.1  Russian DTS 5.1  Hindi DD 5.1  Tamil DD 5.1  Telugu DD 5.1  Ukrainian DD 5.1  English COMMENTARY DD 2.0 Stereo: Ridley Scott  English COMMENTARY DD 2.0 Stereo: Writers  DVD:  English 5.1 Dolby Digital (DVD)  English Descriptive Audio DD 5.1  Spanish (Latin Spanish) 2.0  French (Quebecois) 2.0  Subtitles: BD:  English for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing  Spanish  Danish  Finnish  Norwegian  Portuguese  Russian  Swedish  Estonian  Hindi  Latvian  Lithuanian  Tamil  Telugu  Ukrainian  DVD:  English for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing  Spanish  U.S. Rating: R  Total Run Time: 124 Minutes - Original Theatrical Version  Closed Captioned: YES

   PROMETHEUS 2-Disc BLU-RAY (Catalog# 2281407)  Street Date: October 9, 2012  Screen Format: 16:9 (2.40:1)  Audio: See above  Subtitles: See above  U.S. Rating: R  Total Run Time: 124 Minutes - Original Theatrical Version  Closed Captioned: YES

   PROMETHEUS DVD (Catalog# 2281409)  Street Date: October 9, 2012  Screen Format: 16:9 (2.40:1)  Audio: See above  Subtitles: See above  U.S. Rating: R  Total Run Time: 124 Minutes - Original Theatrical Version  Closed Captioned: YES

  

