
       We you know y'all want your damn PlayStation 3, but really, violence isn't the answer. Unless it's virtual violence, but no one's set up a multiplayer match where the winner lands a PS3, or unlocked the Hot Coffee 2 mod that enables you to drive-by people standing in lines. But we have had eye-witness reports of depraved gamer violence; our own Boy Genius let us know he personally witnessed what came "close to a riot" at his local Circuit City. Waseem from Michigan told us how his local Best Buy kicked everyone out of line at 2.30AM this morning in the 30-degree weather, just to have people converge and duke it out for their same spot at 8:00AM. Like, literally fight. Seriously everybody, keep it clean, keep it real. It's just a damned video game console.P.S. -If you've seen any more incidents in the news or in person, please let us know!Update: We take it back, you want to be violent about the PS3? We've got a target for you: none other than former Senator and Vice Presidential candidate John Edwards. First his son makes fun of other, less privileged children for buying their shoes at Wal-Mart (god forbid!), but then he has his aide call their local Wally and ask to cut in line to be assured a PS3. (Seriously, he's not in office anymore, why the hell does he even need an aide?) Turning lemons into lemonade, Wal-Mart has issued a press release both praising Edwards' selection for a retailer, and chiding his selfishness: "... and while the rest of America's working families are waiting patiently in line, Senator Edwards wants to cut to the front. While, we cannot guarantee that Sen. Edwards will be among one of the first to obtain a PlayStation3, we are certain Sen. Edwards will be able to find great gifts for everyone on his Christmas list..." There, you want someone to riot on? You've got your man.Update 2: Although we're still not sure why Edwards is going around telling stories about making fun of people's shoes, it's only fair to cover his version of this whole Wal-Mart brouhaha. According the former Senator, one of his volunteers did indeed try to grease the wheels and butt in front of the proverbial PS3 line, but the "young kid" in question was not acting under orders and apparently just name-dropped Edwards in order to secure a console for himself. Edwards went on to say that the volunteer "feels terrible" about what he did (does he really? or does he just feel bad because he got caught?), although he didn't pass up a chance to chide the 'Mart on its press release, arguing that the company is trying to "divert attention from its own problems." Point being, Edwards is not a shady character -- he just hires shady people.Read - Gunmen rob California store of PS3s in the nerdiest heist ever (ok, maybe the second nerdiest ever).Read - 10 to 12 people robbed in PS3 line (dubious, but possible). [Via Digg]Read - Sheriffs shut down another California store for rowdy behavior.Read - Police break up NY SonyStyle store fight.Read - Brawl breaks out at another Wally when manager plays musical PlayStation chairs. Seriously, what an idiot. [Thanks Kyle D.]Read - Shots were apparently fired at a Texas Wally. Pics here and here of the 5-0. [Thanks, Jason]Read - Two armed, masked robbers overtook a customer in Springfield. [Thanks, Jason]Watch - North Fresno / Merced had stampede-riot insanity. [Thanks, Jonathan]
      

 