
 
Honestly, when we first heard the phrase "PSP Go Converter," we were really hoping it something to do with that UMD-to-digital good will program we heard about back at E3 -- but alas, it wasn't meant to be. Instead, the attachment lets you utilize accessories so far only compatible with last-gen PSPs, such as the 1Seg tuner, GPS receiver, and camera -- and if that's not your thing, we're sure it makes the device a tad more aerodynamic, as well. Sony also announced a number of other accessories, including a bluetooth stereo headset. Full press release and pics from the show floor just below. 






Show full PR text

SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT ANNOUNCES PERIPHERALS FOR PSP® (PLAYSTATION®PORTABLE)GO 

Expands the Entertainment World of PSPgo with Attractive Peripheral and Accessory Line-up 

Tokyo, September 24, 2009 - Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCE) announced today that it will release Bluetooth® Stereo Head-set Receiver and Converter Cable Adaptor for PSP® (PlayStation®Portable)go (PSP-N1000) on December 24, 2009, in Japan, at a recommended retail price of 4,980 yen and 1,980 yen (both including tax), respectively. These peripherals will also become available in North America, Europe/PAL territories and Asian countries and regions beginning January 2010*1. 

Bluetooth Stereo Head-set Receiver 

With a sleek design that matches perfectly with PSPgo, users will be able to enjoy a variety of entertainment content sounds comfortably through the Bluetooth wireless technology with the combination of commercially available head-phone and head-set. The Bluetooth Stereo Head-set Receiver pairs easily with PSPgo by simply holding the power button of the receiver, and operation buttons on the receiver will also enable users to instantly play, stop, pause, forward, rewind, and adjust the volume of music and videos. Additionally, the receiver can be paired with up to eight Bluetooth devices by using the Multi Pairing Feature. 

Converter Cable Adaptor 

With the new Converter Cable Adaptor*2, PSPgo users will be able to utilize the existing peripherals for PSP such as 1Seg Tuner*3, GPS Receiver and Camera designed for PSP-1000, 2000 and 3000 series on the PSPgo system that adopts Multi use connector.

Additional peripherals and accessories will be released for PSPgo in conjunction with PSPgo launch in Japan to enhance its portability and convenience of users' use, including: 

AC Adaptor 2,100 yen (including tax)
USB Cable 1,575 yen (including tax)
AV Cable 2,200 yen (including tax)
D-Terminal AV Cable 2,800 yen (including tax)
Component AV Cable 3,000 yen (including tax)
Cradle 4,800 yen (including tax)
Accessory Pack 6,000 yen (including tax)
Display Protection Film 800 yen (including tax)
Privacy Film 1,000 yen (including tax)
Pouch & Hand Strap (Black/White) 1,000 yen (including tax)/each
PSPgo Pouch (Black/Grey) 1,600 yen (including tax)/each
PSPgo Leather Case & Hand Strap 4,200 yen (including tax)
Car Adaptor 1,980 yen (including tax)

SCE will continue to further expand the PlayStation platforms with these new peripheral and accessory line-up with introducing the new PSP line-up, PSPgo.

