
 
 It was this past CES when we got a quick look at Pure's curvy Contour 200i AirPlay system, and now the company is getting a bit more basic -- and wallet-friendly -- with its 100i. It may not be wireless, but this little rig pumps out a maximum of 20 watts through its speakers and features an FM radio, an auxiliary port, a headphone jack and a remote. Although it's exceedingly par the course as far as speaker docks go, the 100i does feature a swiveling dock that stows away when you're not mounting your iDevice. Additionally, Pure's made its internet radio-enabling Lounge app free for a limited timed from the iTunes and Google Play store, noting plans to launch a subscription service later this year. The unit is only compatible with iThings, but it can be had now at Brookstone for $169 bucks if your interest is piqued. You'll find more info in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text   Pure Partners Power, Style and Affordability in the New Contour 100i Audio Dock
  Your browser may not support display of this image.
  Pure's revolving iPod, iPhone and iPad music dock with FM radio is now available
  SAN FRANCISCO, July 11, 2012 – Pure, the global leader in wireless music and radio systems, presents Contour 100i, an affordable, compact and stylish dock for iPod, iPhone and iPad with integrated FM radio, powerful and detailed audio, a beautifully engineered revolving dock and a free companion internet radio and music streaming App.
  With the free companion Pure Lounge App, Contour 100i users are able to access over 18,000 global internet radio stations, on-demand programs, podcasts and ambient sounds, as well as the ability to discover, explore and listen to millions of music tracks via the Pure Music subscription service, expected to be available in North America later this year[1]. Additionally, Pure is making its Pure Lounge App available for free for a limited period of time from both the Apple App Store and Android Market[2].
  At an MSRP of just $189, Pure Contour 100i punches above its weight with 20W RMS of extremely powerful and detailed audio for its compact dimensions and a strong feature set including integrated FM radio; made for iPod and iPhone certifications; a slim line remote with magnetic remote tidy; two alarms; sleep and snooze timers; an aux-input for MP3 player connection; and a headphone socket.
  Part of an expanding Contour family of docks, the Pure Contour 100i has been designed with contemporary styling to look good in any room of the house and the innovative revolving dock can be tucked away when the dock isn't being used.
  Contour 100i is available now from Brookstone.com as well as Pure.com, with more retailers to follow. For more information, please visit www.pure.com/us.
  Editor's notes
  Contour 100i is also part of EcoPlus, a statement of Pure's ethical philosophy and on-going commitment to looking after the environment. All Pure products are designed to minimize their environmental impact and manufactured in ethically approved and audited facilities. They have reduced power consumption in operation and standby, use recycled packaging materials, have the smallest possible packaging and components selected to minimize environmental impact.
  [1] Pure Music will be supported by the Pure Lounge App from the moment the service goes live.
  [2] The Pure Contour 100i dock is compatible only with the Apple iPod, iPhone and iPad, and therefore only compatible with the Apple App Store download of the Pure Lounge App.
 
