
 
 When not wearing women's clothing and hanging around in bars, the crew at Engadget towers enjoys nothing better than chomping down on an albatross while watching Monty Python. Heuristic Media has released Python Bytes, the first of six apps that bring together the best clips from each of the four series, Holy Grail and Life of Brian*. You'll be able to watch (say no more, nudge, nudge) the back-story of each sketch and you'll even be able to create your own personalized playlists. It's available right now, costing £1.99 / $2.99. Now, let's all get back to learning how to identify trees from quite a long way away: there's an instructional video after the break.

 *All of which are also available unabridged from iTunes.



  
 
 
    Show full PR text   Monty Python's Flying Circus Python Bytes App
   Now Available on the App Store

  London, UK - Thursday 26 April 2012
   And now for something completely different. Today, the Monty Python's Flying Circus Python Bytes App for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch makes its debut on the App Store. Developed by Heuristic-Media Ltd, with full support from the Pythons, the app captures the anarchy that has made the Pythons internationally successful and is a must buy for Python fans the world over.

   The Python Bytes App includes 22 of the Python's best sketches totalling 55-minutes of madness from the first series of the legendary Monty Python's Flying Circus, first broadcast in 1969.

   Also included are new and exclusively recorded back-stories from John Cleese, Michael Palin, Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones, about the creation of these legendary sketches. Each sketch can be selected within the contents page to make a personalised show or can be randomly selected by shaking the iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. Each clip is preceded by one of three famous Python interstitials.

   Michael Palin, Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam will be demoing and signing the app at a 'Meet the Filmmakers' event introduced by Edith Bowman at the Apple Store on Regent Street, London at 6.30pm on Thursday 3rd May 2012. The app includes a unique 'Autograph' feature that enables users to get their app signed by the Pythons and either save it to their photo library or share with a friend.

   Richard Loncraine of developer Heuristic says; "I first met Michael (Palin) when I directed him in a film in 1982. The start of the filming was in the wilds of Central Africa and to the day I die I will never forget bouncing along in the back of an open Landrover, surrounded by elephants, giraffe and wildebeest as Michael performed one Python sketch after another. My personal Python. He's kept me laughing ever since. I'm now delighted to be in the position to bring the Python genius to iPhone, iPad and iPod touch with Heuristic."

   Terry Gilliam comments; "I never knew shaking hands could be this funny, until I saw "Python Bytes". Why waste money making calls, laughs are cheaper."

   The Monty Python's Flying Circus Python Bytes App is available for £1.99/ $2.99 from the App Store on iPhone, iPad and iPod touch or at www.itunes.com/appstore.

  
