
Qualcomm doesn't want to reserve the fastest wireless technology for its highest-end processors: it's launching a new quad-core edition of its Snapdragon 400 chip, the MSM8926, with both 3G and LTE built-in. The 1.2GHz, Cortex-A7 part will handle the faster wireless speeds alongside 42Mbps HSPA+ and China-friendly TD-SCDMA. It will also continue to support shorter-range technology like 802.11ac WiFi and Miracast streaming. The newer Snapdragon should arrive late this year alongside a matching Reference Design tablet.


In the shorter term, the company is also introducing 7- and 10-inch versions of the Reference Design tablet that will be based on earlier, 3G-only versions of the Snapdragon 400 (the MSM8230 and MSM8030). These variants are targeted at developing world markets, and should be display on the Computex show floor this week -- naturally, we're hoping to get a first-hand look.



Show full PR textQualcomm Integrates Multimode 3G/4G LTE into Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 Processors with Quad-Core CPUs for High-Volume Smartphones in Emerging Regions
- Newest Addition to Snapdragon 400 Tier and Reference Design Counterpart Broadens Portfolio of Multimode 3G/4G LTE Processors with Premium Multimedia and Connectivity -
TAIPEI, TAIWAN – June 04, 2013 – Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., is expanding the offering of its Qualcomm Snapdragon™ 400 processors with the introduction of its newest processor, featuring quad-core CPUs with integrated multimode 3G/4G LTE. This makes the Snapdragon 400 tier the first to offer multimode 3G/4G LTE on processors with both dual-and quad-core CPUs for high-volume smartphones. In addition to multimode 3G/4G LTE, the processor integrates key modem features that are important to China and other emerging regions, including TD-SCDMA, HSPA+ (up to 42Mbps), and multi-SIM capabilities. The new Snapdragon 400 processor (8926), along with its Qualcomm Reference Design counterpart, will be available in late 2013 and will deliver the optimal balance of multimedia features, modem technologies and performance to high-volume smartphones.
"By offering a multimode 3G/4G LTE variant to Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 tier of processors with quad-core CPUs, we are ensuring that emerging regions are equipped and prepared for the imminent transition to multimode 3G/4G LTE, in addition to being equipped for every major 2G and 3G technology," said Cristiano Amon, executive vice president and co-president of mobile and computing products, Qualcomm Technologies. "Snapdragon 400 processors provide customers with a wide range of innovative smartphones for both the high-volume and mid-tier segments."
Building on Qualcomm Technologies' previous Snapdragon processors, the newest Snapdragon 400 processor will continue to support multi-SIM capabilities of Dual SIM, Dual Standby and Dual SIM, Dual Active and is optimized to deliver a smooth, graphics-rich gaming experience and provides Miracast™ support for wireless streaming of multimedia content. The platform also supports a rich set of wireless connectivity functionality including integrated Qualcomm VIVE™ 802.11ac Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, FM and NFC. It also offers a differentiated feature set that includes support for the latest Android and Windows Phone 8 software. In addition, it includes the QuickCharge 1.0 feature charges devices up to 40 percent faster than conventional charging methods.
Qualcomm Technologies will also be releasing a Qualcomm Reference Design (QRD) version of the Snapdragon 400 processor with integrated multimode 3G/4G LTE. The QRD program provides device manufacturers with comprehensive handset development platforms and access to third-party providers of tested and verified hardware and software components. Under the QRD program, customers can rapidly deliver differentiated smartphones to budget-conscious consumers. There have been more than 200 public QRD-based product launches to date in collaboration with more than 40 OEMs, and there are currently more than 100 designs in progress.
Qualcomm Expands its Qualcomm Reference Design Offering to Include a Reference Design for High-Performance Tablets
This latest Qualcomm Reference Design utilizes Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 Processors
TAIPEI, TAIWAN – June 04, 2013 – Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., has expanded its Qualcomm Reference Design (QRD) portfolio with a reference design made specifically for tablets running on its Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 400 MSM™ 8230 and MSM 8030 processors. Both 7-and 10-inch versions of this tablet based on this Qualcomm Reference Design will be on display at Computex 2013 in Taiwan.
Tablets based on this latest Qualcomm Reference Design will run on Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 MSM 8230 and MSM 8030 processors, respectively, with 1.2 - 1.4GHz dual-core CPUs featuring the Android™ Jelly Bean mobile operating system, broadband HSPA+ (up to 21Mbps) 3G performance, integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi up to 72 Mbps, 1080p high definition video playback at 30fps, 1080p high definition video capture, and Adreno™ 305 GPU.
"While some of our customers have utilized Qualcomm Reference Designs for smartphones as a foundation for building and commercializing tablets in certain regions, Qualcomm Technologies has increasingly received customer interest in a Qualcomm Reference Design specifically designed for tablets in emerging regions" said Jeff Lorbeck, senior vice president of product management, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. "That's why we're excited to announce this reference design specifically made for tablets, further speeding our customer's ability to commercialize devices and delivering on our commitment to enable mobile computing across device tiers."
The Qualcomm Reference Design program provides device manufacturers with comprehensive development platforms for various devices and access to third-party providers of tested and verified hardware and software components utilized in such devices. Qualcomm Reference Design customers can rapidly deliver differentiated products to consumers that look for high performance devices. There have been more than 200 public QRD-based product launches to date in collaboration with more than 40 OEMs in 14 countries, and there are currently more than 100 designs in progress.

