
 


Qualcomm has just taken the stage here at CES, where they've announced a new Snapdragon processor for smart TVs and set-top boxes. The company's Snapdragon S4 MPQ8064 features a 1.5GHz quad-core CPU, and will be featured in Lenovo's forthcoming Ice Cream Sandwich-laced K91 Smart TV. The processors also feature Adreno 320 graphics and WiFi connectivity, promising to bring "seamless" streaming to K91 owners. There's still no word yet on when the K91 and its MPQ8064 chipset will hit the market, but we'll let you know as soon we hear more. Full press release after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Qualcomm Expands Snapdragon Family with Introduction of Processors for Smart TVs and Digital Media Adapters 		New Snapdragon Processors to Power Next Wave of Enhanced Smart TV and Set-Top Box Experiences 		LAS VEGAS – January 10, 2012 – Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced that the Company's Snapdragon™ processors are powering smart TVs at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. The Snapdragon smart TV experience will bring full web browsing capabilities to television, including integrated best-in-class Wi-Fi™ connectivity, high performance graphics and the latest Android apps and console-quality gaming experiences. Demonstrations of the Snapdragon smart TV experience will be held during the opening keynote address of Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm, on January 10 at 8:30 a.m. PST at The Venetian. Jacobs' keynote will be part of the Technology and Evolving Countries (TEC) Program, focused on the role mobile technology plays in global innovation and economic growth in consumer electronics. 		Snapdragon processors will power the next wave of enhanced smart TV experiences - including leading audio/video capabilities, pure web browsing and more robust apps - delivering on Qualcomm's commitment of keeping consumers continuously connected to their favorite devices, content and apps. The Snapdragon S4 MPQ8064 processor features a 1.5GHz quad-core CPU-based on Qualcomm's Krait micro-architecture-Adreno™ 320 graphics and advanced audio/video capabilities, delivering mobile users the highest performing mobile experience while consuming less power. 		The first Snapdragon powered smart TV, which is being launched by Lenovo, combines Qualcomm's mobile expertise and Lenovo's computing/CE expertise to enable the world's first smart TV running on the Android 4.0 operating system. Qualcomm's Wi-Fi connectivity provides seamless delivery of real-time Internet video, multi-player online gaming and local content to the television and other screens in the home. Thousands of apps from Android Market and Lenovo Store, including console games, are ready for access with a simple touch. With full Internet access, consumers can access their favorite songs and videos, share files between the TV and their tablet, smartphone or PC and control the TV via tablet or smart phone. 		"Consumers demand a seamless experience across all screens, including smartphones, tablets, PCs and televisions," said Raj Talluri, vice president of product management for Qualcomm. "Having Snapdragon processors power smart TVs and digital media adapters is a natural extension of our leadership in mobile and computing technologies into the connected home." 		"Lenovo's newly announced K91 Smart TV is a milestone for the connected home and digital technology," said Xiong Wen, general manager and executive director, Smart TV, Lenovo. "It's the first Smart TV in the world to run on Qualcomm's Snapdragon processors, as well as the first to run on Android 4.0 for full access to the Android marketplace. Lenovo is taking the digital home to new levels and making consuming content and connecting via videoconferencing, social media and more, easier than ever." 		Currently, there are more than 300 Snapdragon-based devices commercially available and more than 350 in development. The S4 line is currently being integrated into more than 70 devices from 20 leading OEMs. Experience the Snapdragon powered Smart TV and test-drive the latest Snapdragon-powered devices by visiting Qualcomm's CES booth at South Hall 3, Upper Level #30313, January 10-13 in Las Vegas or visit www.qualcomm.com/snapdragon for more information.
 