
Just because Qualcomm's gone to plaid (aka. reached ludicrous speed) with its Snapdragon 800 flagship doesn't mean the company's been standing still at the other end of the market. The Snapdragon 200 family just received a major boost with the introduction of six new chips geared at China and other emerging markets. Available with dual- and quad-core CPUs, the processors are manufactured using a 28nm process and incorporate HSPA+ (21Mbps) and TD-SCDMA radios. The new SoCs are optimized to provide good multimedia performance and long battery life, with support for dual cameras (up to 8MP rear and 5MP front), multiple SIMs (dual standby, dual active and tri standby), iZat location tech and Quick Charge 1.0. Qualcomm's Adreno 302 GPU rounds up the spec list, making these chips well suited for devices running Android, Windows Phone and Firefox OS. The company's expected to begin shipping these new processors (8x10 and 8x12) in late 2013. Full PR after the break.



Show full PR textQualcomm Expands Qualcomm Snapdragon 200 Processor Tier
- Newest Additions to Snapdragon 200 Tier and Reference Design Counterpart Extend Product Offerings in Emerging Regions -

SHENZHEN, China, June 19, 2013 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., has expanded its entry-level offerings with the addition of six new processors to its Qualcomm Snapdragon™ 200 class, featuring dual- and quad-core CPUs. The new Snapdragon 200 processors are manufactured on a 28nm process technology and feature key modem technologies that are important in China and emerging regions, including support for HSPA+ (up to 21Mbps) and TD-SCDMA. It is anticipated that the new processors (8x10 and 8x12), along with its Qualcomm Reference Design counterparts, will be available in late 2013 and are designed to deliver improved performance, graphics-rich gaming experience and advanced multimedia features for high-volume smartphones.

"With the expanded line of Snapdragon 200 processors, Qualcomm Technologies is building on its dual- and quad-core processor portfolio for entry-level smartphones and tablets, bringing key process technology and modem features to all Snapdragon tiers," said Jeff Lorbeck, senior vice president of product management, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. "We are excited to offer our customers the broadest range of 3G technologies and superior performance and power-efficiency, enabling them to deliver a wide range of innovative smartphones for the high-volume segment."

The expanded line of processors delivers an optimal balance of multimedia features and modem technologies with extended battery life. The processors will have support for dual cameras, with an 8 Megapixel rear-facing camera and up to a 5 Megapixel front-facing one, as well as feature a single platform for all SIM variants, including Dual SIM, Dual Standby, and Dual SIM, Dual Active, and Tri SIM Tri Standby. The latest additions to the Snapdragon 200 class also feature: class-leading graphics performance with Adreno 302 GPU; integrated industry-leading IZat Location functionality and support of Qualcomm Quick Charge 1.0; support for the latest Android, Windows Phone and Firefox operating systems; RxD support; and a single, multimode modem enabling faster data rates, fewer dropped calls, and better connections.

Qualcomm Technologies also will be releasing Qualcomm Reference Design (QRD) versions of the processors. The QRD program offers Qualcomm Technologies' leading technical innovation, differentiated hardware and software, easy customization options, testing and acceptance readiness for regional operator requirements, and access to a broad ecosystem of hardware component vendors and software application developers. Under the QRD program, customers can rapidly deliver differentiated smartphones to budget-conscious consumers. There have been more than 250 public QRD-based product launches to date in collaboration with more than 40 OEMs in 17 countries.


