
 

AT&T was getting all hot and heavy over LTE-equipped Windows 8 tablets at its developers summit and an afternoon session about a Qualcomm powered model had certainly piqued our interest. What wasn't clear was whether such a piece of hardware actually existed, but we're happy to report it does. Dr. Paul Jacobs pulled out a Snapdragon S4 MSM8960 slate during his keynote running Microsoft's next-gen tile-based OS and the requisite 4G connection -- on AT&T's network, of course.

Jacobs treated attendees to a very brief demo of the tab, showcasing the browser, UI and Windows 8 apps. He went on to note that the in development slates run on ARM processors and won't need fans to cool down. Aside from that, not much else was revealed, so feel free to check out the official presser after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Qualcomm Works with Microsoft to Deliver Snapdragon S4 Processors with LTE Connectivity for Windows 8 		- 2012 CES Marks First AT&T LTE Demonstration of Windows 8 Powered by Snapdragon S4 Processors - 		LAS VEGAS and SAN DIEGO - January 10, 2012 - Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced at the 2012 International CES show that it is collaborating with Microsoft Corp. to demonstrate pre-release Windows 8 on Snapdragon™ S4 processors with LTE connectivity support. Demonstrated on the AT&T 4G LTE network for the first time, Windows 8 powered by Snapdragon with LTE and 3G/4G wireless support enables the connected standby experience with lower power consumption recently demonstrated by Microsoft, and provides Windows 8-based PCs including tablets, convertibles and notebooks with wireless broadband speeds and advanced connectivity solutions to help enable fast, productive experiences for users worldwide. Demonstrations of pre-release Windows 8 on the Snapdragon S4 MSM8960 reference hardware tablet with LTE were held during Dr. Paul E. Jacobs' opening keynote address earlier today. Jacobs' keynote was part of the Technology and Evolving Countries (TEC) Program, focused on the role mobile technology plays in global innovation and economic growth in consumer electronics. 		"Qualcomm is excited to be working with Microsoft to showcase the world's first demonstration of Windows 8 powered by our Snapdragon platform with LTE connectivity on the AT&T 4G LTE network," said Luis Pineda, senior vice president of computing and consumer products at Qualcomm."Our Snapdragon S4 processors' LTE network support and comprehensive software and hardware integration help deliver greater flexibility and connectivity options to Microsoft and device manufacturers. PC – including tablets, convertibles and notebooks – and other device makers alike continue to choose Qualcomm processors for the best combination of processing performance, efficient power usage and wireless connectivity on a single platform." 		By integrating LTE, Qualcomm provides a superior connectivity solution that is easy to use and allows users to take advantage of next-generation networks and stay connected almost anywhere they go. Snapdragon-enabled Windows 8 PCs, including tablets, convertibles and notebooks, will also be enhanced by Qualcomm's mobile Internet connectivity platform, Gobi™, which provides advanced 3G/4G connectivity and integrated LTE world mode support. Qualcomm's Gobi 4000 platform allows device manufacturers to offer both LTE/HSPA+ and LTE/EV-DO designs to meet the growing demand for embedded 3G/4G connectivity in mobile devices worldwide. 		As one of the largest providers of wireless chipset and software technology in the industry, Qualcomm has one of the most diverse chipset and software product portfolios, spanning multiple device classes. Qualcomm's broad product portfolio, including Snapdragon processors and Gobi mobile Internet connectivity solutions, supports Windows 8. Qualcomm is one of the only silicon providers to date positioned to support both Windows smartphones and PCs. 		"Qualcomm's technologies help bring high-performance, power-efficient solutions to consumers," said Aidan Marcuss, senior director of Windows Core Marketing & Ecosystem, Microsoft. "In many cases today's consumers and businesses not only desire but require always- on, always-connected computing devices. Qualcomm and Microsoft are committed to our continued collaboration to bring innovative, top-performing devices to consumers around the world." 		"Today's customer demands a more powerful and faster network connection which plays to Qualcomm's key technology strengths for designing leading-edge chipsets," said Michael Stice, vice president of computing devices, emerging devices, AT&T. "We are working with Qualcomm to enable the next generation of mobile PCs and tablets enhanced by our 3G and LTE networks." 		Attendees can see pre-release devices running Windows 8 powered by Snapdragon S4 processors, along with the newest innovations, at the Qualcomm exhibit at the 2012 International CES, located in the Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, Upper Level #30313. For more information on Qualcomm's Snapdragon processors visit www.qualcomm.com/snapdragon. 		About Qualcomm		Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) is the world leader in 3G and next-generation mobile technologies. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of digital communications, linking people everywhere more closely to information, entertainment and each other. For more information, visit Qualcomm's website, OnQ blog, Twitter and Facebook pages. 		Except for the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the Company's ability to successfully design and have manufactured significant quantities of mobile processors and 3G/4G LTE components on a timely and profitable basis, the extent and speed to which 3G and 4G LTE are deployed, the extent of the successful commercialization of Windows 8 tablets and notebooks, change in economic conditions of the various markets the Company serves, as well as the other risks detailed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 25, 2011, and most recent Form 10-Q. The Company undertakes no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 