
       
In a rather odd unfolding of events, it seems as if Barnes & Noble is finally clearing up the mystery behind that Plastic Logic e-reader slated to hit its retail locations by Spring of 2010. After making said announcement, the book seller then went out and introduced an e-book reader of its very own in the Nook, and only now are we learning that the Plastic Logic-built QUE proReader will also be splashing down at the outfit sometime next year. In a brief release posted today, we're told that the recently teased big-screen reader (8.5- x 11-inches) 10.5-inch will be sold throughout B&N's retail footprint and on its website; makes sense given that B&N is powering the proReader's online e-book store, but the fact that it'll be placed prominently near the outfit's own (somewhat competing) device is certainly interesting. We're expecting to see more come CES 2010, and seriously, with the rate at which these readers are hitting brick-and-mortar locations, Amazon might want to consider implementing some kind of physical trial in order to not go overlooked in its corner of the web.

Update: Plastic Logic rather dubiously lists "large 8-1/2 x 11-inch shatterproof display" on its specsheet. A bit of digging into the Barnes and Noble listing, however, reveals the following spec "Display (viewable area): 10.5-inch diagonal, 944 x 1264 pixels at 150ppi, 8 gray levels." Sneaky.
      

 

Show full PR textQUE™ proReader by Plastic Logic to be Sold in Barnes & Noble StoresMOUNTAIN VIEW, CA and NEW YORK, NY – OCTOBER 27, 2009 – PlasticLogic and Barnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS), the world's largest bookseller,today announced that QUE™ (pronounced "Q"), the first proReader designed forbusiness professionals, will be sold through Barnes & Noble's nationwidenetwork of stores and online at Barnes & Noble.com (http://www.bn.com).The distribution agreement marks an expansion of the relationship between thetwo companies. Earlier this year, Plastic Logic and Barnes & Noble announced astrategic partnership through which Barnes & Noble will power the online storefor QUE, which is coming in 2010 (information can be found athttp://www.QUEreader.com). QUE will also be featured near the recentlyannounced nook™, the Barnes & Noble eBook reader, on free-standing displayswith signage offering Barnes & Noble customers choice based on their readingneeds.Scheduled to premiere January 7, 2010 at the Consumer Electronics Show inLas Vegas (Central Hall of Las Vegas Convention Center, Booth 11840), QUE isthe first eReader designed to support the lifestyle of modern businessprofessionals. More than an eReader, QUE means business."We are very excited to name Barnes & Noble as our first retail distributionpartner and to have QUE featured prominently in its stores," said RichardArchuleta, CEO of Plastic Logic. "QUE was designed from the ground up as atool for busy business professionals, expanding the eReader market as its firstand only proReader."QUE provides access to a file cabinet's worth of documents, ranging frombusiness and professional newspapers, periodicals and books - with over 1million eBooks available through the QUE store, powered by Barnes & Noble. Itsupports the document formats business users need (including PDF, Word,PowerPoint, Excel documents and more). Extra thin, lightweight and wirelessenabled,QUE is the size of an 8.5 x 11 inch pad of paper, about a 1/3 inch thick,and weighs less than many periodicals. QUE stands out in a crowd because it's abusiness reader, but it's also unique for its shatterproof plastic display, which isbased on Plastic Logic's pioneering plastic electronics technology. QUE alsodistinguishes itself with the largest touchscreen in the industry, an intuitivetouchscreen user interface, and powerful tools for interacting with and managinga range of content."We're excited to expand our relationship with Plastic Logic to include not only aneBookstore, but also a physical presence in our bookstores nationwide and onBN.com," said William J. Lynch, president of BN.com. "QUE is an incrediblyinnovative product and a great device for business professionals. Carrying nookand QUE allows us to provide consumers a one-stop destination in Barnes &Noble stores to demo and buy two of the best eBook readers on the market. Italso supports our digital strategy to offer customers choice, expand the marketoverall, and deliver on our promise to provide any book, any time, anywhere."Full product specifications, availability and pricing of QUE will be announced onJanuary 7, 2010 at CES.
 