
 
And you thought you were set after procuring one of the many Naga mice on the market now. Think again. In a never-ending quest to milk the MMO market, Razer has just issued the planet's first (or so it says) MMO gaming keyboard. The Anansi is a jet black board with a rather standard layout, but those seven thumb modifier keys are bound to enhance gameplay in some way or another. You'll also get over 100 programmable Hyperesponse keys with on-the-fly macro recording, storage for up to 20 gaming profiles, five bonus gaming keys and 16 million color backlight illumination. Oh, and for those of you doubting Razer's attention to detail, you can totally deactivate the Windows key while in "gaming mode." Check it this December when it ships worldwide for $99.99 / €99.99. 






Show full PR textRazer™ Announces The World's First MMO Gaming KeyboardTuesday, 26 October 2010FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASERAZER™ ANNOUNCES THE WORLD'S FIRST MMO GAMING KEYBOARDRazer™ Anansi MMO Gaming Keyboard to Feature Seven Ergonomic Modifier Thumb Keys Available Starting December 2010Carlsbad, Calif. – October 26, 2010 - Razer, the world's leading high-end precision gaming and lifestyle peripherals brand, today announced a new entry for its MMO Gaming product line, a keyboard that lets you Get Imba - the Razer Anansi. Sharing the same successful design philosophy as the world's best-selling MMO Gaming Mouse, the Razer™ Naga, this keyboard gives gamers an unprecedented slew of MMO functions and features such as dedicated thumb modifier keys and cutting-edge macro capabilities."The Razer Anansi gaming keyboard is the new weapon of choice for MMO gamers," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, president, Razer USA. "Let's face it, the regular keyboard that came with your PC was designed and built for typing, not for MMO gaming. With its revolutionary seven thumb modifier keys, every key combination that you had before is now multiplied by seven times. The Razer Anansi allows you to use every spell, ability or custom macro in your arsenal -- both instantly and in complete comfort."Designed and engineered especially for MMO gameplay, the Razer Anansi gives MMO gamers the power to instantly use up to seven times more commands and abilities over the current 12 ability keys normally accessible on a standard keyboard. The Razer Anansi also features over 100 fully programmable keys, on-the-fly macro recording, five additional gaming keys and the ability to customize the key backlighting from over 16 million colors.The Razer Anansi is also designed to be used seamlessly with the 12-button mouse keypad on the Razer Naga and Razer Naga Epic MMO gaming mice, giving gamers a supreme level of battle control and ergonomic comfort when playing their favorite MMO game.About the Razer Anansi MMO Gaming KeyboardRazer AnansiThe Razer Anansi was designed and engineered especially for the MMO gamer with the ability to execute seven times more commands instantly compared to a standard keyboard. Its seven thumb modifier keys located below the space bar allow gamers to actuate every possible combination of modifier keys (shift, ctrl, alt) in total accuracy and comfort using a single key stroke. With over 100 programmable keys and five additional gaming keys, the Razer Anansi allows both casual and hardcore MMO gamers alike to further expand their repertoire of boss-killing abilities and macros, providing total control with convenient and instantaneous command executions.Razer AnansiPrice: US $99.99; EU €99.99Availability:Razerzone – December 2010Worldwide – December 2010Product Features* Seven thumb modifier keys that allow the use up to seven times more abilities  * Over 100 programmable Hyperesponse™ keys with on-the-fly macro recording* 20 gaming profiles with one-button profile switching* Five additional gaming keys* 16 million color backlight illumination* Optimized key matrix for minimized ghosting* Gaming mode option for deactivation of the Windows key* Easy access media keys
 