
 
 Razer wasn't done with the Gamescom crowds just yet, revealing its latest Lime-doused gaming headset. The Razer Kraken is readying for a global launch next month, with a Pro version (with microphone in tow) hitting your wallet for 80 bucks and the similar-looking Music and Gaming cans priced around $60. Razer's pushing the headphone's ergonomic charms and we'll admit, they were pretty cosy, with some good (but not perfect) noise-isolation at work. The Kraken Pro packs a 40mm audio driver and the wired headphones will work with your phone or any device with a 3.5mm jack. Get all the audio statistics on the Hulk-esque headsets in the PR after the break. 




  Show full PR text   GAME LONGER IN EXTREME COMFORT WITH THE  RAZER KRAKEN PRO GAMING HEADSET
    World leading gaming peripherals company sets new standard for gaming headset ergonomics

   Razer™, the world leader in high performance gaming hardware, unveiled two new products at gamescom today: the Razer Kraken Pro Gaming Headset and Razer Kraken Music & Gaming Headphones. Both audio products were ergonomically designed to give gamers the best combination of comfort over extensive use and phenomenal gaming audio, whether they're starting up an eight-hour guild raid or plugging into an MP3 player for tunes on the go.  Just like the many popular Razer headsets before it, the Razer Kraken Pro gaming headset was field-tested by countless professional gamers and athletes to determine optimal weight for extended gaming sessions and snugness. Gamers won't find a more comfortable headset on the market, period.

    "We've made some comfortable headsets over the years, including the Orca and the Carcharias, but I don't think we've ever developed something as ergonomically sound as the Razer Kraken," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, president of Razer USA. "We put the Razer Kraken through a meticulous design process and I fully believe we've reached the pinnacle of comfort with this headset."

    The left ear cup of the Razer Kraken Pro houses a fully retractable microphone boom that pulls out only when a gamer needs it, with a flexible design that allows the unidirectional mic to be adjusted to the best spot for giving strategic commands or making a quick call to a friend.  The Razer Kraken Pro's large 40 mm neodymium magnet drivers are tuned for clear high- and mid-ranges, as well as deep bass for powerful lows. A closed ear cup design with plush circumaural padding creates superior sound isolation that allows gamers to focus on the missions at hand or have conversations uninterrupted by outside noise.  Those looking for go-anywhere music and gaming headphones with a premium ergonomic design without a microphone need look no further than the Razer Kraken, constructed with a focus on durability to withstand the rigors of daily use, whether it is tuning out during a workday commute or providing the soundtrack on the slopes. Its lightweight design makes these headphones easy on the ears for hours on end.

    About the Razer Kraken Pro Gaming Headset  The Razer Carcharias has been said to be the most comfortable gaming headset in the world. With it enjoying stature as a modern classic, we took it up a notch with the Razer Kraken Pro, a gaming headset fully focused on ergonomics. Heck, we took it up more than a notch... we went all the way on it. Weight, functionality and performance were the key factors identified and perfectly balanced for the Razer Pro Kraken-contributing in perfect concert to what we believe is the most comfortable gaming headset. Ever.  On top of its optimized weight for extended wear, the Razer Kraken Pro is outfitted with a fully retractable microphone and powerful high-quality drivers that let you totally immerse yourself in gaming audio for inordinate periods of time.  The 3.5 mm combined audio jack and included splitter cable allow mic support for your mobile devices in transit, as well as full connectivity to gaming PCs so you never have to use another headset.

    Price:  U.S. $79.99 / EU €79.99  Availability:  Razerzone.com – September 2012  Worldwide – September 2012  Product features:  Headphones   Frequency Response: 20 - 20,000 Hz   Impedance: 32 Ω at 1 kHz   Sensitivity (@1 kHz, 1 V/Pa): 110 ± 4 dB at 1 kHz Max   Input Power: 50 mW   Drivers: 40 mm, with Neodymium Magnets   Inner Ear Cup Diameter: 50 mm / 1.97"   Cable Length: 1.3 m / 4.27 ft. plus 2 m / 6.6 ft. Splitter Adapter   Approximate Weight: 293 g / 0.65 lbs.   Connector: Analog 3.5 mm Combined Jack (Headphone and Mic)  Microphone   Frequency Response: 100 – 10,000 Hz   Signal-to-Noise Ratio: 52 dB

 
   About the Razer Kraken Music & Gaming Headphones

   The Razer Kraken Analog Music & Gaming Headphones are made to accompany you wherever life takes you, withstanding the constant abuse of your everyday fun. Their rugged design and light-weight, foldable construction make them the ideal choice regardless of whether you are gaming at home or hitting the streets.

   Packed with powerful, high-quality drivers enclosed in extra-large circumaural ear cups for maximum comfort, they drown out the outside world while keeping your music pristine and precise.

   Price:

   U.S. $59.99 / EU €59.99

   Availability:

   Razerzone.com – September 2012

   Worldwide – October 2012

   Product features:

    Frequency Response: 20 - 20,000 Hz

    Impedance: 32 Ω at 1 kHz

    Sensitivity (@1 kHz, 1 V/Pa): 110 ± 4 dB at 1 kHz Max

    Input Power: 50 mW

    Drivers: 40 mm, with Neodymium Magnets

    Inner Ear Cup Diameter: 50 mm / 1.97"

    Cable Length: 1.3 m / 4.27 ft. plus 2 m / 6.6 ft. Extension Cable

    Approximate Weight: 280 g / 0.62 lbs.

    Connector: Analog 3.5 mm Headphone Jack

 
