
 
The most beautiful thing to come out of CES 2011? The show ain't over yet, but we're unafraid to say that Razer's Switchblade is the device to beat. Before you go getting your hopes up, we have to (regretfully) point out that this here gaming handheld is but a concept, but considering that Toshiba's Libretto W105 made it to store shelves (if but for a moment), we're hoping and praying that the Switchblade can also find its way to a production line. Little is known about the device itself, but Razer has imagined it using a pair of 7-inch multitouch displays as well as a layer of tactile, dynamic keys on the lower screen. Much like the Optimus Maximus of yesteryear, this keyboard would enable gamers to place different screens underneath depending on title, and even within a game, you could imagine the keys shifting to account for different POVs, levels, scenarios, etc. Internally, the concept is based around an Intel Atom processor, but there's no word on what kind of GPU would work alongside of it. Sadly, Razer's unwilling to talk pie-in-the-sky details when it comes to price and release, but if four million comments show up below begging and pleading for the company to take this commercial...

Update: Just to be clear, the keyboard on the bottom is a full-on LCD , but covered with physical keys. In contrast, the W105 had a flat touchpanel on the bottom.

Update 2: Check out our in-depth preview from the CES 2011 show floor!





Show full PR textRazer™ Announces New Mobile PC Gaming Concept Design The Razer Switchblade powered by the Intel® Atom™ processor redefines Mouse/Keyboard Interface for mobile gamers with an all new ultra-sensitive multi-touch screen and dynamic tactile keyboardConsumer Electronics Show, Las Vegas, Nevada – January 6, 2011 – Razer, the world's leading brand of high-end precision gaming products announced today the development of an innovative concept design, based on the Intel® Atom™ processor, bringing traditional PC desktop gaming to a portable form factor.The new Intel® Atom™ powered concept model, codenamed "Razer Switchblade", brings an evocative level of design to gaming by replacing the traditional mouse and keyboard interface with an ultra-sensitive multi-touch screen, dynamic tactile keyboard, and an intelligent user interface that adjusts the configuration and key layout on-the-fly based on game content and user requirements. The Razer Switchblade concept was created from the ground up by Razer designers and engineers, in collaboration with Intel; focusing on enhancing the entire user experience of playing the extensive PC game library on a handheld device. "The main problem with mobile PC gaming so far is that no one has been able to port the full mouse and keyboard experience onto a small size portable solution," said Min-Liang Tan, CEO and Creative Director, Razer. "By combining adaptive on-the-fly controls and display, we managed to maintain the full tactile keyboard in a miniature computer while saving valuable screen estate." "PC Gaming continues to attract innovation with rich 3-D graphics, high definition video, and life-like animation," said Brad Graff, director of gaming platforms for Intel's Ultra Mobility Group. "The Intel® Atom™ processor, combined with Razer's expertise in bringing gaming solutions to market, will help make it possible for consumers to have a powerful gaming experience in mobile devices.""With our established focus on human interface devices, moving the mouse and keyboard experience to the next level was a natural step." continues Min-Liang Tan. "Razer isn't just about bringing innovation to the PC, but creating products that will change the future of gaming. The Razer Switchblade is one such product." About the Razer Switchblade ConceptThe Razer Switchblade Concept is a breakthrough portable gaming device model that allows gamers to play on the go without giving up the precision and control ordinarily possible on a desktop gaming system. Integrating two multi-touch seven-inch screens, and an innovative tactile dynamic keyboard, the Razer Switchblade Concept delivers the full desktop experience in a netbook sized solution.For more information, please visit: www.razerzone.com/Switchblade
 