
 
Is your Xbox 360's bundled controller not loving you quite like it should? Razer's ready to pick you up on the rebound with its updated Onza controller for Microsoft's console. The Tournament Edition offers analog sticks with adjustable resistance, an improved D-pad, backlit action buttons, and a pair of added programmable keys. The Standard version eschews the backlight and analog customizability, but keeps the other improvements. Pre-orders for both begin on January 17th, with the Tournament costing $50 / €50 and the Standard asking for $40 / €40.





Show full PR textRazer™ Releases the Most Talked About Xbox 360 ControllersRazer Enters the Console Market with the Razer Onza Controllers - Resistance is FutileLAS VEGAS, Jan. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Consumer Electronics Show -- Xbox gaming worldwide explodes as Razer, the leading high-end precision gaming brand, finally announces the release of their brand new elite Xbox 360 controllers: the Razer Onza Tournament and Standard Editions. Shopping malls and game outlets with barricaded doors and organized queues won't stop the onslaught of hysterical gamers who've endured the long wait for these brutal console controllers."We are extremely excited to finally offer console gamers the high-precision and tremendous detail that we have always done for the PC," said Robert "Razerguy" Krakoff, president Razer USA. "So I recommend pre-ordering for minimal stress and safety issues, as riots and mass mobs are expected at Razers' retailers."Built for the hardcore competitive gamer, the Razer Onza Tournament Edition offers superior customizability with adjustable resistance analog sticks. Onza's tagline Resistance is Futile means nothing stands in your way for exceptional precision. Twist the analog sticks in one direction to make them more resistant for steadier control, or twist in the opposite direction for quicker, fluid movements. Boom! He's dead. Boom! She's dead. You're just too fast; nothing's stopping you when you have an Onza in your hands. The Razer Onza Standard Edition features Multi-Function Buttons (MFB) on the controller's shoulders which allow remapping of critical buttons to any location under your fingertips. Not only does this increase efficiency of game control, but aids those with disabilities unable to reach specific functions on a crappy standard controller. Razer lets everybody play. Both Standard and Tournament Editions feature MFB, Hyperesponse™ technology, PC compatibility, and a 15 foot cable for the ultimate pleasure in Xbox gaming.About the Razer Onza Tournament Edition Xbox 360 Controller:The Razer Onza TE Gaming Controller gives professional gamers the competitive edge by bringing together all of these awesome customizable features to make the Xbox 360 your bitch. Featuring adjustable resistance on both analog sticks and two fully programmable Multi-Function Buttons (MFB), there is no excuse not to be the top scorer, whatever the game.With an improved D-pad, Hyperesponse technology on backlit action buttons, PC compatibility and a 15 foot lightweight braided cable with quick release USB connector, it's no wonder the controller's tournament-controversial.Price: US $49.99 / euro 49.99Availability:Razerzone.com – Pre-order Jan. 17th, 2011Worldwide – Pre-order Jan. 17th, 2011Product Features:* 2 Adjustable resistance analog sticks* 2 Multi-Function Buttons (MFB)* 4 backlit Hyperesponse action buttons* Precision D-Pad* Non-slip rubber surface* Quick release USB connector* 15 foot, lightweight, braided fiber cable* Approx. size in mm: 109(L) x 154(W) x 60.5(H)For more information about the Razer Onza TE, please visit www.razerzone.com/onzate.About the Razer Onza Standard Edition Xbox 360 Controller:All it takes are two extra Multi-Function Buttons (MFB) on the Razer Onza Xbox 360 controller for a mind-blowingly different gaming experience – something Razer has a penchant for providing. An improved D-pad, Hyperesponse technology on the action buttons, and PC compatibility makes this a necessity for any discerning Xbox gamer. A 15 foot lightweight cable with quick release USB connector makes for lag-free ownage.Price: US $39.99 / euro 39.99 Availability:Razerzone.com – Pre-order Jan. 17th, 2011Worldwide – Pre-order Jan. 17th, 2011Product Features:* 2 Multi-Function Buttons (MFB)* 4 Hyperesponse action buttons* Precision D-Pad* High grip textured surface* Quick release USB connector* 15 foot, lightweight cable* Approx. size in mm: 109(L) x 154(W) x 60.5(H)For more information about the Razer Onza, please visit www.razerzone.com/onza.About the Razer Group:Razer™ is more than just the world's leading brand in high-end precision gaming products, perpetually defining the gaming and technology space. Founded in 1998 in Carlsbad, California, Razer is driven by the ceaseless pursuit for absolute precision and high usability in a distinctive, aesthetic design that will give gamers the edge they demand. With labs and offices in seven cities around the world, Razer dedicates user interface research and development to bring cutting-edge technology to each and every product. We live by our motto: For Gamers. By Gamers.For more information, please visit www.razerzone.com.
 