
 

Is the new Razer Tiamat the first true 7.1 surround sound headset, as the company claims? Maybe, but more impressively, it's the world's first set of cans with 10 discrete drivers -- that's five in each ear. The left and right ears each have three drivers dedicated to that side, and both pack a "center" channel and a subwoofer to round out the required eight lanes of sound. Most surround sound sets call it a day with eight drivers but, surprisingly, the two extra speakers here don't add much to the cost. And, for the control freaks, there's an in-line volume remote that lets you adjust each channel individually. You'll find PR after the break and the Tiamat 7.1 on shelves in Q4 for $180.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Razer Announces The World's First True 7.1 Surround Sound Gaming Headset 		Wednesday, 17 August 2011 		RAZER ANNOUNCES THE WORLD'S FIRST TRUE 7.1 SURROUND SOUND GAMING HEADSET 		The Razer Tiamat 7.1 brings true-to-life pinpoint positional gaming audio with up to 10 discrete speaker drivers in each headset 		Gamescom, Cologne – August 17th, 2011 –Razer, the world's leading high-end precision gaming brand, brings true pinpoint positional audio to hardcore gamers everywhere with the Razer Tiamat headset range – the world's first discrete 7.1 surround sound and 2.2 stereo gaming headsets. Get the tactical advantage in combat when you can hear and react to every gunfire, explosion and voice realistically all around you. And with bass so powerful, the Razer Tiamat will blow you away. 		"The Razer Tiamat headset range is the pride of our audio engineering, the world's first 10 driver headset, built to deliver the most powerful, clear and accurately produced positional audio gamers will ever need for the competitive edge," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, President, Razer USA. "Surprise the enemy trying to creep up for a stealth kill, when you can hear their footsteps loud and clear behind you." 		The Razer Tiamat headset range includes the Razer Tiamat 7.1 Surround Sound Gaming Headset and the Razer Tiamat 2.2 Stereo Gaming Headset. 		The Razer Tiamat 7.1 packs a total of 10 discrete drivers, 5 in each circumaural ear cup to give you true pinpoint positional surround sound – a one-up on your enemies when you can hear everything around you with three-dimensional clarity. The 10 drivers represent the 7 surround sound channels plus subwoofer; 2 for center, 1 each for the left and right, surround sound left and right, surround back left and right, and 2 for the subwoofer. All drivers work in unison to produce a true surround sound experience. 		The Razer Tiamat 7.1 also gives gamers maximum customizability of their audio experience adjustable on a sleek control unit. You can precisely fine-tune the volume of every audio channel, position, and bass depth, as well as conveniently toggle between the headset's 7.1 surround sound mode, 2.0 stereo mode or external speakers as long as they are also hooked up to the unit, so you'll have the right setup for your entertainment at all times. 		The Razer Tiamat 2.2 is outfitted with a total of 4 discrete drivers, 2 dedicated especially to bass to give your head that rumbling sensation every time you calmly walk away from an in-game explosion. 		Both versions of the Razer Tiamat come with leatherette ear cushions to keep you comfortable during long-haul gaming marathons, and a precise, unidirectional noise-cancelling microphone so your battle chatter stays as sharp as your audio. 		The "Experience the Power of 7 – with the Razer Tiamat 7.1" Contest at Gamescom 2011 		In line with Razer's announcement of their new Razer Tiamat headset range, the world's first 7 Razer Tiamat 7.1 gaming headsets are to be given away to 7 lucky winners. 		The Razer Tiamat 7.1, the world's first true 7.1 surround sound gaming headset, awaits contestants at www.razerzone.com/Powerof7. 		About the Razer Tiamat 7.1 		True pinpoint positional audio for the tactical advantage is the only way to go for victorious gaming, and that's what the Razer Tiamat 7.1 was built for. 10 discrete drivers, 5 in each ear cup produce 360 degrees true surround sound so you can hear and react to everything around you with three-dimensional clarity. 		The versatile control unit lets you tweak every audio channel's volume and positioning, as well as bass depth to your exact preference. With a single button press, toggle between the headset's 7.1 surround sound, 2.0 stereo and external speakers when both are connected to the unit to have the right audio setup for your specific entertainment needs at all times. Packed with so many features in one device, the Razer Tiamat 7.1 is the ultimate beast of gaming audio. 		Price: US $179.99 / EU €179.99 		Availability:		Razerzone.com – Q4 2011		Worldwide – Q4 2011 		Product Features: 		True-to-life pinpoint positional 7.1 surround sound from 10 discrete drivers		All-in-one volume control unit for multi-channel adjustment, personalization and toggling between headset and speakers		Comfortable, snug fit for extended play		Retractable, noise-filtering unidirectional mic		Interchangeable ear cup covers		Replaceable soft-touch leatherette ear cushions		Braided fibre cable 		For more information about the Razer Tiamat 7.1 Gaming Headset, please visit www.razerzone.com/tiamat-7-1 		About the Razer Tiamat 2.2 		The Razer Tiamat 2.2 comes with 4 discrete drivers in the headset, 2 dedicated to bass to give gamers double the bass for double the impact. Chuck a grenade, launch a missile, detonate a nuke; everything from a simple explosion to an apocalyptic end-of-the-world type destruction is reproduced with amazing booming power. Throw in a sturdy build, exceptionally comfortable leatherette ear cups for wear over extended gameplay, and a precise unidirectional microphone for leading your team to victory - the Razer Tiamat 2.2 makes sure your epic gaming domination is aurally reproduced in all its glory. 		Price: US $99.99 / EU €99.99 		Availability:		Razerzone.com – Q4 2011		Worldwide – Q4 2011 		Product Features: 		Optimized positional audio for immersive gameplay		Dual bass drivers for deep, thumping bass		Comfortable, snug fit for extended play		Precise, noise-filtering unidirectional mic		Slim, easy-to-use in-line remote		Replaceable soft-touch leatherette ear cushions		Braided fibre cable 		For more information about the Razer Tiamat 2.2 Gaming Headset, visit www.razerzone.com/tiamat-2-2 		About the Razer Group: 		Razer™ is the world leader in high performance gaming hardware. Founded in 1998, with its headquarters in Carlsbad, California, the company has offices in nine cities around the globe. Used by the most demanding professional gamers who compete in global tournaments, Razer provides gamers with the unfair advantage of cutting-edge technology and award-winning design. We live by our motto: For Gamers. By Gamers.™ 		Learn more at www.razerzone.com
 