
 


	Ever go to a LAN party and find it's taking too long to get your gear set up the way you like? Probably not, especially if you own a Razer or other gaming mouse that stores your preferences on its internal memory. Still, it would be far easier if your tweaks were stored in the cloud and available everywhere -- which is the thinking behind Synapse 2.0. All of your button, axis and sensitivity adjustments will be available for you to pull down and use with the company's range of peripherals if you're at home, the LAN center or at work (after hours, of course.) The service is currently in internal beta but 500 lucky Razer Naga owners will get access to the second beta if they sign up at the source link below. There's also a press release -- scroll down at 5600dpi and click "Read More."
 

  			Show full PR text  RAZER REVOLUTIONIZES GAMING PERIPHERALS WITH THE WORLD'S FIRST CLOUD- BASED STORAGE FOR PERSONALIZED GAMING SETTINGS  Carlsbad, Calif. – Oct 20th, 2011 – Razer, the technology leader in gaming user interfaces, brings you the next innovation in gaming peripherals by unveiling the all-new Razer Synapse 2.0, the world's first application for storing your personalized peripheral settings in the cloud, making your settings for gaming available anytime, anywhere. 			In 2006, Razer invented Synapse, the world's first onboard memory feature for gaming peripherals, which allowed the user to store gaming macros, key binds, and profiles directly to their Razer devices, and enabled gamers to bring their personalized settings with them on the go. Onboard memory for gaming devices, pioneered by Razer, has quickly become an industry standard for gaming peripherals all over the world. 			The new Razer Synapse 2.0 software revolutionizes this concept by harnessing next-gen, cloud-based technology to ensure that you have full access to all of your peripheral hardware settings, anytime, anywhere at tournaments, LAN centers, at home and at the office. With the advent of Synapse 2.0, onboard memory for devices is now obsolete. 			With Razer Synapse 2.0, all of your Razer peripheral settings for any next generation Razer gaming device will be automatically stored in a cloud server which is accessible from any computer. You will be able to take your mouse to a LAN center and instantly sync your custom settings simply by logging into Razer Synapse 2.0. You can even access your custom settings while using Razer peripherals provided by a tournament host, enabling you to spend less time setting up controls and more time gaming. Razer Synapse 2.0 also automatically downloads drivers, game add-ons, and firmware updates as they become available, ensuring your Razer devices are always updated. 			"Razer Synapse 2.0 is a testament to our drive to continually innovate for the benefit of the gamer and end-user," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, President, Razer USA. "Razer Synapse 2.0 gives gamers a convenient, single cloud-based platform to access, maintain, and store settings for all of their Razer devices. On-board memory, with its limited storage for user profiles, becomes obsolete when Razer Synapse 2.0 offers essentially unlimited space for all of your hardware settings." 			Razer Synapse 2.0 will be launched for all next generation Razer devices and the software is currently in an internal beta stage. The next stage of closed beta will be rolled out initially to selected users of the multi-award winning Razer Naga, where up to 500 Razer Naga users can get a first glimpse of Razer Synapse 2.0 by signing up at http://www.razerzone.com/synapse2. 
 