
 

You know what's great? Mechanical keyboards -- what with their satisfying clicks. You know what's less awesome? Having to listen to that obnoxious racket all day. Razer claims you can have your cake (in this case, tactile feedback) and eat it too (blessed silence!) with its BlackWidow Stealth Editions. These are, more or less, the same boards that debuted last August, but with quieter switches and a matte finish. Both models are available now, with the same programmable keys and on-the-fly macro recording, while the Ultimate version adds "extreme anti-ghosting" to its already impressive noise pwnage. The standard model will run you a cool $80, while the Ultimate weighs in at a hefty $140. Check out the gallery below, as well as the PR and video after the break.





   		Show full PR text  GO NINJA WITH THE RAZER BLACKWIDOW STEALTH EDITION 		Razer launches silent versions of their award-winning 		Razer BlackWidow and Razer BlackWidow Ultimate mechanical keyboards 		Carslbad, Calif. – 30th Aug, 2011 – Razer, the world's leading high-end precision gaming brand, is emerging from the shadows to unleash a flurry of hurt with the Razer BlackWidow Stealth Edition mechanical gaming keyboards. Both the Ultimate and Standard versions of this hardcore mechanical keyboard have been refitted with a keyset that offers tactility but with a quieter feedback for the true silent assassins of gaming. 		The Razer BlackWidow Ultimate Stealth Edition also comes with extreme anti-ghosting. This is an improvement over the traditional anti-ghosting matrix when it allows up to 6 simultaneous key presses anywhere on the keyset so your orchestra of destruction is executed in its entirety. 		"Where the first Razer BlackWidow can be likened to a barbarian ploughing through enemies with ease, the Stealth Edition of this mechanical keyboard is the ninja who sneaks up on opponents unexpectedly to take them down in a quick blur," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, President, Razer USA. "Quieter feedback on the keys, lighter actuation force, extreme anti-ghosting on the Ultimate version, and a new matte black finish make the Stealth Edition of the Razer BlackWidow keyboards the best choice for the unassuming but extremely deadly gamer." 		Both Ultimate and Standard versions of the Razer BlackWidow Stealth Edition are now available exclusively on Razerzone. 		About the Razer BlackWidow Ultimate Stealth Edition 		The Razer BlackWidow Ultimate Stealth Edition mechanical keyboard delivers the same rapid-fire key press and tactile feedback as the award-winning original, only now much quieter than before. In addition, complete anti-ghosting on the entire keyset allows up to 6 simultaneous key presses so multiple commands or actions can be executed at the same time. Rounding that off with backlighting, additional macro keys, and on-the-fly macro recording, the Razer BlackWidow Ultimate Stealth Edition is a weapon of ruthless power. 		Price: USD $139.99 / EU€139.99 		Availability: 		Razerzone.com – Order Now 		Product Features: 		· Full mechanical keys with 45g actuation force 		· Extreme anti-ghosting 		· Individually backlit keys with 5 levels of lighting 		· 1000Hz Ultrapolling/1ms response time 		· Programmable keys with on-the-fly macro recording 		· Gaming mode option for deactivation of the Windows key 		· 10 customizable software profiles with on-the-fly switching 		· 5 additional macro keys 		· Multi-media control keys 		· Braided cable 		· Audio-Out/Mic-In jack 		· USB-passthrough 		· Approx size (mm): 475(l) x 171(w) x 30(h) 		· Weight: 1.5kg 		For more information about the Razer BlackWidow Ultimate Stealth Edition, please visit www.razerzone.com/minisite/blackwidow  		About the Razer BlackWidow Stealth Edition 		The Razer BlackWidow Stealth Edition mechanical keyboard's tactile keys offer superior gaming-grade response, unsurpassed actions per minute, and a quieter feedback at your fingertips. Its five additional macro keys with on-the-fly recording and an optimized key matrix allow you to stay in complete control of every frenzied battle and assault on your adversaries. 		Price: $79.99 / EU€79.99 		Availability: 		Razerzone.com – Order Now 		Product Features: 		· Full mechanical keys with 45g actuation force 		· 1000HZ/1ms Ultrapolling response time 		· Programmable keys with on-the-fly macro recording 		· Gaming mode option for deactivation of the Windows key 		· 10 customizable software profiles with on-the-fly switching 		· 5 additional macro keys 		· Gaming optimized key matrix for minimized ghosting 		· Multi-media controls 		· Braided cable Approx size (mm): 475(l) x 171(w) x 30(h) 		· Weight: 1.5kg 		For more information about the Razer BlackWidow Stealth Edition, please visit www.razerzone.com/minisite/blackwidow  		About the Razer Group: 		Razer™ is the world leader in high performance gaming hardware. Founded in 1998, with its headquarters in Carlsbad, California, the company has offices in nine cities around the globe. Used by the most demanding professional gamers who compete in global tournaments, Razer provides gamers with the unfair advantage of cutting-edge technology and award-winning design. We live by our motto: For Gamers. By Gamers. 		Learn more at www.razerzone.com.
 