
 
 Launching alongside new iterations of its BlackWidow keyboard, Razer's latest gaming mouse just went official. We spotted the ambidextrous Razer Ouroboros just a few months ago, courtesy of some federal filings, and now we have the official line on its specs and layout. The symmetrical body means it'll even suit southpaws, while an adjustable palm rest and two interchangeable sides can contort the mouse into claw, palm or hybrid grip styles. If cables frustrate, the good news is that the Razer Ouroboros works in wireless mode too, while the 8,200 DPI sensor and a built-in clutch trigger button should keep you on the edge of accuracy. Razer reckon its new dual sensor system can detect surfaces ten times faster than its last generation sensors. The mouse is priced at $130, but you'll have to hold out until Q4 before it arrives in stores.

 Meanwhile, Razer's gaming keyboards have appeared in several new guises -- though they may not wow like the Ouroboros. The BlackWidow 2013 adds improved anti-ghosting feature will allow up to 10 simultaneous key presses, with an anti-fingerprint finish coating the whole thing. An Ultimate version adds backlit keys, while the Tournament edition is ten key-less, dropping the number pad to ensure a tinier footprint for gamers on the move. Prices start at $80 for the Tournament version, up to $140 for the Ultimate, with the whole familia BlackWidow set to launch next month.



  Show full PR text   The Razer™ Ouroboros Puts Infinity In The Palm Of Your Hand
    World leading game peripheral company launches an ergonomic, ambidextrous mouse customizable for all users  World leading gaming company Razer launches Ouroboros, an ergonomic, ambidextrous mouse customizable for all users.

   CARLSBAD, Calif., July 25, 2012 /PRNewswire/ – Razer, the world leader in high-performance gaming hardware, today announced the release of the Razer Ouroboros at ChinaJoy 2012. Like its namesake, the elite gaming mouse can evolve without limit, with fully-customizable ergonomics that are adjustable for any hand size and grip style.

   No two people have the same sized hands, and everyone grips his or her mouse differently. When researching form factor preferences for ambidextrous mice, Razer's team of ergonomic scientists and engineers discovered three key factors in design: the length of the mouse, the back arch and the grip profile. With this in mind, the Razer Ouroboros is designed for precision gaming, with an adjustable palm rest capable of moving up to 0.9 in. (20 mm), suitable for people of varying hand sizes.

   The Ouroboros additionally boasts two interchangeable side panels for altering the footprint of the mouse to suit claw, palm or hybrid grip styles, and it has an adjustable back tilt angle to ensure palm support for gaming comfort and endurance. Its enhanced sensor technology is capable of up to 8200 dpi, and a dedicated, built-in dpi clutch trigger button ensures players can achieve pinpoint precision when needed. Powered by a single rechargeable AA battery, the Razer Ouroboros ensures a minimum of 12 hrs. of drag-free, lag-less play.

   Adding even more versatility to the mix, Razer has also included an upgraded, award-winning 4G Dual Sensor System, and gaming-grade, 1 ms wireless technology, providing the option for wired or wireless use.

   "Designed for excellence and total ownage, the Razer Ouroboros was intended to be wielded by all serious gamers looking to win any FPS, RTS or RPG with custom-made dominance," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, president of Razer USA. "We are proud to introduce it as Razer's first gaming mouse that features optimized, customizable, ambidextrous ergonomics that better fit the curvature of any and every hand size and personal grip style by delivering ultimate comfort, control, power and built-in intelligence to ascend to gaming immortality."

   About Razer Ouroboros Gaming Mouse:

   The Razer Ouroboros ambidextrous wireless gaming mouse is designed for both right- and left-handed gamers. It offers fully customizable ergonomics and a fit for every hand size-big or small-by allowing adjustment of the arched palm rest and back. Two interchangeable side panels ensure you're using your preferred grip style at all times. Game for hours-on-end while minimizing fatigue and maximizing comfort.

   Razer's highly advanced 8200 dpi 4G Dual Sensor System powers the mouse. This gaming-grade mouse sensor combines a laser and an optical sensor to enhance tracking precision and detect surfaces 10 times faster than previous generation sensors. Its all-new dpi clutch lets you temporarily reduce or increase the dpi as you game, so you can go from high-sensitivity assault to more measured sniper, then back to assault again, as needed.

   The Razer Ouroboros also features an ultra-low 1 ms latency wireless play that is as responsive and precise as when it is corded. You're as free to swipe and destroy as your play style dictates.

   Price:  U.S. $129.99 / EU €129.99

   Availability:  Razerzone.com – Q4 2012  Worldwide – Q4 2012

   Product features:

   Customizable ergonomics to fit all hand sizes and grip styles  8200 dpi 4G Dual Sensor System  Gaming-grade wireless technology with dock  Razer Synapse 2.0 enabled  11 programmable Hyperesponse buttons  1000 Hz Ultrapolling/1 ms response time  Up to 200 in. per sec./50 g acceleration  2.1 m/7 ft. braided fiber cable  Approximate Size : 116 mm to 136 mm/4.57 in. to 5.35 in. (length) x 71 mm/2.80 in. (width) x 42 mm/1.65 in. (height)  Approximate Weight: 115 g/0.25 lbs. (without battery) to 135 g/0.29 lbs. (with battery)  Battery life: Approx. 12 hrs. (continuous gaming)

 
   Show full PR text   Razer™ BlackWidow Series Is Back, Locked & Loaded For Mechanical Domination   The Return of the Razer BlackWidow Feat. Enhancements, New Editions  Razer, the world leader in high-performance gaming hardware, proudly unveiled today the latest evolution of its critically acclaimed Razer BlackWidow family, including two improved models, and one new edition.

   CARLSBAD, Calif., July 25, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Razer, the world leader in high-performance gaming hardware, proudly unveiled today at ChinaJoy 2012 the latest evolution of its critically acclaimed Razer BlackWidow family, including two improved models, and one new edition.

   The World's Best Mechanical Keyboard Series Just Got Better

   The first update in the mechanical keyboard series, known for its crisp, tactile actuation and gaming-grade responsiveness, is the Razer BlackWidow 2013, boasting heightened anti-ghosting and Razer Synapse 2.0 cloud technology. The Razer BlackWidow 2013 series' enhanced anti-ghosting supports up to 10 simultaneous key presses in game mode and additional improvements include an anti-fingerprint matte black finish surface. Adding increased efficiency and performance to the mix, Razer Synapse 2.0 automatically synchronizes user profile settings to a cloud server, allowing for customization of the keyboard and other related Razer products with a single login.

   Back and better than ever, the new BlackWidow Ultimate 2013 also showcases improved anti-ghosting supporting 10 simultaneous key presses in gaming mode, with soft pronounced tap and distinctive tactile feedback for gaming. An enriched backlight guarantees users will be able to spot keys, facilitating assaults against opponents with mechanical superiority in the darkest of conditions.

   Introducing the all-new BlackWidow Tournament Edition

   In addition to the updated BlackWidow and BlackWidow Ultimate, Razer proudly introduces the BlackWidow Tournament Edition, a tenkeyless mechanical keyboard in a simple, elegant form factor, perfect for portability and total ownage at tournaments. Stripped of its numpad, the Razer BlackWidow Tournament layout is light and highly compact making it perfect for gamers with limited desk space, or chooses to carry their own keyboard to LAN parties and tournaments.

   The BlackWidow 2013, BlackWidow Ultimate and BlackWidow Tournament all come in standard and Stealth versions. Stealth models feature brown mechanical switches for superior tactility and faster response that only requires an actuation force of 45 g and a reduced actuation of 2 mm.

   "We are really excited to release this improved Razer BlackWidow series," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, president of Razer USA. "Gamers continue to get the most precise and superior mechanical key infrastructure ever designed in a keyboard, but the new and improved BlackWidow series comes with improved functionalities providing an unfair advantage you can literally feel."

   About the Razer BlackWidow Ultimate 2013

   The latest edition of Razer BlackWidow Ultimate now features green backlighting and an anti-fingerprint matte black finish so not only can you feel, but also see the difference as you win with this ultimate mechanical gaming keyboard. The Razer BlackWidow Ultimate is also equipped with improved anti-ghosting which supports up to 10 simultaneous key presses in gaming mode, allowing gamers to destroy the competition with as many attacks and skills as there are fingers on their hands, and have them all registered accurately in-game.

   Price: US $139.99 / EU €139.99

   Availability:  Razerzone.com – August 2012  Worldwide – August 2012

   Product features:

   Full mechanical keys with 50 g actuation force  1000 Hz ultrapolling  Fully programmable keys with on-the-fly macro recording  10 key anti-ghosting  Razer Synapse 2.0 enabled  Individually backlit keys  Gaming mode option  5 additional dedicated macro keys  Audio-out/mic-in jacks  USB pass-through  Braided fiber cable  Approximate Size: 475 mm/18.72 in. (Width) x 171 mm/6.74 in. (Height) x 20 mm/0.79 in. (Depth)  Approximate Weight: 1500 g /3.31 lbs.

 
