
 
Zanily enough, nearly three full years have passed since Razer first introduced what would eventually become one of its best-selling gaming mice, so it goes without saying that the aging DeathAdder was due for an update. For those looking for a clean cut, straight-up gaming mouse to use between the hours of 10PM and 5:30AM, this revamped critter might just fit the bill. The biggest change is the inclusion of a 3.5G 3500dpi infrared sensor and a tangle-free braided cable, and fans of the existing design will greatly appreciate the fact that it's essentially the same (externally, of course). It's still not ambidextrous in nature (sorry, lefties), but you will find on-the-fly sensitivity adjustments, five independently programmable buttons and all the blue glow your retinas can handle. It should be available to order momentarily for $59.99 (US) / €59.99 (Europe).




Show full PR text
 RAZER REVAMPS DEATHADDER GAMING MOUSE WITH WORLD'S MOST PRECISE INFRARED TRACKING SENSORMajor upgrades under the hood for one of Razer's best-selling gaming miceCarlsbad, Calif. – September 24, 2009 – Razer™, the world's leading manufacturer of high-end precision gaming and lifestyle peripherals, is pleased to announce the long awaited update to the Razer DeathAdder™. Newly upgraded with a state-of-the-art 3.5G 3500dpi infrared sensor and tangle-free braided cable, the Razer DeathAdder maintains its legendary right-handed ergonomic form factor and rock solid build quality that made it famous. With these new upgrades, the Razer DeathAdder has been equipped with the world's most precise infrared sensor to date – trumping the competition yet again."The DeathAdder is undoubtedly one of Razer's best selling gaming mice," says Robert "Razerguy" Krakoff, President of Razer. "To date, the Razer DeathAdder has served the gaming community for a good 3 years and with all the advances in sensor technology, we put our sensor scientists and engineers to task to imbue it with the most precise infrared sensor in the world – but at the same time maintain the specially designed form factor that gamers have come to know and love."About the Razer DeathAdder™The new Razer DeathAdder is an upgraded replacement for the original and is now equipped with the ultra-precise 3500dpi Razer Precision™ 3.5G infrared sensor and tangle-free braided fiber cable. The Razer DeathAdder utilizes a right-handed ergonomic design to provide optimum comfort for intensive and extended game play. Its 3500dpi Razer Precision™ 3.5G infrared sensor provides gamers with 4x more precision than a standard 800 dpi mouse. The 1000Hz Ultrapolling™ response time of 1ms delivers instantaneous execution, giving gamers the competitive edge over opponents with faster communication between the Razer DeathAdder and the computer.The Razer DeathAdder maintains all of its competitive features, including its five independently programming Hyperesponse™ buttons, On-The-Fly Sensitivity™ adjustment, Always-On™ mode and Zero-acoustic Ultraslick Teflon™ feet. All of these lead to a superior, elevated gaming experience.Razer DeathAdder™COST: US: $59.99, Europe: €59.99AVAILABILITY:Razerzone.com – 24 SeptemberIn Stores – Late September Features·   Ergonomic right-handed design * 3500dpi Razer Precision™ 3.5G infrared sensor·   1000Hz Ultrapolling™ / 1ms responseTechnical Specifications   o 3500dpi Razer Precision™ 3.5G infrared sensor   o Ergonomic right-handed design   o 1000Hz Ultrapolling™ / 1ms response   o Five independently programmable Hyperesponse™ buttons   o On-The-Fly Sensitivity™ adjustment   o Always-On™ mode   o Ultra-Large non-slip buttons   o 16-bit ultra-wide data path   o 60–120 inches per second and 15g of acceleration   o Zero-Acoustic Ultraslick™ Teflon® feet   o Gold-Plated USB connector   o Seven-Foot, lightweight, braided fiber cable   o Approx. size in mm: 128(L) x 70(W) x 42.5(H)

