
 Razer looks to be the latest getting into the Diablo III-themed peripheral game with a special version of the Naga Hex, even if it won't mention the click-and-slash title by name. The Wraith Red edition keeps the same six mechanically-driven side buttons as the original, but drapes the top shell and lights in an infernal red. It's otherwise functionally similar to the Razer-green Naga Hex we had mixed feelings about last month. Gamers who like what it offers don't have to wait for Blizzard's action role-playing game to show, as it's shipping now in the US for $80 and should be ready for the rest of the world by the end of the spring.



  Show full PR text   SEND EVIL BACK FROM WHENCE IT CAME WITH THE RAZER NAGA HEX
  Razer launches the Razer Naga Hex – Wraith Red Edition to fuel your blood frenzy in hack n' slash games
 
  Carlsbad, Calif. – 1st May, 2012 - Razer, the world leader in high performance gaming hardware, is excited to launch the Razer Naga Hex Wraith Red edition gaming mouse. The best weapon to cut down hordes of monsters crawling out from the depths of evil is now available to gamers in an all-new blood red color.
  Made especially for hack n' slash, MOBA and Action RPG games, the Razer Naga Hex Wraith Red edition sports the same devastating 6 mechanical side buttons as the original Razer Naga Hex. Bind a hotbar of skills or inventory items to rapidly unleash hell on boss runs and maintain effective crowd control as enemies attack from all sides. Having the 6 crucial commands so close to your thumb allows for rapid actuations and enemies dead faster than they can react.
  The Razer Naga Hex's mechanical buttons are also highly durable and responsive, capable of registering up to a staggering 250 clicks per minute – perfect for the frantic hyper-clicking of hack 'n' slash RPGs.
  The Razer Naga Hex Wraith Red edition is available alongside the original Green edition and either will be your perfect companion for hack n' slash victory.
 
  About the Razer Naga Hex Gaming Mouse
 
   The Razer Naga Hex is perfectly suited for pro-gamers and fans of the MOBA/action-RPG game genres. It is primed with six mechanical thumb buttons for the exact number of controls necessary to suit the user interfaces of those games. Bind your skill-bar or inventory grid to the six buttons for faster, more comfortably efficient access to your full range of powers as you take the competition down.
  Price: $79.99
  Availability:  Razerzone.com – Available Now  USA – Available Now  Worldwide – Q2 2012
  Product features:
   6 MOBA/action-RPG optimized mechanical thumb buttons  11 total programmable buttons  Special switches in buttons for up to 250 clicks per minute  10 million click life cycle  Ergonomic curved design  Razer Synapse 2.0  5600dpi Razer Precision 3.5G Laser Sensor   For more information on the new Razer Naga, please visit www.razerzone.com/hex
 
