



	Razer's Sixense electromagnetic orb threw around plenty of intradimensional portals at CES, but sadly the company wouldn't let us play. Today at E3 2011, however, we were finally handed the reins. Those twin sticks are impressively responsive and accurate in the specially-made Sixense levels for Portal 2, and it's a heck of a lot of fun to physically stretch out blocks, reposition portals with a twist of the wrist and physically throw objects through the air. However, we got the impression that outside of games particularly designed to work with the sticks, it might be a different story. Waving the right stick around works pretty adequately for controlling the mouse cursor, but when we exited out to Windows, the sticks didn't work -- apparently, controls have to be mapped separately in a desktop client to work with the OS and other games or programs. We don't think many PC gamers will mind the six-foot range and wired tether here, but it does restrict those hoping to kick back with a game on the big screen.



	We also got to try Razer's new "4G" dual-sensor technology, which will be rolling out to new Mamba and Imperator gaming mice right away -- it pairs a laser sensor and an optical sensor for more precision when lifting mice off a surface for advanced first-person shooter mousing techniques, not to mention 6400dpi tracking. We took it for a spin with a handy Razer Mamba, and we immediately fell in love -- whether we flung the mouse around haphazardly, furiously swiped it across the mousepad or simply tried for a quick headshot, it kept up with us. The cursor does creep if you lift and drop very rapidly, though, and without an original Mamba to compare with, it's hard to say just how much better it was. Thankfully, that won't be much of a factor in your purchasing decision: you'll pay the exact same $130 for the Mamba or $80 for the Imperator when they hit shelves this month. PR after the break.

Update: Razer points out that you can in fact use the controller in Windows, enabling mouse movement and toggling the cursor with button 4, and left and right clicking with the right trigger and button 1.

 		Show full PR text   RAZER™ UNVEILS WORLD'S MOST ADVANCED GAMING-GRADE TRACKING TECHNOLOGY 			Razer™ announces proprietary 4G Dual Sensor technology built into next generation editions of the Razer Mamba and Razer Imperator 			Carlsbad, Calif. – June 8th, 2011 – Razer™, the world's leading high-end precision gaming brand, once again sets the bar for the absolute best in gaming technology with the introduction of their all-new 4G Dual Sensor System. Taking advantage of both an optical and a laser sensor for enhanced tracking accuracy, this sensor system was built to deliver the next level competitive edge in Razer's line-up of highly popular professional gaming mice, starting with the newest incarnations of the Razer Mamba and Razer Imperator. 			Back in 1998, Razer pioneered the world's first true gaming mouse and since then has been at the forefront of developing the most cutting-edge sensors, always staying ahead of the competition. Whilst all other mice in the industry performed at under 500dpi, Razer mice were firing at four times that, at 2000dpi and up. The tracking precision on any Razer mouse was and still is unrivalled. 			Razer is home to the greatest team of dedicated scientists and engineers, one eye ceaselessly trained on the prize to continually produce the greatest technology the world has ever seen or felt. With that goal in mind, and the validation of the top pro-gamers in the world, Razer is proud to unleash the next generation sensor for exceptional gaming mice performance. 			The 4G Dual Sensor System combines the best of both worlds - an optical and a laser sensor, to deliver twice the level of tracking precision. By allowing calibration of mouse to the surface you're using, it is primed to optimally track your swipes more rapidly and accurately for the best in-game performance you can actually feel. It also lets you determine the cutoff height for tracking to stop when the mouse is lifted from the surface. This is especially important for gamers who pick up their mice to accommodate wide swiping motions, such as low sensitivity FPS gamers. 			"I'm really excited by the leaps and bounds we've come in developing the world's most precise and advanced sensor technology. We worked closely with many pro-gamers to fine-tune the sensor under intense gaming conditions, ensuring it achieved a level of tracking accuracy that met their high-level demands." said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, President, Razer USA. "The mouse is core to any gaming setup. It's where our roots are, when we pioneered competitive gaming and developed the world's first gaming mouse. Today, it is still one of the key areas for our R&D and it's quite exciting to bring such a significant sensor evolution to gamers worldwide." 			With a slew of new features like two sensors in one system, surface calibration, lift-off distance customization, and ten times faster surface detection than any sensor from the previous generation, the 4G Dual Sensor System in the new Razer Mamba and Razer Imperator reaffirm these gaming mice as unrivalled benchmarks for weapons of superior competitive-grade performance. 			"I must say, I'm quite impressed," said Jan "mouz|Bishop" Koch, veteran Counter-Strike: Source™ player, mousesports. "I have never had a nice lift-off feeling like this." 			"No matter which mat I've tested the new sensor with, the tracking was super precise and the cutoff very accurate and immediate," said Maciej "srs|av3k" Krzykowski, Quake Live™ legend, Serious Gaming. 			"Anyone who uses the Razer Mamba or Razer Imperator is getting an undeniable competitive edge when these mice's new sensor delivers a crazy high level of tracking precision, said Kim "MYM|SaSe" Hammar, StarCraft II™ champion of The Road to Korea tournament in Sweden. 			About the Razer Mamba			The flagship pride of the Razer brand, the Razer Mamba harnesses everything that the greatest gaming mouse would need to take gamers to the stratosphere of win. Featuring a 2.4Ghz gaming-grade wireless technology for unhindered swiping freedom, an all-new 6400dpi 4G Dual Sensor System for blisteringly accurate tracking and customization of lift-off tracking distance, and longer battery life, the Razer Mamba makes legends of gamers who dare to strive for immortality. 			Price: US $129.99 / EU €129.99 			Availability:			Razerzone.com – June 2011			Worldwide – July 2011 			Product features:			· Gaming-grade wireless technology			· 6400dpi 4G Dual Sensor System			· Dual mode wired /wireless functionality			· 1000Hz Ultrapolling /1ms response time			· Multi-color lighting			· Up to 200 inches per second* /50g acceleration			· Approximate size: 128mm x 70mm x 42.5mm			· Battery Life: 16 hours (continuous gaming usage)  			For more information about the Razer Mamba, please visit www.razerzone.com/mamba 			About the Razer Imperator			With its special contoured design, the Razer Imperator delivers exceptional ergonomics that reduces strain during extended gameplay. Now with an all-new 6400dpi 4G Dual Sensor System for blisteringly accurate tracking and customization of lift-off tracking distance, and an improved rubberized side grip for aggressive mousing movements. The Razer Imperator provides maximum comfort and control so you can take on the gaming world fearlessly. 			Price: US $79.99 / EU €79.99 			Availability:			Razerzone.com – June 2011			Worldwide – July 2011 			Product features:			· 6400dpi 4G Dual Sensor System			· Rubberized contoured thumb grip for added control			· Ergonomic right-handed design			· Adjustable side buttons			· Razer Synapse Onboard Memory			· Up to 200 inches per second* /50g acceleration			· Seven independently programmable Hyperesponse buttons			· On-the-Fly Sensitivity adjustment			· Approx. size in mm; 123(l) x 71(w) x 42(h)  			For more information about the Razer Imperator, please visit www.razerzone.com/imperator 			About the Razer Group:			Razer™ is more than just the world's leading brand in high-end precision gaming products, perpetually defining the gaming and technology space. Founded in 1998 in Carlsbad, California, Razer is driven by the ceaseless pursuit for absolute precision and high usability in a distinctive, aesthetic design that will give gamers the edge they demand. With labs and offices in seven cities around the world, Razer dedicates user interface research and development to bring cutting-edge technology to each and every product. We live by our motto: For Gamers. By Gamers.™ 
 