
 Quite frankly, readers, it looks like Audiovox is out of control. It's already deluged us with RCA branded camcorders, digiframes, and iPod soundsystems, and now it looks like the company is entering the e-book game. The RCA-branded Lexi e-reader sports a 6-inch (800 x 600) 16-level grayscale display, 2GB storage, and a battery life of some 7,000 page turns. Other features include ezTurn functionality (for the south paw in your life) and something called Auto-Magic content synchronization. As for content, this bad boy ships with Barnes & Nobles Desktop Reader for purchasing, managing, and, yes, reading the latest Dan Brown bestseller (some sort of sinister conspiracy, we believe). But that ain't all! Adobe Reader Mobile is also included, making it interoperable and fully compatible with PDF and ePub formats. Look for it in May for $229.99. PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textAudiovox Launches E-Reader with Content Exclusively from Barnes & NobleConsumers will have access to over 1 Million titles through BN.comLAS VEGAS, Jan. 6 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- International CES, Booth 11006-10506 -- Audiovox Corporation (Nasdaq: VOXX) today announced that it has entered the e-Reader market with a new line to be sold under the RCA brand. The product launch will be supported by e-content delivered through Barnes & Noble, the world's premier destination for e-books, magazines and newspapers.Barnes & Noble has over a million e-titles available as well as an expansive -- and expanding -- library of periodicals. An e-commerce storefront provided by BN.com will facilitate the purchase and transaction process of e-content, delivery of e-content and the maintenance of a digital library of consumer purchases.The Audiovox e-Reader will be called Lexi(TM) and it is one of the most advanced and easiest models to use on the market today with a six-inch E Ink® display with 800 x 600 pixels of resolution, 16-level gray scale, 2GB of storage and a rechargeable battery that delivers 7,000 page turns. Lexi also features ezTurn functionality for either left or right handed page turning and has Auto-Magic content synchronization, which simplifies the loading of the device and eliminates the need to drag and drop files.Tom Malone, president, Audiovox Electronics Corporation, noted, "We believe the key to success in the e-book market is the combination of high quality readers with unique features coupled with a comprehensive catalogue of digital content. Our e-reader will meet that challenge and the exclusive agreement we have with Barnes & Noble will solidify our place in the market and insure that our customers will have a virtually unlimited source of quality reading content from the world's largest bookseller."RCA's Lexi will ship preloaded with Barnes & Nobles Desktop Reader Windows/MAC software for reading, purchasing and managing content and it will also contain Adobe® Reader® Mobile technology, making it interoperable and fully compatible with PDF and ePub formats. The product is expected to hit retailers in May 2010 and has an anticipated MSRP of $229.99.About AudiovoxAudiovox (Nasdaq: VOXX) is a recognized leader in the marketing of automotive entertainment, vehicle security and remote start systems, consumer electronics products and consumer electronics accessories. The company is number one in mobile video and places in the top ten of almost every category that it sells. Among the lines marketed by Audiovox are its mobile electronics products including mobile video systems, FLO TV, Mobile Video + PlayStation 2 systems, auto sound systems including satellite radio, vehicle security and remote start systems; consumer electronics products such as MP3 players, digital camcorders, DVRs, Internet radios, clock radios, portable DVD players, multimedia products like digital picture frames and home and portable stereos; consumer electronics accessories such as indoor/outdoor antennas, connectivity products, headphones, speakers, wireless solutions, remote controls, power & surge protectors and media cleaning & storage devices; Energizer®-branded products for rechargeable batteries and battery packs for camcorders, cordless phones, digital cameras and DVD players, as well as for power supply systems, automatic voltage regulators and surge protectors. The company markets its products through an extensive distribution network that includes power retailers, 12-volt specialists, mass merchandisers and an OE sales group. The company markets products under the Audiovox, RCA, Jensen, Acoustic Research, Energizer, Advent, Code Alarm, TERK, Prestige and SURFACE brands. For additional information, visit our Web site at www.audiovox.com.Follow Audiovox on Twitter: Twitter.com/ RCA_Cait and Twitter.com/VOXinVegas.Become a fan of our Facebook Pages: Audiovox on Facebook and RCA on Facebook.Subscribe to our channel: Audiovox on YouTube.About Barnes & NobleBarnes & Noble, Inc. (NYSE: BKS), the world's largest bookseller and a Fortune 500 company, operates 775 bookstores in 50 states. Barnes & Noble College Booksellers, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Barnes & Noble, also operates 636 college bookstores serving nearly 4 million students and over 250,000 faculty members at colleges and universities across the United States. Barnes & Noble is the nation's top bookseller brand for the sixth year in a row, as determined by a combination of the brand's performance on familiarity, quality, and purchase intent; the top bookseller in quality for the second year in a row and the number two retailer in trust, according to the EquiTrend® Brand Study by Harris Interactive®. Barnes & Noble conducts its online business through Barnes & Noble.com (www.bn.com), one of the Web's largest e-commerce sites, which also features hundreds of thousands of titles in its eBookstore (www.bn.com/ebooks). Customers can buy and read eBooks on a wide range of platforms, including the iPhone and iPod touch, BlackBerry® smartphones, as well as most Windows® and Mac® laptops or full-sized desktop computers.
 