
 We'd heard murmurs about Vdio being eventually launched over in the United Kingdom, but, aside from that, details still remained relatively scarce. Well, now we have official word that Rdio's planning to make it its own platform for streaming à la carte video content -- and, frankly, it's no surprise given that Vdio's creator, Janus Friis, is the music service's own co-founder. For starters, Vdio will offer an array of on-demand movies and TV series, including new productions such as Zero Dark Thirty, Life of Pi, Skyfall and many more, plus there are also small-screen hits like The Walking Dead, Breaking Bad and Homeland-- these shows, similar to how they operate on other services, will be available to view the day after they air. The only caveat is Vdio's currently only open to Rdio Unlimited subscribers in the US and UK, and mum's the word on when, or if, Rdio plans to bring its new video streaming service to a broader audience on the web.



  Show full PR text   Introducing Vdio
   When we launched in 2010, our ambition was to design the best experience for the watch-and-listen-anywhere, share-everything, stream-it-now era of content distribution. We started with Rdio and built the most beautiful way to discover, listen, and share an endless stream of music – 18 million songs. Today, we're previewing our next step on that journey, Vdio, a beautiful new way to buy, rent, and share your favorite movies and TV shows with your friends, in real-time. We're offering Rdio Unlimited subscribers a special preview of Vdio, right now, right [here][1].

   The first thing you'll notice about Vdio is that it's designed to solve the "what to watch" problem. It's not just that we've got amazing content, but that the experience is now geared to get you from searching to watching faster. We're introducing the notion of Sets ­- playlists for TV shows and movies - so anyone can make and share lists of their favorites, making it easier than ever to discover new stuff. Or, you can just check out what your friends are watching in the moment and jump in. Beyond that, Vdio has the beautiful design and social features that people love about Rdio, with plenty more to come.

   So, what exactly can you watch on Vdio? Everything from the newest releases to cult classics and a whole lot in between from the major studios and networks. Right now, you can watch Skyfall, Life of Pi, Zero Dark Thirty, Lincoln, and The Hobbit and thousands of other hit movies. You can also watch zombie heads explode on The Walking Dead, tune in to the Dowager's latest quip on Downton Abbey, death-grip your armchair during Homeland, or marvel at the jaw-dropping perfection of Breaking Bad. TV shows are available the day after they air and you can subscribe to seasons at a discount. We plan on adding new titles and bonus content daily, so be sure to check back regularly to see what's new.

   For the moment, Vdio is only available to Rdio Unlimited subscribers in the US and UK. To get you rolling, we're giving all Rdio Unlimited subscribers a $25 credit to use on Vdio (same goes for anyone who [subscribes][2] in the next 60 days). Vdio currently works on the Web and iPad, with other devices and platforms in the plan.

   So, find a comfy chair, grab your iPad or PC, and catch up on the TV episodes you missed last season or watch Daniel Day-Lewis channel Abraham Lincoln, brilliantly ­– all on us, of course.

 
