
 Listen enough to Rdio on the desktop and you'll know your friends' taste in music when they're fellow subscribers. As of a fresh update to the iOS app, you'll also appreciate any musical kinship while on the road. iPhone users receive an overhauled playback view that shows just which friends have listened to that favorite album or playlist. They'll also have a more pleasing view in mid-play that blows up the album art and downplays the interface. There's no word on similar treatments for the Android app, but the odds have increased that you'll at least have the web fallback for social listening: Rdio has quietly added web streaming for Austria, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania and Mexico, bringing desktop access to a total of 24 countries.



  Show full PR text   Rdio Expands to Seven New Markets, Furthering Digital Music Service's Bold Global Growth
   SAN FRANCISCO, March 12, 2013 /PRNewswire/ --

   Rdio Launches in Mexico, Ireland, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, and Austria and Extends Offering in Brazil, with Free Music Streaming For Up To Six Months, No Credit Card Required

   Rdio (http://www.rdio.com), the digital music service founded by Janus Friis, one of the creators of Skype, has expanded into seven new territories.

   Now, music fans in Mexico, Ireland, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, and Austria can sign up and activate free streaming at rdio.com, without entering a credit card, then dive right into Rdio's library of over 18 million songs. With up to six months of ad-free web streaming available upon sign-up, music lovers in these markets can organically discover a great number of artists and bands.

   In addition, Rdio has announced that the extended free web offer is now available to Brazil - currently the streaming service's third biggest market and its fastest growing territory in terms new users. By extending the free web offer in this vibrant market, Rdio is looking to reward Brazil's passion for a quality music discovery experience and encourage new users to try the service.

   "Rdio is the best product on the market for discovering music," says Drew Larner, CEO of Rdio, "and we will continue to improve that discovery experience by developing smarter tools to surface artists and songs our users love. By opening the social circle to seven new international markets, we're making Rdio an increasingly global way to play, discover, and share music."

   Rdio's latest expansion will allow listeners from the seven new markets to:

   Choose from over 18 million songs, without ads  Listen free on the web for up to six months, depending on how many songs they stream  See and hear what their favorite artists are listening to  Discover new music by following friends and tastemakers  Create, curate, and collaborate on playlists  Share their life soundtrack in real time on Facebook and Twitter

   A meter at the top of user profile pages shows users how much free music they have remaining each month. Users can also try Rdio for free on a 14-day mobile trial.

   It's easy to upgrade to one of Rdio's flexible subscription plans for unlimited streams and access to Rdio's acclaimed mobile apps. Plan options include:

   Rdio Web: £4.99 a month. Unlimited Web streaming  Rdio Unlimited: £9.99 a month. Unlimited Web and mobile streaming, as well as wireless syncing to listen offline

   Music fans can start listening free at rdio.com.

   Notes to Editors

   Rdio is the ground-breaking digital music service that is reinventing the way people discover, listen to, and share music. With on-demand access to over 18 million songs, Rdio connects people with music and makes it easy to search for and instantly play any song, album, artist, or playlist without ever hearing a single ad. Discover what friends, people with similar tastes, recording artists, and more are listening to in real time and share across Twitter and Facebook. Build a digital music collection that's available everywhere - on the web, in-home or in-car, on tablets or mobile phones, and even offline.

   Launched in August 2010, Rdio is headquartered in San Francisco and was founded by Janus Friis, one of the creators of Skype. Currently available in 24 countries, Rdio is funded by Janus Friis through his investment entities, Atomico, and Skype. For more information and to sign up, visit http://www.rdio.com.

 
