
       Ad-free, on-demand streaming is coming your way, folks -- and it won't cost you a dime. Rdio has announced the launch of its free service that will give you access to a library of over 12 million songs without being interrupted by pesky Spotify-esque advertisements. The no cost subscription won't require you to give up your credit card info either, but, you will get a "customized meter" that will let you know how much music you can access monthly. No word yet on how much time you'll have, but any amount of time with the Radiohead discography is sure to be of use. You'll be able to listen via the web or desktop app without grabbing a paid membership, but if you want Rdio's tunes on your phone, it'll cost you $9.99 per month. Also, from what we've heard, this is only available in the US -- for now. If you're looking for the full rundown then hit the PR below for all the details.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Rdio Launches First Ever Free, On-Demand Music Streaming - Without Ads No Downloads, No Credit Cards Needed to Access More Than 12 Million Songs Instantly for Free 		SAN FRANCISCO, October 6, 2011 –Rdio, the digital music service created by the founders of Skype, today announced the launch of the first ever free, on-demand music offering with no ads. In a move that will redefine the digital music space, US users who sign up to Rdio on the web will now have access to full song streams for free while discovering and sharing music from a growing catalog of over 12 million songs. Only an email address or Facebook account is required to sign up and no software downloads or credit card information is needed to start instantly listening to music. 		With Rdio's free access, now anyone can share free, on-demand music with their friends. And with Rdio's full integration into Facebook's Open Graph platform, anyone on Facebook can instantly share and play any song in the News Feed, Ticker, or Timeline. 		"We're proud to be the only service in the US to offer everyone the opportunity to listen to millions of songs for free, without the distraction of a single ad," said Drew Larner, CEO of Rdio. "With free access to Rdio, now everyone has the freedom to discover what our fans already know – we're the best option for listening to and discovering music." 		Free access users can experience Rdio ad-free through their web browser, Rdio's native desktop apps for Mac & Windows and take full advantage of popular Rdio features including: 		·Stream full songs on-demand		·See and hear what your friends and other influencers are listening to in real-time		·Share on Twitter and Facebook		·Create custom and collaborative playlists		·Build a personalized profile and digital music collection		·Get music recommendations based on your tastes		·Listen to artist and label radio stations 		Free access users will see a customized meter at the top of their profile page indicating how much free music they have each month. At any time, they can choose to upgrade to one of Rdio's flexible subscription plans for unlimited music streams and Rdio's mobile apps. Plan options include: 		·Rdio Web, $4.99 per month: unlimited access to millions of songs from a browser or desktop		·Rdio Unlimited, $9.99 per month: unlimited web streaming and unlimited mobile streaming on smartphones, iPad, Sonos and Roku, as well as wireless synching to listen offline		·Unlimited Family: 2 Unlimited subscriptions for $17.99 per month or 3 Unlimited subscriptions for $22.99 per month 		Rdio free access is available immediately at www.rdio.com.
 