
 
 LeVar Burton has to take a moment. He pauses, dabs his eyes with a tissue, taking it all in: the washed-out white room, over-exposed by the sun, filled with journalists, industry reps and friends in rows of folding chairs, red, orange, yellow, green and blue. Large balloons hang from the corners of the room, dressed up like hot air balloons, carrying small, empty baskets. A guitar sits next to an amp off the corner of the stage while the Reading Rainbow logo beams on a flatscreen monitor, largely unchanged since its heyday a quarter-century ago. Burton, too, appears mostly unchanged since those days, aside from closer-cropped hair, more neatly manicured facial hair and a smart, mustard suit jacket. 
   Reading Rainbow launches iPad app, we go hands-on  The Engadget Show 34: LeVar Burton and weather balloons over Alaska There's plenty to be emotional about, of course, hitting the stage on the tail of an introduction by producer Mark Wolfe, who calls Burton, "my best friend." The return of Reading Rainbow - now in the form of an iPad app - has been a long time coming, the beloved children's series having been largely MIA since being pulled from the airwaves in 2009, after a 26-year run. "This is two years in the making," Burton begins in his familiarly gentle cadence as we sit down for an interview roughly an hour later, "and I'm really just overwhelmed with the response. It's like making a movie. You're just so close to it and you sometimes lose perspective, you can't see the forest for the trees, that sort of thing. There's so much that's gone into it, so much work, so much sweat, so much blood."
 A lot, certainly, has gone into the launch, Burton singling out theme song composer Steve Horelick and singer Tina Fabrique in the audience. "It's my first time meeting her in-person," he explains, extending a hand to bring her up on stage. "Butterfly in the sky," she begins, as though not a single day had passed in the last two and a half decades that she didn't wake up singing that line. "I can go twice as high," Burton joins in. By "take a look, it's in a book," nearly everyone in attendance adds to the chorus. It's a surreal sight placed up against the standard fare of tech press conferences, where bloggers elbow one another to shoot tablets on stands behind bulletproof plexiglass, and before the crowd finishes singing "a Reading Rainbow," Burton's eyes aren't the only misty ones in the house. 


 
 After the song, Burton offers up a "one more thing" to the crowd, staff members opening up the back wall to reveal the second half of the room, as a man picks up the guitar at the side of the stage, for an instrumental jam. Several iPads sit atop kiosks, spread out across the sun-drenched white room. In one corner is a giant sheet cake, designed by Cake Boss Buddy Valastro, a rainbow leaping from an open book into an edible iPad. At the center the room, a culturally diverse group of children sit around a table on rainbow-colored beanbag chairs, flitting through the new app. There's not a sour note during the whole event, even as the iPad conks out a moment in the middle of the demo, Burton (né La Forge) playing it off with a "I'm not the chief engineer, I just play one on TV."
  My mother was an English teacher. I feel it's pretty much the family business. Burton's longstanding commitment to literacy, naturally, goes a fair bit deeper. "My mother was an English teacher," Burton tells me. "I feel it's pretty much the family business." The job of hosting began in 1983, with Burton, then best-known for the role of Kunta Kinte in the Emmy-winning ABC miniseries adaptation of Alex Haley's Roots, at the helm of a new sort of PBS kids show. The show's segments, narrated readings, with slow pans across the page, book reviews from kid readers and "field trips" to exciting locales, would all become Reading Rainbow signatures.
 
 It would go on to help teach a generation to read, those who were weaned on the early days of the program are now well into their adult years. Writers and teachers often take the opportunity to thank Burton for his role in their early education - something I take a moment to do, toward the end of our interview. It's the most someone in such a position could ever possibly hope for: a show with a real and lasting impact on its viewers. It's also equally nerve-wracking. After two and a half decades, how do you adapt one of the most beloved properties in children's television?
 "The idea of translating that into a new experience for kids was a little daunting," admits Burton. "Because it would have been so easy to fail to meet the expectations because people are so familiar with the brand and the brand is a hallmark in the childhood of a whole generation of folks." And if Burton needed a reminder during the presentation just how elemental the program was to those covering the event, he got it in the form of a reporter who asked if the "book reports" from the show were coming to the app (they are). 


