
Google Glass is a lot of things, but it's hardly a superstar when it comes to the world of sports. Though we've seen proof it is at least water resistant, it doesn't feel particularly durable and isn't entirely well-suited to wearing while, say, sweating profusely during a lengthy climb on a road bike. Recon Instruments has what it thinks is a solution: the Jet. It's a pair of sporting sunglasses with an integrated, Android-powered display that could make things like running and cycling far more exciting -- or at least far more information-packed. Join us after the break for our impressions.





Recon is known for its MOD ski goggle inserts and the Jet is very much an evolution of that same technology, but built into a sunglasses frame -- and with some significant upgrades. This guy rocks a dual-core processor, enabling better functionality, but more importantly has an amazing array of sensors and connectivity options including GPS, accelerometer, thermometer, WiFi, Bluetooth and even ANT+. This means it'll be able to suck in data from a variety of sensors capturing things like heart rate and even cycling cadence and power.


The potential applications are limited, and cycling Strava addicts in particular will probably be salivating at the potential. Indeed, the idea of getting a real-time display of speed, power and heart rate while training is quite compelling. The device we tried out right now is very early and frankly a little flimsy feeling, and the display is a little hard to see and not as easily adjustable as with Glass, but this is a pre-production prototype. The removable battery is said to last six hours, the idea being you could carry a spare with you and swap it in should you want to track yourself through your first full century ride. Or, you know, all the way down to the ice cream shop.

Jet is slated to ship sometime before the end of the year. No formal pricing has been announced, but expect it to fall in the $400 to $600 range. That'll put it out of reach for casual trainers, but for those willing to drop a couple-grand on a crank with an integrated power meter, it seems very palatable indeed.

Myriam Joire and Brad Molen contributed to this report.

