
  As if capturing your downhill plunge in full HD and tracking your positioning coordinates wasn't enough, Recon Instruments and Contour are teaming up to make their respective, extreme slope accessories work in tandem. Slated for release in the coming weeks, the Camera Connectivity app for MOD Live allows feeds sent from a Contour+ or ContourGPS helmet cam to display on the goggles' 14-inch virtual 428 x 240 display, giving gnar enthusiasts easy access to recording and settings options. But that's not the only cross-tech handshake being announced here. The company also plans to make the various info (altitude, speed, temperature, etc.) collected by its Android-powered mask available to iPhone 4S users, although you'll have to wait until year-end for that feature to launch. So, if you fancy yourself a connoisseur of the powdery white stuff or even the ski slope version of Bond, be sure to pack these Q-approved goodies and download that app before your next trek to Vail. Official PR after the break.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Recon Announces Partnership with Contour, Launches Camera Connectivity App and iOS Compatibility for 2012/2013 Snow Season at SIA   VANCOUVER – January 26, 2012 – Recon Instruments, award winning innovator of Micro Optics Display (MOD) technology for action sport athletes, today launched the Camera Connectivity application for MOD Live and announced a partnership with Contour, leader in making it easy to capture and share epic moments with hands- free video. The company is also excited to confirm MOD Live compatibility with iPhone 4s and above versions, in time for the 2012/2013 snow season. MOD Live provides skiers and riders with a variety of instant information, like speed, location, jump analytics, temperature, altitude and more.  "The Camera Connectivity app transforms our display into a view finder, allowing skiers and riders to setup shots without taking off their goggles or gloves," said Darcy Hughes, Chief Marketing Officer Recon Instruments. "We are thrilled to be launching with Contour and their Bluetooth enabled, high definition video cameras. We are equally excited to confirm the MOD Live will be compatible with iPhone 4s and beyond in time for winter 2012/2013."  The new Camera Connectivity app is compatible with the Contour+ and ContourGPS hands-free HD cameras, using the cameras' built-in Bluetooth capabilities and turns the MOD Live's virtual 14 inch display into a viewfinder to showcase what the camera sees. The app will also allow users to start/stop recording and adjust camera settings in real-time, as well as monitor remaining battery life and available memory.  "Contour is excited to partner with Recon Instruments, expanding our connectivity offerings," said Contour CEO, Marc Barros. "Building an ecosystem of compatible products such as MOD Live, makes it even easier for people to capture and share their epic moments which aligns with what we're all about!"  The MOD Live currently ships with several industry first applications including: Jump, Buddy Tracking, Smartphone Connectivity, a Navigation app pre-loaded with the largest database of trail maps in the world, and Music Playlist Mode. The official Contour Camera Connectivity app is available for download in coming weeks from HQOnline.reconinstruments.com.  The Recon Instruments MOD Live is available for $399.99 at www.reconinstruments.com, and the Contour GPS and Contour+ hands-free HD cameras are available at www.contour.com for $299.99 and $499.99 respectively.  For additional information about Recon Instruments please visit www.reconinstruments.com or follow us at @Reconinstrument and facebook.com/reconinstruments.  For additional information about Contour+ and ContourGPS cameras please visit www.contour.com, Facebook.com/Contour or follow us at @Contour_cam.
 