
 

Like clockwork, Recon Instruments is choosing CES once again to launch its next functionality improvement for those futuristic GPS-enabled ski goggles that we first saw in 2010. This year's revelation is the impending launch (May 2012, to be precise) of a software development kit for the Android-based MOD Live -- a little diddy we sat down with a few months back. Moreover, there's soon to be support with the Polar WearLink+ transmitter with Bluetooth. The MOD Live near-eye device enables skiers and riders to see a hodgepodge of instant (and useful) information, and with an SDK on the way, the amount of available data is sure to increase. We're told that the outfit's working with "strategic partners" to bring specific apps to the table, where users will see things like 2D graphics at up to 30fps, location / speed / altitude registers, time / jump analytics and free fall detection. Head on past the break for the full PR, and go ahead and book yourself a trip to the arctic in May; something tells us Whitefish, Montana's going to be mostly green by then. 






 		Show full PR text  Recon Instruments Announces SDK for GPS Enabled Ski Goggles and Compatibility with Polar Heart Rate Monitor at CES 2012 		CES 2012 Innovation Award Honoree on display in North Hall Booth #2819 		LAS VEGAS – January 10, 2012 – Recon Instruments, award winning innovator of Micro Optics Display (MOD) technology for action sport athletes, is excited to announce a Software Development Kit (SDK) launch in May 2012 for the Android based MOD Live and compatibility with Polar WearLink®+ transmitter with Bluetooth®. The Android-powered MOD Live near eye device provides skiers and riders with a variety of instant information, and application developers with a unique opportunity. The company is currently working with strategic partners to develop apps for the MOD Live using a limited release SDK for Android. 		Developers using the Android SDK will be able to take advantage of MOD Live features like 2D graphics at up to 30 frames per second; Bluetooth connectivity; location, speed and altitude registers; skiing/snowboarding statistical registers like time, jump analytics, vertical and distance; synchronized sensor polling; free fall detection; and gravity, linear acceleration and rotation vector to create their application. 		"The Polar app is the first app created using the SDK for MOD Live," said Darcy Hughes, Chief Marketing Officer Recon Instruments. "The app transforms our display into a biometric reader that delivers an athlete's heart rate in real time while they ski or snowboard." 		The app allows the Polar WearLink®+ transmitter with Bluetooth® to communicate with the MOD Live via Bluetooth. The real time beats per minute (BPM) widget appears in the Recon Instruments' dashboard app, which also displays speed, temperature, and vertical on MOD Live's virtual 14 inch display. 		The MOD Live currently ships with several industry first applications including: Jump, Buddy Tracking, Smartphone Connectivity, a Navigation app pre-loaded with the largest database of trail maps in the world,and Music Playlist Mode. 		For additional information about Recon Instruments please visit www.reconinstruments.com or follow us at @Reconinstrument and facebook.com/reconinstruments.
 