
We know Glass comes with some snap-on shades, which is no doubt great when casually vlogging in the sun. If you're heading down a mountain, though, you're going to need something a little more like Recon Jet. You may know Recon Instruments from its line of technolicious HUD ski goggles, but Jet sees the firm leap into more casual (yet no less useful) eyewear. Inside you'll find a dual-core processor, WiFi, GPS, Ant+, Bluetooth and an HD camera, plus all the sensors you could want (altimeter, thermometer, accelerometer etc). Recon Jet comes with its own open platform (which typically has been based on Android), and will have some existing native apps (video streaming, Facebook integration, etc.) on display at Google I/O this week. Comparison with Mountain View's own product will be inevitable, but we're guessing that Recon hopes you'll leave Glass on your desk, while popping Jet on for the weekend.




Show full PR textRecon Instruments Reveals Recon Jet Heads-up Display Integrated with High-Performance SunglassesGroundbreaking Product Revealed at Google I/O

15th May 2013, San Francisco - Recon Instruments, the award winning technology company behind the world's first consumer Heads-up Display (HUD) for sports, is proud to be showing an early version of Recon Jet, their hotly anticipated high-performance HUD at Google I/O, Google's annual developer conference, which starts today.

Recon Jet delivers information instantly, effortlessly and unobtrusively via a microcomputer and high-resolution widescreen display. All this is mounted on a precision-engineered, fashionable pair of sunglasses on par with the best in the world.

Recon has pioneered the miniaturization of affordable wearable technology since launching their first product, for snowsports, three years ago. With Recon Jet, the company is launching a faster, smaller, and more powerful new platform. ReconJet includes: a dual core processor, dedicated graphics, Wi-Fi, ANT+, Bluetooth, GPS, HD camera, and a comprehensive suite of sensors. This makes Recon Jet a connected, standalone computing solution comparable in capability to a tablet or smartphone.

At Google I/O, Recon is demonstrating the open nature of their platform, showing native apps running on Recon Jet including live activity tracking, video streaming, web and smartphone connectivity and even Facebook integration. Recon's open SDK empowers developers to create native apps for any activity to run on Recon Jet. The company is already working with some of the top fitness companies and communities to develop on the platform.

Hamid Abdollahi, CTO of Recon Instruments said: "We are excited to be showingRecon Jet at Google I/O. Since we started the company in 2008, we have developed HUDs with a purpose; to relay instant, activity specific, user defined information effortlessly to the user's eye. This philosophy is inherent in Jet which marries a powerful open platform, a widescreen display and high-performance polarized optics to offer what we believe is a great value proposition."For ongoing information on Recon Jet, visit www.reconinstruments.com/jet


