
 Redbox Instant is almost here, and when it arrives sometime in early 2013, it'll cost around $8. Redbox announced pricing for its disc + streaming package this morning, pinning an $8 monthly charge to unlimited streaming, as well as access to four free one-night disc rentals at any Redbox kiosk ($9 a month turns those four discs into Blu-ray releases, magically). The service seeks to undermine streaming's 800 pound gorilla, Netflix, by undercutting its service offering -- Netflix's base streaming-only package starts at $8, whereas Redbox offers four disc rentals as well for the same price.

 Redbox also announced that its instant service will head to Samsung-manufactured Blu-ray players and SmartHub TVs, as well as LG's Blu-ray players / Smart TVs, as well as Google TV devices. No word is given on the previously leaked Xbox 360 player, but we expect to hear more on that as Redbox Instant rolls out on an invitation-only basis later this month.



  Show full PR text    REDBOX INSTANT BY VERIZON UNVEILS DETAILS OF DISC + DIGITAL MOVIE SERVICE

   Announces Streaming Content Agreement with EPIX

   Lionsgate, NBCUniversal, Paramount Pictures, Relativity and Warner Bros. Home Entertainment to Offer Movies for Purchase (EST) and Rental (VOD)

   Service to Launch on Leading Devices Including iOS®, Android™, Samsung® Blu-ray Players and TVs with SmartHub™, LG Smart TV and Blu-ray Players, and Google TV

   New York, NY (December 12, 2012) – Redbox Instant™ by Verizon, a joint venture between two market leaders, Redbox, a subsidiary of Coinstar, Inc. (Nasdaq: CSTR), and Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ), unveiled further details of its soon-to-launch service and announced agreements with Hollywood studios and device manufacturers that will bring thousands of popular movies to consumers at home and on the go.   Later this month, the Redbox Instant by Verizon beta product will launch to consumers. Priced at $8.00 per month, Redbox Instant by Verizon offers a high value subscription package that combines unlimited streaming of thousands of popular movies, including titles from premium network EPIX, with four one-night credits per month for the latest movie releases on DVD at Redbox® kiosks. For $1 more, or $9.00 per month, customers can opt to redeem their four credits for rentals on Blu-ray Disc™ at the kiosk.   By combining both disc and digital movie formats, Redbox Instant by Verizon subscriptions offer consumers access to Hollywood's newest releases, as well as a rich catalog of popular movies, all for a great price. Customers can also use Redbox Instant by Verizon without a subscription and select new releases available for purchase or rental, or simply reserve for pick up at their local Redbox kiosk location, giving movie-lovers more choice and flexibility in how they watch their favorite films.   "We are building a compelling entertainment choice through our ability to support both physical and digital distribution of movies that people love, made possible by the depth of relationships we've established with top Hollywood studios and distribution partners," said Shawn Strickland, CEO, Redbox Instant by Verizon.   Through the agreement with EPIX, Redbox Instant by Verizon's subscription customers will be able to instantly stream new releases such as Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol and The Hunger Games from EPIX's studio partners, Viacom's Paramount Pictures (Nasdaq: VIA and VIA.B), Lionsgate (NYSE: LGF), and MGM 90 days after they premiere in the traditional premium window.   "Redbox Instant by Verizon will be an exciting new service for consumers in the digital entertainment marketplace and we are thrilled to be their partner, providing our movies from some of the world's leading studios," said Mark Greenberg, president and CEO of EPIX. "We have a long and successful relationship with Verizon FiOS, which was our first distribution partner at the launch of EPIX, and we are excited to build on that relationship with Redbox Instant. We are confident that the movies we have will be a popular and important part of the success of this new service."   Movie content on Redbox Instant by Verizon will be bolstered by electronic sell-through (EST) and video-on-demand (VOD) rental agreements with major studios. New releases from Lionsgate, NBCUniversal, Paramount Pictures, Relativity and Sony Pictures Home Entertainment will be available in EST and VOD formats and will allow Redbox Instant by Verizon to support and provide multi-screen access to movies.   Avail TVN, the leading multiplatform video services provider, will deliver subscription and transactional studio content. Redbox Instant by Verizon also previously announced a content licensing agreement with Warner Bros. Home Entertainment.   At launch, Redbox Instant by Verizon will be offered via the web, as well as through home entertainment, tablet and mobile devices, including iOS®, Android™, Samsung® Blu-ray Players and TVs with SmartHub™, LG Smart TV and Blu-ray Players, and Google TV. More devices will be announced in the coming months.   "Samsung's connected customers are very hungry for new services that provide the best movies on multiple devices," said Eric Anderson, Vice President of Content and Product Solutions, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. "Redbox Instant by Verizon provides our customers with the latest in Hollywood entertainment choice, control and discovery."  Redbox's 10 years of offering customers the newest releases at great value, coupled with Verizon's leadership in On-Demand and Digital Distribution of movies, has set the foundation for how Redbox Instant by Verizon will deliver content and value to the consumer. Redbox Instant by Verizon is working with movie studios to secure the freshest content selection, and intends to tap heavily into pop culture events and social conversations to help influence and surface relevant movie titles to consumers.   Starting later this month, Redbox Instant by Verizon will open to public beta and consumers will be invited to explore the service and enjoy their first subscription month free. Thousands of movie fans have already signed up at RedboxInstant.com to be among the first to try the service and experience a fun, simple way to discover the best Hollywood entertainment.   To sign up for more information, visit RedboxInstant.com. Follow us on Twitter @RedboxInstant   ###   About Redbox Instant by Verizon  Verizon and Redbox Digital Entertainment Services, LLC, was formed in February 2012 as a result of a joint venture between Verizon Communications Inc. and Redbox Automated Retail, LLC. A new brand, Redbox Instant by Verizon was created to offer U.S. consumers the best of both digital and physical worlds. All consumers have immediate access to new-release DVD and Blu-ray Disc® movie rentals through more than 42,400 Redbox kiosks nationwide and can instantly view popular entertainment content anywhere, anytime, using the devices they prefer with a Redbox Instant by Verizon subscription and video on-demand streaming service. The service will be available to the public by the end of 2012. For more information, visit www.redboxinstant.com.    About EPIX

   EPIX is the newest premium entertainment network delivering the latest movie releases, classic library titles, plus original films, comedy, music and sports events on TV, on demand, online and on devices. Launched October 2009 as the first multiplatform premium network with online accessibility for subscribers through EpixHD.com, EPIX pioneered the development and proliferation of TV Everywhere for American consumers. EPIX was the first premium network to launch on Xbox consoles, first on Android tablets and phones, first on Roku® players and is available to authenticated subscribers on hundreds of devices including Apple® iPads®, iPhones®, Samsung® Smart TVs and Blu-ray™ players and more. Today EPIX remains the only premium service providing its entire monthly line-up from new Hollywood hits to original programs on all platforms and provides more movies than any other premium network.

   EPIX is a joint venture between Lionsgate (NYSE: LGF), Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. (MGM) and Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIA and VIA.B) and its Paramount Pictures unit. It is available to over 30 million homes nationwide through distribution partners including Charter Communications, Cox Communications, DISH Network, Mediacom Communications, NCTC, Suddenlink Communications and Verizon FiOS.

   For more information about EPIX, go to www.EpixHD.com. Follow EPIX on Twitter @EpixHD and on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/EpixHD.

 
