
 Are you an Xbox 360 owner? You might like this bit of news: according to Major Nelson, Redbox Instant is coming sometime to the gaming machine in the "very near future," and Microsoft appears to have partnered with the video streaming service to become a console launch exclusive. It'll be available only to users who are Xbox Live Gold subscribers. Of course, this doesn't mean this will be the only place you'll be able to take advantage of all that Redbox will have to offer; the public launch, which is still slated for Q1, will be available on several platforms and devices, such as iOS / Android, Vizio, LG, Samsung and even Google TV. As a refresher, you'll be able to get unlimited access to the service (as well as four free DVD rentals) for $8 per month, while an extra dollar will let you convert those discs into Blu-ray.



  Show full PR text    Today we're happy to reveal that Redbox Instant by Verizon will be coming to Xbox 360 in the very near future. If you are currently a Redbox Instant beta participant, you'll receive an email with a unique code to access the app on Xbox 360 in the coming days. Interested newcomers to the Redbox Instant beta can request entry into the beta by visiting www.RedboxInstant.com.

   Xbox 360 is the exclusive gaming and entertainment console launch partner for Redbox Instant by Verizon. A Redbox Instant by Verizon subscription package, priced at $8 per month for DVD or $9 per month for Blu-ray, combines four one-night credits for the latest movie releases at Redbox kiosks with access to a great catalogue of popular movies available for unlimited streaming. Through the app, Xbox 360 movie fans can also purchase and rent the newest digital releases without needing a subscription. Redbox Instant by Verizon combines disc + subscription, purchase and rental viewing choices into a compelling destination so movie fans can always find a movie to enjoy.

   Stay tuned for more information as we get closer to launch.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

