
Redbox Instant recently launched on the Google TV platform and today it's officially announcing plans for a Roku channel. Despite its absence from the original list of devices, Redbox mentioned at Google I/O support for the Roku platform would likely be in the cards. Similar to the Google TV launch (and the recent Hulu Plus update) the app won't work on first gen Roku hardware, but once it's available will bring its unique package of subscription streaming / VOD / kiosk DVD & Blu-ray access to the hockey puck streamers. Still, the reports we've heard from early users are mostly mentioning the need for more subscription streaming content, but getting within shouting distance of the likes of Netflix and Amazon won't be easy.



Show full PR textREDBOX INSTANT BY VERIZON TO LAUNCH ON ROKU THIS SUMMER
NEW YORK [June 6, 2013] – Movie night is heating up this summer. Redbox Instant™ by Verizon - a joint venture between Redbox, a subsidiary of Coinstar, Inc. (Nasdaq: CSTR), and Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ) - and Roku® today announced that the two companies will bring Redbox Instant by Verizon to the Roku streaming platform this summer. The partnership expands Redbox Instant by Verizon to one of the most popular streaming players for the TV and gives Roku's millions of users access to the newest releases and a growing library of popular movies from the convenience of their living rooms.

Redbox Instant by Verizon on Roku is a great entertainment choice for movie fans offering a compelling subscription package for only $8 per month, which includes 4 credits to access to the newest releases on disc at more than 43,000 Redbox kiosks nationwide plus thousands of popular movies online as well as the ability to purchase and rent new releases on-demand through the Redbox Instant store.

"We've received overwhelming demand from our customers for Redbox Instant by Verizon on their Roku devices, and we're pleased to be expanding the service this summer to meet that demand," said Shawn Strickland, CEO, Redbox Instant by Verizon. "Roku is synonymous with great choice, control and value in TV entertainment, and together as partners, we share a strong commitment to providing movie fans a fun and convenient way to enjoy their favorite Hollywood entertainment."

"Redbox Instant by Verizon is a tremendous addition to the Roku platform. We look forward to introducing our customers to the service, and continuing to grow our selection of streaming entertainment for the TV," said Steve Shannon, general manager of content and services, Roku.

Redbox Instant by Verizon subscribers will be able to access the service on their Roku players, and everyone regardless of subscription will have the ability to purchase and rent the newest digital releases directly through the channel. Redbox Instant by Verizon on Roku will be accessible at launch on Roku 3, Roku 2, Roku LT (models 2400 & 2450), and Roku HD (model 2500) players as well as the Roku Streaming Stick.

Customers can text Roku to 727272 to be the first to know when Redbox Instant becomes available on Roku.*

* Text and data rates may apply.###

About Redbox Instant by VerizonRedbox Instant by Verizon, a joint venture between Redbox Automated Retail, LLC, and Verizon Communications, Inc., offers movie lovers the best value for the biggest movies on disk and digital. It is the only service to offer a compelling subscription package that includes the newest releases on disc available through more than 43,000 Redbox kiosks nationwide and a selection of thousands of movies to stream instantly. Redbox Instant also offers the ability to purchase or rent new releases, making it a great destination for movie fans to find what they want to watch right now. The service is available on a growing list of major platforms such as Xbox 360, Android and iOS devices, Samsung Smart TV and Internet Connected Blu-ray devices, LG Smart TV's, and Google TV. For more information, visit us at http://www.RedboxInstant.com. Follow us on Twitter @RedboxInstant and like us on Facebook at http://facebook.com/RedboxInstant.

About RokuRoku is the creator of the most popular streaming software platform for delivering video, music and casual games to the TV. Roku launched the first device to stream Netflix to the TV in 2008, and since then has sold more than 5 million Roku streaming players in the U.S. Roku players are also available in Canada, the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland. In addition, Roku works with OEMs who create Roku Ready™ devices which access the Roku streaming platform. Roku Ready devices can be purchased from major retailers in the U.S. Roku was founded by Anthony Wood, inventor of the DVR. Roku is privately held and headquartered in Saratoga, Calif. For more information or to purchase directly from Roku, visit www.roku.com.

Roku and Roku Ready are registered trademarks and the Roku Streaming Stick is a trademark of Roku, Inc. in the U.S. and in other countries.



*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

