
 Your smartphone and / or tablet is just begging for an update. From time to time, these mobile devices are blessed with maintenance refreshes, bug fixes, custom ROMs and anything in between, and so many of them are floating around that it's easy for a sizable chunk to get lost in the mix. To make sure they don't escape without notice, we've gathered every possible update, hack, and other miscellaneous tomfoolery we could find during the last week and crammed them into one convenient roundup. If you find something available for your device, please give us a shout at tips at engadget dawt com and let us know. Enjoy!




 Official Android updates  HTC One X: Following in Rogers' footsteps, Telus has released its Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) and Sense 4+ update for over-the-air installation. The software weighs in at approximately 629MB. [MobileSyrup]  Samsung Galaxy S II: T-Mobile has begun delivery of an incremental update to address an issue with the Qualcomm SoC. The software also brings security fixes and S Voice improvements. [Android Central]  Samsung Galaxy S II: Android 4.1.2 (Jelly Bean) is now available for the international version of this handset (i9100), which includes Samsung's Nature UX enhancements. Owners of this handset can grab the update either over-the-air or within Samsung Kies. You'll also find a walkthrough video and a screenshot tour at the source link. [SamMobile]  ASUS PadFone 2: Build 10.4.11.13 is now available with a hefty number of performance and stability tweaks for the WWE version of this smartphone. The software also brings improved power management software and refinements to the HDR capture and white balance functions of the camera. [Android Police]    Unofficial Android updates, custom ROMs and misc. hackery   AOKP: A new milestone build of this popular Android 4.2 custom ROM is now available. With this release, the Galaxy S III on AT&T, T-Mobile, US Cellular and Verizon are all supported, as is the Nexus 10 and the Nexus 7 (HSPA+). Among the customizations in this build, you'll find the ability to use the power button as a makeshift camera shutter button and enhancements to the boot animation chooser. [Android Police] Other platforms  Nokia Lumia 900: An update to Windows Phone 7.8 now seems imminent for this AT&T handset, as the revised OS (build 8878) has been spotted on Nokia's servers. For what it's worth, January 31st is currently being kicked around as the rollout date, but you might wanna circle that date in pencil, just to be safe. [WPCentral]  HTC 8X: Rogers has released the 'Portico' update for this smartphone, which brings improvements to text messaging and WiFi connectivity. [MobileSyrup] Refreshes we covered this week  By popular demand, Sony releases Jelly Bean alpha build for Xperia T  Nokia Drive+ beta now available for all WP8 users in US, Canada and UK  CyanogenMod 10.1 Milestone 1 hits Nexus and Samsung devices  Leaked HTC Sense 5 screenshots suggest a leaner, cleaner skin
 