
  Your smartphone and / or tablet is just begging for an update. From time to time, these mobile devices are blessed with maintenance refreshes, bug fixes, custom ROMs and anything in between, and so many of them are floating around that it's easy for a sizable chunk to get lost in the mix. To make sure they don't escape without notice, we've gathered every possible update, hack, and other miscellaneous tomfoolery we could find during the last week and crammed them into one convenient roundup. If you find something available for your device, please give us a shout at tips at engadget dawt com and let us know. Enjoy!
      

 

Official Android updates  HTC Rezound: Details for software update 2.01.605.11 went up on Verizon's site this week. The release brings fixes to screen timeout and mobile hotspot issues, adds greater stability and is said to improve voice quality during calls. [Verizon Wireless]  Samsung Infuse 4G: It's been a long and dreary wait for many users, but AT&T has finally delivered Gingerbread -- Android 2.3.6, to be exact -- for the Samsung Infuse 4G. The release also brings new widgets, fonts and Google Books to the mix. [Android Central]  Casio G'zOne Commando: This update from Verizon most significantly adds push-to-talk functionality to Casio's rugged smartphone. It also brings security fixes and replaces the V CAST app with Verizon Video. It's listed as coming soon. [Phone Scoop]  Droid RAZR / RAZR Maxx: Both RAZR models are in line for updates from Verizon, which should fix mobile hotspot issues and bring data connectivity improvements. VZ Navigator will get better 3D mapping and a host of new functionality is in line for visual voicemail. [RootzWiki]  HTC EVO Shift 4G: Carrier IQ removal is at the top of the list for this package, which also updates the Peep client and promises better battery life. [Android Central]  Motorola Atrix 2: Software version 55.13.25 brings enhancements to the camera and keyboard, adds Google Music and brings hotspot fixes. Security patches are also on the list, along with the ability to receive emergency alerts. [Android Central]Unofficial Android updates, custom ROMs and misc. hackery  Samsung Nexus S 4G: A leaked build of Android 4.0.4 made its way into the wild on the xda-developers forums. While the thread was subsequently removed, a rooted version of the ROM remains available for download courtesy of Peter Alfonso. [Phandroid, Peter Alfonso]  Samsung Epic 4G: The QWERTY slider for Sprint was greeted with an alpha build of CyanogenMod 9 this week, which is based on Android 4.0.3. Phone calls, SMS, MMS, WiMAX and WiFi are said to function properly. Many bugs still exist, however, which primarily relate to the camera and video playback. [Thanks, Tommy] [xda-developers]  Barnes & Noble Nook Tablet: Developers are marching forward with their efforts to marry CyanogenMod 7 with Barnes & Noble's latest slate. While the software is very much a work in progress, hardware elements such as the touchscreen, orientation sensors, sound and WiFi are said to behave properly. [eBook Reader Blog]Refreshes we covered this week   webOS Enyo 1.0 now available to all, just requires patch and patience  Windows Phone 8 detailed: dual cores, Skype Integration and NFC are a go   APK puts Windows 95, 98 and XP, plus Linux on the EVO 3D  Nokia teases February 8th for Symbian Belle update
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

