
 
 Your smartphone and / or tablet is just begging for an update. From time to time, these mobile devices are blessed with maintenance refreshes, bug fixes, custom ROMs and anything in between, and so many of them are floating around that it's easy for a sizable chunk to get lost in the mix. To make sure they don't escape without notice, we've gathered every possible update, hack, and other miscellaneous tomfoolery we could find during the last week and crammed them into one convenient roundup. If you find something available for your device, please give us a shout at tips at engadget dawt com and let us know. Enjoy!



 Official Android updates
  HTC One X: Two small but significant updates are now available for the North American variants of the HTC One X: one from AT&T in the US and a separate release from Rogers in Canada. The release for the AT&T handset is the most significant of the two, which allows users to map the menu function to the application switcher button (and thus eliminate the unsightly menu button that exists in poorly written apps). The update also brings WiFi connectivity improvements, enhancements to contact sync and improved Bluetooth compatibility. Meanwhile, the update from Rogers is said to address both WiFi connectivity and Media Link issues. [Android Central 1, 2, 3, 4]  Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 and Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus: Android 4.0 is now available for installation to the WiFi versions of these tablets, which can be downloaded either over-the-air or through Samsung Kies. In addition to the standard Ice Cream Sandwich fare, the update brings new functionality to the notifications menu and a host of bug fixes. [SlashGear]  HTC Inspire 4G: The One X isn't the only HTC smartphone to receive an update from AT&T this week, as the Inspire 4G is also now eligible for a refresh of its own. Users will discover Sense 3.0 in the mix, along with better security, fewer dropped calls and a task manager. [Android Central]  HTC EVO Design 4G: Like the EVO 3D, Ice Cream Sandwich is now available for the EVO Design 4G on Sprint. As you've come to expect, the latest system sports a Sense 3.6 layer on top of Android. [Android Central]  Samsung Epic 4G Touch: After seeing a bit of a delay, Sprint is once again deploying the Ice Cream Sandwich update for its variant of the Galaxy S II. The software is available as an over-the-air download and weighs in at just over 200MB. [Android Central]  Samsung Galaxy Note: T-Mobile has announced that it'll deliver a software update for the Galaxy Note on August 8th. The new release will primarily address issues with the weather widget and MobileLife contacts. [Android Central]  Casio G'zOne Commando: This rugged Android phone from Verizon Wireless is now eligible for a software update from the carrier. First and foremost, the latest revision corrects an error that'd kept the speakerphone active after a push-to-talk conversation had ended. Device stability is also said to have gotten better, and the desk cradle app has also received a number of bug fixes. [Android Central]  LG Optimus 2X: After many promises to the contrary, LG Canada revealed this week that the Optimus 2X won't receive the update to Android 4.0. [Phandroid]  ASUS Transformer Pad Infinity TF700: A minor software update is available for this convertible tablet, and while no changelog is available, users are reporting better touchscreen responsiveness, greater compatibility for microSD cards. [Android Central]  Samsung Droid Charge: A new update is available for the Droid Charge that installs Verizon Remote Diagnostics software, enables the Wireless Alerting System and blocks USB tethering while in WiFi mode. The new software will also allow the phone to maintain data connectivity whenever a USB cable is connected or disconnected, and is said to improve call clarity. [Droid Life] Other platforms
  BlackBerry Bold 9930: Users of this handset may now download BlackBerry OS version 7.1.0.580 from Verizon Wireless. [CrackBerry] Refreshes we covered this week
  TouchPad gets an early taste of Android 4.1 Jelly Bean courtesy of CyanogenMod 10 (video)  PSA: Verizon Galaxy Nexus owners now have direct access to Google Wallet  Updated Verizon Galaxy Nexus Jelly Bean binaries added to AOSP  HTC Rezound finally ready to receive Android 4.0 update  Google Wallet moves to the cloud, opens up to all credit and debit cards  HTC Trophy for Verizon prepares to Tango as soon as tomorrow  New AOSP Jelly Bean port for international Galaxy S III available, 'mostly everything is working'  No Open WebOS support for existing WebOS devices, no soup for you  Sony backpedals on Android 4.1 upgrade statement, is now 'actively investigating' all Xperia updates  Samsung Music Hub launches on Galaxy S III stateside with free trial in tow  Sprint starts rolling out Ice Cream Sandwich update to HTC EVO 3D  Google Wallet hack hits Verizon Galaxy S III

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

