
 Your smartphone and / or tablet is just begging for an update. From time to time, these mobile devices are blessed with maintenance refreshes, bug fixes, custom ROMs and anything in between, and so many of them are floating around that it's easy for a sizable chunk to get lost in the mix. To make sure they don't escape without notice, we've gathered every possible update, hack, and other miscellaneous tomfoolery we could find during the last week and crammed them into one convenient roundup. If you find something available for your device, please give us a shout at tips at engadget dawt com and let us know. Enjoy!




 Official Android Updates  Galaxy Nexus: Android 4.2 is now available as an OTA update to the Yakju variant of the Galaxy Nexus. Google has separately posted a factory image of Android 4.2 for this international handset. [Android Police]  Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0: As promised, Samsung has begun its delivery of Jelly Bean for the Galaxy Tab 2 7.0. As it stands, the update is currently only available in France, but this is no doubt a good sign of what's to come. [SamMobile]  Samsung Galaxy S III: Vodafone Australia reports that it'll begin delivery of Jelly Bean for the Galaxy S III on Monday. [Android Australia]  ZTE N880E: Just like it was among the first smartphones to receive Android 4.1, ZTE has released Android 4.2 for the N880E in China. [Android Central] Unofficial Android updates, custom ROMs and misc. hackery  LG Optimus G: A bootloader unlock method is now available for the Optimus G on both Sprint and AT&T, which is known as Project FreeGee. [Pocketnow]  Samsung Galaxy S: Android 4.2 is now available in custom ROM form for the Galaxy S i9000. [The Android Soul]  Samsung Galaxy Note II: A leaked build containing Android 4.1.2 is now available for Galaxy Note II owners to take for a spin. The software is pre-release quality, but also features new additions to the quick access toggles and notification drawer. The build is also said to provide a smoother web browsing experience and contain a new app known as Group Cast. [SamMobile] Other platforms  BlackBerry Bold 9930: Verizon Wireless has released BlackBerry OS 7.1.0.755 for the Bold 9930. [N4BB] Refreshes we covered this week  Hack gives HTC Droid DNA the bootloader unlock that Verizon took away  Microsoft's Greater China VP says Windows Phone 7.8 to launch in the 'coming weeks'   Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 to receive Android 4.1 with Premium Suite (video)
 