
We've been wondering exactly what former Infinity Ward founder Vince Zampella was up to at Respawn Entertainment, and now he's finally shown off the fruits of his team's labor: an Xbox One exclusive called Titanfall. The Call of Duty veterans have concocted a futuristic FPS that lets you fight on foot or hop into mechs. With factions of the bots and humans battling each other, it's clear there's a heavy multiplayer focus. Spring 2014 will see the title arrive on Microsoft's next-gen console, but you can expect to find out more details about it as E3 progresses. Check out the unveiling trailer embedded after the break.




 
Show full PR textRespawn Entertainment Unveils Titanfall
The Visionaries that Defined Gaming for a Generation are Back ...And Ready to Do it All Again
Game Coming Exclusively to the Xbox Platform – Xbox One and Xbox 360 – and PC in 2014
E3 Expo 2013LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) and independent videogame developer Respawn Entertainment today revealed the world debut of Titanfall™, the studio's inaugural title. Crafted by one of the co-creators of Call of Duty and other key developers behind the Call of Duty franchise, Titanfall is among the most highly anticipated of E3 2013, having been shrouded in mystery for nearly three years. The visionaries at Respawn have drawn inspiration from their proven experience in first-person action gaming, and are building on that pedigree by taking a new approach to game design and creating an all-new universe with Titanfall. The game is entirely multiplayer, in a new experience that combines fast-paced multiplayer action with the heroic set piece moments traditionally found in campaign mode. Set in a distant frontier torn apart by war, players will have the freedom to switch between fighting as elite assault Pilots or agile, heavily armored, 24-foot tall Titans. To see the announcement trailer for Titanfall, please visit the game's official web site www.titanfall.com.

"It's an exciting time in the industry and it feels like the perfect time to be unveiling Titanfall," said Vince Zampella, a Co-Creator of Call of Duty and Co-Founder of Respawn Entertainment. "Our passion at Respawn is games and we are focused on bringing something exciting to kick off the next generation of software."

The universe of Titanfall juxtaposes small vs. giant, natural vs. industrial and man vs. machine. The game drops players into a conflict between the Interstellar Manufacturing Corporation (IMC) and the Militia as elite Pilots. With the ability to shift back and forth between pilot and Titan, players will have the freedom to change tactics on the fly, attacking or escaping depending on the situation. Titanfall Game Director Steve Fukuda added, "In addition to infusing the multiplayer experience with cinematic flavor, we've been rethinking fundamental combat and movement in the genre. Titanfall is unique in the way that it places equal emphasis on two drastically different and new ways to move and fight in a first-person shooter. The intersection of the two is a big part of what give Titanfall its iconic identity."

Available spring 2014, Titanfall will be available for Xbox One®, the all-in-one games and entertainment system from Microsoft, PC and Xbox 360® games and entertainment system from Microsoft The Xbox 360 version of Titanfall is in development at an external development studio with support from Respawn. For more information on the game, please visit www.titanfall.com. Follow the game on Twitter at www.twitter.com/titanfallgame or Facebook at www.facebook.com/titanfallgame. Press assets are available at http://info.ea.com.


