

As part of its Napster (and Napster International) acquisition from a while back, Rhapsody promised it would spread the music service across more places worldwide, with one of the many focuses being to have a stronger presence in Europe. Well, staying true to its word, Rhapsody's announcing today that it's bringing the ripened Napster to more countries in The Old Continent, such as France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and more. For those Euro folks interested, the Napster membership is set to cost €9.95 per month, which includes, among other things, offline features and unlimited streaming of over 20 million tunes on both desktop and mobile apps. But, hey, if you'd rather see how it stacks up against similar services first, then maybe you oughta take up Rhapsody on its 30-day free trial offer at the source link below.

Psst... you'll find the full list of new countries where Napster's now available in the PR past the jump.


 
Show full PR textLISTEN UP, EUROPE – NAPSTER IS COMING
Online music streaming service launches in 14 additional countries across Europe

SEATTLE, WA – June 3, 2013 – Today, Rhapsody International, the provider of the first subscription digital music service, announced the expansion of Napster, one of the world's most iconic digital music brands, to 14 countries across Europe. Starting now, more European music lovers can enjoy a cult brand that combines an unrivalled music heritage with a great service.

Beginning today, Napster is available to music fans in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands.

"Our goal is to deliver to music fans the most immersive and personal way to discover music, whether that's through the latest release from international superstars or new albums from emerging local artists," said Jon Irwin, president, Rhapsody International. "As we expand Napster's global footprint, we'll continue to emphasize partnerships as the primary strategy to bring Napster to a wider audience on their favorite devices, no matter where they are."

Napster features a deep catalog of music from both local and international artists. Music fans will have access to more than 20 million songs globally – online and offline – through connected audio systems, smartphones, tablets and much more. The service is available for iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch and Android smartphones and tablets. Napster's team of music experts will offer playlists, featured artists and editorial content in the Napster Music Guide to help users discover new music. The service also offers inside tips, live sessions and exclusive artist interviews.

For 9.95€ per month, users will have access to unlimited web and mobile streaming – both on and offline. Payment can be made via credit card, by direct debit or PayPal if available.

"Music streaming has taken off in Europe," said Thorsten Schliesche, senior vice president and general manager, Europe, for Napster. "People are open to convenient and legal ways to discover music. We look forward to accompanying our listeners on that journey, offering them a great experience and a deep catalog of music."

Napster was originally founded as a music file-sharing platform in 1999. Today, Napster has evolved into an industry leading and fan-oriented music service, and is one of the most established brands in the digital music business. Rhapsody International offers Rhapsody in the United States and Napster in Europe. Both are among the most popular on-demand music services worldwide.

To get started, customers can visit www.napster.com to sign up and, for a limited time, can test Napster Unlimited with a free 30-day trial. Visitors will be immediately directed to their country-specific page for more information.

For more information on Rhapsody International, please visit www.rhapsody.com.

About Rhapsody InternationalRhapsody International is parent company of leading streaming music services, Rhapsody and Napster. Initially launched in December 2001, Rhapsody is the original streaming music service that gives members unlimited on-demand access to more than 19 million songs, whether they're listening on a PC, laptop, Internet connected home stereo or TV, MP3 player or mobile phone. In December 2011, Rhapsody International acquired Napster International. Rhapsody International is headquartered in Seattle, with offices across the U.S. and Europe. Rhapsody and the Rhapsody logo are registered trademarks of Rhapsody International Inc. Follow @Rhapsody on Twitter and keep up with the latest on the Rhapsody Facebook page.

About NapsterNapster is one of Europe's leading premium subscription digital music services. Owned and operated by U.S.-based Rhapsody International Inc., Napster combines the iconic history of one of the most recognizable digital music brands in the world with the vast experience and technological platform of the first subscription music service, Rhapsody. Napster offers one of the world's most comprehensive online music collections with more than 18 million titles from all genres. The company has licensing agreements with all major music labels as well as hundreds of independent labels. Subscribers to the Flat rate service can discover and play music online through Napster radio channels, and social media with playlists, recommendations and tips from the Napster music editorial staff. Napster Unlimited frees Napster from the desktop and provides access to your music anywhere, via free apps for Apple's mobile iOS and Android-based mobile devices. The Napster subsidiaries exist in Luxembourg, the UK and Germany. Rhapsody, Napster, and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Rhapsody International Inc.

For more information visit:www.napster.co.ukwww.facebook.com/napster.co.uk@Napster_UK


