
 
We heard back in mid-March that Rhapsody for iPhone was getting an offline mode for downloading music and playing at times of no reception (like most subway rides). Good news, folks, today is the day the app get this coveted update. Lest we forget, too, with this summer's OS 4 release finally enables background music, Real's aural offering just got even more enticing. Press release after the break, or hit up the iTunes link to download now -- don't forget, though, that a monthly subscription plan is still required for playback.
      

 

Show full PR textPRESS RELEASE: Rhapsody Brings Subscription Music to the iPhone, iPodtouch and iPadFans Can Now Download Rhapsody Playlists and Enjoy Their FavoriteMusic Anywhere, Even without an Internet ConnectionSEATTLE – April 26, 2010 -- Rhapsody today launched a new version ofits popular Rhapsody for iPhone app with an important new feature:music fans can now download their favorite Rhapsody playlists to theiriPhone™, iPod® touch or iPad™ so they can listen any time - even whenthey're not connected to the Internet.Rhapsody is the first U.S. service to enable people to downloadsubscription music to the iPhone. By downloading playlists directly totheir device, fans can enjoy Rhapsody anywhere: on the subway, on anairplane, even on a submarine."Today marks a turning point for Rhapsody and subscription music,"said Jon Irwin, Rhapsody's president. "By making Rhapsody accessibleanywhere people want to hear music --and not just the places wherethey have an Internet connection-- we're giving music lovers a new wayto discover and enjoy music on the devices they love."Version 2.0 of Rhapsody for iPhone is now available in the U.S. forfree from the Apple App Store. It is a new version of the iPhone appthat Rhapsody first launched last September.Using Rhapsody for iPhone, subscribers can stream (and now download)music from Rhapsody's catalog of over 9 million songs, listen toInternet radio stations, create new playlists on the go, or access theplaylists they have already created through Rhapsody. The app alsomakes it easy for people to buy songs from the iTunes® Store. In thecoming months, Rhapsody will add the ability to download individualsongs and albums (in addition to playlists) as part of an update tothe Rhapsody for iPhone app.Using the app requires a Rhapsody subscription, either to the$10-per-month Rhapsody Premier offering Rhapsody introduced earlierthis month (which provides access to Rhapsody on one mobile device) orto the $14.99 Rhapsody Premier Plus plan (which lets people access theservice on up to 3 mobile devices). More info on those plans isavailable at http://www.rhapsody.com/-discover/plans.In its most recent forecast on the U.S. digital music market,Forrester Research predicted that over the next four years the numberof people subscribed to services like Rhapsody will double to morethan five million, up from approximately 2.1 million today*. Wirelesssubscribers will be one of the major drivers for that growth.Rhapsody is now the only on-demand music service available on theiPhone platform. Earlier this month, the company also launched amobile app for the Android platform. In addition, the company isdeveloping a mobile app for BlackBerry® smartphone users that willlaunch this summer.* Source: Forrester Research forecast "US Music Forecast, 2009 To2014" by Sonal Gandhi with Mark Mulligan, Seth Fowler & LauraWiramihardja: http://www.forrester.com/rb/Research/us_music_forecast%2C_2009_to_2014/q/id/55347/t/2About RhapsodyRhapsody is a digital music service that lets you listen to any songyou want, wherever you are. For a flat monthly fee, subscribers canaccess Rhapsody's catalog of over 9 million songs anywhere they wantto hear music, including from their PC, laptop, home stereo, TV, MP3player and mobile device (including the iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, andAndroid-powered handsets). Rhapsody is based in Seattle. For moreinformation, visit www.rhapsody.com.
 