
 Though it's a bit late to the large-sensor compact game, Ricoh just jumped into the fray with a model that might tempt the high-end grab and go set: the GR. Following a trail blazed by the likes of Sony and Nikon with its Coolipix A, Ricoh's new advanced compact packs very similar specs to the latter: a 16-megapixel APS-C-sized sensor, fixed 18.3 mm f/2.8 lens, ISO 25,600 capability, pop-up flash, Eye-Fi card compatibility, 1080 / 30p AF video and 4 fps shooting with continuous autofocus for "fast-moving subjects." The similarities end with the price, however, since Pentax's owner is offering the GR for $800 compared to $1,100 for the Nikon, and has eschewed the optical low-pass filter to increase sharpness and further tempt high-end shooters. You'll be able to grab one stateside next month -- check the PR after the break for more.



  Show full PR text   PENTAX RICOH IMAGING Defines the Advanced Compact Segment with the Introduction of the RICOH GR Camera
   Following on the Award Winning GR Digital Series the New RICOH GR Camera Features an APS-C-Sized Sensor and Compact 8.6 Ounce Body at Just $799.95.

  Denver, CO (PRWEB) April 17, 2013
   PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICAS CORPORATION today announced the RICOH GR, an ideal blend of image quality, camera size and price; setting a new benchmark for the advanced compact camera category. The new RICOH GR camera features an APS-C-sized CMOS image sensor delivering shallow depth of field, exceptional low-light performance and a wide dynamic range for remarkable images across a wide variety of shooting styles.

   Remaining true to the heritage of the multi- award-winning RICOH GR Digital series the new Ricoh GR camera combines compact size with outstanding performance. Featuring a 16 megapixel, APS-C-sized CMOS sensor, no low-pass filter and a completely redesigned optical path the GR is built for superb image performance. The newly developed and optimized18.3mm (28mm in 35mm format) F2.8 lens compactly provides high-resolution, wide-angle images with stunning edge-to-edge sharpness all while minimizing chromatic aberration and distortion. The camera's category-leading, nine-blade aperture diaphragm produces a rounded bokeh effect across a wide range of apertures.

   Advanced capabilities of the sensor and lens are supported by a newly developed GR ENGINE V imaging processor which optimizes high-sensitivity shooting to ISO 25600 minimizing noise, producing accurate, color-rich images. Finally, a newly designed lens driving mechanism and optimized AF algorithm combined with faster data readout speeds from the image sensor provide a high-speed auto focus system that can focus on a subject in a mere two-tenths (0.2) of a second. A super quick start-up time of approximately one second ensures photographers are guaranteed a speedy capture ready camera in even the most fleeting scenarios; making the RICOH GR the ideal companion camera at a fraction of the size of a DSLR.

   "The introduction of the RICOH GR marks a new standard of confidence in the compact camera segment," said Jim Malcolm, Executive Vice President, PENTAX RICOH IMAGING AMERICA. "The RICOH GR camera's unparalleled set of robust features and hardware completely redefines what can be expected from a compact camera."

   In keeping with its advanced functionality the GR also offers a range of helpful features common to DSLRs like in-body RAW-data development and a dedicated depth of field preview button to aid in accurate image framing and quick inspection of focus prior to capturing an image. Additionally, the GR boasts full 1080p HD video recording capabilities replete with continual AF during video capture creating sharply-focused, high-quality video output.

   Instantaneous photo and video sharing is now a breeze with the GR's optimized Eye-Fi SD card compatibility. Built-in menus allow the user to easily enable automatic transmission of images and video to a smartphone for rapid sharing. Users can even select favorite images and resize them before transmission.

   For consumers seeking additional creative expression, RICOH offers an optional wide-angle conversion lens extending coverage to 21mm. The new GR is also compatible with the full range of accessories already offered for the preceding GR Digital line of cameras including viewfinders, flashes, lens hoods and adapters and more.

   Pricing and Availability

   The new GR advanced digital compact camera provides incredible value with a category-low cost of $799.95 and will be available at retail outlets nationwide and online in May 2013.

   Additional information on the GR including product specifications is available here:http://www.pentaximaging.com/news and product images are available here:http://www.pentaximaging.com/press/pressfiles.html.

 
