
 We still haven't heard much out of Intellectual Ventures' latest patent offensive against no less than nine tech companies, but the company founded by former Microsoft CTO Nathan Mhyrvold is now making some news on another front. It just announced today that RIM has followed HTC and Samsung and entered a licensing agreement that gives it full access to Intellectual Ventures' patent portfolio of more than 30,000 IP assets. Details are expectedly light beyond that, but it certainly seems like Intellectual Ventures is doing alright for itself these days -- it was recently reported that it hauled in $700 million in licensing revenue in 2010 alone, and that its total revenue to date is around $2 billion. Full press release is after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textResearch In Motion Enters License Agreement with Intellectual VenturesBELLEVUE, Wash. - March 30, 2011 - Intellectual Ventures (IV®) announced today that it has entered into a license agreement with Research In Motion (RIM). The deal provides RIM with access to IV's extensive patent portfolio of more than 30,000 IP assets.Becoming an IV licensee provides access to additional products and services to address both short-term and long-term IP-related matters. As an IV customer, RIM can now complement its own strong patent portfolio with access to IV's portfolio and can leverage IV's portfolio in its future licensing negotiations."Intellectual Ventures offers an efficient way to access the invention rights companies need to stay competitive within the market," said Mario Obeidat, head of telecommunications licensing at Intellectual Ventures. "RIM has always been an innovator on the forefront of the mobile communications world, and by becoming a licensing customer of IV, they can have access to a broader set of patents to assist them in the management of their IP-related business matters."Intellectual Ventures engages with companies of all sizes to meet their current business needs and provide strategic guidance on forward-thinking intellectual property. IV combines scale and expertise to structure sophisticated deals designed to help companies strengthen their market position by reducing their current risk and providing access to the invention rights they need to stay competitive.About Intellectual VenturesFounded in 2000, Intellectual Ventures (IV) is the global leader in the business of invention. IV collaborates with leading inventors, partners with pioneering companies, and invests both expertise and capital in the process of invention. IV's mission is to energize and streamline an invention economy that will drive innovation around the world. www.intellectualventures.com
 