
 RIM has just announced its earnings for Q3 2013 (the three months ending December 1, 2012 in non-RIM terms), including a five percent drop in revenue to $2.7 billion and an adjusted net loss of $114 million. GAAP net income from "continuing operations" was $14 million, though, or $9 million when taking into account the loss from discontinued operations, and it's also reporting a cash increase of about $600 million to $2.9 billion. In terms of devices, RIM says it shipped 6.9 million smartphones and 255,000 PlayBooks during the quarter, although it's again only talking in terms of devices "shipped," not actual sales to consumers. Along with the earnings, the company has also announced that its CIO, Robin Bienfait, has decided to retire, although RIM says she will stay on in an "advisory capacity to enable a smooth launch and seamless transition."

 As for BlackBerry 10, CEO Thorsten Heins unsurprisingly reiterated that the company is all set for the January 30th launch date, and noted that more than 150 now completing technical acceptance programs for the first BlackBerry 10 products. The company also says it will be "significantly increasing its marketing spending this quarter" to support the launch of BB10, which it warns will contribute to a loss for the fourth quarter, as will the likely slowdown of BlackBerry 7 product sales as consumers hold off for BB10.

 Update: During the company's earnings call, Heins confirmed that RIM's global subscriber base now stands at 79 million worldwide, which is a slight decline from the previous quarter but still an increase year-over-year. Not surprisingly, he says the biggest losses came from North America. RIM also confirmed on the call that its BlackBerry sell-through for the quarter was 8.4 million, or actually higher than the number of new devices shipped.



  Show full PR text   Research In Motion Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
   WATERLOO, ONTARIO, Dec 20, 2012 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) -- Research In Motion Limited (RIM) RIMM +3.60% CA:RIM +3.41% , a world leader in the mobile communications market, today reported third quarter results for the three months ended December 1, 2012 (all figures in U.S. dollars and U.S. GAAP, except where otherwise indicated).

   Highlights:   -- Cash increase of approximately $600 million to $2.9 billion  -- Cash flow from operations was approximately $950 million  -- Revenue of $2.7 billion  -- GAAP net income from continuing operations of $14 million, or $0.03 per  share diluted, including a $166 million favorable tax settlement  -- Adjusted net loss of $114 million, or $0.22 per share diluted  -- BlackBerry subscriber base of approximately 79 million users  -- Shipments of 6.9 million smartphones and 255,000 PlayBooks  -- RIM's Chief Information Officer, Robin Bienfait, announces retirement

   Q3 Results

   Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 was $2.7 billion, down 5% from $2.9 billion in the previous quarter and down 47% from $5.2 billion in the same quarter of fiscal 2012. The revenue breakdown for the quarter was approximately 60% for hardware, 36% for service and 4% for software and other revenue. During the quarter, RIM shipped approximately 6.9 million BlackBerry smartphones and approximately 255,000 BlackBerry PlayBook tablets.

   GAAP net income for the quarter from continuing operations was $14 million, or $0.03 per share diluted. GAAP net income for the quarter, including loss from discontinued operations, was $9 million, or $0.02 per share diluted, compared with the GAAP net loss of $235 million, or $0.45 per share diluted, in the prior quarter and a GAAP net income of $265 million, or $0.51 per share diluted, in the same quarter last year.

   Adjusted net loss for the third quarter was $114 million, or $0.22 per share diluted. Adjusted net loss and adjusted diluted loss per share exclude the impact of pre-tax charges of $55 million ($38 million on an after-tax basis) related to the Cost Optimization and Resource Efficiency ("CORE") program and excludes the impact of an income tax benefit of $166 million. These impacts on GAAP net income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share are summarized in the table below.

   "RIM continued to execute on its product roadmap plans and to deliver on key financial metrics as it gets set for the global launch of BlackBerry 10," said Thorsten Heins, President and CEO. "During the third quarter, we continued to demonstrate our strong financial position, generating $950 million in cash flow from operations, and increasing our cash position significantly to more than $2.9 billion. More than 150 carriers are currently completing technical acceptance programs for the first BlackBerry 10 products, and beta trials of BlackBerry Enterprise Service 10 are underway at more than 120 enterprises including 64 Fortune 500 companies. This is an exciting time and our carrier partners, application developers and employees are all looking forward to unveiling the innovation and excitement of BlackBerry 10 to our customers on January 30, 2013."

   RIM also announced today that Robin Bienfait, Chief Information Officer for RIM has made the decision to retire at the end of this year following 6 years of service to the Company. Robin has committed to continue supporting RIM in an advisory capacity to enable a smooth launch and seamless transition.

   Under Robin's watch, the BlackBerry service infrastructure has grown from 47 petabytes per year to more than 33 petabytes per month at the same time as the internal corporate infrastructure for RIM has grown at a remarkable pace. Robin joined RIM in the beginning of 2007 with the mandate to take RIM's BlackBerry data services infrastructure from a single presence in Canada to a distributed model connecting to over 650 carrier partners worldwide. In addition, over this past year, Robin has led RIM's Enterprise business unit focused on enabling services for Enterprise customers and preparing for the launch of the BlackBerry 10 platform. Robin has led a distinguished career. Before joining RIM, Robin held a number of senior leadership positions at AT&T and Bell Labs for over 22 years.

   "Robin has been an outstanding CIO and has built a world class organization. Her team has diligently prepared us for the launch of BlackBerry 10 and beyond, and I will remain deeply grateful for her leadership and commitment," said Thorsten Heins, President and CEO of Research In Motion.

   Outlook

   The Company expects that there will be continued pressure on operating results as it gets set to launch its BlackBerry 10 platform in the fourth quarter. The Company intends to continue to consider using pricing initiatives on BlackBerry 7 devices and service fees in some markets as a way to maintain our subscriber base and drive more BlackBerry users. The timing of the BlackBerry 10 launch event for January 30, 2013 could also impact sales of current BlackBerry 7 products as some customers may defer purchasing decisions and wait for BlackBerry 10 devices. All these factors are expected to impact unit volumes, subscribers, margins and service fees. In addition, the company will be significantly increasing its marketing spending this quarter as expected, to support the global launch of BlackBerry 10, and the Company expects to report an operating loss for the fourth quarter. Further details about the Company's outlook will be discussed on the conference call and live webcast to be held beginning at 5 pm ET today, information for which is set forth below.

 
