
 

The Robopocalypse is coming -- just not in the way you'd dreaded. DreamWorks and Twentieth Century Fox have joined movie-making forces to reanimate Daniel H. Wilson's fictional (for now) literary account of a future, robot-helmed doomsday. The studios have thrown some guy named Steven Spielberg behind the lens of this cinematic cautionary tale, and plan to scare the bejeezus out of us all when it premieres July 3, 2013 -- that's if we make it past the Mayan end of the world. No casting was mentioned in the project's announcement, so we'll continue to cross our toes in the hopes a certain daytime show couch jumper and film star-turned-pilot don't join in on the blockbuster fear-mongering.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  DreamWorks Studios and Twentieth Century Fox to Partner on Steven Spielberg's "Robopocalypse"		Sci-Fi Epic to Be Released Worldwide July 3, 2013 		LOS ANGELES, Sep 07, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- DreamWorks Studios and Twentieth Century Fox will co-finance the science fiction epic "Robopocalypse," to be directed by Steven Spielberg. The announcement was made today jointly by the two studios. 		Capitalizing on the long holiday weekend, the film will be released on July 3, 2013, day and date worldwide. The Walt Disney Studio's Touchstone Pictures will distribute the film domestically via its Touchstone Pictures with Twentieth Century Fox handling international distribution. 		Exploring the fate of the human race following a robot uprising, "Robopocalypse" has been adapted for the screen by Drew Goddard, based on the novel of the same name by Daniel H. Wilson. DreamWorks acquired the rights to Wilson's unpublished manuscript in November 2009. Published by Doubleday on June 8, 2011, the book soon appeared on the New York Times Best Sellers list. 		"I am so pleased that Tom Rothman and Jim Gianopulos see the same exciting opportunities in 'Robopocalypse' that we originally saw when we bought the rights to the book," said Steven Spielberg. "We had a successful relationship with them and Fox when we made 'Minority Report' and we hope we can deliver another film that will give today's global audiences something thrilling." 		"Steven Spielberg is the master's master. He will capture the story's epic mix of thrills, scale, humanity and heart," added Tom Rothman and Jim Gianopulos. "We are truly honored to once again collaborate with such a motion picture giant, as well as with Stacey Snider and her outstanding team at DreamWorks." 		"When we first read the galleys, we immediately recognized it as a property that cried out for Steven to direct," said Stacey Snider. "He is first and foremost a storyteller, and 'Robopocalypse' offers him the opportunity to explore new visions on a broad future canvas."
 