
 


	European peripheral maker ROCCAT was serious when they promised to put some German engineered fragging tools in the hands of US gamers, unveiling today a trio of accessories to tempt American gamers. These aren't your standard mouse and keyboard setup, however -- these siblings socialize. More specifically, the outfit's Isku gaming keyboard ($90) and 6000 DPI Kone gaming mouse ($80) use ROCCAT's exclusive "Talk" protocol to activate mouse macros from the keyboard. Ready to snipe? Just click easy-aim on the Isku Keyboard, and the Kone mouse automatically adjusts its DPI to a headshot friendly level. The outfit is also trotting out a 5.1 surround sound headset, dubbed Kave, which will land in February for $120. Hit the break for the full PR, or take a peek at Germany's finest in the gallery below.





 		Show full PR text 		ROCCAT™ Studios Reveals Details for US Launch of Professional Gaming Peripherals  		German gaming peripheral designer unveils keyboards, mice and surround sound headsets hitting the US market for the first time at CES 2012 		Las Vegas – January 9, 2012 – ROCCAT Studios, a Germany-based manufacturer of professional PC gaming devices and equipment – today revealed the full details of its expansion into the US market. Already a legendary brand for legions of pro gamers in Europe and Asia, ROCCAT™ enters the US gaming peripherals market with some of the world's most advanced gaming engineering. Beginning in mid-February Amazon will begin shipping ROCCAT's internationally acclaimed lineup of innovative gaming keyboards, mice, headsets and additional accessories. Highlights of the award-winning gaming weaponry include... 		Isku Illuminated Gaming Keyboard – Combining the world's smartest gaming engineering with jaw-dropping design, the ROCCAT™ Isku Illuminated Gaming Keyboard hands you the power to own any game. Exclusive ROCCAT™ Talk© protocol allows the Isku Illuminated Gaming Keyboard and the ROCCAT™ Kone[+] high-performance gaming mouse to talk to each other – giving you a powerful set bonus that lets you execute mouse macros quickly and easily right from your keyboard. Easy-Aim technology is perfect for when your game demands precise marksmanship in sniper mode. Simply press and hold a single keyboard key and Easy-Aim will instantly optimize the DPI setting on your Kone[+]. This two-handed custom marksmanship is the simplest and most convenient way ever to achieve pinpoint sniping accuracy. Available in mid-February for $89.99 www.roccat.org/isku/ 		Kone[+] Max Customization Gaming Mouse - The revolutionary 6000dpi Pro-Aim Laser Sensor, in conjunction with its 10.5 megapixel resolution and 1000Hz polling rate, offers maximum precision, even transmitting lightning fast mouse movements with up to 30Gs of acceleration and with speeds of up to 200ips (5.08m/s) without loss or lag. Building off of the original Kone's highly touted ambidextrious hybrid shell, the mouse wheel features new, distinctive notch positions that are perfect for gaming, and the wider design makes it easier to control. Thanks to the Easy-Shift[+]™ button, all the buttons – including the mouse wheel – can be assigned two functions doubling the effective amount of macros or functions. Four multicolor LEDs, together with the enhanced lightpipes and configurable effects, can illuminate, alternate or pulsate in more than four different colors at the same time. You can configure your button assignments, including macros, DPI settings, the sensor sensitivity level and your lighting settings too, and save them to any one of 5 profiles on the 576kB of onboard memory. This allows you to customize your mouse to suit individual games. Predefined macro presets for the top 20 PC games as well as several office apps make it even easier to customize the mouse – plus the new Loop Function now makes it possible to loop macros indefinitely. Lastly, a weight system comprising 4 x 5g weights is included, allowing you to customize the weight in four stages to suit your preferences. Available in mid-February for $79.99. www.roccat.org/koneplus 		Kave 5.1 Surround Sound Gaming Headset – Realistic 3D sound is crucial to knowing the position of your enemies and winning the battle. Kave 5.1 accomplishes unparalleled immersive sound with 40 mm speakers plus an additional vibration unit, arranged at a 12 degree angle, embedded within each earcup. With the accompanying Tip'n'Control Desktop Remote, gamers have easy access to volume control and can precisely customize their desired sound profile based on center, front, and rear channels as well as the bass. A blue LED at the end of the boom mic indicates when the mute function is enabled ensuring that the days of accidentally giving away crucial information are long gone. Long term comfort is maximized with a headband containing 3 separately bedded pads, which guarantee an equal weight distribution. Available in mid-February for $119.99.
 