
  A long, long time ago, I can still remember how that Rock Band Weekly used to make us smile. After 281 consecutive weeks, beginning in November of 2007, the impressively regular Rock Band updates conclude this week with Don McLean's "American Pie."In the final tally, the Rock Band music catalog includes 1,400 artists and over 4,000 tracks, with more than 130 million songs sold. Bye, bye, RBW. We'll miss you. Now, what does Harmonix have up its sleeve for the next generation?
      

 

  Show full PR text  DON MCLEAN'S "AMERICAN PIE" COMES TO ROCK BAND! RELEASE MARKS THE END OF NEW WEEKLY ROCK BAND DOWNLOADABLE CONTENT AFTER 281 CONSECUTIVE WEEKS OF RELEASES!  Cambridge, Mass. – April 2nd, 2013 – Harmonix today announced that Don McLean's "American Pie" is now available on the Rock Band™ Music Store of downloadable content for the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system and Wii™.  The Rock Band catalog includes the deepest and best selection of artists, songs and albums, featuring more than 1,400 artists and more than 4,000* tracks via disc and download purchase (complete list of tracks at www.rockband.com/songs). Rock Band's gigantic music library has grown over the past 5+ years through an unbelievable streak of weekly DLC releases that dwarfs that of any other video game on the market in terms of sheer pieces of content. Recently Harmonix confirmed that more than 130 million songs have been sold through the Rock Band Music Store since its launch on Nov. 20, 2007.  Tracks downloaded from the Rock Band Music Store are compatible with the award-winning full-band Rock Band 3 experience, as well as the controller-based rhythm-action title, Rock Band Blitz, available now on PlayStation®Network and Xbox LIVE® Arcade!  Though this marks the end of new weekly DLC releases, Harmonix plans to continue support for the thousands of active Rock Band fans through ongoing Rock Band Network releases, server support and back-catalog promotions. Rock and Roll never dies, and Rock Band will keep rocking for years to come.  Rock Band DLC Additions for Xbox 360, PlayStation®3 system and Wii™  Singer-songwriter Don McLean's signature hit, "American Pie," is now available on the Rock Band Music Store. From McLean's 1971 album of the same name, this legendary folk-rock track spent four weeks as a number one song on U.S. Billboard's Hot 100!  The release of "American Pie" marks the end of a 281 consecutive week run of weekly releases of new music content, resulting in an amazing catalog of more than 4,000 playable tracks from music's biggest artists! Harmonix is proud to release this song as our finale to a 5 year labor of love, and we've created a video that celebrates this incredible milestone, takes a look back at more than five years of the award-winning Rock Band franchise and celebrates the people that made this streak possible. Head over to http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AAtJpk92ryk&feature=youtu.be to check it out.  Available on Xbox 360, Wii, and PlayStation®3 system (April 2nd): Don McLean – "American Pie" O (This track will be available in Europe on PlayStation®3 system April 3rd)  Price: $1.99 USD, £1.19 UK, €1.49 EU (160 Microsoft Points ™, 200 Wii Points™) per song  Tracks marked with "O" feature support for keyboards.  ** Dates and pricing for Rock Band game tracks are tentative and subject to change. **  *Available on-disc, via download and disc export. Internet connection and export key purchase required. Wii™ Shop Channel has more than 1,500 song tracks available for purchase on the Rock Band platform on-disc, via song import, and download. Not applicable to Nintendo DS™.
 