
 
Having already appeared on the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and PC, Ubisoft's virtual guitar tutor Rocksmith 2014 is now ready to jump to the next generation of gaming consoles, namely the Xbox One and PlayStation 4.

Though the ESRB already outed the new-generation version of Rocksmith 2014 last month, Ubisoft's official announcement has only just arrived. According to the publisher, the game will launch on November 4 and will feature 1080p graphics and support for both consoles' streaming and video capture capabilities. Like all PlayStation 4 games, Rocksmith 2014 will feature Remote Play on the Vita handheld, a feature which Ubisoft claims is "perfect for players looking to review a song in its entirety without feedback, study specific sections of songs or practice in another room when it's more convenient."

Those who already own Rocksmith 2014 on either the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3 will be pleased to hear that any DLC songs they've downloaded will transfer to their console's next-generation counterpart. If you have no DLC, don't fret - that's a guitar pun - the game comes with 50 songs in tow and there are 300 additional tracks available for download.

[Image: Ubisoft]






Show full PR textUBISOFT® ANNOUNCES ROCKSMITH® 2014 EDITIONFOR XBOX ONE AND PLAYSTATION®4 SYSTEMSAN FRANCISCO, CA - September 23, 2014 - Today, Ubisoft® announced that Rocksmith® 2014 Edition will launch on Xbox One, the all-in-one games and entertainment system from Microsoft and PlayStation®4 computer entertainment system on November 4, 2014. More than two million people have learned to play guitar and bass through the award-winning Rocksmith® method, the fastest way to learn guitar.*Players will be able to use integrated streaming and capture features on Xbox One and PlayStation®4 system to record and share their best performances, as well as show off their favorite custom tones from Tone Designer. Rocksmith 2014 Edition is better than ever on Xbox One and PlayStation®4 system with 1080p HD graphics for greater clarity and visual quality.On PlayStation®4 system, Rocksmith 2014 Edition will support Remote Play through PlayStation®Vita handheld entertainment system, where players can view songs at a locked mastery level without any scoring or input required; this is perfect for players looking to review a song in its entirety without feedback, study specific sections of songs or practice in another room when it's more convenient.Rocksmith 2014 Edition comes with more than 50 tracks; there are currently more than 300 additional songs available for purchase, with new add-on content added every week. For players making the jump to next-gen consoles, track libraries can be imported across Xbox 360 to Xbox One and PlayStation®3 to PlayStation®4 systems without having to repurchase content or pay additional licensing costs.The standard edition includes the Rocksmith® Real Tone Cable, a unique 1/4"-to-USB cable developed exclusively for Rocksmith. This revolutionary cable turns the guitar's signal from analog to digital, allowing it to be recognized and played through video game consoles, as well as Windows PC and Mac®.For more information on Rocksmith 2014 Edition, please visit rocksmith.com.For the latest on all of Ubisoft's games, please visit ubiblog.com.About UbisoftUbisoft is a leading creator, publisher and distributor of interactive entertainment and services, with a rich portfolio of world-renowned brands, including Assassin's Creed, Just Dance, Tom Clancy's video game series, Rayman, Far Cry and Watch Dogs. The teams throughout Ubisoft's worldwide network of studios and business offices are committed to delivering original and memorable gaming experiences across all popular platforms, including consoles, mobile phones, tablets and PCs. For the 2013–14 fiscal year Ubisoft generated sales of €1,007 million. To learn more, please visit www.ubisoftgroup.com.*Research Strategy Group Inc. – March 2013 – US nationwide in-home placement study© 2011–2014 Ubisoft Entertainment. All Rights Reserved. Rocksmith logo, Ubisoft, and the Ubisoft logo are trademarks of Ubisoft Entertainment in the US and/or other countries. "PlayStation" is a registered trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Mac is a registered trademark of Apple Inc.
 