
 
Has your head cooled from all that rock news this morning? Nope? Well, we'd hate to rile you up again, but Mad Catz -- now the official provider of all Rock Band 3 equipment -- has priced its latest arsenal for the upcoming rhythm revival title. There's also a few new details on each instrument, so without further ado:

Wireless Keyboard: That MIDI port many of you spotted is for output, letting you plug the two-octave (C3 to C5) velocity-sensitive keytar directly into MIDI sequencers for non-gaming use. It'll set you back $80, with an optional stand to be sold separately (no price given) alongside the game's launch. Buying the keyboard / game bundle will be $130, or about $10 off individual purchases. Oh, and if you want to feel a bit more techno, this puppy can be used as the guitar / bass input.
MIDI PRO-Adapter: Want to use your own keyboard or electronic drum set? Here's the mediator you need, from MIDI to USB to console, and it sports the D-pad and other necessary gamepad buttons as well as velocity sensitivity adjustment controls. Asking price is $40.
Pro Cymbals Expansion kit: three cymbals, apparently rejiggered from RB2's offerings for quieter play and a pre-defined 10 degree angle. It's $40 for this hi-hat, crash, and ride pack.
Wireless Fender Mustang Pro Guitar Controller: Not the Squier hybrid we saw, this one actually sports a multitude of buttons for each string, spanning 17 frets (102 buttons in all). Actual strings are used for the plucking and strumming, and here's something interesting -- the axe has a MIDI output for software sequencers. This behemoth is $150, or approximately 1.5 Benjamins in your local currency.

Pictures of each instrument -- and the yet-to-be-priced Squier -- in the gallery below, as well as a few screen caps of Pro mode so you can get an idea how exactly it'll "correct you" on proper Bohemian Rhapsody finger picking. 






Show full PR textMad Catz® Announces New Range of Official Rock Band 3 Instruments and AccessoriesRange to Include Wireless Keyboard Controller, Wireless Fender™ Mustang™ PRO-Guitar™ Controller, PRO-Cymbals™ Expansion Kit & MIDI PRO-Adapter™San Diego, June 11. 2010Mad Catz® Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz" or "the Company") (AMEX/TSX: MCZ), a leading third-party interactive entertainment accessory provider today announced a new range of official Rock Band™3 instruments and accessories.Designed in conjunction with Harmonix, the world's premier music video game developer, and MTV Games, a part of Viacom's MTV Networks (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B), the new range of instruments and accessories are expected to ship in time for the launch of the forthcoming Rock Band 3 video game arriving holiday season 2010.Darren Richardson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz commented, "We believe that Rock Band 3 will prove to be a revolutionary title in the rhythm music game genre and are excited to be working with Harmonix and MTV Games to help bring the game to life with this new line of products. The accessories we are announcing today will allow gamers to interact with music games like never before and when used alongside Rock Band 3, we believe they will set a new standard in realism and authenticity."Products expected to ship as part of the range include:·Rock Band 3 Wireless Keyboard Controller – Xbox 360 / PlayStation 3 / WiiDesigned for use exclusively with Rock Band 3, the Wireless Keyboard Controller has been crafted to resemble classic professional keyboards and is playable on a secure flat surface or while strapped over the player's shoulder. Empowering gamers to take their enjoyment of rhythm music gaming to the next level, the Wireless Keyboard Controller also functions as a MIDI keyboard, boasting a two-octave (C3 to C5) range and non-weighted, velocity-sensitive key bed allowing gamers to take full advantage of the Rock Band Pro mode. The MIDI output connector provides compatibility with MIDI software sequencers and hardware devices while standard console-specific gaming controller buttons deliver seamless console integration and the Wireless Keyboard Controller can also be used to play the lead guitar or bass parts of the game. An optional Keyboard Stand will be sold separately and is expected to be available alongside the launch of Rock Band 3. MSRP: $79.99·Rock Band 3 Game & Wireless Keyboard Controller BundleXbox 360 / PlayStation 3 / WiiIdeal for gamers who wish to enjoy the holiday seasons hottest music title and latest instrument together, the bundle includes both the Rock Band 3 game and Wireless Keyboard Controller, representing a convenient and excellent value purchase for music fans everywhere.MSRP: $129.99·Rock Band 3 Wireless Fender Mustang PRO-Guitar ControllerXbox 360 / PlayStation 3 / WiiIntroducing a new level of realism to the rhythm music genre, the Wireless Fender Mustang PRO-GuitarController is designed for use exclusively with Rock Band 3, allowing gamers to accurately replicate a real guitar when playing Rock Band Pro mode in the game. Featuring 17 frets along a button-based neck, the Fender Mustang PRO-Guitar includes a 6-string strumming area which allows for discrete picking of each string and a touch-sensitive string box which allows players to mute or 'cut-off' notes when pressed. In addition, the Fender Mustang PRO-Guitar operates as a fully functional MIDI guitar, with the MIDI output connector providing compatibility with MIDI software sequencers and hardware devices while standard console-specific gaming controller buttons deliver seamless console integration and navigation of the game menus. The Fender Mustang PRO-Guitar allows for left or right handed use and can also be used to play either lead or bass parts of the game in Rock Band Pro and standard game modes.MSRP: $149.99·Rock Band 3 Wireless PRO-Cymbals Expansion Kit – UniversalCompatible with all wireless Rock Band drum kits, the Wireless PRO-Cymbals Expansion Kit features three newly designed Rock Band 3 cymbals which have been re-engineered for quiet operation. Fully supporting the Rock Band Pro mode where the cymbals represent Hi-Hat, Crash and Ride, the cymbals can also be used in standard game modes for all Rock Band software. Improved from the Rock Band™ 2 cymbals, the new PRO-Cymbals boast quieter sound with noise-dampening rubber covering the full surface area of the cymbal. The PRO-Cymbals also feature enhanced responsiveness, essential when playing in Rock Band Pro mode. In addition, the redesigned Rock Band 3 cymbals now permanently rest at a pre-defined 10° angle, better positioned for accurate play. The PRO-Cymbals are also available as part of the Rock Band 3 Wireless Drum and Cymbal Kit (sold separately). MSRP: $39.99· Rock Band 3 MIDI PRO-Adapter – Xbox 360 / PlayStation 3 / WiiDesigned for use exclusively with Rock Band 3, theMIDI PRO-Adapter allows musicians to use their real MIDI keyboards or MIDI drum sets to play Rock Band 3. Plugging directly into the console via USB, the MIDI PRO-Adapter works as an interface between the console and MIDI instrument, converting the MIDI messages into console controller data which the game translates into on screen action. The MIDI PRO-Adapter features a velocity sensitive adjustment for MIDI drums designed to reduce cross-talk during play. A full D-Pad and standard gaming controller buttons are located on the PRO-Adapter to deliver seamless console integration and navigation of the game menus. Ships with a removable clip, allowing MIDI PRO-Adapter to be attached to a belt, or rest on a table top or similar flat surface.MSRP: $39.99To be formally announced in due course, Mad Catz will be offering updated versions of the guitar and drum peripherals from prior versions of Rock Band, as well as improved microphones in support of the Rock Band 3 vocal harmony feature.Featuring an incredible 83-song setlist and access to far more music than any other music video game, as well as innovative new gameplay modes and instruments, Rock Band 3 will change the way fans think about and play music games. This next iteration in the Rock Band platform has something new for everyone and also supports traditional Rock Band gameplay with players' existing instruments. Developed by Harmonix, the world's premier music videogame company, published by MTV Games, and distributed by distribution partner Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: ERTS), Rock Band 3 will ship simultaneously worldwide this Holiday 2010 in North America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and other territories for the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft, PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system, Wii™ home videogame console from Nintendo, and Nintendo DS. Rock Band 3 will be compatible with all Rock Band and The Beatles: Rock Band peripherals, as well as most third-party instrument and microphone controllers. Mad Catz is the official peripheral manufacturer and distributor for Rock Band 3 game controllers.For more information on Rock Band 3, art and video assets, please visit http://www.rockband.com/press.
 