
 
Oh boy, here we go: Hulu Plus is coming to Roku's lineup of players, which now starts at $59 and goes up to $99 for the Roku XDS we just reviewed highly. That certainly makes the Roku / Apple TV comparison far more interesting -- ten 99-cent Apple TV rentals or the $10 Hulu Plus monthly subscription fee? -- and depending on what you watch, it could make cutting your cable subscription a no-brainer. We don't know about resolution or bitrate yet, but we're working to find out -- and we're definitely looking to get some hands-on time before the channel goes live this fall, so stay tuned. PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textRoku Announces Content Partnership with HuluHulu Plus Coming this Fall on All Roku Streaming PlayersSaratoga, Calif. (September 28, 2010) Roku, Inc., maker of the best-selling and award-winning Roku streaming player, and Hulu™, the leading online TV service, today announced a partnership to offer the Hulu Plus™ service on all Roku players. The Hulu Plus channel will be available via subscription to all Roku customers later this fall.Hulu Plus offers one of the deepest offerings of TV shows, both current and classic, on a streaming platform to subscribers in the U.S. Through Hulu Plus on Roku, TV lovers can watch every episode of more than 45 current hit programs from ABC, FOX and NBC like Modern Family, Grey's Anatomy, Glee, Family Guy, The Office and 30 Rock. In addition, TV lovers will be able to enjoy full series runs and numerous back seasons of dozens of classic shows like The X-Files, Law and Order: SVU, Arrested Development, Saturday Night Live, Miami Vice, Ugly Betty, Quantum Leap, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Angel, Roswell and Ally McBeal. The Hulu Plus channel will be available via subscription to all Roku customers later this fall."We are excited to bring Hulu Plus to all Roku users," said Pete Distad, VP of Content Distribution for Hulu. "With Hulu Plus on Roku, TV fans will have an easy way to stream to their TVs the shows they love, whenever they want." Roku pioneered the streaming player category in 2008, and recently launched its new line of HD streaming players starting at $59.99, featuring the largest collection of streaming entertainment available for the TV, and the lowest prices in the industry."We're thrilled to be able to provide Hulu Plus subscribers with the most inexpensive device to stream Hulu content to their TVs," said Anthony Wood, founder and CEO of Roku, Inc. "Hulu continues to be an amazing innovator in online entertainment, and Roku is an ideal platform to bring their content back to the living room and high definition televisions where it is best viewed." The Roku HD streaming player ($59.99) delivers video in high-definition and features built-in wireless and Ethernet for easy broadband connectivity anywhere in the home. The new Roku XD ($79.99) and XDS ($99.99) models add 1080p HD support (delivered over HDMI) and extended-range Wireless-N. In addition, the XDS model features dual-band Wireless-N technology and USB playback.In partnering with Roku, Hulu joins major entertainment partners including Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX), Amazon Video On Demand (NASDAQ: AMZN), Pandora, MLB.TV, and Ultimate Fighting Championship®.
 