
 
After receiving a boost from Netgear it appears Roku's plans for 2011 include hitting retail under its own name, as it's officially announced the Roku XD (no NTV250 branding) is available at Best Buy, as well as Fry's and Radio Shack. Previously Roku only sold its own player through online but after breaking through 1 million units it's apparently ready for bigger things. We've been informed the Netgear-branded boxes will sell out their inventory and be replaced by these going forward, so those interested in grabbing one for the archives may want to do so quickly. 2011 should see a big charge into retail from Roku as it seeks to stay one step ahead of the media streaming competition and this is just the first step; for now one can only wonder exactly what the next move will be.
      

 

Show full PR textRoku Enters Retail with Nationwide Availability at Best BuyRoku XD model featuring 1080p playback and 802.11n WiFi now available for purchaseat your local Best Buy Store.Saratoga, Calif. – March 30, 2011 – Roku, Inc., maker of the best-selling and award-winningRoku streaming player, announced today that its Roku XD player is available for purchaseat Best Buy stores nationwide and at BestBuy.com. With up to 1080p HD streaming support,integrated 802.11n WiFi and Instant Replay the Roku XD offers unlimited entertainment choicesand incredible value to customers. The Roku XD has a list price of $79.99 and is available atBest Buy stores and at BestBuy.com for purchase today. Roku players can also be found atother leading retail stores including BJ's Wholesale Club, Fry's Electronics and RadioShack."Having sold over 1 million Roku players through online sales only up until now, we areincredibly excited to announce our entrance into brick and mortar retail with nationwideavailability from the preeminent consumer electronics retailer," said Anthony Wood, founder andCEO of Roku, Inc. "Customers can now grab a Roku off the shelf at Best Buy, take it home andbe up and running, enjoying their favorite TV show, movie, music or sports team in just a matterof minutes."All Roku players continue to deliver the largest collection of streaming entertainment availablefor the TV, including over 100,000 movies and TV shows from Netflix, (NASDAQ: NFLX)Amazon Instant Video (NASDAQ: AMZN) and Hulu Plus; live and on-demand sports from NBAGame Time and NHL GameCenter Live; music from Pandora, MP3tunes, MOG and Rdio; photoand video sharing from Flickr and Facebook; plus news and entertainment from thousands ofsources around the world.First introduced in May 2008, the Roku player provides an easy, affordable, and reliable way forover 1 million customers to watch movies and TV shows instantly on their TV. Since the launchof the Roku Channel Store, all Roku customers now have access to over 150 channels from 85unique content services, with more added all the time.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Roku XD is available for $79.99 and can be purchased at any Best Buy in the UnitedStates and at BestBuy.com. In addition to being available at Best Buy, select Roku players areavailable at BJ's Wholesale Club, Fry's Electronics and RadioShack. A full list of retailers andwhich Roku models are available at each one can be found at http://www.roku.com/retail.About Roku, Inc.The market leader in streaming entertainment devices for the TV with over 1 million units sold,Roku has always believed that anything you want to watch, listen to, and enjoy should simplybe there on your TV, whenever you want it. Roku streaming players are renowned for theirsimplicity, variety of entertainment choices, and exceptional value. Roku is privately held andbased in Saratoga, Calif. For more information on the company and its products, visit: http://www.roku.com.###
 