
  Having already debuted in the UK, Roku is officially undertaking the second stage of its international attack plan by taking on a new region of North America: Canada. Given the box's roots and popularity as a Netflix streamer it's no surprise that the international rollouts just happen to be in English-speaking countries where the service is available, but there's more to be had, since Roku says it's launching with more than 100 channels north of the border. Hardware-wise, Roku is kicking things off with two of its higher-end players in the Roku 2 XS and Roku 2 XD. Both can handle video in resolutions up to 1080p and feature built-in WiFi while the XS throws in a gaming remote plus Ethernet and USB ports just like their US counterparts. The XD and XS can be has for $89.99 ad $109.99 CAD, respectively, either online from the usual sources, while London Drugs and Walmart are expected to offer them at retail by the end of the month. There's a bit more detail on the launch channels in the press release after the break, we'll expect more firsthand impressions from our Canadian friends once the NHL playoffs are over.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Roku Streaming Players Launch in Canada Award-winning Platform Brings On-demand Video, Music and Games to TV without a PC  Saratoga, Calif. – April 16, 2012 – Roku®, the leading streaming platform in the U.S. today announced the official launch of its products in Canada. Two Roku streaming player models – the Roku 2 XD and the Roku 2 XS – are available for purchase in Canada starting today. These small set-top boxes use the Internet to stream entertainment to the TV instantly.  At launch in Canada, Roku features more than 100 entertainment channels including movies and TV shows from Netflix and Crackle; live and on-demand sports from the National Hockey League and Major League Baseball; music from Rdio and TuneIn Radio; photos and videos from Facebook and Flickr; news and weather from the Wall Street Journal and CNBC – plus casual games like Angry Birds, Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy. Roku expects to broaden its channel selection in Canada at a pace similar to its growth in the U.S. – now at more than 450 channels.  "We have a simple formula for our best-selling streaming players: provide access to a ton of entertainment at a low price, while maintaining a best-in-class streaming experience," said Chuck Seiber, vice president of global marketing at Roku. "We've set the same high bar for ourselves with the launch of our players today in Canada."  The Roku 2 XD Streaming Player offers tremendous value for streaming video and music directly to a TV. The Roku 2 XD connects to the Internet instantly via built-in WiFi and supports up to 1080p high-definition video. The Roku 2 XS is the top-of-the-line Roku streaming player. In addition to the features of the Roku 2 XD, the Roku 2 XS comes paired with an enhanced remote with motion control for playing games like Angry Birds. It also features an Ethernet port and a USB port for playing music, videos and photos off of any USB drive.  Roku is an open streaming platform and content providers – whether they are big entertainment brands or new Internet services – can develop a channel on Roku. Content providers interested in developing a channel can contact Roku at partners@roku.com for more details and to access the software development kit.  Pricing and Availability The Roku 2 XD and the Roku 2 XS streaming players have suggested retail prices of CAD 89.99 and CAD 109.99, respectively. Both models are available now for pre-order online from Roku.ca, Amazon.ca LondonDrugs.com and Walmart.ca; and are expected to be available at London Drugs and Walmart retail locations at the end of the month. Canadian retailers interested in becoming an authorized reseller of Roku can contact Roku's distributor, Synnex at newaccounts@synnex.com.  About Roku Inc. Roku is a leading streaming platform. Delivering entertainment to millions of customers in the U.S. and in a growing number of countries around the world, Roku streaming players are affordable, are easy to use, and feature the best selection of streaming entertainment. Channels on Roku vary by region and include Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Crackle, Hulu Plus, HBO GO, MLB.TV, Pandora, Facebook, Disney, Angry Birds and many more. Based in Saratoga, Calif., Roku was founded by Anthony Wood, inventor of the DVR. For more information, visit www.roku.com. ###
 