
  Just as Netflix is nearly ubiquitous on media streaming platforms in the US, BBC's iPlayer is pretty much a default app in the UK so it's no surprise to see it show up on Roku's boxes just as they start shipping across the Atlantic. As detailed in the press release after the break, those shiny new Roku LT and Roku 2 XS hockey pucks are well on their way to punters who've shelled out £50 / £100, respectively, with over 40 available channels. Unfortunately, that announcement doesn't extend to global iPlayer support outside the UK and Republic of Ireland, so we'll have to catch up on Inside Men some other way.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Roku Increases Selection of Entertainment Content; Begins Shipping Roku Players to Customers in the UK Roku Players Feature More than 40 Streaming Channels Including Region-Specific Programmes   Saratoga, Calif. and LONDON – Feb. 10, 2012 – Roku ®, the leading streaming platform in the U.S., today announced the addition of BBC iPlayer to its growing selection of video, music and games in the UK. Joining Netflix, FoxNews.com and others, the new channel will allow Roku's UK customers to catch up on recent BBC programming on their television sets without the need for a PC.  "Roku recognizes the importance of region-specific programmes so today we are excited to announce the addition of BBC iPlayer to our platform," said Clive Hudson, vice president and general manager for Europe at Roku. "This is among the first of many significant content partnerships for Roku in Europe and we look forward to making additional announcements in the coming weeks."  Roku streaming players are known for their low prices, simplicity and quality of content. Two models of Roku players – Roku LT and Roku 2 XS – are available in the UK and the Republic of Ireland for suggested retail prices of £49.99 and £99.99 respectively (customers can visit www.roku.co.uk to find retailers). Both models feature more than 40 channels of streaming entertainment including on-demand films and programmes from Netflix and Crackle (Crackle is available in the UK only); live and on-demand sports from MLB.TV and Ultimate Fighting Championship organisation; music from Classical TV and TuneIn; photos and videos from Facebook and Flickr; news and entertainment from WSJ Live from the Wall Street Journal, FoxNews.com and others from around the world – plus casual games like Angry Birds.  About Roku, Inc. Roku is a leading streaming platform. Since launching the first Netflix streaming player in 2008, Roku has delivered entertainment content to approximately 2.5 million streaming players. The Roku platform features a growing collection of channels that vary by country but include Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Crackle, Hulu Plus, HBO GO™, MLB.TV, Pandora, Facebook and Angry Birds. Renowned for their ease of use, value and selection of content, the award‐winning Roku streaming players are available for purchase through leading retailers in the U.S., UK and Ireland. Roku was founded by Anthony Wood, inventor of the DVR. For more information, visit www.roku.com.
 