

Big Bird (or "Big Yellah," as we like to call him) and his Sesame Street cohorts are now available for streaming on your Roku box. Not just that, but his non-avian colleagues from PBS and PBS Kids are also making the trip, arriving today in new PBS and PBS Kids Roku channels. The two new channels offer more than the on-demand access to PBS programming you'd expect; PBS Digital Studios' work is also available to stream (we're quite fond of it, if you couldn't tell).


While it's not 100 percent clear what exactly is available at any given time, PBS' announcement says "hundreds of videos" can be accessed, which are pulled from the archives, from national and local daily programming, and include biggies like NOVA, Frontline, and American Experience (it stands to reason that heavy hitter Downtown Abbey won't be available, given its exclusive license with Amazon starting next month). PBS Kids is similarly well-stocked, with "more than 1,000 videos," which includes everything from Curious George to, yes, Sesame Street. There's a short teaser video of the service being used just below the break, should you not be able to contain yourself until you get home.


Update: According to Roku, not all Roku players support the new PBS channels. "Both PBS and PBS Kids are available immediately for all Roku 3, Roku 2, Roku LT, new Roku HD players and the Roku Streaming Stick in the US," the company says. Heads up!



Show full PR textPBS and PBS KIDS Launch on RokuNew Channels Offer Hundreds of Videos On-Demand, Including NOVA, MASTERPIECE, FRONTLINE, SUPER WHY!, CURIOUS GEORGE, and Video from Local PBS StationsArlington, VA: MAY 8, 2013--PBS and Roku® announced today that videos from favorite PBS and PBS KIDS programs, as well as favorite programs from local PBS stations, are now available to consumers via the Roku streaming platform.In addition to national and local PBS programming, viewers can access web-original video from PBS Digital Studios, winner of five 2013 Webby Awards.Roku users will access and personalize their PBS experiences by choosing their favorite local station. This will provide viewers with content from their local PBS station, along with signature PBS programs."This launch is an important next step in our strategy to make PBS content available through a variety of platforms, while maintaining the connection between the viewer and their local station," said Jason Seiken, PBS SVP and GM, Digital. "We are happy that this partnership with Roku will deliver consumers both national PBS and PBSKIDS programs, as well as favorite video from their local PBS station, all on demand."The PBS Channel will include hundreds of videos from PBS stations, including episodes from new primetime programs as well as the PBS archives, with new national and local content updated daily. Programming includes video from AMERICAN EXPERIENCE, ANTIQUES ROADSHOW, FRONTLINE, MASTERPIECE, NOVA and SECRETS OF THE DEAD, as well as video from PBS Digital Studios.The PBS KIDS Channel will include more than 1,000 videos from more than a dozen PBS KIDS television series, including CURIOUS GEORGE, THE CAT IN THE HAT KNOWS A LOT ABOUT THAT!, DANIEL TIGER'S NEIGHBORHOOD, DINOSAUR TRAIN, SUPER WHY!, WILD KRATTS and SESAME STREET.Both PBS and PBS KIDS are available immediately for all Roku players in the U.S., and can be found in the Movies & TV section of the Roku Channel Store.More information can be found at pbs.org/roku.About PBSPBS, with its over 350 member stations, offers all Americans the opportunity to explore new ideas and new worlds through television and online content. Each month, PBS reaches nearly 120 million people through television and over 29 million people online, inviting them to experience the worlds of science, history, nature and public affairs; to hear diverse viewpoints; and to take front row seats to world-class drama and performances. PBS' broad array of programs has been consistently honored by the industry's most coveted award competitions. Teachers of children from pre-K through 12th grade turn to PBS for digital content and services that help bring classroom lessons to life. PBS' premier children's TV programming and its website, pbskids.org, are parents' and teachers' most trusted partners in inspiring and nurturing curiosity and love of learning in children. More information about PBS is available at www.pbs.org, one of the leading dot-org websites on the Internet, or by following PBS on Twitter, Facebook or through our apps for mobile devices. Specific program information and updates for press are available at pbs.org/pressroom or by following PBS Pressroom on Twitter.About Roku, Inc.Roku is a leading streaming platform for delivering video, music and casual games to the TV. Roku launched the first player to stream Netflix to the TV in 2008, and today streams more than 750 entertainment channels to millions of devices. Roku streaming players and the Roku Streaming Stick can be purchased from Roku and major retailers in the U.S. Roku players are also available in Canada, the U.K. and Republic of Ireland. Roku was founded by Anthony Wood, inventor of the DVR. The company is headquartered in Saratoga, Calif. For more information, visit www.roku.com.Roku and Roku Ready are registered trademarks and the Roku Streaming Stick is a trademark of Roku, Inc. in the U.S. and in other countries.


