
 

It's been a big year for Roku. The streaming content box manufacturer launched its Roku 2 HD, XD and XS this summer, with a $50 LT model coming just last month. Now, the Netflix / HBO Go / Angry Birds player will cross the border into Canada and the U.K., with the expansion set to begin in early 2012. The company is looking to build its 350 channels with region-specific content, which can be provided free, supported by ads or with a subscription -- and if you choose to add your own content to the service, you'd certainly be in good company.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Roku Announces International Expansion 		Roku Streaming Platform Now Open to Content Providers and Developers in UK and Canada 		SARATOGA, Calif., Nov 17, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- Roku, the leading streaming platform in the U.S. today announced plans for international expansion. Roku expects that consumers in the United Kingdom and Canada will be able to purchase Roku streaming players beginning in early 2012. Roku is expanding its open platform to support region-specific channels. Publishers of video, music, games and other Internet-delivered content can now reach their customers' TVs directly through Roku. Content can be free, ad supported or paid. Those interested in developing for Roku should contact partners@roku.com. 		Roku launched the first Netflix streaming player in 2008 and is now the leading streaming platform in the U.S. With more than 350 channels of content, Roku delivers the best collection of streaming entertainment available for the TV. Roku's open streaming platform brings new content providers to the TV screen and expands the offerings of existing platforms such as channels found on traditional cable and satellite networks. 		"This year has been one of many accomplishments for Roku in the U.S. In July, we introduced Roku 2 which brings casual games to the TV and last month we unveiled the $49.99 Roku LT. We've added casual games including Angry Birds and PAC-MAN as well as premiere channels including HBO GO," said Roku Founder and CEO Anthony Wood. "And now we're looking forward to kicking off 2012 by expanding to Europe and Canada and providing consumers abroad with the best in streaming entertainment -- a natural evolution for Roku." 		To make Roku players available in Canada, Roku is working with Synnex Canada Limited, a subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation SNX -0.47%.
 