
 

That cheaper, purpler, Roku LT we spied passing through the FCC and beta testing is official, and will hit retail shelves for just $50 next month. It's only $10 less than the also-720p-limited Roku 2 HD, but that model isn't sold everywhere and if you're just snagging a box to watch some Netflix you probably won't notice the missing Bluetooth and SD card reader. No matter which model is selected, starting next month viewers will be able to watch HBO Go streaming content on the Roku family of hardware. Cord cutters that have dropped pay TV entirely still don't have access, but Roku CEO Anthony Wood reports around 80 percent of Roku owners still have cable or satellite. With that in mind, after Roku added Epix and was namechecked by Comcast to the FCC and at conferences, it's not surprising to see the TV Everywhere movement trying to co-opt the box for its own ends. Expect more content announcements from Roku going forward, including more gaming options -- Angry Birds 2 alone is one of the most used channels already -- and even more authenticated streaming as the cable and satellite players extend their reach onto other platforms.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   HBO GO Launching on Roku Platform 		Roku to Offer More Than 1,400 HBO Titles for Streaming on TV 		NEW YORK and SARATOGA, Calif., – Oct. 11, 2011 – HBO and Roku today announced that the two companies will launch HBO GO on the Roku streaming platform. With HBO GO on Roku, consumers		will be able to instantly access more than 1,400 titles, including every episode of every season of the best HBO shows – streamed to their TVs for convenient, on-demand viewing from the comfort of home.		Expected to be available on all Roku streaming players at the end of October, HBO GO will join Roku's large and growing collection of entertainment channels. HBO GO is available at no additional cost to		HBO customers who subscribe through a participating television provider. 		"The HBO GO app has been wildly popular with our on-the-go viewers who enjoy being able to instantly access our programs on their mobile devices," said Bernadette Aulestia, senior vice president, domestic		network distribution & marketing, HBO. "Now through our partnership with Roku, we will make these programs available on Roku streaming players, allowing our customers to stream them directly on the		TV whenever they want." 		HBO GO provides instant access to the best and latest HBO shows and hit movies including the critically acclaimed, award-winning series Game of Thrones®, Boardwalk Empire® and True Blood®; classics		like The Sopranos®, Sex and the City® and Deadwood®; plus HBO original films, miniseries, sports, documentaries and specials; in addition to a wide selection of blockbuster theatricals. 		"Roku's mission has always been to provide the best selection of entertainment available for streaming on the TV," said Anthony Wood, founder and CEO, Roku. "To that end, we are delighted to be one of the		first platforms to offer HBO GO's wealth of acclaimed programming for streaming on TVs." 		The best-selling Roku streaming players – now including the award-winning Roku 2 line – are affordable and easy to use. Roku now features more than 300 entertainment channels including Netflix, Amazon		Instant Video, Hulu Plus, Pandora and Angry Birds. Recently launched channels include Disney.com, AOL HD and FoxNews.com.  New Roku LT Streams Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon, Pandora and 300 More Channels 		Saratoga, Calif. – Oct. 11, 2011 – Roku, the leading streaming platform today announced a new affordable streaming player with the market's lowest price of just $49.99. Called the Roku LT, this new		player works with virtually any TV and delivers the full award-winning Roku streaming experience with more than 300 channels including Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video, Pandora, EPIX, Crackle,		Disney, and the newest premier addition to our channel line-up -- HBO GO. More details on the HBO GO announcement appears in a separate press release also issued today. 		"Our goal is a Roku in every home," said Roku Founder and CEO Anthony Wood. "The Roku LT opens up streaming to more people by lowering the cost of entry in these difficult economic times. With a $49		price and selection of more than 300 channels we expect the Roku LT will be everyone's favorite Holiday device." 		The Roku LT streams 720p high-definition video and features built-in wireless. It will be available from Roku.com, Amazon.com and in retail stores nationwide beginning in early November. 		The Roku LT complements the Roku 2 family of streaming players which was introduced in late July. The Roku 2 family is unique in that it features casual gaming as well as streaming video and music. Roku 2 is		available in three models – Roku 2 HD ($59.99), Roku 2 XD ($79.99) and Roku 2 XS ($99.99)- all feature Bluetooth and a microSD card slot. The flagship Roku 2 XS model comes standard with the Bluetooth-		enabled Roku Game Remote with motion control for games like Angry Birds.
 