
 
 Not to be left out of the Computex party, RunCore has just unveiled a 7mm-thick Pro VI solid-state drive to give new Ultrabooks a swift kick. The company is aiming squarely at the sunnier side of mid-range SSDs through a speedy JMicron controller that hits 550MB/s in reads, and a less aggressive but still brisk 380MB/s for writes. The SATA 6Gbps drive doesn't have any special tricks up its sleeves, but there's no doubt that it fits just about any ultrabook category: capacities swing from a very modest 32GB to a 512GB drive meant to take over from ho-hum spinning disks. While RunCore's customer list isn't public material, we wouldn't be surprised if a lot of extra-thin notebooks wending their way out of southeast Asia this year carry the Pro VI inside.



  Show full PR text   RunCore debuts new 2.5in 7mm SSD at Computex 2012
  (Changsha, China – June, 2012) - RunCore, the leading manufacturer of high-performance and rugged solid state drives (SSDs), today introduced its new Pro VI 2.5in 7mm SSD for Ultrabooks, offers a higher and more stable performance than Pro V 2.5's 7mm SSD.
  By some observations from multiple authoritative research institutions, it believes that more than a million Ultrabooks will be bought this year because the price of them are expected to drop into the $799 to $899 range. Recently SSD price declining encourages PC suppliers to use SSDs in their products and the development of Ultrabooks. In addition to the Pro V Ultra SSD, RunCore once again introduce another new 7mm SSD – Pro VI 2.5in 7mm SSD - to enrich its product lineup for Ultrabooks.
  RunCore Pro VI 2.5in 7mm SSD is a JMicron-based SSD. The drive uses the latest serial ATA (SATA) 6Gbps interface protocol, with Synch NAND and 32MB cache it offers over 550MB/s read and 380MB/s write data transfer rate, featuring an extreme read and write IOPS up to 80000 and 60000 respectively. Comparing it to the previous series 7mm drive, it has a 32MB cache, with excellent ECC and Wear-leveling Algorithm Technology, it delivers a more balanced performance, capacity range from 32GB to 512 GB, can be added to Ultrabooks, workstations and desktops to provide balanced and superb performance.
 
