
 

Samsung's CES 2012 press conference is going on right now, and it's unveiling new products including the top of the line ES8000 LED model that packs a dual core CPU to run its apps, and an integrated camera and microphone for "Smart Interaction". Beyond that, the "Smart Evolution" feature will let users swap out that dual core processor for something heftier later on if they want to upgrade. Finally "Smart Content" is the umbrella term for a wave content and apps including, of course, Angry Birds, and an upgraded version of AllShare that pulls from the cloud, and can even control other compatible devices. The ES8000 edge lit LED line ranges in size from 46- to 65-inches, and features Smart Interaction cameras and mics for videoconferencing as well as voice and gesture control. Check after the break for the press release with all the details, or follow along with our liveblog.





 		Show full PR text  Samsung Reveals the Future of Smart TV at CES 2012		Intuitive TV control, new content offerings, and a future-proof philosophy ring in the future of innovation for global Smart TV leader		LAS VEGAS, USA – January 9, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today, proclaimed a new era of entertainment by placing TV at the center of the home ecosystem and breaking down boundaries between connected devices.		Boo-Keun Yoon, President and Head of Consumer Electronics Division at Samsung Electronics unveiled the future of Smart TV on the CES press conference stage, explaining the TV's role in bringing family members together in front of a large, central screen after spending the day apart on individual devices. President Yoon's vision is flanked by three driving philosophies for a Smarter Life: Smart Interaction, Smart Content, and Smart Evolution-all of which arm consumers with future of Smart TV technology, today.		―The TV is the heart of our homes, and is the central device that connects our family at the end of a long day. For Samsung, this means providing the future of Smart TV now-through new TVs that recognize and respond to you, connect your family in and out of the home, and offer amazing new content options personalized to your lifestyle and needs,‖ said President Yoon. ―Further, to extend the new TV experience and equip families with future technologies, Samsung has created the ability to scale up your TV each year-ensuring the best new TV experience for years to come.‖		Smart Interaction		As content grows to become smarter, robust and more accessible, Samsung's vision for the way in which consumers interact with their TVs has also enhanced. Debuted today at CES, Smart Interaction enables Smart TV owners to communicate with their TVs via Voice Control, Motion Control, and Face Recognition-providing an alternative to using a remote control when it is not desired or convenient. Thanks to a built-in HD camera and dual-microphones on Samsung's flagship line of 2012 Smart TVs, consumers may simply say ―Hi TV‖ to turn on Voice Control, speak ―Web Browser‖ to get online, and browse and select search results or increase the volume by just pointing a hand. In the LED 8000 series, these broad range of Smart Interaction capabilities are complemented by a stunning post-minimalist design featuring an ultra-slim bezel.		Smart Content		Expansion of more robust and personalized content offerings to better meet consumers' needs is a principal goal of Samsung Smart TV. On the press conference stage, Samsung spoke to its content success-with more than 1,400 Smart TV apps now available including Angry Birds, Discovery Channel, and the number of third-party developers that has grown from 550 to 25,000 in just two years. Samsung's new powerful dual-core processor allows consumers to access even more of Samsung's abundant content choices at once, through the ability to use and download multiple apps while browsing the Web or watching live TV-providing a true multitasking experience.		In 2012, Samsung is further meeting the needs of consumers by providing greater access to content from anywhere in the world. New this year, Samsung has revamped its AllShare service into ―AllShare Play‖-enabling content to move from device to device-and from device to cloud-regardless of location. AllShare Play enables consumers to push content manually to the cloud or pull the content directly from		their Smart TV or other mobile devices. AllShare Play will also be equipped with a limited amount of free, online storage.		Samsung is taking the connected ecosystem one step further with three new Signature Services for Smart TV: Family Story, Fitness and Kids-enabling families to share photos and messages with each other, easily sync their fitness goals and activities, and help kids partake in educational viewing while recording progress every step of the way.		Smart Evolution		2012 Samsung Smart TV will be ―future proof‖ for years to come. Thanks to its proprietary system-on-chip technology, Samsung is the only company that can deliver an evolving TV, which allows you to easily enjoy the benefits of the latest TV technology year after year, without purchasing a brand new set. With a simple slot-in to the back of TV, Samsung's Evolution Kit will bring the latest and greatest TV technology to life.		Also in 2012, Samsung is continuing its collaboration with Google to develop and provide the best TV experience for consumers. By combining the strengths and experiences of each company, a forthcoming offering will deliver an entirely distinct experience in the category.		Unveiling Samsung's Super OLED TV, a CES "Best of Innovations 2012" Award Winner		Continuing its future-forward path, Samsung also introduced today the ultimate TV delivering new sensations, and an entirely new category of television that the industry has long been awaiting-Samsung's very first 55-inch Super OLED. As a CES ―Best of Innovations 2012‖ award winner, Samsung is proud to utilize its long history and expertise surrounding OLED product development to bring this technology to large-screen TVs. Samsung's proprietary Super OLED technology incorporates the ultimate in vividness, speed and thinness, with true-to-life picture quality, enhanced color accuracy and motion picture quality even in the fastest scenes. Also incorporated into Samsung's Super OLED TV is Smart Interaction, Samsung Apps, 3D functionality and multitasking-enabling the TV of tomorrow to be delivered today at CES.		As the global television leader for six consecutive years, Samsung has forged its vision for the Future of Smart TV via Smart Interaction, Smart Content, and Smart Evolution-all backed by impeccable product performance and design. To catch a glimpse of all technologies debuted at CES 2012, stop by Samsung Electronics' booth, No. 12004, January 10–13, inside the Las Vegas Convention Center. Full details, video content and product images are available at the Samsung microsite at: www.samsungces.com. The press conference will also be streamed live from www.samsungces.com and www.global.samsungtomorrow.com.  				Show full PR text 				Samsung Reveals the Future of Smart TV at CES 2012				Intuitive TV control, new content offerings, and a future-proof philosophy ring in the future of innovation for global Smart TV leader				LAS VEGAS, USA – January 9, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today, proclaimed a new era of entertainment by placing TV at the center of the home ecosystem and breaking down boundaries between connected devices.				Boo-Keun Yoon, President and Head of Consumer Electronics Division at Samsung Electronics unveiled the future of Smart TV on the CES press conference stage, explaining the TV's role in bringing family members together in front of a large, central screen after spending the day apart on individual devices. President Yoon's vision is flanked by three driving philosophies for a Smarter Life: Smart Interaction, Smart Content, and Smart Evolution-all of which arm consumers with future of Smart TV technology, today.				―The TV is the heart of our homes, and is the central device that connects our family at the end of a long day. For Samsung, this means providing the future of Smart TV now-through new TVs that recognize and respond to you, connect your family in and out of the home, and offer amazing new content options personalized to your lifestyle and needs,‖ said President Yoon. ―Further, to extend the new TV experience and equip families with future technologies, Samsung has created the ability to scale up your TV each year-ensuring the best new TV experience for years to come.‖				Smart Interaction				As content grows to become smarter, robust and more accessible, Samsung's vision for the way in which consumers interact with their TVs has also enhanced. Debuted today at CES, Smart Interaction enables Smart TV owners to communicate with their TVs via Voice Control, Motion Control, and Face Recognition-providing an alternative to using a remote control when it is not desired or convenient. Thanks to a built-in HD camera and dual-microphones on Samsung's flagship line of 2012 Smart TVs, consumers may simply say ―Hi TV‖ to turn on Voice Control, speak ―Web Browser‖ to get online, and browse and select search results or increase the volume by just pointing a hand. In the LED 8000 series, these broad range of Smart Interaction capabilities are complemented by a stunning post-minimalist design featuring an ultra-slim bezel.				Smart Content				Expansion of more robust and personalized content offerings to better meet consumers' needs is a principal goal of Samsung Smart TV. On the press conference stage, Samsung spoke to its content success-with more than 1,400 Smart TV apps now available including Angry Birds, Discovery Channel, and the number of third-party developers that has grown from 550 to 25,000 in just two years. Samsung's new powerful dual-core processor allows consumers to access even more of Samsung's abundant content choices at once, through the ability to use and download multiple apps while browsing the Web or watching live TV-providing a true multitasking experience.				In 2012, Samsung is further meeting the needs of consumers by providing greater access to content from anywhere in the world. New this year, Samsung has revamped its AllShare service into ―AllShare Play‖-enabling content to move from device to device-and from device to cloud-regardless of location. AllShare Play enables consumers to push content manually to the cloud or pull the content directly from				their Smart TV or other mobile devices. AllShare Play will also be equipped with a limited amount of free, online storage.				Samsung is taking the connected ecosystem one step further with three new Signature Services for Smart TV: Family Story, Fitness and Kids-enabling families to share photos and messages with each other, easily sync their fitness goals and activities, and help kids partake in educational viewing while recording progress every step of the way.				Smart Evolution				2012 Samsung Smart TV will be ―future proof‖ for years to come. Thanks to its proprietary system-on-chip technology, Samsung is the only company that can deliver an evolving TV, which allows you to easily enjoy the benefits of the latest TV technology year after year, without purchasing a brand new set. With a simple slot-in to the back of TV, Samsung's Evolution Kit will bring the latest and greatest TV technology to life.				Also in 2012, Samsung is continuing its collaboration with Google to develop and provide the best TV experience for consumers. By combining the strengths and experiences of each company, a forthcoming offering will deliver an entirely distinct experience in the category.				Unveiling Samsung's Super OLED TV, a CES "Best of Innovations 2012" Award Winner				Continuing its future-forward path, Samsung also introduced today the ultimate TV delivering new sensations, and an entirely new category of television that the industry has long been awaiting-Samsung's very first 55-inch Super OLED. As a CES ―Best of Innovations 2012‖ award winner, Samsung is proud to utilize its long history and expertise surrounding OLED product development to bring this technology to large-screen TVs. Samsung's proprietary Super OLED technology incorporates the ultimate in vividness, speed and thinness, with true-to-life picture quality, enhanced color accuracy and motion picture quality even in the fastest scenes. Also incorporated into Samsung's Super OLED TV is Smart Interaction, Samsung Apps, 3D functionality and multitasking-enabling the TV of tomorrow to be delivered today at CES.				As the global television leader for six consecutive years, Samsung has forged its vision for the Future of Smart TV via Smart Interaction, Smart Content, and Smart Evolution-all backed by impeccable product performance and design. To catch a glimpse of all technologies debuted at CES 2012, stop by Samsung Electronics' booth, No. 12004, January 10–13, inside the Las Vegas Convention Center. Full details, video content and product images are available at the Samsung microsite at: www.samsungces.com. The press conference will also be streamed live from www.samsungces.com and www.global.samsungtomorrow.com.  
 