
 

Holy heck is this pricing ambitious. Samsung's Android-equipped mirrorless camera, the Galaxy NX, is slated to hit US retailers this October for the princely sum of $1,700 with a bundled 18-55mm lens ($1,600 body only). That may be an awful lot of dough, but it is a bit less than the £1,299 (about $2,000) quoted at UK retailers last month, and considering the hardware on board, we wouldn't be surprised if thousands of curious consumers still pick one up. That amount nets you a 20.3-megapixel APS-C sensor, NX300-like focusing, 8.6fps continuous shooting, and a 1.6GHz quad-core processor for far better Android performance that you'd get with, say, the Galaxy S4 Zoom. There's also WiFi, Bluetooth, GPS and GLONASS, along with cellular radios, letting you transfer images over LTE.


 

Show full PR textHighly Anticipated Samsung Galaxy NX Camera Available in the US in Time for Holiday Shopping
First Interchangeable-Lens Camera with Android 4.2 Jelly Bean, Available in October Starting at $1,599.99

RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. – August 29, 2013 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today announced pricing for the GALAXY NX SMART camera; the first connected Compact System Camera (CSC). The GALAXY NX will be available $1,599.99 (body-only) or $1,699.99 (bundled with an 18-55mm lens) and will be available in U.S. stores in October, just in time for the holiday shopping season. Adaptable and simple to use, the GALAXY NX combines cutting edge optical performance with connectivity capabilities and a variety of applications based on the Android eco-system, all in one stylish package.

"Photographers today live mobile lifestyles and they demand tools that allow them to share their work – in stunning detail – instantly," said Ron Gazzola, Vice President of Marketing for Digital Imaging. "The GALAXY NX camera represents the pinnacle of technology convergence in our 2013 SMART camera line, successfully marrying the benefits of our GALAXY Camera with the imaging prowess of the award-winning NX interchangeable lens SMART cameras."Android Integration

Powered by the Android 4.2 Jelly Bean operating system, the GALAXY NX offers a professional-level photographic experience with the simplicity and familiarity of a smartphone. Users can choose from a variety of Android apps to help personalize their GALAXY NX and do more than just shoot amazing photographs and video - from editing images to adding special effects to staying in touch with friends and family.

Professional Image Quality

The GALAXY NX's 20.3MP APS-C Sensor produces images that are bright and detailed, even in low light conditions, while the DRIMe IV Image Signal Processor delivers the speed and accuracy today's photographers demand. Its Advanced Hybrid Auto Focus (AF) System ensures accurate phase and contrast detection for crisp, vibrant shots, while the 1/6000 sec shutter speed and 8.6fps shooting lets users capture the action as it happens.

The flexibility offered by the GALAXY NX's selection of Interchangeable Lenses places creative control firmly in the hands of the photographer, opening up a world of imaging possibilities, whatever the scenario. From compact pancake lenses and an ultra-wide fisheye, to exquisite longer prime and zoom lenses, the extensive optics portfolio helps users create images that are truly special.

Smarter SMART Features

The GALAXY NX is teeming with options to capture life's memorable moments. Photo Suggest provides location-based recommendations of popular photography spots, sourced from a huge library of images taken by fellow photographers across the world. Story Album lets users relive memories by displaying special moments on one timeline, reframing and resizing them to create digital photo books that can be viewed and shared on other devices.

The GALAXY NX boasts more than 30 Smart Modes, allowing users to select the optimum settings for almost any scenario, as well as create fresh, artistic images. 'Multi Exposure' merges two different shots together to produce one distinctive image, while 'Animated Photo' connects continuous shots of up to five seconds, creating a moving GIF file. For added realism, 'Sound & Shot' stores sound and voice together as the picture is taken, so moments are captured exactly as they happened.

For added personalization, Camera Studio allows users to easily customize settings with their most frequently used applications or camera modes, making sure their photos are captured exactly as desired every time.

Pricing & Availability

The GALAXY NX will be available at www.samsung.com and authorized Samsung retailers in October for $1,599.99 (body-only) or $1,699.99 (bundled with an 18-55mm lens). For more information on the Wi-Fi version of the Samsung GALAXY Camera and the full line of Samsung digital cameras, lenses and accessories, please visit www.samsung.com.


