
 Now that the Galaxy Note II has already been given a formal debut for AT&T and Sprint, it's T-Mobile's turn at bat. The magenta network isn't deviating significantly from the hardware seen at other American carriers, aside from the absence of (currently active) LTE, but it does brag about bonus software. Gamers taken with the MOGA mobile gaming system (read: Bluetooth controller) will get a preloaded, special version of an "exciting new racing game" that's tailored for the physical controller. Unfortunately, T-Mobile is shy about committing to prices and ship dates for the gray and white Note II editions it will be offering in the weeks ahead -- although there's more than one hint that we should keep an eye out around October 24th, or at least no later than mid-November.



  Show full PR text   T-Mobile's Most Powerful Device, the Samsung Galaxy Note® II, Coming this Fall
  With a powerful quad-core processor, large HD screen and exclusive gaming features, the Galaxy Note II offers an amazing 4G experience and superior value on T-Mobile's nationwide network.
  Bellevue, Wash. - Oct. 9, 2012  2012-10-09 14:04:55
  T-Mobile USA, Inc., and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (Samsung Mobile), today announced the upcoming Samsung Galaxy Note® II. The new smartphone features T-Mobile's largest smartphone screen - a 5.5-inch HD Super AMOLED® screen - for an enhanced entertainment experience and improved productivity while using the device. The Galaxy Note II is T-Mobile's first device with a quad-core processor, featuring Samsung's 1.6GHz quad-core Exynos processor. In addition, the Galaxy Note II is T-Mobile's first smartphone shipping with Android™ 4.1 Jelly Bean and the device's 3100mAh battery powers up to 15 hours of talk time1.   "The Samsung Galaxy Note II is the latest innovative device to join T-Mobile's portfolio. It takes the all-in-one device concept to the next level and we anticipate it will replace many standalone devices consumers have today," said Brad Duea, senior vice president, product management, T-Mobile USA. "When combined with our Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, the Galaxy Note II is a true powerhouse device with exclusive features, amazing 4G experiences and superior value that only T-Mobile can deliver."   Entertainment
  Only T-Mobile Galaxy Note II customers will have access to an exciting new racing game preloaded on the device, which will include three free levels. In addition, T-Mobile's exclusive version of the racing game will be optimized to interact with a MOGA™ Mobile Gaming System, bringing an immersive, console-quality gaming experience to the palms of T-Mobile customers' hands.   The Galaxy Note II also enables T-Mobile customers to bring their entertainment to the big screen by wirelessly sharing content, such as games, movies and TV shows on their smartphone, to any HDMI-capable TV via the AllShare Cast feature and AllShare Cast Wireless Hub accessory. The AllShare Cast Wireless Hub accessory is currently available in T-Mobile retail stores and at www.T-Mobile.com for $99.99.   Productivity
  Building on the Premium Suite of productivity features offered with the original Galaxy Note, the Galaxy Note II delivers an even more robust portfolio of tools for business professionals. The enhanced S Pen™ gives users a more precise and natural writing and drawing experience, making creativity and collaboration a breeze. New applications for the S Pen, such as Air View which gives the ability to preview content simply by hovering the S Pen over an email, calendar entry, image gallery or video, helps Galaxy Note II users get more done – even faster.   The Galaxy Note II is a SAFE™ (Samsung Approved for Enterprise) device, providing the ability to securely sync corporate email, calendars, contacts and sensitive information. In addition, the Galaxy Note II includes T-Mobile's Wi-Fi Calling feature making it easy for T-Mobile customers to make and receive calls no matter where life takes them.   Availability
  The Samsung Galaxy Note II will be available in Titanium Gray and Marble White color options. The smartphone is expected to be available nationwide at T-Mobile retail stores, select national retailers and dealers, and online via www.T-Mobile.com in the coming weeks.    1 Usage times will vary depending on phone usage patterns and conditions. Battery power consumption depends on factors such as network configuration, signal strength, operating temperature, features selected, vibrate mode, backlight settings, browser use, frequency of calls and voice, data and other application usage patterns.
 
