
 Samsung's experiment with a Ghost Recon SSD bundle must have been a hit with gamers, since it's coming back for a second round the very same year. The upgrade-minded buying 128GB, 256GB or 512GB versions of the SSD 840 Pro can get a free downloadable copy of Assassin's Creed III for a "limited time" to take advantage of those 540MB/s peak read speeds while they skew the fate of the American Revolutionary War. The bundle comes not-so-coincidentally as Samsung has shipped and priced the wider SSD 840 line itself: while we knew the Pro line's impact on our wallets, the regular models are now ready to sell at prices between $140 for a 120GB drive to $700 for a 500GB model. That's a $50 to $190 savings over the Pro models, but we'll leave it to you to decide whether faster write speeds, slightly more capacity and Connor's secret fight with the Templars are worth the premium.



  Show full PR text   Samsung, Ubisoft Entertainment Bring "Assassin's Creed III" to Gamers at No Additional Cost, with Purchase of select Samsung 840 Pro SSDs
  Samsung 840 and 840 Pro solid-state drives offer a dramatic boost in PC performance – allowing video games to load and run faster than ever
  Ridgefield Park, NJ –November 7, 2012 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, announced today that its 840 family of SSDs is available for purchase. The new family of drives includes the 840 Pro SSD, a high-performance drive for professionals and tech enthusiasts that want the best possible computing performance, and the 840 SSD, for mainstream users that want an affordable upgrade solution for their PC.
  For a limited time, the 840 Pro SSDs will also include a code for a downloadable full version of the highly anticipated video game "Assassin's Creed® III," with purchase of the 128 GB, 256 GB or 512 GB models.
  Samsung's SSD 840 Pro series drives feature a SATA 6.0 gigabit-per-second (Gb/s) interface, 400 megabits-per-second (Mbps) Toggle DDR2 flash memory, AES 256-bit encryption and new triple-core MDX controllers, which combine to deliver superior performance, high reliability and durability. The new 840 Pro drives are the perfect solution for serious gamers and IT professionals seeking the best possible computing performance, along with ultra-low power consumption.
  Available now, without the Assassin's Creed special offer, are Samsung's new SSD 840 drives. Designed for more cost-conscious consumers who still want outstanding performance, SSD 840 drives offer a SATA 6.0 Gb/s interface and triple-core MDX controller, while using triple-level cell (TLC) Toggle DDR2 flash memory.
  "Our new 840 Pro SSDs allow gamers to experience the ultimate in gaming performance by booting their systems quickly, and loading games and other apps in a flash," said Mike Abary, Senior Vice President, Consumer Business Division IT Product Marketing, Samsung Electronics America. "We're excited to offer 'Assassin's Creed III' to gaming fans with the new 840 Pro SSD, which should make for a real improvement in gameplay."
  "We can't wait for gamers to enter the world of 'Assassin's Creed III.' Running the game from a Samsung 840 Pro SSD will deliver an even more immersive experience, since boot times and level loads practically become a thing of the past," said Geoffroy Sardin, chief EMEA sales and marketing officer at Ubisoft. "Because the game is larger than previous 'Assassin's Creed' installments – thanks to its more powerful graphics and lifelike animations – this performance boost will really impact gamers."
  Published by Ubisoft Entertainment and developed by Ubisoft Montreal in collaboration with six other Ubisoft studios, "Assassin's Creed III" is set against the backdrop of the American Revolutionary War in the late 18th century. This highly anticipated sequel introduces a new hero, Connor, a Native American voice for justice in the ancient war between the Assassins and Templars. "Assassin's Creed III" takes gamers from the vibrant, untamed frontier to bustling colonial towns and the intense, chaotic battlefields where George Washington's Continental Army clashed with the imposing British Army in the war for liberty.
  Samsung's new SSD 840 Pro, the perfect complement for this amazing game, boasts industry leading random read speeds – up to 100,000 input-output operations per second (IOPS) – for faster application loading, as well as sequential read speeds up to 540 megabytes-per-second (MB/s) for ultra-fast file transfers. The new SSD 840 drive offers similarly fast random read speeds – up to 97,000 IOPS – as well as sequential read speeds up to 530 MB/s.
  SSDs use flash memory for data storage rather than the spinning platters found in conventional hard disk drives. This results in much faster performance, longer battery life, reduced heat output and improved reliability without risk of a hard drive crash.
  The new 840 family of SSDs builds on the success of the acclaimed 830 series SSDs. Samsung's proprietary controllers and firmware, along with its leading NAND flash memory technology, deliver exceptional performance and unrivalled energy efficiency. Samsung, unique among SSD manufacturers, engineers all of its components in-house. This allows it to meticulously fine-tune its hardware and software for enhanced reliability. In addition, Samsung's newly redesigned Magician 4.0 diagnostics and management software keeps the drives running at their peak.
  The Samsung SSD 840 Pro will be available at major retail and online outlets in capacities of 128GB, 256GB and 512GB. The Samsung SSD 840 will be available in capacities of 120GB, 250GB and 500GB. The SSD 840 models are also optionally available with an upgrade kit including mounting brackets, USB cable and SATA cable – for easy installation in a desktop or laptop PC.
  Samsung also will include its Samsung SmartMigration software with the new drives, which makes it easier than ever to migrate data from an existing drive to an SSD.
  For more information on the SSD 840, SSD 840 Pro and the full line of Samsung SSDs, please visit http://www.samsung.com/us/computer/solid-state-drives.
 
