
  Banking on consumers' unending need for instant gratification, Samsung's announced a line of four WiFi-enabled "Smart" cameras. Along with the previously announced DV300F DualView point-and-shoot and 21x zoom WB850F, the line-up (an apparent off-shoot of the SH100) allows for uploading to Facebook, Twitter and Picasa as well as e-mail and Auto PC Backup. The WB850F touts a 16 megapixel BSI CMOS sensor, 1080p video, GPS and simultaneous still and video capture. It will be available in April for $379. It's little and less expensive brother, the WB150F sports a 14 megapixel sensor, 18x optical zoom, 1080p video recording and is slated to hit shelves sometime this month for $229. Rounding out the family, is the ST200F -- available in three different colors with significantly scaled down specs (720p video, 16 megapixels and 10x optical zoom) -- coming February for $199. Hit the gallery below to lay your eyes on Sammy's Smarts and peep the PR below for more details.






  Show full PR text  Samsung revolutionizes travel photography with Wi-Fi-enabled long-zoom series  The new WB850F, WB150F, and ST200F make shooting, sharing and saving amazing quality pictures easier than ever  Las Vegas – Jan 9, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, announced today the launch of a new range of Wi-Fi enabled travel zoom cameras. The WB850F, WB150F, and ST200F cameras enhance the advanced optical zoom and image quality that the WB line of cameras are known for, with Wi-Fi capability to facilitate sharing and saving images – wherever users are in the world. Housed in compact, light and durable bodies, the new zoom series from Samsung make the perfect travel companions.  Samsung's innovative new SMART Wi-Fi technology aims to change the way consumers take pictures, share and store them. With the new Samsung SMART long-zoom cameras, users no longer have to worry about unearthing a tangle of cables to transfer their images over to their hard drive by using the Auto Backup function. They can also take advantage of integrated free storage space from Samsung's AllShare Play and Microsoft® Sky Drive® to make their photo accessible anywhere.  Of course, one of the best parts of discovering new places and cultures is sharing experiences with friends and family back home. With the Wi-Fi capability of the new Samsung SMART long-zoom cameras, sharing is quicker and easier than ever. From any Wi-Fi hotspot, users can email photos or share them on social networks such as Facebook and Picasa or post videos to YouTube in a few simple steps. The WB850F also uses GPS features and Live Landmark to enhance the user's journeys, enabling them to download maps and find out information on nearby locations with the touch of a button. The camera's Digital Compass can also give users their location and tell them how far they are from certain locations, while the MapView function allows users to download maps and use their camera to help explore new cities.  Similar to their WB predecessors, the WB850F, WB150F and ST200F make it easy to capture incredible detail through their zoom lenses, making it simple to get up-close shots that were once out of reach. The WB850F features a 21x optical zoom – Samsung's best yet. The WB150F features an impressive 18x optical super zoom and the ST200F includes a 10x optical zoom lens. In order to capture the detail at its best, all travel zoom models feature upwards of 12 Megapixel sensors (16.2 Megapixels on the WB850F and 14.2 Megapixels on the WB150F). The WB850F also features pioneering BSI CMOS sensor technology to reduce image noise and distortion, even in low light conditions. This crystal-clear detail can then be experienced in all its clarity on the 3.0" VGA AMOLED screen featured on both models.  "Taking photographs and sharing them with friends and family is one of the most enjoyable aspects of travelling," said Mr. Myoung Sup Han, senior vice president and head of the digital imaging business at Samsung Electronics. "It's about more than simply capturing memories – it's an integral part of the experience itself. Listening to our customers, we discovered that being able to conserve memory and share images instantly was what was missing from the high-quality cameras that they trust. With this in mind, we added ground-breaking Wi-Fi functions to our travel zoom series, building on the brilliant image quality that high-quality sensors and zoom lenses provide with the ability to store and share like never before."  Share unforgettable scenes in Full HD Whether filming at the carnival in Rio de Janeiro or from a vantage point atop the world's highest buildings, Samsung travel zoom cameras mean users can share their video in HD. The WB850F captures awesome detail in 1080/30p Full HD and 1080/60i for spectacular scenery shots. The WB150F and ST200F feature fantastic 720/30p HD recording, ensuring that once-in-a-lifetime experiences are captured in the same color and vibrancy that existed in real life.  Make any picture come to life with Motion Photo With Motion Photo, users can make one element of a normal photograph come to life and keep moving while the rest of the frame stays still, such as a friend walking through a crowd of what appear to be statues or a solitary tree bending in the breeze. And with the ST200F, instant in-camera editing along with Wi-Fi allow users to share images immediately without ever needing a computer.  Making it easy to get the best shot With the new travel zoom cameras, it's up to the user how to get the best shot. On the WB850F and WB150F, one can explore their own photographic skills with the Full Manual Control setting, also taking advantage of the optical image stabilization (OIS) (available on all models - WB850F, WB150F and ST200F). Alternatively, the Smart Auto setting, available on all the new models, identifies and automatically selects the most appropriate of its scene modes to provide users with the best possible result every time. From a fireworks display to a dimly-lit party, scene detection technology identifies the shooting conditions and automatically tailors the settings to help achieve standout results.  Live Panorama to get everyone in the shot! Live Panorama, featured on the WB850F, WB150F and ST200F, allows consumers to capture even more of the action, facilitating wide panoramic shots which don't miss any of the detail, from sprawling mountain peaks through to large groups of friends. The function allows the easy capture of large scenes by simply holding down the shutter button and sweeping the camera across. Users can even preview the whole scene they've just captured via the LCD screen.  Fun features to add a twist to your travels With Split Shot, camera users can divide the screen into three separate shots and create up to three different photographs by simply blending them together to create a whole new view of their travels. Using Magic Frame they can also position their target in the middle of a fun background – either choose from one of the many pre-designed backgrounds like movie billboards or posters or erase part of an existing picture to get even more creative! Or use the Picture-in-Picture feature to insert a photo – whether an eye-catching monument or personal portrait into another image or video so users can combine their favorite shots to make a memorable collage. Finally, users can also bend, stretch, and warp pictures of friends and family for big laughs - with the Funny Face feature. Simply press the 5-direction key to enlarge heads or noses, or create hilarious distortions. When they move the camera, Face Tracking preserves the funny looks just the way they want them.
 