
 


	With Samsung's Microsoft Surface product, the SUR40, already available for pre-order, the company says its 1080p 40-inch "Optical Sensor in Pixel" LCD panels have gone into mass production. Those optical sensors help to more accurately interpret multi-touch input without interrupting display signals, offering a more fluid, interactive experience. Tempered glass overlaying the display supports 176 pounds of load and up to 50 touch points at once, which should be more than enough for a Pacific Giant Octopus or any jerk that leans on your $8K table. While the SUR40 is certainly a showcase device for these panels, it isn't the only practical application -- Samsung says it's thin enough and light enough to wall-mount, and hopes to see it used by stock brokers, financial analysts and schools.
 

 		Show full PR text  Samsung Electronics First to Mass Produce 'Optical Sensor in Pixel' LCD Panel 		SEOUL, South Korea--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. announced today that it began mass production of 40-inch 'Optical Sensor in Pixel' LCD panels, which feature highly advanced optical sensors, in November this year. 		The Optical Sensor in Pixel LCD panel detects reflected images of an object on the panel using Infrared sensors that are built into the panel. With optical sensor in each pixel of the panel, the new panel can much more accurately assess touch sensitivity compared to existing touch panels. 		Using next-generation image sensing technology, the Optical Sensor in Pixel panel can detect more than 50 touch points simultaneously and can display images with Full HD resolution and wide-angle viewing. 		All of the input functions of a keyboard, mouse or scanner can be carried out on the panel itself. The panel can be installed in a variety of applications including table top and wall-mounted types. Its tempered glass is strong enough to withstand external loads over 80 kilograms. 		As the panel can perform touch and multi-touch sensing and image display simultaneously, it represents a new paradigm for massively interactive communications, compared to the one-way communication of today's kiosk touch panels. 		Samsung's 'optical sensing per pixel' technology can perform accurate image sensing without interrupting the image signals displayed on the panel, so it should be well received by many types of professional consultants including stock brokers and financial analysts. Also, it can be handily used in eDesk applications for schools or business conference rooms. 		The Optical Sensor in Pixel LCD panel has been installed in 'Samsung SUR40 for Microsoft®Surface®', a table-type PC product, co-developed by Samsung Electronics and Microsoft®. SUR40 has been available for pre-order since last month. 		"Our Optical Sensor in Pixel panel has overcome the limitations of touch functionality that have hampered the effectiveness of most interactive displays," said Younghwan Park, senior vice president of sales and marketing team, Samsung Electronics LCD Business. "With the world's first mass production of an Optical Sensor in Pixel LCD, Samsung Electronics has set its sights on taking the lead in the global interactive display market," he added. 		About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 		Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of US$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company consists of nine independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Memory, System LSI and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, semiconductor chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com and www.samsung.com/us/oem-solutions.
 