




	We saw the environmentally conscious Samsung Replenish on Sprint just over six months ago, but Boost's liking those green credentials so much, it's decided to get the Samsung Gingerbread handset on board. 82 percent recyclable materials, there's still both a 2.8-inch touchscreen and keyboard in tow. A two megapixel camera and the usual medley of GPS, Bluetooth and WiFi round out the wallet (and Mother Earth) friendly handset. The Replenish is priced at $100 and will hit Boost Mobile's stores on January 16th. Eco warriors; the press release offers itself below.




 		Show full PR text  The New Year means Time to "Replenish" Your Wireless Service and Get a New Android at an Affordable Price from Boost Mobile and Samsung   		Boost Mobile gives consumers the opportunity to save even more money with the launch of new Buyback Program 		IRVINE, Calif. – Boost Mobile, ranked Highest in Customer Service Performance and Purchase Experience among Non-Contract Wireless Providers by J.D. Power and Associates1, starts off the New Year with a new eco-friendly Android™ smartphone, Samsung Replenish™. An Android touch/QWERTY smartphone enabled with Mobile ID, Samsung Replenish will be available Jan. 16 and is Boost Mobile's first Android priced less than $100. 		Samsung Replenish, Boost Mobile's first eco-friendly2 Android smartphone, is partially built with recycled plastics3 and is the ideal choice for the environmentally conscious consumer who wants the latest technology with a no-contract offer on a dependable nationwide network. 		Boost Customers can get additional "green benefit" by simply trading in their old device as part of Boost Mobile's new Buyback program or by simply making on-time payments with Boost Mobile's $55 Android Monthly Unlimited plan with Shrinkage. For every six on-time payments, a Boost Mobile customer's monthly cost will shrink by $5, eventually getting down to as low as $40 a month for unlimited nationwide talk, text, Web, email, and calls to 411. Payments do not need to be consecutive to qualify for these savings milestones. 		"Consumers are smarter about where and how their money is being spent, and Boost Mobile offers a considerable value," said Andre Smith, vice president-Boost Mobile. "We offer first-class affordable Android smartphones, like the Samsung Replenish, on a reliable network with a no-contract offer that has payments that shrink over time." 		The full-featured Samsung Replenish includes: 		• Android 2.3 with access to Android Market™ 		• 2.8-inch touchscreen and QWERTY keypad 		• 2MP camera with video 		• GPS-enabled 		• Stereo Bluetooth® technology 		• Easy Access to Gmail™ and Google Talk™ 		• Wireless Web Enabled   		Samsung Replenish will be available Jan. 16 for $99.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations across the country, and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. Samsung Replenish will be available in additional national retailers by the end of the February.
 