
 

We've reached a point where Blu-ray players can't really add a whole lot more functionality. Size, then, is the next frontier, and Samsung's showing another player with a "slightly larger-than-a-disc" form-factor. It's the BD-ES6000, a decidedly petite player with a slot-loading mechanism and a boot time of just one second. There's also the slightly less svelte yet still "slim and stylish" BD-E6500, with dual HDMI inputs to help out with those sets that are a bit limited in the input department. More important, though, is added support for UltraViolet Disc to Digital support on all the company's 2012 lineup. Your media just got a little more portable.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  SAMSUNG TO BRING "DISC to DIGITAL" FEATURE TO SMART		BLU-RAY™ PLAYERS IN 2012 		Developed by Flixster and Rovi, Consumers will be able to Import Their Existing		Blu-ray Disc and DVD Collections from Participating Studios into the UltraViolet™ Cloud Making them Viewable on a Wide Range of Devices 		Flixster will also be Available on Samsung TVs and Blu-ray Players this Year,		Allowing Consumers to Stream their UltraViolet Digital Collections from the Cloud 		LAS VEGAS, CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW, Jan. 10, 2012-Today, at the Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem (DECE) UltraViolet press event, Samsung announced plans for a "Disc to Digital" feature on Samsung Smart Blu-ray players, developed by Flixster and Rovi. Available later this year, Disc to Digital will allow consumers to add their existing Blu-ray Disc™ and DVD libraries from participating studios to their UltraViolet digital library-making them viewable on a wide range of devices.		Disc to Digital can work with any authorized retail service and will initially be available using a new Flixster application on Samsung's Smart Hub. When consumers insert an eligible physical disc into a 2012 Samsung Blu-ray player and select the Disc to Digital icon, they will launch the Flixster application and can easily add the movie to their UltraViolet locker for a nominal amount. If high definition versions are available, they will have the option to upgrade their standard definition movies for an additional fee. 		Once digital copies have been created and added to the consumer's UltraViolet collection, the content will be available to enjoy through the Flixster Smart Hub application on Samsung's Smart Hub, as well as a broad range of mobile and portable devices such as iPhones, iPads and Android-based devices as well as PCs and Macs. UltraViolet also allows consumers to share their entire UltraViolet digital library with other members on their account, and they can even watch the same title simultaneously from different locations. 		Flixster will also be available this year on Samsung TVs and Blu-ray players. Through the application, consumers will be able to easily access and stream their UltraViolet movie and TV show collections directly on their TVs. 		Disc to Digital uses Rovi Digital Copy Solution, which integrates into consumer electronics devices as well as PC applications to allow them to recognize a movie on a physical disc, authenticate its origin, and then trigger access to a copy from a cloud-based digital library. 		The new Disc to Digital feature will be demonstrated Jan. 10-13, at Samsung's CES booth, #12004 at the Las Vegas Convention Center (LVCC). Rovi Corporation will also demonstrate the service by appointment at its meeting space at Caesars Palace. 		"Disc to Digital is a revolutionary way for consumers to 'future proof' their DVD library," said Steve Polsky, president of Flixster. "They will no longer need to worry if a DVD is misplaced or if it's scratched. Through UltraViolet, consumers have an exciting new way to collect, access and enjoy digital entertainment. They can take their movie and TV collection with them and watch it when and where they want."		"This is exactly the type of ground-breaking service our white-label, digital entertainment technologies and Rovi solutions were designed to serve," said Corey Ferengul, executive vice president of products, Rovi. "We are proud to be supporting this new market offering that will enable the creation of 'virtual movie collections' and introduce more consumers to the flexibility and convenience of digitally delivered entertainment."   SAMSUNG UNVEILS NEW VERSATILE SMART BLU-RAY LINE 		2012 Blu-ray line features new cloud-based services, full web browser on Samsung's Smart Hub and sleek design 		LAS VEGAS, January 10, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. today announced an innovative Disc to Digital feature on its 2012 Blu-ray Players that helps consumers turn their personal DVD collection into digital content, and facilitates the sharing of this content on multiple devices in the home and on the go. This service is one of several new features available on Samsung's new smart Blu-ray line, which also includes a full web browser and a wealth of web-based content and services through Samsung's Smart Hub. 		The flagship 3D Blu-ray products from the market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics include:		· Compact Blu-ray player boasting a slightly larger-than-a-disc form factor (model BD-ES6000); 		· 3D Blu-ray with Dual HDMI Inputs and built-in WiFi (model BD-E6500).   		The two new models deliver a virtually limitless entertainment experience with Full HD 1080p playback and new ways to access cloud-based content on multiple devices. 		"Building on Samsung's legacy of innovation, the new additions to the Blu-ray player line offer consumers increasing options to enjoy an outstanding home entertainment experience regardless of the content sources," said Sangchul Lee, Senior Vice President, Visual Display Business at Samsung Electronics. "Consumers now have an endless list of connectivity options and services for a true multi-screen experience." 		These 3D Blu-ray players will be on display at Samsung's booth #12004 in the Central Hall at the 2012 International CES, which will be held at the Las Vegas Convention Center (LVCC), January 10-13, 2012. 		Improved content sharing with Disc to Digital 		The Disc to Digital feature is a boon to consumers with a library of DVDs. They can now register their ownership of physical DVDs, and access the same movie content on a variety of devices, virtually anytime and anywhere-even from multiple locations at once. Once digital copies have been created and added to the consumer's UltraViolet collection, the content will be made available through the Flixster application on Samsung's Smart Hub, as well as on a broad range of connected devices such as smart phones, tablet, PCs and Smart TVs. Consumers also have the option to purchase HD quality versions of these movies, and can share digital library content with other members under the same account. 		Innovative Blu-ray Features in a Sophisticated Form Factor 		Consumers can look forward to innovative design without sacrificing performance with Samsung's new stylish 3D Blu-ray line. The units are designed as symmetric products with convenient centralized controls for easy access and management, and Samsung's premium players also come with a centralized slot-in mechanism. The line-up's lack of mechanical parts also makes for a smoother and quieter loading experience, with a boot time of less than one second. 		Consumers now have an easy way to enhance and upgrade their current TV experience with the latest services and content options through Samsung's Blu-ray players. The premium 3D Blu-ray line-up provides access to Samsung Smart Hub, a simple way to access, search and explore Samsung Apps. New in 2012, Samsung Blu-ray players will offer a full web browser and the ability to experience rich content. They also have built-in WiFi for convenient access to a variety of web-based content and connectivity options. 		Sharing content across devices is made even easier with the new DLNA-certified Blu-ray line. In addition, 2012 Blu-ray players will be supported by WiFi Direct, which allows WiFi devices to be connected directly and easily without a wireless access point. 		Regardless of the source material's original resolution, the 2012 3D Blu-ray line's powerful video processor can up-convert DVDs, older non-HD content and even low-resolution streaming video to pristine Full HD 1080p. It also supports an array of audio formats including Dolby® Digital Plus / TrueHD and DTS-HD Bitstream Outputs. No matter what the experience, the2012 lineup's BD Wise Plus feature automatically adjusts the TV setting to provide optimal picture for each scenario. 		Compact Blu-ray Player 		Only slightly larger than a Blu-ray disc, the versatile Samsung BD-ES6000 3D Blu-ray player packs the latest video technologies and connectivity features into a compact form factor. This balance of technology and high design makes it a perfect addition to any room where space is at a premium, but outstanding video playback is desired.    		Taking minimalism to the max without sacrificing performance, the BD-ES6000 sports a cubic form factor and features a stylish multi-layered pattern design on the top of its cabinet. 		3D Blu-ray with Dual HDMI Inputs 		Bringing Hollywood even closer to home, the slim and stylish Samsung BD-E6500 3D Blu-ray player delivers breathtaking 2D and 3D content playback. With 2 HDMI inputs, it streamlines connections to the TV by allowing more than one component, such as a set-top box and game console, to be hooked up to BD-E6500 and connected to the TV via only one HDMI output. This minimize the number of wires required so that the home entertainment area may be free of clutter an also maintain a minimalist look-and-feel to the room.   		The BD-E6500 features a two-tone design that accentuates its slimness. The top of the player features an elegant piano-black finish, while the bottom has the look and feel of high-grade metal. A bright but unobtrusive Mystic Blue lighting feature serves as an elegant accent to unite the two parts together. 		Reinventing the Multi-Screen Experience 		Samsung is introducing a new remote control app that can be downloaded onto an Android or Apple smartphone. Previously only available for Samsung TVs, the 2012 remote control app enhances how users control and search for content on their Blu-ray players. The app's MovieNote feature also offers instant access to detailed information on movies they are currently watching, including plot synopsis, actor and director biography information. 		When the smartphone is connected to the same home network as a Samsung Blu-ray player, users can control their Blu-ray player with ease and use the QWERTY keyboard on their devices for easy information input. 		Parents will also be able to use Samsung's Kids service to access a variety of educational video-on-demand content across several categories – Communication, Exercise, Arts & Play, Science, Social Activity and Math, and reward children with virtual stickers or other awards for a fun and interactive learning experience. 		CES-specific information may be found at www.samsungces.com. For more information about Samsung, including press releases, video content and product images, please visit www.samsung.com
 