
 The Smart TV Evolution Kit that Samsung's been teasing us with since last year's CES will finally be revealed at the same trade show a full year later. The hardware kit will plug into the back of compatible Samsung Smart TVs and "evolve" 2012 models to the latest 2013 versions by adding a smorgasbord of hardware and software enhancements including CPU, memory and GPU upgrades, plus enhanced voice / motion control features. We reckon this just might help elevate your Angry Birds experience to a whole new level. Given that CES 2013 is just around the bend, it shouldn't be long before we get you a proper peek -- stay tuned!



  Show full PR text   Samsung unveils Evolution Kit at CES 2013 to complete an evolving Smart TV
   With world's first Evolution Kit, a true Smart TV that provides the latest features and services every year in the fast-changing IT environment

   LAS VEGAS, USA – January 1, 2013– Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. announced today its Evolution Kit at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) from January 8-11, 2013.

   The Evolution Kit, which has been introduced for the first time at CES 2012, is an innovative concept that enables Samsung 2012 Smart TV to evolve into Samsung's new 2013 Smart TVs. By simply attaching the Evolution Kit device into the back of a Samsung Smart TV, consumers can enjoy the latest features that the 2013 Smart TVs have to offer.

   With hardware enhancements, such as CPU, memory and GPU up to the level of the latest Smart TV, users can enjoy faster speeds for browsing the Internet and multitask by using apps while watching TV.

   In addition, Samsung's Smart Interaction features such as voice control and motion control will be enhanced. Once the Evolution Kit is attached to the slot, 2012 Smart Hub is transformed to 2013 version. Every year, consumers will now be able to enjoy the latest services with Samsung's Smart TVs.

   The actual figure of Evolution Kit is finally revealed for the first time at CES 2013. Samsung will demonstrate the wonderful change that with its attachment to the TV, the new 2013 Smart Hub shows five different panels where consumers can enjoy a wide range of content including Live TV programs, VODs, apps and Internet.

   The Evolution Kit is the optimal solution for users as it allows them to always experience the latest service of Samsung Smart TV with their existing 2012 Smart TVs even though hardware or software specifications continue to improve in the future.

   "Evolution Kit has opened a new era of Smart TV and completed a true Smart TV with its innovative concept, which fits in the rapidly changing IT trends", said Sunny Lee, executive vice president of Visual Display Sales & Marketing Team, Samsung Electronics. "Consumers can enjoy the latest features and services every year without having to purchase a brand new set. Samsung Smart TV users will enjoy Timeless TV that transcends time with Evolution Kit."

   Please visit our booth to experience this future technology firsthand. Samsung's product line will be displayed January 8-11 at booth #12004 in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center.

   Full details, video content and product images are available at the Samsung microsite at: www.samsungces.com or mobile site at: m.samsungces.com as well.

   The Samsung press conference and Samsung Tomorrow TV CES 2013 Specials will be streamed live on the Samsung Tomorrow blog at: global.samsungtomorrow.com and Samsung's microsite site also.

   After the live presentations, videos will be available at http://youtube.com/SamsungTomorrow

   About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.

   Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in consumer electronics and the core components that go into them. Through relentless innovation and discovery, we are transforming the worlds of televisions, smartphones, personal computers, printers, cameras, home appliances, medical devices, semiconductors and LED solutions. We employ 227,000 people across 75 countries with annual sales exceeding US$143 billion. Our goal is opening new possibilities for people everywhere. To discover more, please visit www.samsung.com.

 
