

 You might be thinking, "it's too early to be talking about CES," and we wish you were right, but you're not. January's consumer electronics extravaganza is inching closer, plans are already being laid and Samsung President Stephen Woo is filling in appointments in his calendar. The most important of those will be his keynote that's set to kick off day two of the festivities in Vegas. The talk will largely focus on the little things, and we don't mean unimportant things, we mean components. All those tiny slivers of silicon that make your gadgets go are really what is pushing the industry forward and Samsung is a major player -- pumping out processors, memory, SIMs and camera sensors. The former Bell Labs and Texas Instruments employee will bring his 20-plus years of experience to bear on a vision of the future, presumably powered by Sammy's chips. Will he also unveils something new... perhaps a next gen smartphone CPU? We'll just have to wait and see. Guess it's time to start booking those flights.



  Show full PR text   Samsung's President, Stephen Woo, to Deliver Keynote Address at the 2013 International CES®
   Arlington, Va., July 11, 2012 – The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)® announced today that Dr. Stephen Woo, president of Samsung Electronics' Device Solutions, will deliver a keynote address at the 2013 International CES®. Owned and produced by CEA, the 2013 International CES, the world's most important technology event, will be held January 8-11, 2013, in Las Vegas, Nevada.

   Dr. Woo's keynote address is scheduled to open day two of the 2013 CES at 9 a.m. Wednesday, January 9, in The Venetian's Palazzo Ballroom. Dr. Woo will present his insight on the role of components in enabling consumer product innovations.

   "As it continues to innovate across a range of product categories, Samsung has solidified its position as one of the top technology companies in the world," said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO, CEA. "Samsung captures global attention when it launches its dynamic products at the International CES. We all look forward to hearing Dr. Woo share Samsung's vision from across Samsung Device Solutions, the world leader in advanced semiconductor and display solutions for the IT industry."

   At Samsung Electronics since 2003, Dr. Woo was appointed general manager of the System LSI Business in 2008. Dr. Woo currently oversees all activities surrounding the System LSI Business, including logic solutions that provide next-generation features in consumer and mobile products. Under his leadership, revenue has nearly tripled to more than $10 billion in 2011, making it one of the fastest-growing businesses in Samsung Electronics. Samsung's System LSI Business has maintained its lead in global market share for several major products, including mobile application processors for smartphones, complementary metal oxide silicon-based camera image sensors, flat-panel display driver ICs (integrated circuits) and smart card ICs for SIM (subscriber identity module) cards.

   Dr. Woo's background in the electronics industry dates back to 1977. He spent more than 20 years in senior research and management positions at leading companies in the semiconductor industry, including Bell Laboratories, Sansearch (a start-up company he founded) and Texas Instruments. He worked as a research scientist focusing on areas of very large scale integration (VLSI) design, field programmable gate array (FPGA), computer architecture and parallel processing at Bell Laboratories. Dr. Woo also served as the business director and general manager of the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) terminal chipset business at Texas Instruments.

   Samsung's technology innovation has helped make the Republic of Korea one of the leading countries in support of the digital technology industry. CEA applauds the recent reciprocal trusted traveler agreement between the U.S. and the Republic of Korea particularly since Korea has the second largest international presence at the International CES.

   The 2013 CES will feature 3,000 global technology companies unveiling the latest consumer technology products and services across 15 major categories including the latest in audio, automotive electronics, connected home technologies, digital imaging/photography, electronic gaming, entertainment/content and more. For more information on the 2013 International CES, visit CESweb.org.

 
