
We already knew Samsung's 8-inch Galaxy Note would be coming to the United States, but only as a WiFi variant. Fortunately for US hopefuls craving a version that's capable of getting an actual data connection outside the safety of the nearest wireless hotspot, AT&T will be bringing an LTE-enabled version to its network in the coming weeks -- though this appears to be an exclusive to the operator. We're still waiting to hear about pricing, but anyone interested in grabbing this particular tablet should be taking a close look at their bank accounts right about now. Full press release and video after the break.




Show full PR textSamsung Galaxy Note 8.0 Tablet Provides Endless Work, Entertainment PossibilitiesAT&T Offers the Largest and Best Portfolio of 4G LTE-Connected Tablets

Dallas, Texas, June 12, 2013Share:

AT&T*, the U.S. leader in 4G LTE-connected tablets, and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) announced today the addition of the Samsung Galaxy Note® 8.0 to AT&T's portfolio of connected products. The 4G LTE-connected Galaxy Note 8.0 will be available exclusively with AT&T in the coming weeks.

The Galaxy Note 8.0 runs on AT&T 4G LTE, which currently covers more than 200 million people in the U.S.; with plans to expand to cover 300 million people by the end of 2014. In a report by independent testing organization RootMetrics, AT&T's 4G LTE network was called "blazing fast." The report found AT&T's 4G LTE network delivered the fastest pure LTE speeds in markets where AT&T provided 4G LTE**.

According to Strategy Analytics, tablet sales in the United States will rise from 49.8 million in 2012 to 103.7 million in 2017. As tablet sales continue to rise, AT&T has cemented itself as the leading tablet provider, offering the widest and best selection of tablets of any U.S. carrier.

"Demand for 4G LTE-connected tablets is growing, and we're offering our customers the most choice and the best portfolio. The Galaxy Note 8.0 is an awesome tablet and flies on 4G LTE," said Chris Penrose, Senior Vice President – Emerging Devices, AT&T. "We expect customers to be excited about the Galaxy Note 8.0's versatility that makes its useful for work and entertainment."

The Galaxy Note 8.0 is the ideal premium tablet for work, play, home, or on the go. Galaxy Note 8.0 also features several new business solutions, including SAFE™ (Samsung for Enterprise) technology, which ensures a secure work environment even away from the office. With SAFE, Samsung layers extra features on top of native Android to make your tablet more secure and easier for your employer's IT department to manage. Using Polaris Office, customers can view, create and edit documents, spreadsheets and presentations – right on their tablet. They can also add handwritten notes and annotate on PowerPoint and Word documents.

With Multi Window, users can open two different applications side-by-side to perform two tasks at once, such as checking email while drafting notes. The S Pen™, exclusive on Samsung Note devices, comes integrated in the Note 8.0 and offers precision, control and an unprecedented note taking capability. The S Pen can replicate a mouse and simulate writing or sketching, eliminating the need for a notepad, sketchbook, sticky notes and rolodex contacts. Air View™ allows users to preview emails, calendar events, photos and videos just by hovering over the screen with the S Pen.

Galaxy Note 8.0 includes several entertainment options including WatchON™, a new search and recommendation service which makes finding TV shows and on-demand video content faster, easier and more personalized. WatchON simplifies the process of discovering new content to watch by searching across multiple content sources (such as live TV, YouTube, and streaming video-on-demand sources) to recommend movies and TV shows. For users more interested in reading a book, the new Reading Mode creates a comfortable reading experience in all lighting conditions by optimizing the gorgeous screen to provide perfect illumination and tone. And with the ability to annotate directly with the S pen, all on a size made easy to hold, reading has never been more enjoyable, even on the go.

The Galaxy Note 8.0 is powered by Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) and a 1.6 GHz quad core processor with a 4,600 mAh battery. Customers will experience fast downloads with little lag time helping enhance their ability to move between home screens and apps. The Galaxy Note 8.0 weighs 12 ounces and has an eight inch display, with 189 pixels per inch, which provides users with a vibrant HD quality picture with plenty of room to work. Users can play videos in 1080p resolution, and the 5-megapixel rear facing camera with digital zoom can shoot 720p video, while the 1.3-megapixel front facing camera can handle video chats at 720p resolution. Galaxy Note 8.0 comes with 16GB internal memory and a microSD slot for up to 32GB expandable memory. Customers also receive 50GB of free storage with AT&T Locker (available via an update), so users can easily store their videos, pictures, and files and access form multiple devices.

Key Facts:

·     Powered by Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean)

·     1.6 GHz quad core processor

·     4,600 mAh battery

·     Weighs 12 ounces

·     Eight inch display, with 189 pixels per inch

·     Play videos in 1080p resolution

·     5-megapixel rear facing camera with digital zoom

·     Shoot 720p video

·     1.3-megapixel front facing camera

·     16GB internal memory and a microSD slot for up to 32GB expandable memory.

·     Customers also receive 50GB of free storage with AT&T Locker (available via an update), so users can easily store their videos, pictures, and files and access form multiple devices.


