
 
It's coming a little late in the game since many of these models have already started shipping, but Samsung has finally seen fit to reveal prices and approximate shipping dates for its 2011 HDTVs (both LCD and plasma), Blu-ray players, and home theater in a box systems. There's no surprises as far as features from what we saw at CES, both plasma and LCD HDTV lines have new slim bezeled models, with new LED lighting tech for the LCDs and "Real Black" panels for the plasmas that have grown an inch in size this year. Meanwhile, the Blu-ray players have predictably gotten slimmer and faster, booting up in just three seconds. 3D and Smart TV features are standard on the majority of the new products this time around, check after the break for more details on what's new and how much they'll cost to start out.
      

 

  Show full PR textSAMSUNG ANNOUNCES SPRING AVAILABILITY FOR 2011 LED TV LINEUP, OFFERING RICH, INTERACTIVE AND IMMERSIVE ENTERTAINMENT WITH SMART TV AND ADVANCED 3D CAPABILITIESMarch 16, 2011New Ultra-Thin Bezel Design, Smart Hub and 3D Features Bring Home Entertainment To The Very EdgeNEW YORK, March 16, 2011 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today announced it will offer features previously available in its premium models across a broader range of its 2011 LED TV line. . Products will begin shipping this month. The 21 new LED TV models, ranging in screen size from 19 to 55 inches, are packed with Smart TV and advanced 3D capabilities. Samsung's premium TVs will also incorporate a stylish ultra-thin bezel which helps images become part of the living room, achieving an overall immersive smart TV and 3D viewing experience.In 2011, consumers can look forward to the following innovations:More than 70 percent of Samsung LED TVs will offer Samsung Smart TV™ capabilities. Features include Samsung Smart Hub, a brand new menu interface that enables quick search and discovery of video content with Your Video, Search and a full web browser (on select models), multimedia sharing across devices with AllShare and a hassle-free network setup with Samsung's One Foot Connection. Samsung is also expanding the number of 3D-capable TVs so that consumers have even more choice in bringing home the most immersive entertainment experience.Advanced picture enhancing technologies in the new TVs ensure consumers get the premium picture quality they demand, whether in 2D or 3D.All these features are delivered without compromising efficiency – the 2011 LED TV line is compatible with the more stringent Energy Star® 5.1 guidelines."The living room is the activity center for many people and the TV is an ideal media hub for the home. Our products make it easy for anyone to instantly access and share the content they want, when they want it," said John Revie, senior vice president of Home Entertainment, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. "Together with new breakthrough designs, Samsung is encouraging people to take entertainment to the edge with our TVs."New ONE Design creates virtually borderless entertainmentFor Samsung, innovative TV design is an increasingly important and differentiating factor. The company led the industry when it launched its Touch of Color™ design and is again raising the bar with its new ONE Design ultra-thin bezel. The ONE Design concept reduces the size of the bezel on the LED D8000, D7000 and D6400 Series so consumers can enjoy a virtually edge-less TV viewing experience. The TV also blends in with and complements its surroundings with a touch of class.The ONE design also addresses consumer demand for larger screen sizes. With the new ultra-slim bezel design, consumers can enjoy a larger screen without a physically larger TV; in fact, consumers will be able to put a larger TV screen in the same space previously occupied by a smaller model.Samsung continues its tradition of design excellence beyond the bezel. The Quad Stand introduced in 2010, is slimmer in 2011, yet its petite profile keeps the LED D8000 and D7000 Series stable and sturdy with an air of elegance.Smart Hub Creates a Gateway to Content Made EasySamsung expects 2011 to be a watershed year for smart TV. Leveraging insights gleaned from consumer interaction with Samsung Apps in 2010, Samsung developed Smart Hub, a simple menu system that empowers people to connect, discover and enjoy a wide range of content.Key features of Smart Hub include:Search, which allows users to easily search for content on the TV and via Samsung Apps or other online services.Your Video, which delivers recommendations based on a user's viewing history.Samsung Apps, the world's first HDTV-based application store, now with more than 200 apps to download in the U.S., Samsung Apps offers a range of paid and free apps that help people connect to their passions – whether in sports, entertainment, information, games or social networking.Web Browser is available on select models, including the D8000, D7000 and D6300, offering full web browsing directly from the TV.Smart Hub is available on almost all of Samsung's new 40-inch or larger LED TVs, including the LED D8000, D7000, D6400, D6300 and D6000 Series models.For those seeking the ultimate Smart TV experience, the D8000 and D7000 Series include a QWERTY keyboard remote in the box, making it easy to search and discover new content with the push of a button. Expanded 3D Options for Any HomeThis year Samsung is bringing 3D to even more models and screen sizes. This gives consumers an immersive 3D home entertainment experience at a range of prices to help make it more cost-effective to own a 3D TV. The 2011 3D LED TV models deliver a complete 3D experience at home, with better 3D picture, the world's first 3D sound and new 3D active glasses. To achieve vivid and crisp 3D picture quality, Samsung has made several technology improvements in its 2011 line. Its proprietary 3D Auto Contrast technology delivers premium picture quality without eye fatigue by maximizing the contrast between objects in the foreground and in the background. Samsung also improved its 2D to 3D up-conversion feature, making it easy to customize the 3D viewing experience by adjusting the depth of the 3D images.The LED D8000, D7000 and D6400 Series feature Samsung's proprietary 3D peak algorithm, which enhances peak brightness by 20 percent while reducing power consumption by 15 percent in 3D scenes. The technology automatically adjusts brightness levels in dark scenes to ensure every 3D scene is bright and life-like.At CES, Samsung introduced 3D sound and the company is building Samsung 3D Sound into all 2011 3D LED TVs. This new feature leverages the power of Samsung's SMART algorithm, a technology that builds on conventional wide stereo sound. With Samsung 3D Sound, consumers can enjoy the thrill of both audio and visual "pop out" based on the synchronization of 3D video and audio.Samsung continues to offer the total 3D home entertainment solution with the introduction of new four new pairs of 3D active glasses. The Samsung SSG-3700CR is the world's lightest pair of active 3D glasses, weighing about one ounce. Ergonomically designed with flexible 'legs' and nose pad, the SSG-3700CR delivers a comfortable experience for everyone. All four of the 3D active glasses models are also Bluetooth-enabled, offering a stable signal and crisp, true-to-life 3D imagery for an optimal viewing experience. This year, the D8000 Series will include two sets of 3D active glasses in the box. The new 2011 3D active glasses are compatible only with 2011 3D TVs.As part of the company's ongoing commitment to bring premium content to consumers, Samsung announced that its new 3D Starter Kit, which includes of two pairs of 3D active glasses, would also include Blu-ray 3D versions of DreamWorks Animation SKG's Megamind and the complete Shrek collection at no additional cost.True-to-Life Picture Quality EnhancementsSamsung is building on its reputation of delivering industry-leading picture quality with the introduction of new picture enhancing technologies across its line of premium LED TVs.With a 240Hz refresh rate, 2 millisecond motion picture response time (MPRT) and improved LED backlight scanning, the LED D8000 offers true-to-life 2D, 3D and HD images with outstanding clarity. In addition to the Ultra Clear Panel, this CES Innovation Award honoree TV is the first to offer Micro Dimming Plus technology to provide the richest, most lifelike pictures with deep blacks and pure whites. The LED D7000 also incorporates improved backlight scanning technology and Auto Motion Plus, Samsung's proprietary frame interpolation algorithm, to create sharp 2D and 3D pictures and smooth frame transitions without blurring, even for video moving at top speeds.For the consumer looking for superior picture quality at an affordable price, the LED D6400 Series TV is ideal. The LED D6400 Series is a 120Hz set combined with Samsung's unique double-rate frame transition technology – the world's fastest – to further reduce the picture frame transition time by 50 percent to enhance the viewing quality of 3D content.___SAMSUNG ANNOUNCES THAT PLASMA IS NOW BIGGER THAN EVER WITH THE AVAILABILITY OF 2011 PLASMA TV LINE AND INTRODUCTION OF PLASMA+1 DESIGNMarch 16, 2011Line of High-Performance Sets Offer Easy-to-Use Smart TV and 3D FeaturesNEW YORK, March 16, 2011 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today announced the U.S. availability, pricing and additional product details for its new plasma TV portfolio. . The 2011 line represents the company's broadest range of plasma TVs, with 15 new models across six product series. Its new Plasma+1 narrow bezel design delivers even larger screen sizes than previously available so consumers can enjoy an outstanding immersive experience.With sharp 2D and 3D images, virtually no motion blur, deep blacks and vivid colors, the new line offers jaw-dropping picture quality uncompromised by its sleek, elegant design. New Samsung Smart TV™ features usher in a new world of open and personalized web-connected experiences."Picture quality and screen size remain two of the key factors for consumers looking to purchase a new TV," said John Revie, senior vice president of Home Entertainment, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. "By broadening our 2011 plasma TV line up, Samsung is able to deliver products with smart technology, stylish design and features that allow people to create the home entertainment experience they desire."Breakthrough Design Delivers Larger Screens and an Element of LuxuryAs design increasingly becomes a key differentiator, Samsung has further extended its design philosophy across its premium models. The company debuted its revolutionary Plasma+1 design through its entire line of new plasma TVs. This engineering breakthrough delivers a new narrow bezel design that adds up to one inch of viewable screen size over last year's products without increasing the outside dimensions of the set. With the larger screen, 3D content – whether movies or games – will almost literally jump out of the TV.Samsung's commitment to design is also underscored by the introduction of eight ultra-slim plasma TV models that are 1.5 inches in depth. The plasma D8000 and D7000 Series TVs feature Samsung's signature brushed metal bezel design that was widely popular with the 2010 LED TV line, while the D550 series sports the trademark Touch of ColorTM design. New in 2011, Samsung's unique Quad Stand will be introduced to the plasma D8000 series to offer the elegance associated with a luxury product. New Smart Hub Makes TV SmarterSamsung expects 2011 to be a watershed year for smart TV. To meet consumer demand for more immersive and interactive content experiences, Samsung is introducing the new Smart Hub to select plasma models, including the D8000, D7000 and D6500 Series.Key features of Smart Hub include:Search, which allows users to easily search for content on the TV and via Samsung Apps or other online services.Your Video, which delivers recommendations based on a user's viewing history.Web Browser, which offers full web browsing right from your TV (available on the D8000 series).Samsung Apps, the world's first HDTV-based apps store, offers a range of paid and free apps that help people connect to their passions. Applications fall into several categories, including video, sports, information, games and lifestyle.For those seeking the ultimate smart TV experience, the D8000 series includes a remote that features a full physical QWERTY keyboard, making it easy to search and discover new content. New in 2011, the D8000 Series will also include built-in access to Skype, enabling owners to make video calls in high-definition from the comfort of their couch when paired with a compatible TV camera (sold separately).Connecting to Smart Hub and the Internet is easy right out of the box. Built-in Wi-Fi is included across Samsung's ultra-slim plasma portfolio – the D8000, D7000 and D6500 Series.Samsung has integrated more features to make the plasma line smarter in 2011. AllShare technology begins at the D550 Series, making it easier to connect and share content across multiple DLNA-enabled devices. The Plasma D550 Series is Wi-Fi ready with the addition of a wireless LAN adapter (sold separately) for enjoying DLNA-based networking with compatible devices and home media network drives.More 3D-Capable Models Bring Immersive Entertainment HomeBuilding on its successful introduction of 3D last year, Samsung will include 3D in three-quarters of its plasma portfolio in 2011, making it easy to bring home a premium 3D experience at multiple price points.The expanded range of 3D-capable models includes new technology to make the 3D picture quality more vivid and life-like than ever before. Samsung improved its 2D to 3D up-conversion feature, making it easy to customize the 3D viewing experience by adjusting the depth of the 3D images.Watching 3D in the home has also become more comfortable. Samsung unveiled four new models of 3D active glasses, which are only compatible with Samsung's 2011 3D TVs. The new range of 3D active glasses is Bluetooth-enabled, offering a stable signal and more vivid, life-like 3D imagery for an optimal viewing experience. The company also created the world's lightest 3D active glasses (model SSG-3700CR). Sporting a completely redesigned frame, the SSG-3700CR model weighs approximately one ounce, delivering the most premium picture quality and comfort during extended wear.As part of the company's ongoing commitment to bring premium content to consumers, Samsung announced that its new 3D Starter Kit, which includes of two pairs of 3D active glasses, would also include Blu-ray 3D versions of DreamWorks Animation SKG's Megamind and the complete Shrek collection at no additional cost. More Picture Enhancing Advancements Bring Deepest Blacks to LifeSamsung is committed to delivering an unmatched viewing experience whether in 2D or 3D. This year's flagship plasma TV models produce the deepest blacks and most vivid colors with the addition of Samsung's proprietary Real Black Panel to the D8000 and D7000 series. Real Black Panel reduces onscreen glare and allows the viewer to enjoy the deepest blacks and sharpest images. Samsung has also introduced Local Contrast Enhancer (LCE) and the Cinema Black feature to the D8000 Series to further enhance black level performance versus last year's C8000 Series.Samsung further integrated advanced picture quality technologies across the full plasma TV portfolio, with each model enjoying 600Hz Subfield Full HD Motion performance and .001 ms response time to generate smooth playback of any content. Building on the widely lauded inclusion of Cinema Smooth technology in the 2010 plasma line, Samsung integrated its new Crystal Full HD engine with Cinema Smooth into the new D8000 series, making blacks and moving image details as crisp and defined as possible.SAMSUNG BLU-RAY PLAYERS DELIVER SMART ENTERTAINMENT OPTIONSMarch 16, 20112011 Portfolio Packed with New Features, 2D-to-3D Upconversion, Groundbreaking Form Factors and Integrated Home Entertainment SystemsNEW YORK, March 16, 2011 – Samsung Electronics America Inc. ., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today announced U.S. pricing, availability and new features for its 2011 Smart Blu-ray player line. Models will begin shipping this month at a range of price points to suit consumer needs.The seven new Blu-ray players come fully loaded with Smart Blu-ray features, including easy access to Web content and services through Smart Hub, media sharing across devices with AllShare and integrated support for One Foot Connection, Samsung's new hassle-free networking setup. The majority of Samsung's Smart Blu-ray players support 3D playback and offer outstanding and immersive 3D experiences when connected to a 3D TV. One highlight of this year's lineup is the world's slimmest Blu-ray player – the BD-D7500 – measuring a slim 0.9-inch in height. The expanded lineup includes the world's first AV Receiver with an integrated 3D Blu-ray player, the HW-D7000."Samsung's commitment to innovation and design is evident," said John Revie, senior vice president of Home Entertainment, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. "We want more people to enjoy the richest, most immersive entertainment experience that is possible with today's technology. These Smart Blu-ray players give consumers a way to easily upgrade their existing TVs to access Samsung Smart TVTM services."Smart Blu-ray Features Bring Content to LifeBuilding on the success of Samsung Apps in 2010, Samsung is delivering the Smart Blu-ray experience in 2011 through a new application interface that give consumers easy access to content and services. The new Smart Hub includes key features like:Search, which allows users to easily search for content on the TV and via Samsung Apps or other online services.Your Video allows users to watch and preview video through a personalized recommendation serviceSamsung Apps, the world's first HDTV-based application store, now with more than 200 apps to download in the U.S. Samsung Apps offers a range of paid and free apps that help consumers connect to their passions – whether in sports, entertainment, information, games or social networking.The ability to search and share content across multiple devices is becoming increasingly popular with consumers. To accommodate this demand, Samsung built AllShare into its entire Smart Blu-ray player line. AllShare makes it easy to share multimedia content – videos, images, music and more – between DLNA-enabled devices such as a PC, camera, tablet or mobile phone. Once connected to the home network, the Samsung Smart Blu-ray player can easily play back content on other AllShare devices.Samsung continues to create solutions that make it easier for consumers to access and enjoy their entertainment. All 2011 Smart Blu-ray players offer Samsung's new patented One Foot Connection feature, when paired with the Samsung wireless router[1]. Setting up a connection is hassle-free – users simply place the Blu-ray player within one foot of the router during setup to establish a connection. The player will then maintain this connection regardless of where it's placed in the home. One Foot Connection makes Internet setup easier than ever and allows users to effortlessly access their favorite Samsung Apps.Further simplifying Internet connectivity out of the box, the majority of the Smart Blu-ray player line, including the BD-D5700, BD-D6500, BD-D6700, BD-D7000 and BD-D7500, has built-in Wi-Fi, while the BD-D5300 and BD-D5500 are Wi-Fi-enabled with the addition of a wireless LAN adapter (sold separately).2011 Portfolio Brings Home Premium 2D and 3D EntertainmentSamsung's Smart Blu-ray players deliver the most immersive entertainment experience, whether in 2D or 3D. In 2011, Samsung built support for full HD playback with 3D into five of the seven new Blu-ray players, offering consumers greater choice in price and form factors.The BD-D7500, BD-D7000 and BD-D6700 incorporate Samsung's new innovative 3D Converter technology to deliver exceptional 3D up-conversion of movies, pictures and streaming video at the push of a button. Samsung's proprietary Hyper Real Engine delivers cleaner, detailed picture quality by ensuring clarity, motion and color performance remain at optimal levels.The 2011 line offers built-in support for Dolby True HD across the full lineup; DTS-HD is also integrated in the BD-D6500 and higher. Support for HD audio makes decoding high-resolution audio effortless – the uncompressed sound is always pure and crystal clear to deliver the total home entertainment experience that audio aficionados demand.Beyond picture and audio quality, Samsung continues to improve the overall performance of its Blu-ray players. This year, the entire portfolio features the new Ultra Fast Play technology, which slashes the boot-up time by 80 percent to just three seconds.Samsung's New Design Identity Offers Options to Match Any InteriorAll of the 2011 Smart Blu-ray players embody Samsung's 3S concept design philosophy – symmetric, slim and slot-in. The units are designed as symmetric products, with all major functions placed in the middle so that using the device is easy and convenient. The slot-in design concept eliminates the need for moving parts and makes the unit quieter and more efficient.This philosophy is best seen in the world's slimmest Blu-ray player, the BD-D7500. The wall-mountable unit is a slim 0.9-inch in height and features an elegant brushed metal finish that matches perfectly with Samsung's premium 2011 LED and Plasma TV models.Samsung's design philosophy has also resulted in unique, yet practical form factors. The minimalist BD-D7000 personifies functionality. The player features a hidden slot for disc loading that pops up from the center of the player and a unique cube design with a stylish silver metal casing that wraps around the player to add sophistication.Samsung's design innovation was widely recognized at CES 2011. The BD-D7500 was awarded a CES Best of Innovations Award, while the BD-D6500, BD-D6700 and BD-7000 each received CES Innovation Honoree distinctions.Integrated Blu-ray Portfolio Adds More ChoiceBringing Blu-ray home has never been easier. For consumers who are looking for more than a standalone Blu-ray player, Samsung is introducing new Blu-ray home entertainment systems this month. The line includes the world's first 7.1 channel AV receiver system with Blu-ray playback, 3D viewing and Internet services in one integrated component, the HW-D7000.For more information on the extended Blu-ray product line, please see the home entertainment system press release.
 