
 
 We knew Series 9 laptops with Ivy Bridge weren't too far off when Samsung prematurely leaked the news on its own site. Well, if you've been patiently awaiting a refresh, your day has come: the company held a press event in New York City today where it showed off both the 13- and 15-inch models with Intel's third-generation Core processors in tow. Hardware-wise, there aren't many changes to what you saw on the earlier models, though Samsung added Bluetooth 4.0 support and shaved 0.1 inches off the silhouette.

 Along with the Series 9, Samsung's Series 5 laptops are getting new Ivy Bridge innards. The only changes besides the processor upgrade are Bluetooth 4.0 support and a USB 3.0 socket. And the low-end Series 3 isn't getting overlooked entirely either: the company is upgrading the line to dual-core Sandy Bridge CPUs (previous models ran Pentium units).

 But that's not all: on top of all those refreshes, the company has two new Series 5 machines. The Series 5 500 starts at $800 and offers a 14-inch 1366 x 768 display, 500GB of storage space and a third-gen Core i5 CPU. The 15.6-inch Series 5 costs $100 more and features a Core i7 Ivy Bridge processor along with a 750GB hard drive. Both models also include NVIDIA GeForce GT 630M graphics. Sammy says they will be up for order by mid-June.

 Dana Wollman contributed to this report.


  Show full PR text   SAMSUNG INTRODUCES TWO NEW SERIES 5 LAPTOPS FEATURING THE LATEST INTEL PROCESSORS AND STATE OF THE ART MULTIMEDIA FEATURES  Series 9, Series 5 and Series 3 lines also enhanced with new Intel processors   RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J., JUNE 6, 2012 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, today announced two additions to its mobile PC line: the 15.6-inch Series 5 notebook and the 14-inch Series 5 500 notebook. Both products feature a 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processor and top-of-the-line entertainment features, including JBL® stereo speakers and NVIDIA® GeForce® Graphics. Additionally, Samsung announced that its Series 9, Series 5 and Series 3 models will feature Intel's new, more powerful processors.   "Our latest Series 5 notebooks offer a premium computing experience, thanks to Samsung's advanced engineering and Intel's new processors, as well as enviable entertainment features including JBL audio speakers to provide a home theater experience in a mobile PC, whether you're using it in your office, home or at a hotel," said Todd Bouman, vice president of marketing at Samsung Enterprise Business Division. "The power and speed of Intel's latest processors have enabled us to create even faster, more efficient laptops, and we're excited to have begun integrating them into these new models and several of our existing designs as well."  15.6-inch Series 5 Notebook  The Series 5 notebook features an Intel® Core™ i7-3610QM processor, which delivers unprecedented speed and performance. Thanks to Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology, users can effortlessly multitask between applications, and Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0.1 gives you an automatic burst of speed whenever you need it – making this a perfect laptop for users looking for a powerful, easily portable solution with a large screen. The new processor, combined with 8GB of RAM and a 750GB HDD, provides the power users need to stay productive everywhere.   With the Series 5 notebook's embedded JBL® 3 speakers and sub-woofer, users will enjoy clear, rich sound, deep bass and great tone articulation – making it an ideal laptop for music lovers and video enthusiasts. SoundAlive technology adds to this premium experience by offering virtual 3D sound, further enhancing the overall sound quality and enabling users to switch between various modes (such as movie mode and music mode) to optimize sound quality for different usage.   In order to match this premium audio quality with an unrivalled visual experience, Samsung incorporated NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 630M Graphics into the new Series 5 notebook, which make fast-paced games and videos come alive on the 15.6-inch LED HD 1366x768 screen.  14-inch Series 5 500 Notebook  The 14-inch Samsung Series 5 500 notebook is an ideal laptop for multi-tasking users, from college students to busy professionals. It features an Intel® Core™ i5-3210M Processor, which delivers high speed right from the start, as well as Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology and Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0.1 for optimal multitasking.   Samsung also incorporated a range of intelligent solutions into the laptop to maximize usability. Tilting legs and a backlit keyboard enable you to comfortably use it anywhere, while a power saving button lets you set the laptop to automatically power down when not in use. Users can also access Samsung EasyShare with just the click of a button, allowing them to effortless share files with friends and colleagues.   The 14-inch Series 5 500 notebook also provides the latest advances in multimedia technology. As with the 15.6-inch Series 5, the inclusion of powerful JBL® stereo speakers, a sub-woofer, HD audio processing and NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 630M Graphics offer an unrivaled entertainment experience.   The laptop features an LED HD 1366 x 768 resolution display, with Samsung's slim bezel, giving you the largest screen possible in its small, sleek chassis. This larger screen enables you to easily create presentations, edit photos, watch videos and surf multiple Internet windows without sacrificing portability.   Both the 15.6-inch Series 5 notebook and the 14-inch Series 5 500 notebook feature Samsung's renowned style profile and a patterned silver body. The 15.6-inch product will retail for $899.99 and the 14-inch model will retail for $799.99, both beginning in mid-June 2012.  Updated Series 9, Series 5 and Series 3 Lines  Samsung will also introduce its13.3-inch and 15-inch second-generation Series 9, the 13-inch and 14-inch Series 5 ULTRA and Series 3 laptops with the latest Intel processors beginning in mid-June 2012.   The company recently introduced two other laptops featuring 3rd generation Intel processors, the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS and Series 7 GAMER, both of which currently available.

 
