
  Space will always have room for another galaxy, and your pocket should equally have room for this little piece of Android 2.3 TouchWizadry. The Galaxy Pocket has just been announced in London and will arrive in the UK "later this year," bearing a 2.8-inch screen with a 240 x 320 (QVGA) resolution, an 800MHz processor, 3GB of expandable storage. That's an even smaller display than last year's crop of budget Androids, so hopefully this one will be priced accordingly. Full spec table and PR after the break.
      

 

   Show full PR text  SAMSUNG INTRODUCES THE GALAXY POCKET  New addition to the Galaxy portfolio provides affordable option for customers  6th March 2012, London, UK – Samsung Electronics today announces the latest addition to its Android powered Galaxy portfolio, the Galaxy Pocket. Featuring AndroidTM 2.3, this new smartphone offers those on the lookout for a new handset, a stylish portable option.  The Galaxy Pocket's slim design makes it ideal for use whilst on the move and features a 2.8" display so that content and images can be viewed easily. The device features an upgraded TouchWiz user interface making menu navigation a smooth and efficient experience.  Connecting with others and sharing content is quick and easy thanks to the Galaxy Pocket's social networking and communication features. Samsung's ChatON cross-platform communication service connects all phone users into a single community, enabling spontaneous messaging, group chatting and content sharing so customers can stay in touch more easily.  In addition, the Galaxy Pocket's Social Hub enables owners to see their Instant Messaging, social network and email communications in a single inbox for added convenience when they are travelling to and from work or out shopping.  The Galaxy Pocket offers 3GB of user memory, which can be expanded by a SD memory card up to an additional 32GB, for applications, MP3 files and photos, as well as an in-built FM radio which can be tuned into a favourite station. Integrated high-speed Wi-Fi and HSDPA 3.6 connectivity mean multimedia content can be downloaded fast and keep owners entertained whilst they're out and about.   Simon Stanford, Vice President, UK & IRE Telecommunications & Networks Division: "With the Samsung Galaxy Pocket, we are building on the features we know our customers enjoy and get the most out of. This new device adds further breadth to the choice of smartphones we currently offer and provides a smartphone experience for even more customers at an affordable price."  The Galaxy Pocket will be available in the UK later this year.
 