

 And just like that, Samsung Display was born. Built by combining the lesser S-LCD Corporation and Samsung Mobile Display, the new unit is now the largest maker manufacturer of displays. Of course, none of this could have happened without Sony deciding to exit the S-LCD partnership last year. Though vague, Sammy says it plans for this new LCD juggernaut to leverage the company's vast experience and large panel-producing facilities to boost production and demand for its OLEDs while increasing "synergy" (we thought that buzz word died with Nu Metal). You'll find complete PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Display Newly Established as World's Largest Display Manufacturer
   SEOUL, South Korea--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Display Co., Ltd., a global leader in display panel technologies and products, announced today that it has begun conducting business as a newly merged corporation with Samsung Mobile Display and S-LCD corporations.

   "Our combined strengths will guide Samsung's display business through the next decade and longer, in turning the many synergistic benefits of the company into far-reaching, tangible results."  Samsung Display is the world's largest display manufacturer, now with 39,000 employees and seven production facilities worldwide. Oh-hyun Kwon, vice chairman and CEO of Samsung Electronics, was elected CEO of Samsung Display at the general meeting of stockholders and board of directors.

   Kwon said, "Samsung Display is destined to attain virtually unlimited growth, through continuous efforts to combine our proven know-how in the display field with an overwhelming creative spirit." He added, "Our combined strengths will guide Samsung's display business through the next decade and longer, in turning the many synergistic benefits of the company into far-reaching, tangible results."

   Samsung Display also decided upon its corporate slogan: 'displays beyond imagination' and declared it would move forward with a bold goal of striving to continually lead the future.

   Through its merger with Samsung Mobile Display and S-LCD corporations, Samsung Display plans to expand the company's management efficiencies, while optimizing the synergistic effects of its LCD (liquid crystal display) and OLED (organic light-emitting diode) business initiatives. The company also intends to strengthen its global competitive edge by combining OLED production technology with precision large panel operations and seasoned supply chain management.

   About Samsung Display Co., Ltd.

   Samsung Display Co., Ltd. is a global leader in display panel technology and products. Employing approximately 39,000 people at seven production facilities and nine sales offices worldwide, Samsung Display specializes in high-quality displays for consumer, mobile, IT and industrial usage, including those featuring OLED (organic light emitting diode) and LCD technologies. As a total solution provider, Samsung Display strives to advance the future with next-generation technologies featuring ultra-thin, energy-efficient, flexible, foldable and transparent displays. For more information, please visit www.samsungdisplay.com.

 
