
 
Remember how Samsung downsized the Wave to make the Wave 723 and killed off the pricey, fancy Super AMOLED display in the process? Yeah, well, the same rule applies to the Android-powered Galaxy line -- so if you were hoping to see some mind-blowing contrast ratios on Sammy's new PMP... well, you can just keep on hoping (and besides, even the mighty Tab has gone the TFT route for now). The Galaxy Player 50 is pretty cute in the flesh, featuring a 3.2-inch WQVGA LCD with multitouch capability, Android 2.1, and your choice of 8GB or 16GB worth of internal storage with microSD expansion up to 32GB. It's also packing a 2 megapixel cam on back and support for 802.11n -- and heck, like the Philips GoGear Connect it's even got a mic, basically putting it just one spec sheet line item shy of being an actual smartphone.

For all intents and purposes, the PMP feels like a midrange Android smartphone when you're holding and using it; it's reasonably responsive, and we were happy to see that it has Google Maps Navigation on board (along with the Android Market and all the other standard "Google Experience" Android apps). We found the keyboard a bit cramped, but there's only so much you can do with a portrait virtual QWERTY keyboard on a 3.2-inch display, and we imagine we could get used to it with time. Needless to say, the total package feels more put-together than the GoGear, and if we were rocking a dumbphone, wanted to keep our music compartmentalized, and couldn't stand the thought of adding an iPod touch into our lives, we imagine the 50 would be on our short list. Follow the break for Samsung's press release -- and don't forget to have a gander at the gallery!





Show full PR textSamsung launchs a range of multimedia players for every needSamsung's Portable Multimedia Players Designed for Every LifestyleSeoul (Korea Newswire) September 2, 2010 -- Samsung Electronics Co. LTD., today announced the launch of four new portable multimedia players for the second half of 2010. The Galaxy Player 50, YP-Q3, YP-U6 and TicToc have all been designed to match the lifestyles and differing requirements of customers through a range of innovative technologies and features. All four portable multimedia players will be on display at IFA 2010.The Samsung Galaxy Player 50, equipped with SoundAlive™, offers users superb sound quality and exciting multimedia experience that fully utilizes the Android 2.1 (Éclair) OS. Its 3.2" wide display will make your multimedia come alive and with its easy "Drag & Drop" operation, users have the freedom to enjoy audio/video libraries anywhere, anytime. The Galaxy Player 50, enables users to play content without the need to convert files as it comes with DivX. It is the easiest way to make a diverse array of multimedia easy to access and enjoy.YP-Q3's vibrant and colorful design makes it a multimedia device that stands out! Available in black or white, the Q3 has a glossy back, 2.2" TFT LCD display and stylish aluminum edges – it will attract style conscious users with its elegant and refined design. The Q3 uses Samsung's own sound engine, SoundAlive™, giving music more clarity through the use of signal processing. SoundAlive™ gives music lovers the chance to hear their music with deeper bass, greater tone articulation and spaciousness.YP-U6 makes digital audio simpler and easier than ever. Its hard aluminum body and secure slide-and-hide USB connector are matched perfectly with a bright color display.The U6's robust design and fitness function allows users to time their workouts, making it an ideal solution for fitness fanatics. Along with FM radio and voice recording features. It delivers a powerful performance in compact body.TicToc shows that it is hip to be square, with its minimalist design and fun and easy usability. TicToc's G-Sensor recognizes your motion and you need no more than one button and three LED icons to select the music you want. All operations can be done with a simple click and shake using fun motion control. Through Voice guide feature, users can discover the information related the music easily. Users can also manage their playlists using the 'tempo analysis feature' that consolidates the music based on the speed. With its unique User Experience, the TicToc has been awarded the 2010 iF Communication Design Awards for Product interfaces.
 