
Whenever a Samsung flagship arrives, it's never long before we see a fleet of lower-spec handsets swimming in its wake. The latest Remora to come out from the shadow of its bigger brother (and the rumor mill) is the Galaxy Core, a 4.3-inch handset offering a 1.2GHz dual-core CPU, 1GB RAM, 8GB internal storage and a microSD slot. Running Touchwiz-infused Jelly Bean, the phone has a 5-megapixel rear camera with an LED flash and a VGA front-facer for the vain amongst you. Users will also be getting some of the more fancy Galaxy-style software features like Motion UI, Smart Stay, Smart Alert and S Voice. Of course, a phone is nothing without a screen, and here your eyes will be caressing a 4.3-inch WVGA (480 x 800) display -- but while you may not be thrilled at a low pixel count, at least there's the option for single SIM (available in July) or dual-SIM (from May) models for carrier swappers.




Show full PR textSamsung Introduces the GALAXY Core for Ideal Portability and Power
May 6, 2013

The smartphone combines dual core processing power, compact design, and Dual SIM technology

SEOUL, Korea - May 06, 2013 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a leader in mobile technology and digital solutions, today announced the Samsung GALAXY Core, a smartphone designed to offer users dual core processing power for multitasking, Dual SIM technology for easy transition between work and play, and a wealth of innovative smart features. The GALAXY Core is a device that can operate seamlessly and effectively in all aspects of life.

The GALAXY Core is the perfect device for the user looking for optimal balance of portability and power. Equipped with a 1.2 GHz dual core processor, the GALAXY Core performs data intensive tasks with speed and ease. The processing power is supported by 8GB of Internal memory and 1GB of RAM so that users can play feature-rich games, multitask and consume limitless media. All of these activities are aided by a beautiful 4.3 inch display, and a long-lasting 1,800mAh battery for extended usage. The device also comes equipped with a 5-megapixel camera, offering flawless and beautiful photos. These features are also supported with the GALAXY Core's Dual SIM technology, enabling users to access both SIM cards simultaneously.

Offering innovative mobile solutions to enhance the user experience, the GALAXY Core's smart features provide advanced tools that continue to set the GALAXY series apart. Utilizing human interactions including voice, movement, and optical commands, the GALAXY Core has a wide array of smart features that include:

• 'Smart Stay': Recognizes when a user is looking at the phone, and saves battery life when a user looks away bydimming the screen and powering down using advanced facial recognition• 'Smart Alert': Alerts the user to missed calls and messages when the device is picked up• 'Motion UI': Activates common functions such as refresh or mute with simple motion commands• 'S Voice': Provides voice command functionality

The GALAXY Core will be available in two different versions – Single SIM from July or Dual SIM from May, depending on the market.


