
 

Okay, so Samsung's newest business laptops may not be as slim or light as their Series 9 brother, but they actually don't look half bad. First up is the Series 2, and as you may expect, the 12.5- and 14-inch systems are the most budget ones of the bunch. We don't have a price on the duo, but the smaller version packs an Intel Celeron processor while the 14-incher kicks it up to a Sandy Bridge Core i3 CPU. Sadly, we don't have details on the exact configurations either, but they will be available with up to 4GB of RAM and 320GB hard drives. Jumping on up, the Series 4 keeps the same 12.5- and 14-inch chassis options, but provides new Sandy Bridge Core i3, i5, and i7 processor options as well as 7,200RPM hard drives and six-cell batteries. 

Last but not least is the Series 6, which tops off the chain with some higher-end specs. Unlike the other two lines, the 6 comes with 14- and 15.6-inch SuperBright 300-nit displays -- there's also a 1600 x 900 resolution option on these, while the others keep it at the standard 1366 x 768. The Series 6 is also available with your choice of Core 2011 processors (i3, i5, and i7 all available) and finally jacks up the graphics power with an NVIDIA NVS 4200M GPU. All three systems are said to be made of "super-hard external casing," have metal hinges, and pack 1.3 megapixel webcams. We don't have any pricing details, but the 2 and 4 will be available in April and the Series 6 in May. Check out the pictures below or sneak past the break for more details.






Show full PR textSAMSUNG EXPANDS ENTERPRISE COMPUTING LINE WITH SERIES 2, SERIES 4, AND SERIES 6 BUSINESS LAPTOPS New feature-rich notebooks combine reliability, versatility and performance for the managed-IT environmentRIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J., - March 16, 2011 - Samsung Electronics America Inc., a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Corporation, today announced three new mobile PC lines for the workplace. The Series 2, Series 4 and Series 6 laptops combine first-rate reliability and enhanced security with features like anti-shock hard drives and pressure-resistant casings to meet the needs of a fast-paced enterprise or educational environment."Samsung's new mobile PCs deliver an unrivaled experience for the workplace, with features specifically designed to meet the needs of IT managers and end users," said Scott Ledterman, director of mobile PC marketing at Samsung Enterprise Business Division. "The new Series 2, 4 and 6 laptops present a unique opportunity for Samsung to specifically focus on the enterprise and educational channels and underscores Samsung as a global leader in the enterprise PC market."Comfortable, Performance-Driven Experience With all-day use in mind, Samsung engineered the Series 2, 4, and 6 mobiles PCs to provide the most comfortable and efficient experience possible. The sleek new laptops feature the latest 2nd generation Intel® Core™ processor technology and Intel HD graphics, with select models offering optional nVIDIA Optimus Technology for outstanding graphics performance and long battery life. Additionally, the 300-nit 16 million color SuperBright display offers a 50-percent brighter screen than conventional displays. The new enterprise-focused mobile PCs also feature comfortable keyboards and an optional TrackPoint in addition to a large touchpad to create an enhanced user experience even during periods of extended use.Samsung's Fast Start technology helps users take control of their work flow, allowing users to begin working within 3 seconds of opening the display or pressing the power button when in sleep mode. Samsung Fast Start also automatically saves data onto the HDD, to prevent data loss in the event the device loses power or the battery is removed. For added performance in the business world, Samsung's Fast Browsing feature offers up to a 15-percent improvement in web response time, allowing users to quickly access information and databases online.Samsung's new line of business notebooks provide outstanding battery life with a high capacity 6-cell battery providing up to 7 hours of battery life on a single charge. The optional 9-cell battery provides even longer battery life for mobile professionals on the go. Unwavering Reliability, Durability and SecurityEnsuring that a workforce can perform whenever and wherever they need, durability and reliability is at the core of the new lines with a standard 3-year warranty on all models and US-based Tier 2 customer support. For education and small businesses customers, the Series 2 mobile PC offers users a durable and affordable computing option while the Series 4 and Series 6 laptops are ideal for users with more demanding computing needs. Each of the new laptops is constructed with a super-hard external casing and metal hinges for rugged durability. For further protection, Series 6 business rugged notebooks are equipped with reinforced magnesium alloy construction for enhanced durability.For added peace of mind, the Series 2, 4 and 6 computers all feature an anti-spill design with a sealed case, reducing the risk of damage from minor spills on internal components. Moreover, the laptops feature Samsung's anti-shock hard disk drive (HDD) protection, which uses an accelerometer to detect movement and stop the disk from spinning, preventing potential data loss upon impact. For CTOs and IT managers that need to ensure sensitive contents remain secure at all times, each of the new notebooks is equipped with a range of security features such as pre-boot authentication. Series 4 and Series 6 notebooks add additional security features including a Fingerprint Sensor and Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip. Series 6 notebooks further enhanced security and manageability features with Intel vPro technology. Improved Usability and ConnectivityFlawless integration with existing enterprise technology is a primary concern within an office environment. With this in mind, Samsung's Easy Migration service allows users and IT managers to easily transfer files, settings and profiles from a user's previous PC to one of Samsung's newest models. Users can also rapidly backup and share data using a high-speed USB 3.0 connection. For users that need teleconferencing capabilities, each model features enhanced audio/visual components, including a 1.3MP webcam and array microphone – making sharing business plans or presentations with clients and vendors simple and cost effective.All three of the new lines of mobile PCs come with a standard three year warranty and Samsung Support. The Samsung Series 2 and Series 4 are scheduled to be available in April 2011. The Samsung Series 6 will be available in May 2011. All Samsung mobile PC products are available through Samsung resellers and distribution channels, which can be located by calling 1-800-SAMSUNG or by visiting www.samsung.com.Key Specs:Series 2:Sizes Available: 12.5-inch, 14-inch, CPU: Intel® CeleronTM Processor (12.5-inch)Intel® CoreTM i3 Processor (14-inch)Operating System: Genuine Windows® 7 Professional (32 or 64 bit)Memory: 2GB ~ 4 GB (expandable) Storage (max): 320GB Screen: 12.5-inch HD LED-backlit display14.0-inch HD LED-backlit SuperBright display (300 nit)Resolution: 1366 x 768Graphics: Intel GMA HD Integrated GraphicsSeries 4:Sizes Available: 12.5-inch, 14-inch, CPU: Intel® CoreTM i3 ~ i7 Processor (3MB ~ 4MB) (12.5-inch)Intel® CoreTM i3 ~ i7 Processor (3MB ~ 6MB)Operating System:Genuine Windows® 7 Professional (32 or 64 bit) (12.5-inch)Genuine Windows® 7 Professional (32 or 64 bit) (14-inch)Memory: 2GB ~ 6GB (expandable) Storage (max): 320GB ~ 500GB 7200RPMScreen:12.5-inch HD LED-backlit display14.0-inch HD LED-backlit SuperBright display (300 nit)Resolution:1366 x 768Graphics:Intel GMA HD Integrated Graphics (12.5-inch)Intel GMA HD Integrated Graphics (14-inch)Battery: 6-cell; up to 7 hoursDocking station connectorSeries 6:Sizes Available: 14-inch, 15.6-inchCPU: Intel® CoreTM i3 ~ i7 Processor (3MB ~ 6MB) (14- and 15.6-inch)Operating System:Genuine Windows® 7 Professional (32 or 64 bit) (14-inch)Genuine Windows® 7 Professional (32 or 64 bit) (15.6-inch)Memory:4GB ~ 8GB (14-inch) (expandable)4GB ~ 8GB (15.6-inch) (expandable)Storage (max):320GB ~ 500GB (7200 rpm sATA) Optional 128GB ~ 256GB Solid State Drive (SSD)Screen:14.0-inch HD LED-backlit SuperBright display (300 nit)15.6-inch HD LED-backlit SuperBright display (300 nit)Resolution:1366 x 768, 1600 x 900Graphics:Intel GMA HD Integrated Graphics or nVIDIA NVS 4200MBattery: 6-cell; up to 7 hoursDocking station connectorBattery life will vary depending on the product model, configuration, power management settings, applications used and wireless settings. The maximum capacity of the battery will decrease with time and use. Test results based on independent third party Battery Mark tests. Specifications and designs are subject to change without notice. Non-Metric weights and measurements are approximate. Total amount of available memory may be less based on configuration.Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes, GB = 1 billion bytes, TB = 1 trillion bytes. Please note that a portion of the hard drive is reserved for system recovery, operationg system and preloaded content software.See Samsung.com/ITDlegalinfo for more details About Samsung Electronics America Enterprise Business Division Based in Ridgefield Park, N.J., Samsung's Enterprise Business Division (EBD) is a division of Samsung Electronics America (SEA), a U.S. subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. (SEC), the world's largest technology company based on revenue. As one of the fastest growing IT companies in the world, Samsung EBD is committed to serving the needs of consumers ranging from the home user to the Fortune 500 elite and supporting the valued channel partners who serve our customers. Samsung EBD offers a complete line of award-winning color and mono-laser printing solutions, desktop monitors, laptop computers, digital signage solutions and projectors. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com/business or call 1-866-SAM4BIZ. About Samsung Electronics America, Inc. Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), based in Ridgefield Park, NJ, is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. The company markets a broad range of award-winning consumer electronics, information systems, and home appliance products, as well as oversees all of Samsung's North American operations including Samsung Telecommunications America, LP, Samsung Semiconductor Inc., Samsung Electronics Canada, Inc. and Samsung Electronics Mexico, Inc. As a result of its commitment to innovation and unique design, the Samsung organization is one of the most decorated brands in the electronics industry. The company was ranked #19 in BusinessWeek/Interbrand "100 Best Global Brands," and named as one of Fast Company's "50 Most Innovative Companies of 2010." For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. You can also Fan Samsung on www.Facebook.com/SamsungUSA or follow Samsung via Twitter @SamsungTweets.About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 174,000 people in 193 offices across 66 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.
 