
 In the leadup to tomorrow's Samsung Galaxy Note II event, AT&T has decided to make its pricing and availability known to the general public today. The 5.5-inch smartphone will be available in stores and online starting November 9th, and the cost for the LTE-enabled device will be $300 with a two-year commitment. Lest you fear having to wait an extra two weeks to waltz into a store, you'll be able to head online on Thursday and pre-order it. The press release below has the details, so follow us past the break.



  Show full PR text    AT&T Announces Samsung Galaxy Note II Available Nov. 9, Pre-orders Begin Oct. 25
   Dallas, Texas, October 23, 2012

   Beginning Nov. 9 customers interested in picking up a Samsung Galaxy Note® II will be able to purchase one for $299.99 with a two-year agreement in all AT&T* stores and online. Online pre-orders for this highly anticipated device are planned for Oct. 25 at www.att.com/galaxynoteii.

   Announced last month, the Samsung Galaxy Note II is one of the first smartphones launching at AT&T to feature a quad-core processor. Galaxy Note II uses a 1.6 GHz quad-core Exynos™ processor with powerful graphics capabilities. The Galaxy Note II is thinner and narrower than the first Galaxy Note, and it improves upon the original with longer battery life, as well as enhancements to the S Pen™. AT&T is the only carrier to offer the original Samsung Galaxy Note™ at $199.99 with a two-year agreement.

   The Galaxy Note II will run on AT&T's 4G LTE network. It will ship running Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) on its beautiful 5.5-inch HD Super AMOLED™ display, perfect for customers who want the productivity of a tablet with the portability of a smartphone. The 8-megapixel camera allows users to easily share their photos with friends through Share Shot, while S Beam™ lets you quickly share videos, pictures, maps and more with other Galaxy Note II and Galaxy S® III devices.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network**, covering 275 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.

 
