
 
 The phone that a passel of worldwide lawsuits couldn't hold back, Samsung's Galaxy S III, is the company's most successful yet, as Samsung announced tonight that it's delivered more than 20 million units in 100 days. That figure puts it at three times the sales rate of the Galaxy S II when it broke 20 million in February, ten months after launch and more than six times the original Galaxy S, which took 17 months. In a rare occasion, Samsung has supplied regional sales figures -- revealing six million devices for Europe, 4.5 million in Asia, 4 million in North America and 2.5 million in Korea. According to Samsung's gleeful press release it's moving 200,000 units a day -- any predictions for where that pace (or sales for its larger cousin, the Galaxy Note II which has its own hard act to follow) will go from here?



  Show full PR text   Samsung GALAXY S III Reaches 20 Million Sales Milestone in Record Time
   September 6, 2012

   Ergonomic design, user-friendly features, and the latest technologies drive  record-breaking success for Samsung's flagship smartphone

   SEOUL, Korea - September 6, 2012 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced that the GALAXY S III smartphone has achieved 20 million unit sales in just 100 days since its debut in May 2012. As Samsung's most successful smartphone to date, the GALAXY S III has set a new record, generating sales quicker than any of its predecessors.

   Designed for humans and inspired by nature, the GALAXY S III is a revolutionary smartphone that delivers a uniquely personalized and intuitive user experience. It includes a generous 4.8 inch HD Super AMOLED display for a stunning viewing experience, and a variety of powerful camera features that ensure all moments are captured easily and instantly. Samsung GALAXY S III uses intelligent software that responds interactively to your face, gestures and voice. It also sports a range of additional features that boost performance and the overall user experience in entirely new ways, including Smart Stay, S Beam and AllShare Cast.

   "The GALAXY S III has enjoyed tremendous attention and popularity since its launch in May, and we are thrilled with its success," said JK Shin, President and Head of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung Electronics. "I would like to express my sincere appreciation to customers who have chosen the GALAXY S III. We will never stop providing the latest smart mobile technologies to help users live a life extraordinary."

   Following the successful launch of the GALAXY S III, the stylish device will be available in a variety of colors; ＊Amber Brown, ＊Garnet Red, ＊Sapphire Black and ＊Titanium Gray in addition to Pebble Blue and Marble White.   ＊ Availability of colors will vary depending on the country and carrier/retailer.

   About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2011 consolidated sales of US$143.1 billion. Employing approximately 206,000 people in 197 offices across 72 countries, the company operates two separate organizations to coordinate its nine independent business units: Digital Media & Communications, comprising Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, and Digital Imaging; and Device Solutions, consisting of Memory, System LSI and LED. Recognized for its industry-leading performance across a range of economic, environmental and social criteria, Samsung Electronics was named the world's most sustainable technology company in the 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.

 
