
 


Samsung is rolling out a pair of dual-SIM blowers for everyone who wants to keep their working and private lives separate, or take advantage of constantly changing carrier deals. The Galaxy Y Duos packs a 3.14-inch QVGA (243 x 320) touchscreen, HSDPA modem, three megapixel camera, microSD storage that's expandable up to 32GB and an 832MHz processor that runs TouchWiz flavored Gingerbread. The Galaxy Y Pro Duos' only difference is its smaller 2.6-inch LQVGA TFT screen, to make space for the physical keyboard below. Both models will be available from January in Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia, Africa and China and while there's no word on pricing, the specs suggest it won't be high. Head on past the break for the deep dish (or as some squares like to call it, "press release").
 

 		Show full PR text  Balance work and play with GALAXY Y DUOS and GALAXY Y Pro DUOS 		2011.12.22 		Samsung adds Dual SIM smartphones into its GALAXY smartphone line-up  SEOUL, Korea – December 22, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the latest additions to the GALAXY smartphone series, Samsung GALAXY Y DUOS and Samsung GALAXY Y Pro DUOS. Beginning in January 2012, these new devices will be available in Russia, and GALAXY Y DUOS will be gradually rolled out to Europe, CIS, Latin America, Southeast and Southwest Asia, Middle East, Africa and China. GALAXY Y Pro DUOS will be coming to Europe, CIS, Latin America, Southwest Asia, Middle East and Africa. 		GALAXY Y DUOS and GALAXY Y Pro DUOS feature a unique Dual SIM system that maximizes communication flexibility by allowing two separate phone numbers and a simultaneous use of data on the same device. Users who need to balance busy professional and social lives can access and seamlessly switch from one line to the other with GALAXY Y DUOS or GALAXY Y Pro DUOS. 		"With the tremendous success of the Dual SIM feature phones, we are now very pleased to be introducing the first Dual SIM smartphones powered by Android™. "We have been actively exploring this market and are well aware of the need for Dual SIM smartphones," said JK Shin, President of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung Electronics. "With the GALAXY Y DUOS and the GALAXY Y Pro DUOS, Samsung will be offering more choices for all consumers." 		Samsung's First Full Touch Smartphone with Dual SIM, GALAXY Y DUOS		GALAXY Y DUOS is for young and practical consumers who want to manage their professional career and busy social life with affordable price. Beyond the flexibility of its dual SIM card system, GALAXY Y DUOS is a beautifully designed smartphone contained in a 11.98mm polished metallic casing. Its ergonomic design is complemented by a 3.14'' full touch display that provides optimal legibility for a smartphone of its size. 		Powered by Android 2.3 Gingerbread and running on a powerful 832MHz processor, GALAXY Y DUOS offers advanced performance and versatility needed to successfully manage busy professional and social lifestyles. 		GALAXY Y DUOS also provides users with multiple options to enrich their social lives. It features ChatON, Samsung's unique cross-platform communication service that connects all mobile users into a single community. Users can also stay connected through Social Hub, which supports email, social network integration and instant messaging, displaying all of your communication in a single inbox. 		Samsung's First QWERTY Smartphone with Dual SIM, GALAXY Y Pro DUOS		Samsung is also introducing GALAXY Y Pro DUOS, which offers additional benefits for young professionals with the combination of a full QWERTY keyboard with a 2.6'' display, giving them more business-friendly experience with better flexibility and usability. 		GALAXY Y Pro DUOS offers enhanced productivity with the inclusion of Polaris and Find My Mobile professional tools. Polaris offers easy viewing and editing of a wide range of Office documents, enabling you to work with Word, Excel, PowerPoint and even PDF files while on-the-move. Samsung's Find My Mobile Service ensures peace-of-mind by letting users remotely lock the phone at anytime, as well as trace the phone or remotely wipe its contents in case of loss or theft. 		The users can also enjoy Social Hub Premium, offering support for push email and messaging, and seamless calendar and contact synchronization between the phone and users' Google, Yahoo and MSN accounts. 		For multimedia content and more detailed information, please visit www.samsungmobilepress.com
 