
 

We're headed over as we speak to get an early look at what TouchWiz has in store for Tab 10.1-totin' New Yorkers, but in the meantime, Samsung's served up a laundry list of details (after the break) to clue everyone in on what it'll bring. Aside from pushing the TouchWiz UX overlay atop Android 3.1 (Honeycomb), the new digs will also enable Samsung Kies 2.0 support for PC and Mac, solving an issue we spotted a few weeks back. For those unfamiliar with Sammy's Android dressings, this one promises to bring a Live Panel (described as a magazine-like widget view for immediate access to weather, social updates, email, and news on the home pane), a Mini Mode Tray (providing one-touch access to commonly used apps), Clipboard (it's copy and paste, advanced), Photo Editor (it edits JPEGs, y'all) and the token Indicator Quick Panel (which enables users to quickly toggle on / off WiFi, notifications, sound, brightness and settings in lower right hand corner of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 display).

Of course, proceeding with the update means that you'll get Amazon's Music Cloud Player, the Kindle app and 'Words with Friends' preloaded, but enterprise folk can at least look forward to full support for Exchange ActiveSync version 14, on-device encryption and compatibility with Cisco's VPN / Sybase MDM / WebEx. Still hungry for more? How's about wireless printing to any "compatible" printer, as well as a bolstered Swype app that enables resizing of the keyboard and movement of the keys to any position on the panel. You'll also find Adobe's Flash Player 10.3, a redesigned Samsung Media Hub service and a promise that all Galaxy Tab 10.1 owners will start to see it beginning August 5th. If you're eager to get prepped for Friday's release, hit the source link to setup a required Samsung account; once registered, you'll be notified when your device is ready for the upgrade and given drop-dead simple steps to complete it. Naturally, we'll be bringing you an early look of the changes as soon as humanly possible.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Samsung Mobile Announces Availability of Major Software Update for Award-Winning Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 WiFi Edition 		New software includes TouchWiz® UX user interface with fully customizable widgets and mini applications for multi-tasking, redesigned Samsung Media Hub service, Enterprise mobile solutions and Samsung Kies 2.0 support for PC & Mac 		DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S.1, announced the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 WiFi software update including Samsung's TouchWiz® UX user interface, Adobe Flash Player 10.3 and the redesigned Samsung Media Hub service, will begin rolling out over the air to all Galaxy Tab 10.1 owners beginning Friday, August 5. 		The Galaxy Tab 10.1 software update is scheduled to include the following features and services: 		Samsung TouchWiz® User Interface: 		The Samsung TouchWiz UX is specifically designed to work with Android™ Honeycomb 3.1 to optimize the large screen tablet user experience. The TouchWiz UX delivers superior multi-tasking and customization for an enhanced visual, fluid and intuitive mobile computing experience. TouchWiz UX features are scheduled to include: 		* Live Panel: Magazine-like widget view for immediate access to weather, social updates, email, news, photo gallery, all on the home screen. The visual layout of Live Panel is completely customizable for one-touch entry into each user's most important information.		* Mini Mode Tray: One-touch access to commonly used applications-Task Manager, Calendar, World Clock, Pen Memo, Calculator, Music-which overlay in a pop-up window on display screen for powerful multi-tasking.		* Clipboard: Advanced copy & paste functionality allows Galaxy Tab 10.1 users to store photos, Web pages, YouTube links, etc., on the clipboard for easy sharing via email and social network sites.		* Indicator Quick Panel: Quickly toggle on/off Wi-Fi, notifications, sound, brightness and settings in lower right hand corner of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 display.		* Photo Editor: Rotate, crop and adjust colors on high quality digital images 		Samsung Media Hub: 		The Galaxy Tab 10.1 software update will introduce the evolution of Samsung's popular movie and next day TV content service, known as Media Hub. Media Hub has been redesigned with a new user interface and optimized video content for the 10.1" display for even easier downloads and higher quality viewing experience of rented or purchased content. Media Hub features thousands of new release and top-grossing titles from major Hollywood studios and leading television networks, including NBC Universal, Paramount, MTV, Warner Bros. , CBS and FOX. The new version also features Media Hub Show, which allows the user to playback Media Hub content on a TV through an HDMI cable from the Galaxy Tab 10.1 dock or adaptor. Users can register up to five devices under one account to access owned content across multiple devices without repurchase. Alternate premium video options include Android Movies, which is available to download from the Android Market. 		Social Hub: 		The software upgrade will also include Samsung's Social Hub service, which aggregates email, instant messaging, contacts, calendar and social network connections into an integrated experience. 		Apps Preloaded: 		The Galaxy Tab 10.1 software update includes preloaded applications, scheduled to include: 		* Amazon Music Cloud Player: Upload your music in the cloud and access it from any device		* Amazon Kindle: Get access to about a million Kindle books		* Words with Friends: Face off against friends near and far with one of the most popular social games from Zynga 		Enterprise Solutions and Services: 		* Full support for Exchange ActiveSync version 14		* On device encryption		* Cisco VPN (Virtual Private Network)		* Sybase MDM (Mobile Device Management)		* Cisco WebEx mobile conference solution for meetings on the go 		Samsung Kies 2.0: 		Galaxy Tab 10.1 users will also gain greater file sharing capabilities through Samsung Kies 2.0 with support for both PC and Macs. Samsung Kies 2.0 includes the following user benefits: 		* Better device management: PIMS and multimedia data sync, firmware upgrades with file backup and wireless connectivity via WiFi and Bluetooth		* Powerful multimedia support: Integrated library for storing mass data and complex content files		* Faster performance: quick and seamless installation of Samsung Kies 2.0 delivers immediate access to file transfer process 		Swype: 		This enhanced, tablet-optimized typing application includes features such as ability to re-size the keyboard, move the virtual keyboard anywhere on the screen and of course, type faster by swyping. 		Mobile Printing: 		Print documents and pictures wirelessly from the Galaxy Tab 10.1 to any compatible printer. 		Galaxy Tab 10.1 WiFi Software Update Assistance: 		In order to receive the update, users need to set up a Samsung account on their Galaxy Tab 10.1 by logging onto the following URL: 		http://ars.samsung.com/customer/usa/jsp/faqs/faqs_view_us1.jsp?PAGE_GBN=faqs_search&SITE_ID=1&PG_ID=0&AT_ID=377966&PROD_SUB_ID=0&PROD_ID=2103 		Once registered, customers will be notified when the update is available for their device and will be prompted to follow simple directions to complete the process. 		For help with receiving and adding the latest software updates to Samsung mobile devices, users should check out the step-by-step instructions at http://ars.samsung.com/customer/usa/jsp/faqs/faqs_view_us.jsp?SITE_ID=22&PG_ID=2&PROD_SUB_ID=2076&PROD_ID=0&AT_ID=375497 or visit Samsung Support at http://www.samsung.com/us/support/ 		1 Number one mobile phone provider in the U.S. claim for Samsung Mobile based upon reported shipment data, according to Strategy Analytics, Q1 2011 U.S. Market Share Handset Shipments Reports.
 