
 
We might still have debates over whether the SCH-W880 represents a cameraphone or our newly minted category of phonecamera, but there's no doubt about this: the Samsung AMOLED 12M is now official and coming to (at least) Korea in October. The specs align closely to yesterday's info, with a 3x optical zoom, 720p video recording, dedicated camera controls, and a 800 x 480 3.3-inch AMOLED display grabbing the headlines. Touch AF makes use of the touchscreen to let you choose focus areas, while image stabilization and Smart Auto modes fill out the software side of the camera. That leaves us with scant little info on the actual phone, but you could probably fill those specs in yourself by now, right? 

[Via Samsung Hub]




Show full PR text
The World's First 12-megapixel Camera Phone with an Optical Zoom Is Launched in Korea

Following the launch of Pixon12, the first 12 megapixel camera phone in June, Samsung astonishes the world with the 12 megapixel camera phone featuring Optical Zoom.


Seoul, Korea, September 29th, 2009 – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a leading mobile phone provider, today announced the launch of the 'Samsung AMOLED 12M' (Model Name: SCH-W880), the world's first 12-megapixel camera phone with an optical zoom up to 3 times. The phone is going to be sold in Korean market from early October.

The 'Samsung AMOLED 12M' is incorporated with the latest camera technology and display technology – the world's first 12-megapixel camera with an optical zoom and the world's most advanced WVGA (800 x 480) AMOLED full touch screen.

As a response to one of the most demanding mobile consumers in Korea, the 'Samsung AMOLED 12M' comes packed with a host of functions which enable consumers to easily capture, browse and share their images on the move – all on a brilliant full-touch 3.3-inch WVGA AMOLED screen.

"Samsung has led the camera phone market introducing the very many first of its kind camera phone – the first 5-megapixel (SCH-V7800, June 2005), the first 7-megapixel with an optical zoom(SCH-V770, July 2005), the first 10-megapxel (SCH-B600, October 2006), and recently, the first 12-megapixel camera phone for global market(Samsung Pixon12, June 2009). The Samsung AMOLED 12M is a living proof of our continuous commitment to introduce the most up-to-date technology to enrich users' mobile experience." said Executive Vice President JK Shin, Head of Mobile Communication Division in Samsung Electronics.

The Samsung AMOLED 12M enables users to take perfect pictures quickly and easily, thanks to the Dedicated Camera Power Key which also provides a real digital camera-alike look and grip feeling. Samsung AMOLED 12M features fast image saving for next shot, so users can move to next shot within around 2 seconds. The phone also provides high quality video recording (1280 x 720) which offers 30 frames per second.

The phone provides the best photo quality by adopting innovative camera features. With Touch Auto-Focus (AF) tracking, users can simply select focus point with the touch of a finger, after which the AF function will automatically follow the object, keeping it in focus even as it moves across the screen. Moreover, Smart Auto feature allows users to capture the perfect images as the camera automatically changes the scene and mode based on its object, background and lighting. Images taken on the Samsung AMOLED 12M are worth showing off to friends and loved ones as they boast digital camera quality thanks to the phone camera's superb lens and Xenon flash.

