
 
While Samsung has yet to announce an actual date for its new Galaxy Players in the US, their international counterparts are already heading towards other parts of the world for a head start. The Galaxy S WiFi 4.0 is said to be debuting in Russia followed by other countries, whereas its 5.0 sibling will be launched in Switzerland. In terms of specs, not much has changed since we last saw these 1GHz, DivX-friendly Android PMPs, and yes, they'll still be shipped with Froyo "with a possibility to upgrade to 2.3 Gingerbread." As always, we'll let you folks know when we eventually find out about the US launch (if ever), though to be frank, we'd rather just go for the beefier Galaxy S II instead.
      

 

Show full PR textSamsung Launches GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0:Smart Mobile Entertainment- Two different sizes combine greater entertainment opportunities with smartphone-like innovation and app experiencesSEOUL--(Korea Newswire) May 2, 2011 -- Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a leading provider of Smart Mobile Devices, today launched GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and a fresh addition to its smart player portfolio, the GALAXY S WiFi 5.0.Each featuring 4" and 5" screen-sizes and delivering the powerful application experiences as the original GALAXY S, the two versions give users an unrivalled entertainment experience through a clear display, a swift 1GHz processor and the Android™ 2.2 "Froyo" platform. The GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 will be first available in Russia and will be gradually rolled out in other countries. The GALAXY S WiFi 5.0 will be first available in Switzerland."With the GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 we're delivering a rich, immersive experience for multimedia enthusiasts." said JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications Business. "A large, high-quality screen, a world of fun and useful applications and great communications services make this a powerhouse device at an affordable price.The GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 will deliver all the rich smartphone experiences of the GALAXY S smartphone. With video communications via VoIP services and rich video and music entertainment with multi-codec support, the Samsung GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 will keep you constantly entertained.Stunning Performance, Powerful FeaturesKey Features of the GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 include:- Display: The clear display makes web surfing and multimedia viewing a joy. Keep your lifestyle mobile - enjoy movies, your favourite TV shows, photos and web-browsing anywhere. Samsung's latest mDNIe image engine technology ensures that video and images look stunning.- Android™ 2.2 "Froyo": The GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 feature the Froyo operating system, with a possibility to upgrade to 2.3 Gingerbread.- Application Customization: With access to over 150,000 apps available on Android Market™, the Samsung GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 are fully customizable smart devices. Integrated GPS support further expands the capabilities of the device, letting you benefit from Google's map services and directory applications.- Google Mobile Services: Enjoy premium Google™ services such as Gmail™, Google Talk™ and YouTube™. Utilize voice recognition technology to search with Google faster than ever on the Internet. Stay plugged into the world with premier Google applications.- Samsung Social Hub: Your entire social life in your hand. Simultaneously post messages and pictures on Flickr, Facebook, and Twitter using Samsung's Social Hub. The integrated address book provides the ultimate command & control station for the most popular SNS services. Synchronize your personal calendar with friends, family, and the latest events.- VoIP Voice & Video Calls: The GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 utilize cost-effective video and voice communications services. The Qik application allows video chat which can be shared over social network services.- HD Video & Images: A camera lets you shoot and share your life, capturing high-quality video or still images. The Samsung GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 support DivX HD, allowing high-definition video playback; Support for various codec standards including MPEG4, H264, DivX, XviD, WMV codecs ensures you can enjoy huge catalogues of content from all over the web.- Audio excellence: The Samsung GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 "Smart Player" put entertainment at its core, designed to deliver the best possible audio and video experience. Samsung SoundAlive™ technology provides unrivalled sound quality, with deeper bass and greater tone articulation.- Enhanced Memory Capability: Packed with generous 8/16 GB memory, plus mircoSD slot and powered by a powerful 1GHz for an industry leading performance, the GALAXY S WiFi 4.0 and 5.0 are equipped to handle any user demand.
 