
  After that March 10th mishap, Samsung reaffirmed to us that it'd deliver Android 4.0 for its GT-I9100 Galaxy S II when it was darn good and ready -- well folks, the company appears ready. It's just announced both via Facebook and Twitter that the Ice Cream Sandwich upgrade that so many have lusted after is now available and will begin its rollout to users in Poland, Hungary, Sweden and Korea today, and will move onto other markets from there -- subject to carrier requirements, of course. Better yet, Samsung has affirmed that its Android 4.0 update for the Galaxy Note, Galaxy S II LTE, Galaxy Tab 8.9 and 10.1 will follow shortly. So, if you're one of the lucky ones to receive the upgrade, let us know how it fares for you in the comments below. Otherwise, feel free to keep clicking that update button.Update: Pocket-lint reports that the UK can expect the update to arrive on March 19th. Don't forget your Kies.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Samsung Offers Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich Upgrade for GALAXY S II  SEOUL, Korea – March 13, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., the global leader in Android™ smartphones, today announced the availability of Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) software upgrade for GALAXY S II. The upgrade will begin in the European countries including Poland, Hungary, and Sweden, as well as Korea today and gradually roll out to other markets. Android 4.0 ICS software upgrade for GALAXY Note, GALAXY SII LTE, GALAXY R, GALAXY Tab 7.0 Plus, 7.7, 8.9 and 10.1 will follow soon.  Samsung Electronics has completed upgrading the GALAXY devices to Gingerbread last year by providing software upgrades to both Froyo and Gingerbread. With the ICS upgrade, Samsung Electronics has solidified its position as the leader of Android devices.  Samsung Electronics will also offer Android 2.3 Gingerbread firmware upgrades for GALAXY S, GALAXY Tab 7", GALAXY S Plus, GALAXY S SCL(Super Clear LCD), and GALAXY W from end of March. The firmware upgrades for GALAXY S, for example, include Face Unlock, Snapshot, Photo Editor and others.  "We expect that our customers will enjoy an enhanced experience with their GALAXY device through this upgrade. Samsung is committed to satisfying our customer needs", said JK Shin, President of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung Electronics.  The availability and scheduling of the software upgrade and specific models upgradable to Android 4.0 will vary by market and wireless carriers' requirements.
 