
 
Samsung, taking it easy at CES? Not a chance. Hot on the heels of a smorgasbord of new HD gear comes a five-pack of new cameras. Three of 'em are situated in the company's growing DualView line, which places a display on the front that makes self-portraits entirely easier to snap. The ST700 point-and-shoot includes a 16.1 megapixel sensor, 5x optical zoom, dual image stabilization, a 3-inch touchscreen on the rear, a 1.8-inch screen on the front, 720p movie mode, an ISO range that tops out at 3200 and a $279.99 retail price. The PL170 ($199.99) is also equipped with a 16.1 megapixel sensor and a 5x optical zoom, but the screen on the front is stepped down to 1.5-inches and the feature set is scaled back. The PL120 is the lowest-end of the new DualViews, with a downsized 2.7-inch rear LCD and a $149.99 price point.

In related news, the WB210 (shown above) and PL210 are also debuting today, with the former touting a 12x zoom lens, a 22.4mm thick body and a 14 megapixel sensor. The PL210 goes with a 10x optical zoom, 27mm wide-angle lens, a 3-inch rear LCD and a 14 megapixel sensor. These are slated to go on sale next month for $279.99 and $199.99 in order of mention, and the full releases are waiting for your eyes just after the break.





Show full PR textSamsung Launches the WB210 and PL210: Easy To Use, Slim and Sleek Cameras with Best-in-Class High Zoom TechnologyTake great pictures easily, anywhere, anytime with Samsung's new WB and PL series compact camerasCES, Las Vegas – January 5, 2011 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, has today announced the launch of the WB210 and PL210 – two high zoom, wide angle cameras which boast intuitive features that make it easier than ever to take great pictures on the go. Both cameras have been designed to deliver clear and detailed pictures, all packed into a sleek and super-portable body.The WB210 boasts a long 12x optical super zoom lens set in a slim-line 22.4mm body, to make capturing distant subjects in perfect detail easier than ever. The new camera also includes the option of a 21mm wide angle setting, through its super wide shot mode, to get deeper shots at close range – perfect for capturing landscape scenes or big groups of friends when on the move. The WB210 also includes 14 Megapixel photo quality, for crystal clear pictures, and a large 3.5" touch screen with Samsung's new Smart Access UI system to deliver unprecedented usability. The camera also delivers HD quality movie recording, as well as face detection to ensure you never miss your family and friends in your pictures. If you're looking for simplicity and great shots, the PL210 offers a comprehensive set of features to help capture better images, with ease. It features a 10x optical zoom with 27mm wide angle lens in a body measuring just 19.7mm to ensure portability, and a large 3.0 LCD screen for an enjoyable photographic experience every time. The PL210 also provides high image quality with its 14 Megapixel sensor and HD movie capabilities."At Samsung our continuing goal is to offer our customers the industry's best quality and value, using our innovations to create an easy and enjoyable photography experience for everyone," said Mr. Hyunho Chung, Executive Vice President and Head of the Digital Imaging Business, Samsung Electronics. "These new additions to our compact camera range – the WB210 and PL210 – are at the heart of this goal, by giving people easy-to-use devices that can take high quality pictures and movies at an affordable price. Thanks to our ongoing commitment and investment in optical and digital technology, we are able to pack strong features into small and compact cameras. And thanks to our expertise in other areas such as mobile phones, we can deliver unique innovations like the intuitive new Smart Access UI system, which delivers ultimate ease of use and ensures you can get the most out of your camera every time."Super Long ZoomsThe WB210 and PL210 both incorporate powerful long zooms, for detailed pictures on the go. The WB210 features a 12x optical zoom, while the PL210 includes a 10x optical zoom. Additionally, the WB210's optional 21mm wide angle lens, when set to super wide shot mode, provides users with the opportunity to capture great panoramic or distance shots. The cameras are also portable enough for easy travel. Enjoy Smart FeaturesBoth cameras feature Smart Filter 2.0 – the next generation in Samsung's special effect filter technology. Smart Fliter 2.0 gives users the opportunity to change the mood of their still images and movies with new modes including; Soft Focus for smoother looking images, Half Tone Dot effect for a unique dot patterned image, Old Movie for a retro style shot and an Enhanced Movie Filter to capture the unique feeling of a special day within your films.To enhance the intuitive nature of the camera, the WB210 includes the innovative Smart-Access user interface, delivering easy access and control and the emotional satisfaction to smart-phone friendly users. The UI function also allows users to drag, click and control 'app-style' icons, easily flip through photos, and control camera's features including aperture and shutter speed.Show full PR textSamsung Takes DualView to the Next LevelNew ST700, PL170 and PL120 models bring the latest dual screen innovations to all camera users so you can place yourself in the perfect momentCES, Las Vegas – January 5, 2011 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, announced today the launch of three new DualView compact cameras, reinforcing the company's ownership of this area of the market and taking dual screen technology to the next level. The new ST700, PL170 and PL120 offer a unique combination of high image quality, fun and engaging special features, and complete usability, which together with Samsung's innovative dual screen technology adds up to a premium compact camera package for easy to capture self portraits. The ST700 represents the ultimate in dual screen innovation from Samsung. The new camera boasts a 1.8" front LCD screen, the largest ever incorporated into this style of camera, giving even more opportunities for portrait self-shooting, which has become the hallmark of the DualView camera. The impressive front screen is complemented by a new 3.0" touch screen with Smart Access UI on the back of the camera for seamless usability and clear, crisp image display. The ST700 doesn't lose out on quality either. With a 16.1 Megapixel (MP) image sensor and a 26mm 5x optical zoom lens for innovative image capturing, the ST700 is the most advanced DualView camera to date, allowing you to be part of the perfect moment. The PL170 and PL120 will bring the added value of dual screen technology to all camera users, letting every photographer get out from behind the lens and start self-shooting in style. In addition to the bright 1.5" front screens that allow you to perfectly frame your portrait, these two models also incorporate the Easy Self Shot feature from the ST700, which allows you to turn on only the front screen for added privacy. Samsung first brought the DualView technology innovation to the market towards the end of 2009. Since then, additional models have strengthened Samsung's presence in this field, while also rapidly expanding the company's market share within compact cameras as a whole. "We are very proud that our DualView technology has struck such a chord with our customers and we are determined to make sure that we continue to innovate with this unique technology," said Mr. Hyunho Chung, Executive Vice President and Head of the Digital Imaging Business, Samsung Electronics. "Last year we introduced dual screen technology on many more of our products such as the ST600 and ST100. In 2011, we will do the same, while also showcasing our innovation with the unprecedented ST700, simply the best dual screen camera we have ever made. We look forward to these products improving our customers' lives in the same way that they have helped us to grow our market share over the past two years, and we will continue to innovate to make sure we have complete ownership of this area of the market." Picture Perfect PortraitsDualView cameras were designed with self-portrait photography in mind, and the new models take this to the next level to ensure you can place yourself in the perfect moment. In addition to the innovative new Easy Self Shot feature, the ST700 also includes a new Children mode that allows you to create your own animations to keep kids happy and engaged when you want to capture those special family memories. All three models use 26mm lenses for a wider and deeper perspective that is ideal for portraits. The ST700 and PL170 have 16.1MP sensors for some of the sharpest images available, with the PL120 at 14.2MP. Seamlessly Simple to useFor the new ST700 model, Samsung has also used its strength in the Smartphone market to develop a new Smart Access user interface (UI). The touch-based UI works in the same quick, intuitive way as many Smartphones, meaning that everyone will find the ST700 quick and easy to operate, and that even advanced functions can be simply done using a few touches of the buttons on the large, clear 3.0" wide touch LCD screen. The Smart Access UI enables users to drag, click and control 'app-style' icons, easily flip through photos, and control a range of the camera's features.Fun for all the FamilyThe three new models also take on a sense of fun, which is a big part of the DualView photography experience - putting artistic, professional pictures within reach of even novice users. All three models come equipped with a HD Movie recording feature, so you have the control to capture great videos alongside your still images. The Smart 2.0 filters, such as 'soft focus', 'half-tone dot' and 'cinema' sit alongside more common features such as 'fish-eye', 'miniature' and 'sketch' in the three new models, giving entertaining and professional finishes at the touch of a button. You can also deploy the newly added Magic Frame feature to instantly create formatted postcards or posters to share with your friends and family. By simply pre-selecting the template available on the camera and then taking your picture, the photo will automatically appear on selected template for original photo display. In addition, the ST700 and PL170 feature an HDMI output feature which provides seamless connectivity to your TV, and also come in four great stylish colors. Making a poster or a fun post card of you with friends has never been easier with the Magic frame capability. Smarter than EverAll three new models also include Samsung's Smart Auto feature, which works for both still and video images. The system analyzes key elements of your shot like brightness, color and motion and automatically adjusts the camera's settings to get the perfect shot. Smart Auto includes 16 different modes for images and four for video. Users also have the option of controlling advanced features by selecting manual control.
 