

In addition to the Galaxy Tab 3 with a 7-inch display we've known about for a while, Samsung's announced the slate will come in 8- and 10.1-inch varieties, too -- something rumors and FCC filings have long suggested. The 8-inch model has a TFT display sporting a 1,280 x 800 (WXGA) resolution (189 ppi), a 5-megapixel rear camera and 1.3-megapixel front-facing shooter. It's got vaguely respectable internals: a 1.5GHz dual-core processor (no word on the manufacturer), 1.5GB of RAM and 16 or 32GB storage configurations. A microSD slot is present, supporting up to 64GB cards, and a 4,450mAh battery provides the necessary juice. Android 4.2 is OS of choice -- no surprise there -- and when it arrives, you'll have the choice of WiFi-only (dual-band, a/b/g/n), 3G (HSPA+) and LTE variants.


The 10.1-inch version stretches that same WXGA resolution across its display (149 ppi), and carries a smaller 3-megapixel rear camera and the same 1.3-megapixel front-facer. According to Reuters, the 1.6GHz dual-core CPU in this larger slate is provided by Intel, confirming a previous rumor. Unfortunately, it's saddled with only one gig of RAM, and the storage options are the same as the 8-inch model, with a microSD slot also supporting up to 64GB cards. Also running Android 4.2, the 10.1-inch Tab 3 packs a 6,800mAh battery, and comes in WiFi-only, 3G and LTE variants. Both tablets will be available worldwide at the "beginning of June."


Update: The Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 will be the first Android device from Intel to pack its new LTE chip.






Show full PR textSamsung Introduces New GALAXY Tab 3 Series
June 3, 2013

Next-generation GALAXY tablets integrate intuitive new featuresand enhanced performance for all
SEOUL, Korea, June 03, 2013 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the introduction of the GALAXY Tab 3 8-inch and 10.1-inch which will be available globally beginning of June. Offering an expanded range of options along with previously announced 7-inch version, the GALAXY Tab 3 Series provides customers various ways to view, listen, create, and share meaningful events and special content with those who matter most. Whether surfing the web at home or reading during the commute, each device is packed with enhanced content and intuitive design perfect for viewing or sharing content with friends and family, and capturing all of life's spontaneous moments.

Samsung GALAXY Tab 3 8-inch
• Exceptional Reading and Entertainment Experience: Designed to be held in one hand, the new GALAXY Tab 3 8-inch is the optimal device for viewing videos, playing enhanced games, and reading e-Books anytime, anywhere. Outstanding slim bezel for effective and maximum screen use makes Samsung's "reading mode" technology which optimizes the display to deliver perfect illumination and tone for comfortable paperlike readability in a variety of lighting conditions work better on its 8-inch screen. Samsung's Sound Alive for Audio and Dolby Surround for Video Play maximize every sound allow users to enjoy clearer dialogue, consistent volume levels, and superior audio to further enhance the overall multimedia experience with the new device. Also, the physical keys on the bezel at bottom give users a comfortable smartphone-like experience in navigating.

• Enhanced Smart Usability: Making travel and discovery more effortless, the GALAXY Tab 3 8-inch features S Translator, which provides instant translation through voice recognition and via text on applications including email, text message, and ChatON. This instant translation is possible both from speech-to-text and text-to-speech, ensuring that you can communicate with ease while traveling internationally. Also, S Travel, the Smart Travel Companion, provides real-time local information in need for travel along with user's travel paths. Users can get information and make reservation of the places classified in various categories such as Place, Hotel, Tickets, Food and Forum, and more. In addition, intuitive features such as Story Album and Group Play also allow users more ways to instantly share and enjoy music, photos, documents, and games with those around them.

Samsung GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch
• Amplified Multimedia Experience: Built to be the leading 10-inch tablet in the market, the GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch seamlessly combines sleek design and enhanced multimedia capabilities for home and family use. Stacked with a 1.6 GHz Dual Core processor, the GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch is the ideal device for everyday family use and multimedia consumption. Featuring a comprehensive suite of video, music, and photo software, and coupled with the clarity of its display, the GALAXY Tab 3 10.1 takes center stage for portable home entertainment.

• A Perfect Tablet for the Entire Family: Equipped with Smart Remote and MHL (TV Out) capabilities, the GALAXY Tab 3 10.1 seamlessly transitions from the perfect gaming device for kids to the ideal home media control device for the parents. Whether streaming movies to the family television or playing games at the highest resolution, the GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch smoothly integrates into the household media environment for an experience that can be enjoyed by the whole family.

Intel is Inside the New Samsung GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-Inch
Intel® AtomTM Processor Z2560 and Intel XMM 7160 LTE Solution to Ship Globally in New Tablet
NEWS HIGHLIGHTS
• New Samsung GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch, equipped with Intel's 3G and 4G LTE solutions, and powered by the Intel® Atom™ SoC ("Clover Trail+") platform for Android* tablets.• Intel® Atom™ processor Z2560 provides outstanding performance, battery life and overall experience for Android tablet users.• Intel® XMM 7160 is one of the world's smallest and lowest-power multimode-multiband solutions for global LTE roaming in one SKU with envelope tracking and antenna tuning.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Signaling the company's continued momentum in the tablet market segment, Intel Corporation today announced that the new Samsung GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch is powered by the Intel® Atom™ Z2560 processor ("Clover Trail+"). Additionally, the new Samsung GALAXY Tab 3 10.1-inch tablet will come equipped with Intel's XMM 6262 3G modem solution or Intel's XMM 7160 4G LTE solution.
"It's ultimately about the consumer experience, and we are confident people will be pleased with what Intel Inside® has to offer."
"Customers are selecting Intel technology because it offers the best balance of high performance, power efficiency and battery life," said Hermann Eul, Intel vice president and general manager of the company's Mobile and Communications Group. "It's ultimately about the consumer experience, and we are confident people will be pleased with what Intel Inside® has to offer."
Intel in Android-based Tablets
People expect more from their tablets, and the dual-core Intel Atom SoC ("Clover Trail+") platform for Android* tablets provides double the compute performance and 3x graphics capabilities with competitive battery life compared to the previous-generation Intel Atom processors platform.
Intel Atom processors are designed and optimized for a lightning-fast applications experience, responsive Web browsing, stunning 3-D graphics, advanced camera capabilities and vivid HD video with energy efficiency for outstanding battery life.
The integrated Intel® Graphics Media Accelerator provides compelling and realistic 3-D gaming experiences, 1080p HD video and crystal-clear graphics. Advanced camera features including face recognition, mobile HDR and panorama help users create like never before. Additionally, Clover Trail+ offers dual-core performance along with Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology, supporting four simultaneous application threads for smoother, seamless multitasking.Long-Term Evolution (4G LTE)
Intel's strategy is to deliver leading low-power, global modem solutions that work across multiple bands, regions and devices.
Intel's XMM 7160 is one of the world's smallest and lowest-power multimode-multiband LTE solutions. The modem supports 15 LTE bands simultaneously and also includes a highly configurable RF architecture, running real-time algorithms for envelope tracking and antenna tuning, that enables cost-efficient multiband configurations, extended battery life and global LTE roaming in a single SKU. It supports multiple devices including smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™.
Intel will begin shipments of multimode data 4G LTE in the coming weeks following final interoperability testing (IOT) with Tier 1 service providers in North America, Europe and Asia.

