
 

Samsung just took the wraps off its Omnia W, which looks like a non-US variant of the Focus Flash we've already heard about via AT&T. The handset will debut in Italy and start spreading across the Old World and Latin America from next month. It'll sport Windows Phone 7.5 out of the box, a 3.7-inch 800x480 Super AMOLED display, 1.4GHz processor, VGA webcam on the front and rear 5MP shooter with 720p video recording. We expect it'll go head-to-head with HTC's 3.8-inch Radar when the War of the Mangoes finally kicks off.

[Thanks to everyone who sent this in]





 		Show full PR text  Samsung delivers a unique smartphone experience with Omnia W, a unique phone that puts people first 		First Samsung device utilizing the latest release of Windows Phone offers power, social connectivity and stunning visual experience with vivid SuperAMOLED display 		SEOUL, Korea – September 26, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a leading mobile phone provider, today announced the launch of the Samsung Omnia W, its first Smartphone based on the latest release of Microsoft's Windows Phone, code-named Mango. Featuring an elegant design, a vivid SuperAMOLED display as well as an enriched content and social communication experience enabled by People Hub, the Omnia W is a different kind of phone that puts people at the center of everything. 		"We are excited about the potential for Windows Phone and the possibilities it opens for Samsung customers. Mobile consumers increasingly expect to be socially networked through their phones anytime, anywhere, and instantly. They are looking for high-performance devices that are easy and intuitive to use, look great, and enable them to create and share rich multimedia content with ease. The Samsung Omnia W delivers on every count," said JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications business. 		Stunning Performance in Vivid Clarity with SuperAMOLED Display 		The eye-catching Omnia W sports a minimalist contemporary design featuring a metallic finish. A rich 3.7" SuperAMOLED display provides stunning visuals ensuring that photos and videos captured with the device's 5MP camera can be enjoyed with vivid clarity. 		A powerful 1.4GHz processor delivers seamless performance, allowing a fast and hassle-free user experience. This is further enhanced by the device's integrated 14.4Mbps HSPA+ connectivity, enabling high-speed data browsing and ensuring that videos and pictures can be instantly shared with friends and family hassle-free. 		Enhanced Windows Phone Usability 		Windows Phone has been developed to provide an easy, intelligent and socially connected smartphone experience. Users can easily connect and share experiences with their friends using a variety of communication mediums, while a superior Web browsing experience is further enhanced with the integration Internet Explorer9 and Bing. 		Mango's unique and intuitive user interface lays out applications in mosaic 'Live Tiles' which flow and move on the screen in response to the users touch. The interface provides the benefits of a user environment usually associated with a larger display within the portability of a smartphone screen, delivering a flexible and intuitive experience. 		The six specialized Microsoft applications provide an engaging content and communication experience. The Windows Phone People Hub is integrated with social networking services built-in Windows Live, Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, ensuring that users always stay in touch with their social community. 		Office Hub provides enhanced productivity on-the-go and includes access to Windows Live Sky Drive, which provides 25GB of free storage and allows documents and media files to be easily stored and accessed anywhere. Users can also create and edit documents through mobile versions of Microsoft Office Excel, Word and PowerPoint, as well as utilize One Note, a note-taking platform allowing the easy sharing and storage of voice memos, images and text-based notes. 		Seamless access to entertainment is afforded by the integration of a Picture Hub, Music & Video Hub – powered by Microsoft Zune – and Game Hub, which provides the latest in social gaming experiences through Xbox live, meaning that friends can chat with each other while gaming. Windows Phone Marketplace provides access to over 30,000 apps to meet customer needs across entertainment or productivity. 		The Exclusive Samsung Experience 		The overall Windows Phone experience is significantly enhanced with the inclusion of a set of Samsung-exclusive productivity apps. This includes Samsung AllShare, which provides seamless content transfer between the smartphone and other DLNA-enabled devices such as HDTV's, monitors and digital cameras. Video Call is an easy-to-use app which allows ultra-fast vivid 3G video conversations with friends and family. Additionally, Mini Diary enables users to capture their experiences in multimedia formats and create their very own personalized digital journal while on the go. Meanwhile, an upgraded Samsung eBook client is available from Samsung Zone. 		Users can stay up-to-date with the latest news and events through the Now 2.0 app, which provides up-to-the minute current affairs, stock market and weather information on the go. RSS Time allows RSS feeds for newspapers, magazines and blogs to be downloaded onto the device and read in an easily digestible format, while eye-catching articles can instantly be shared via email or Facebook. 		The device features enhanced social network integration, with Twitter and LinkedIn weaved throughout the Omnia W in addition to Facebook. This means that photos and videos can be instantly shared across a variety of social networking sites hassle-free. 		The Omnia W will be commercially available starting in Italy from end-October and gradually rolled to globally including Europe, CIS, Latin America, Africa, South East and South West Asia. 		For multimedia content and more detailed information, please visit www.samsungmobilepress.com/.
 