
 
 The mammoth 75-inch ES9000 LED smart TV that Samsung recently unveiled for the Korean market is making its way stateside. Today the 3D-capable, LED-backlit set was on display in New York as part of the Sammy-sponsored SpaceFest marking the Space Shuttle Enterprise's arrival at the Intrepid. How smart TVs relate to Space Shuttle orbiters is beyond us, but the ES9000's US debut is welcome news for those with a massive living room to fill, and were disappointed after the ES8000 75-incher shown at CES and even given a price tag earlier this year failed to materialize.

 Detailed specs are currently MIA, but as we noted before in our hands-on, the 75-incher's bezel measures just 0.31 inches, and the frame sports a rose-gold finish. There's also a built-in web camera that retracts when not in use, and the TV comes with four pairs of 3D glasses. Being a smart TV, this guy also includes the full suite of Smart TV features, such as Smart Interaction for enabling gesture and voice controls and Smart Content for sharing media across several devices. Samsung also used today's occasion to introduce a new Angry Birds app for its smart TVs, which lets users play the game entirely with gesture controls. The app will be available for a free download later this month, and the ES9000 will go on sale in August for a super-sized price of $9.999. Check out the PR below for more info.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Unveils Amazing New 75-Inch Flagship TV and Gesture Controlled Angry Birds Smart TV App; Celebrates Innovation alongside Space Shuttle Enterprise at Samsung SpaceFest
   Five-Day Samsung SpaceFest Festival at the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum in NYC kicks off today with exhibits, displays, demonstrations and more

   NEW YORK, July 18, 2012-Samsung Electronics America, a leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today showcases several new groundbreaking innovations as part of Samsung SpaceFest, a five-day celebration of the arrival of the Space Shuttle Enterprise at the famous Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum.

   The new 75-inch ES9000 LED Smart 3D TV will deliver a larger-than-life, extra-premium experience along with a timeless new design concept incorporating a beautiful rose-gold-colored finish and super-slim 0.31 inches curved bezel with no visible seams.

   In addition, Samsung today reveals a brand new Angry Birds App for Samsung's Smart Interaction-enabled TVs. For the first time ever, consumers will be able to enjoy Angry Birds entirely with gesture controls – no controller needed. Angry Birds will be available via free download later this month on Samsung 2012 LED 7500 and up models and Plasma 8000 models. In addition, a dedicated app for Angry Birds animated content will be available later this year.

   "We couldn't imagine a better way to unveil our new flagship TV and a literally game-changing new app, then here at the Intrepid alongside the Space Shuttle Enterprise," said Joseph Stinziano, Senior Vice President of Home Entertainment, Samsung Electronics America. "The Intrepid and Space Shuttle are each iconic symbols of innovation and discovery and Samsung also is driven to push boundaries and deliver a sense of wonder and delight."

 
  ES9000 – A Larger than Life Experience
   Today's launch of the best-in-class ES9000 meets the rising market demand for extra-large screen TVs. The TV's built-in camera, usable for video calling applications such as Skype, is hidden within the top of the bezel, rendering it invisible and disabled when not in use; when in use, the built-in camera pops up. The ES9000 also comes with four pairs of 3D glasses, ensuring the whole family can enjoy an immersive experience.

   The ES9000 includes the complete suite of Samsung Smart TV features-Smart Interaction, Smart Content and Smart Evolution-that were introduced earlier this year. Smart Interaction enables users to control and interact with their TVs in a more intuitive way through voice, gesture and face recognition controls. Smart Content makes available a broad range of premium and signature content that can be shared across multiple devices. Smart Evolution, available on select Samsung Smart TVs, allows users to upgrade TV performance, content and features with a Smart Evolution Kit – sold separately beginning in 2013.

   The ES9000 also includes Sound Share, the newest innovative Smart TV feature, which automatically and wirelessly connects TV audio to Samsung's Series 6 and Series 7 Wireless Audio with Dock Systems via Bluetooth. The ES9000 also offers a fast and seamless Smart TV experience with a dual-core processor that allows consumers to download and use multiple apps or browse the Web more quickly.

   The ES9000's picture quality provides an enhanced Smart TV experience, utilizing Samsung's Micro Dimming Ultimate and Precision Black Local Dimming technology to deliver richer, more optimized color and detail; the highest contrast ratio on a Samsung Smart TV to date; and the best picture quality available on a Samsung LED TV.

 
 
