
 After Samsung released its Series 5 Chromebook, lots of you said you'd buy it -- if Sammy slashed the asking price in half. Well, we're not there yet, but the company did just unveil another WiFi-only version, this time with a more palatable MSRP of $349 and a slightly tweaked version of Chrome OS to match. (It has a black lid, too, in case that snow white number was too precious for you.) To recap, it has a bright, matte 12.1-inch (1280 x 800) display, a dual-core Intel Atom CPU, two USB 2.0 ports and a memory card slot. And design-wise, at least, it's a step up from most netbooks, with a comfortable keyboard and surprisingly solid 0.8-inch-thick chassis. In any case, if you were planning on picking one up for the Chrome OS lover in your life (or, you know, the low-tech person who only ever uses a web browser anyway), it's on sale now at the likes of Best Buy, Amazon, NewEgg and Tigerdirect.

Update: Not to be outdone, Acer just sent out a press release announcing it's cut the price of its AC700 Chromebook. It'll now cost $299 for the WiFi-only version (down from $349) and $399 for the Verizon Wireless 3G model (it had been $449).
      

 

 		Show full PR text   SAMSUNG SPREADS HOLIDAY CHEER THIS YEAR WITH THE INTRODUCTION OF A NEW SERIES 5 CHROMEBOOK 			Test Drive a Series 5 Chromebook at the Samsung Experience at Columbus Circle and Discover a Hassle-Free Web Lifestyle  What:			Just in time for holiday giving, Samsung is introducing a Piano Black version of its WiFi-only Series 5 Chromebook. At a price of $349, the updated Series 5 is even more giftable than the original. 			Chromebook, based on Google's Chrome operating system, is designed to provide people a faster, simpler and more secure computing experience. Due to automatic software updates, Google has continued to release new features and improvements on an ongoing basis. These new features coupled with the Samsung design aesthetic creates a technology device that gets better over time, offering the best possible web experience in one device for the internet-enthusiasts in all our lives. 			Fans in the New York City-area can test drive the Series 5 Chromebook at the Samsung Experience at Columbus Circle and even borrow one for up to seven days to get a feel for the device.  Where:			The new Series 5 Chromebook is available now at BestBuy.com, Amazon.com, Tigerdirect.com and NewEgg.com. For a full list of availability call 1-800-SAMSUNG or visit www.samsung.com.  MSRP:			$349 - Wifi only  Key Specs:			- 0.79-inch thin case designed for comfort and mobility			- Full-size Chrome keyboard			- Oversized multi-touch trackpad			- Intel® Dual-core Processor			- 16:10 resolution			- 2.1-inch SuperBright Display – 36% brighter than standard display			- Starts up in less than 10-seconds			- Resumes instantly from standby			- Up to 6 hours battery life*			- Webcam, built-in digital microphone and stereo speakers			- Two USB ports capable of charging mobile phones and accessories, connecting digital cameras and media storage devices			- Support for removable media cards (SD, SDHC, MMC) for photos, videos, music and documents 
 