
 
Another in AT&T's parade of June 6 launches, the Rugby II follows up -- yes, you guessed it -- the original Rugby, a rugged clamshell from Sammy that's been in the carrier's lineup for well over a year now. It's got push-to-talk compatibility, 7.2Mbps HSDPA, a 2 megapixel camera, Video Share support, voice processing tech from Audience (the same company that handled the Nexus One's noise reduction circuitry), Bluetooth, and microSD expansion -- standard fare to be sure, but probably just right for the outdoorsy-type workers that'll undoubtedly be carrying it. It'll be available the first Sunday in June for $129.99 after $50 mail-in rebate. Follow the break for Samsung's press release.





Show full PR textAT&T AND SAMSUNG MOBILE ANNOUNCE UPCOMING AVAILABILTY OF THE SAMSUNG RUGBY® IIMay 25, 2010Next generation rugged phone runs on AT&T's Push to Talk networkDALLAS, May 18, 2010 - AT&T*and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S.**, today announced the upcoming availability of the Samsung Rugby® II, the next generation Push to Talk device with a durable, military-grade design that can stand up to the harshest of elements. Available exclusively for AT&T customers, the Rugby II will be compatible with AT&T's High Speed Packet Access (HSPA) 7.2 Mbps technology, which provides a considerable speed boost to the nation's fastest 3G network when paired with expanded backhaul.The Rugby II, available in a grey, rugged clamshell design, features improved noise suppression and an external speaker making it easier to communicate regardless of the environment. In addition, the Rugby II is also certified to military standard MIL-STD-810G to withstand dust, shock, vibration, rain, humidity, solar radiation, altitude and temperature extremes, ideal for use even in the toughest of environments."The Samsung Rugby II offers our customers a sturdy phone that can withstand some of the roughest environments," said Michael Woodward, vice president, Mobile Phone Portfolio, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. . "This is a no-nonsense, durable device with easy-to-use features like Push-to-Talk and a one-touch button to keep you in touch with your contacts while backed by the nation's fastest 3G network."With advanced aGPS capabilities, users can stay on the right track. The Rugby II features AT&T Navigator, which offers voice-guided and visual turn-by-turn GPS driving directions with automatic reroute, full-color maps, and real-time traffic alerts, as well as AT&T Family Map, which gives families the ability to track a child's location from a PC or cell phone and request location updates at any time. The Rugby II also includes access to aGPS applications, including Loopt, Trimble Outdoors, AllSport GPS and Where.The Rugby II enables AT&T's Mobile Resource Management applications, TeleNav Track™ and Xora GPS Timetrack from AT&T, and is great for transportation, distribution, construction, field service, maintenance, landscaping, and other businesses and government agencies looking to increase visibility of their field operations, monitor track location and activities of their employees, and improve responsiveness and productivity. In addition to a robust design, the Rugby II includes large external speakers, which allow for ease of use with AT&T's Push to Talk service , which covers 97% of the U.S. population. Push to Talk gives customers the ability to pull an entire work group into a wireless call from a PTT session and the ability to set one's own status to available, unavailable, do not disturb and more. Push to Talk is available to AT&T customers for just $5 per month on Nation Plan lines."Following the success of the Rugby, Samsung is introducing the Rugby II, a rugged and durable device with an enhanced external speaker and new aGPS applications," said Omar Khan, chief strategy officer, Samsung Mobile. "This device allows a workforce to stay in touch with the push of a button and its design can withstand everyday wear and tear."Rugby II is equipped with one of the world's most intelligent voice processor from Audience to enhance voice and suppress noise for clear communications nearly anywhere. Like the human ear, the chip isolates your voice, and filters out all the unwanted background noise, for unsurpassed mobile call clarity without the noise from a busy street, loud public places, nearby conversations or even sirens going by. The Samsung Rugby II also includes AT&T Video Share, Mobile Video and AT&T Mobile Music to keep you entertained on and off the job. Additional features of the Rugby II included a 2.0 megapixel camera with video recording, Bluetooth® technology and a microSD™ memory card slot. The Rugby II also includes dual-band 3G connectivity and quad-band GSM technology, which allows AT&T customers to make calls in more than 220 countries and download data in more than 195.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Samsung Rugby II will be available on June 6 at AT&T retail locations nationwide or at http://www.att.com/wireless for $129.99 after $50 mail-in rebate. (Pay $179.99 and after mail-in rebate receive $50 AT&T Promotion Card. Two-year agreement required.)For the complete array of AT&T offerings, visit www.att.com. For more information on the Samsung Rugby II, visit www.att.com/SamsungRugbyII.
 