
 Samsung has announced some of its launch partners for the Galaxy S 4 which will include some 327 carriers in 155 countries. According to JK Shin, it will include global LTE roaming, with 3G and LTE models in multiple bands (up to hexa band, according to the slide). Samsung's PR reveals it will be on all four major US carriers, plus US Cellular and Cricket, while European carriers include Deutsche Telecom, EE, H3G, Orange, Telenor, Telia Sonera, Telefonica, and Vodafone.
 Update: AT&T, T-Mobile and Sprint have all issued official statements to along with the launch which are included after the break. Look below for links to early registration for launch details from Samsung and the various carriers.   Update 2: Mobile Syrup has obtained a list of confirmed Canadian carriers which includes Bell, Eastlink, Fido, Koodo, Mobilicity, Rogers, SaskTel, TELUS, Videotron, Virgin Mobile and Wind Mobile. 

 Check out our event hub for all the action from Samsung's Galaxy S 4 event.


  "AT&T was the first to deliver Samsung's Galaxy series and we are excited to bring the Galaxy S4 to the nation's fastest 4G LTE network," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president- Devices, AT&T. "We continue to offer our customers a broad choice of devices and features to fit any mobile lifestyle, and look forward to growing our family of Samsung Galaxy devices." For more information, please visit http://www.att.com/galaxys4.

  T-Mobile is excited to partner with Samsung to bring the Samsung Galaxy S™ 4 to our customers. We look forward to sharing more information soon; meanwhile, please visit our Samsung Galaxy S 4 pre-registration page.

  Fared Adib, senior vice president-Product Development at Sprint, issued the following statement:

  "Sprint is excited to bring the benefit of Truly UnlimitedSM 4G LTE data to the U.S. variant of Galaxy S 4 in the second quarter of this year. Our customers will appreciate the ability to use Galaxy S 4 to surf the Web, share pictures and videos, and use this smartphone as much as they want without worrying about throttling or overage charges on their monthly bill due to data caps. NPD Group data indicated in 4Q 2012 that Sprint was the top U.S. seller of Samsung Galaxy S III, so we believe our customers will also enjoy its successor's features and unlimited data."

  Galaxy S 4 customers can enjoy an unlimited data experience with Sprint Everything Data plans. Sprint's Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM includes unlimited Web, texting and calling to and from any mobile in North America while on the Sprint Network, starting at just $79.99 per month for smartphones – a savings of $20 per month versus Verizon's comparable plan with unlimited talk, text and 2GB Web (excludes taxes and surcharges).
  U.S. Cellular is excited to bring the Samsung Galaxy S 4 to our customers in the near future. We will be sure to share details and presale information with you as soon as we can.



*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

