
 The Galaxy Win has been bouncing around several online stores over in Asia this week with a vague spec sheet but now Samsung China has gone on the record with all the details. While it might borrow the straighter design outline of the Galaxy S 4, there's not a whole lot to get excited about, with a 5-megapixel camera and a WVGA (800 x 480) resolution stretched thin across a 4.7-inch TFT display. Despite the low pixel count however, there's an unspecified 1.2GHz quad-core processor beating away inside, running Android 4.1, which suggests that the phone should go the distance, at least performance-wise. Underneath the removable cover, there's a 2,000mAh battery and a slot for microSD storage expansion, though the official listing doesn't tell us how much storage is built into the phone. It also packs a dual-SIM setup, a not-so-curious feature for Chinese handsets that often have to swing between different networks. Samsung's own messaging service, ChatON will also arrive (once again) preinstalled, alongside local fare like Sina Weibo and QQ. There's no release date just yet, but if you were looking for something that could pass as Samsung's latest flagship at a glance, minus the heavy bank balance hit, you'll have to head east when Galaxy Win does eventually land.

 Update: Samsung spent the weekend crafting an official PR, so we can now tell you the Win will arrive with 8GB of internal storage. In addition to the "Ceramic White" model, it'll also be available in "Titan Grey," with dual- and single-SIM variants. The PR says these options will depend "on the markets," so the Win probably won't be exclusive to China.



  Show full PR text   Samsung announces the GALAXY Win
   April 8, 2013

  New smartphone combines powerful performance and smart features with a 1.2GHz quad core processor
  SEOUL, Korea - April 08, 2013 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a leader in mobile technology and digital media, today announced the Samsung GALAXY Win, an intuitive new smartphone designed to balance the needs of the on-the-go user with massive processing power, multitasking capabilities, and a compact design for ultimate portability. As a unique and practical option for mobile users, the GALAXY Win is equipped to handle demanding tasks while still providing an effortless user experience with intuitive features including dual SIM support for a seamless work and life balance, a large display for optimal viewing, Easy Mode for simple access to most used functions, and many more.

   Designed to provide the best in mobile technology that can easily fit in your pocket, the Samsung GALAXY Win is powered by AndroidTM (Jelly Bean) and comes equipped with powerful hardware that makes both gaming and multi-media easy. With a 1.2GHz quad core processor and a 4.7 inch display, there is no app or game that the GALAXY Win can't run with vivid color and resolution. The 5-megapixel camera is equipped with multiple features including Continuous Shot, Best Photo, and multiple color effects to make taking high-quality photos fun and easy. The GALAXY Win also allows users to enjoy extended multimedia use and longer talk time with 8GB of internal storage and a 2,000mAh battery.

   As the perfect choice for users who want a device that can operate across multiple areas of their lives, the GALAXY Win offers intuitive solutions to enrich the smartphone user experience. For seamless work-to-play transitions, this new device comes with a wealth of enhanced smart features, including:

   •'Easy Mode': A simple and intuitive homescreen mode for streamlined access to your top functions  •'Smart Alert': Notifications for events you may have missed (calls, messages, deadlines) when you pick up the phone  •'Motion UX': Utilize functions such as Mute, Refresh & Update, and Scan for other devices with simple motion controls

   Depending on the markets, the GALAXY Win will be available in two different versions – Single SIM or Dual SIM, and available in two different colors – Ceramic White and Titan Gray.

 
