
 

While Samsung is desperate for us and the world to focus on its very first Bada device -- the Wave S8500 -- we found something a bit more interesting for Google fans. Tucked away in the depths of a spec sheet is Samsung's unannounced i8520 phone running Android 2.1. After quizzing a team of perplexed executives of increasing rank, a VP from Samsung's mobile division finally told us that it'll be revealed as the "Halo" tomorrow when the show floor opens. Looking at the spec sheet then, the i8520 Halo packs a 3.7-inch WVGA Super AMOLED display (bigger than the Wave's 3.3-incher), 8 megapixel autofocus camera with flash (VGA on the front), 720p / 30fps video encoding / decoding, DivX and Xvid playback support, Bluetooth 2.1, standard 3.5mm headphone jack, 802.11b/g/n WiFi, A-GPS, 16GB of internal storage and microSD expansion, stereo speakers, DLNA support, and -- get this -- a DLP pico projector integrated. The spec-sheet also lists a "Specialized Projector UI" as one of the features, suggesting it'll look a little different when you toss it up onto the big screen. This quad-band GSM / EDGE phone with tri-band UMTS 900 / 1900 / 2100 will ship in Q3 to Europe and Asia with a chance for a US version at some point later. We'll bring you more tomorrow just as soon as we get through all this paella.

Note: Even though the i8520 clearly seems to run the same UI as the Bada-powered Wave, we've been assured by multiple people in Samsung -- including a VP in the Mobile division -- that it is, in fact, running Android 2.1. That ties in nicely with the fact that Bada's graphical representation comes through as a new cut of TouchWiz, so it makes sense these guys would want to port the same look and feel to other platforms. Also of note is the fact that we couldn't confirm from the company that it's got a projector on board, but there's plenty of evidence to suggest it does: the so-called Specialized Projector UI, the fact that the 14.9mm girth is likely thick enough to swallow the necessary optics, and -- of course -- the big DLP logo on back. We'll bring out the final details just as soon as we know 'em.

Update: Images confirm it, Halo is a projector phone!




