
 
 So, it's time to take down the decorations, remove that party hat and sweep up the confetti (you can clear the unfinished drinks in the morning). As Earl's Court in London echoes with the hollow sound of empty plastic champagne flutes and half-eaten canapes, the rest of the tech world gives a sigh of relief. The Samsung Galaxy S III is here. Was it what you expected? If you haven't yet decided, don't worry, we've got you covered. After all the months of anticipation, cryptic clues and teasing it's understandable that you might be feel a little bit spent. That's why we're going to carry you over the finish line, by providing you with a fireman's lift of all things GS3. We've collected together all the links to tonight's main stories, along with a little reminder of the route we took to get here. So forget about the post-party hangover for now, and do the walk of shame past the break for the round-up.



 NEWS
 Samsung Galaxy S III launching on Vodafone, Orange, O2, T-Mobile and Three in the UK Samsung launches new services for the Galaxy S III: Music Hub, S Health and more Samsung's Galaxy S III now has a commercial to call its own Samsung unveils Galaxy S III wireless charger, S-pebble MP3, AllCast wireless dongle Samsung announces buddy share feature Samsung Galaxy S III gets an early exclusive on Flipboard Samsung Galaxy S III HSPA+ arriving in May, 4G version hitting North America this summer Samsung announces SmartStay and S Voice features for the Galaxy S III Samsung and Dropbox offer Galaxy S III users up to 50GB of extra storage Samsung Galaxy S III vs. rival flagships: iPhone 4S, HTC One X, Lumia 900 Galaxy S III vs. Galaxy Nexus and Galaxy S II: what's changed? Samsung Galaxy S III focuses on photography sharing features, not cutting-edge optics
 HANDS-ON AND IMPRESSIONS
 AllShare Cast wireless streaming dongle for Samsung Galaxy S III -- hands-on Samsung S-Pebble MP3 player / accessory hands-on Samsung Galaxy S III to be sold in Mobile Pin pop-up stores Samsung Galaxy S III software impressions (video) Under the microscope: Samsung Galaxy S III's HD Super AMOLED display Samsung Galaxy S III preview: hands-on with the next Android superphone (video) Samsung Galaxy S III gets benchmarked, shows plenty of promise
 RUMOR ROUND-UP
 Samsung Galaxy S III leak out: 1.8GHz dual-core and 12MP camera that never came to be (false) Did the Galaxy S III just pop up on Samsung's support site? Rumor Mill: 7mm-thick Galaxy S III coming in May? Samsung's GT-i9300 is probably not the Galaxy S III, as revealed by its low-res screen (false) Vietnamese site Tinhte leaks what is thought to be the Galaxy S III Another Galaxy S III prototype spotted in protective casing Samsung's Unpacked Mobile 2012 app outs 'Galaxy S3' as next smartphone's name Alleged Galaxy S III pops up again, with rounded glass and GT-I9300 branding Samsung announces 1.4GHz Exynos 4 Quad as basis for Galaxy S3 AnTuTu pegs Galaxy S III as most powerful Android device, potentially reveals its specs

