
 
 Samsung's outed its massive 17-inch Series 7 Chronos desktop-killing laptop. The portable behemoth arrives packing a 2.6GHz Core i7 Ivy Bridge CPU, 8GB of RAM and NVIDIA's GeForce GT650M with a further 2GB of memory to itself. You'll be able to relax in front of that 17.3-inch, 300 nit, 1920 x 1080 display and listen to 2.1 surround thanks to some JBL speakers and a subwoofer. The seven-pound device is rated for up to eight hours of battery life and will comfortably hold 1TB of storage, depending on the size of your spreadsheet. It's available from today from all good retailers (and most of the bad ones too) for $1,500.



  Show full PR text   Samsung 17-Inch Series 7 Chronos Offers Powerful Desktop-Like Experience in a Sleek, Elegant Laptop
   Newest Addition to the Series 7 Line Features a 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ i7 Processor, JBL Audio, Powerful Graphics and a 17.3" HD LED Display

  RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics America Inc., a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, today announced the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS, the newest addition to its existing high performance Series 7 laptop line. With a sleek, elegant design, 3rd generation Intel® Core™ i7 processor and innovative ExpressCache™ technology, the laptop offers a desktop experience to consumers looking to remain productive and connected everywhere. Additionally, the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS offers outstandingly rich stereo sound through JBL® speakers, premium 2.1 system graphics and a full HD LED display, making it an ideal choice for users unwilling to compromise on entertainment and multimedia.

   "The new Series 7 CHRONOS can truly serve as a desktop replacement, whether it's being used for work or play, because we've integrated so many powerful features into our innovative design and engineering, resulting in the ultimate personal computing experience"

   "The new Series 7 CHRONOS can truly serve as a desktop replacement, whether it's being used for work or play, because we've integrated so many powerful features into our innovative design and engineering, resulting in the ultimate personal computing experience," said Todd Bouman, vice president of marketing at Samsung Enterprise Business Division. "This product incorporates great features from our award-winning Series 7 CHRONOS line while offering consumers the newest, most powerful components available and a larger screen for a more immersive viewing experience without sacrificing the convenience of a laptop."

   Enhanced Speed and Performance

   Powered by a 3rd generation Intel® Core™ i7 processor, the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS delivers unrivalled speed right from the start, making it easy for users to accomplish tasks ranging from Internet browsing to watching videos. This new quad-core processor empowers users to speed through even the most demanding tasks and effortlessly multitask between applications, thanks to Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology. Through Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0.1 users can also access an automatic burst of speed whenever they need it.

   The 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS also offers exceptional start-up times and powerful overall performance, including web browsing speeds that are twice as fast (using Microsoft Internet Explorer), thanks to its innovative ExpressCache™ technology, developed by Diskeeper, which provides 8GB of flash memory on the motherboard. Additionally, the inclusion of Samsung's Fast Start technology means that the laptop wakes up from hybrid sleep mode in as little as just two seconds, while Quick Boot has the notebook ready to go – from cold – in as little as 19 seconds, saving users valuable seconds of startup time.

   The performance of the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS is further enhanced by the notebook's extended battery life. In addition to uninterrupted performance of up to 8 hours on a single charge (based on MobileMark test scores**), Samsung's Battery Life Plus technology keeps 80% of the cell's original capacity, even after 1,500 charges.** This results in a battery that can last up to five times longer than other notebooks and ensures that CHRONOS users always have the power they need to be productive, anytime, anywhere.

   Optimal Audio Visual Experience

   The 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS provides trendsetting consumers with the latest advances in multimedia technology. Powerful JBL® stereo speakers, a sub-woofer and HD audio processing result in an unrivaled auditory experience. Through this new audio integration with JBL, Series 7 CHRONOS users will enjoy clearer, richer sound, deeper bass and greater tone articulation when playing music and movies.

   The 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS provides a premium visual experience to match its high-end audio features. The next-generation full HD (1920x1080) high-resolution display features Samsung SuperBright™ technology, for a brilliant 300-nit screen (up to 40% brighter than traditional PCs) and a stunning range of color (up to 16 million). An anti-reflective matte screen results in images that look rich, vivid and crisp, with noticeable improvements in color depth, regardless of whether the user is indoors or out.

   This visual experience is enhanced by the inclusion of NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 650M 2GB graphics, the latest NVIDIA graphics with hybrid technology, resulting in virtually faultless playback of movies, games and multimedia.

   The Intel® Core™ i7 processor also augments the multimedia experience with a suite of built-in visual enhancements, improving the viewing experience for photos, videos and games. What's more, you can sync your Series 7 CHRONOS to your TV using the Intel® Wireless Display (WiDi) and an adapter, allowing you to effortlessly view all your digital content on a larger screen.

   Sleek, Elegant Design

   Building on the design heritage of its smaller models, the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS has been crafted using modern brushed aluminum for a sleek, elegant appearance. The 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS is just one inch thick and weighs just over 6.5 pounds.

   Through its MaxScreen technology, Samsung was also able to greatly reduce the bezel of the 17-inch Series 7 CHRONOS, allowing a 17.3-inch display to fit in a smaller chassis. The result is a stunning viewing experience, which allows users to benefit from a large screen as well as an impressive design that is sure to be noticed everywhere.

   Signature Samsung Technology

   Samsung's Support Center ensures all content stays safe and can help troubleshoot any particular problem. Accessible with a keyboard shortcut, the Support Center helps users manage their system settings or arrange for a tech-support web chat. Samsung's Back-up & Recovery Solution also allows users to create and restore back-ups of system data on the device, or on a network or removable storage device.

   The 17-inch Samsung Series 7 CHRONOS is currently available and retails for $1499.99. All Samsung mobile PC products are available through Samsung resellers and distribution channels. For a full list of retailers, call 1-800-SAMSUNG or visit www.samsung.com.

 
