
 

Not to be outdone by MetroPCS, Cricket now offers a Samsung Indulge for its customers who demand a taste of Android's better half. While the $330 price is sure to test the commitment of some, the device stands out among its underpowered Huawei, Sanyo and LG peers -- it's also the only game in Crickettown if you want to combine El Goog's OS with a physical keyboard. Like its MetroPCS counterpart, customers will find a 1GHz Hummingbird processor, a 3.5-inch HVGA LCD display and a 3 megapixel camera -- although unlike the former, Cricket doesn't yet offer LTE service. Taking into consideration this is a zero-commitment affair where $55 a month brings unlimited voice, text and data, it's not a bad proposition -- though, your heart is likely to race if the phone gets dropped. So, if you think you can hold onto this Froyo-filled Sammy, follow the break for the PR.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Cricket Enhances Its Smartphone Line-Up with the Samsung Indulge(TM) 		~ Android® 2.2 OS and a 1GHz Processor Provide a Supercharged Experience ~ 		SAN DIEGO, June 7, 2011 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- 		Cricket Communications, Inc., a leading provider of innovative and value-driven wireless services and a wholly owned subsidiary of Leap Wireless International, Inc. (NASDAQ:LEAP), and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States(1), today announced the launch of the Samsung Indulge(TM) (SCH-r915). The Indulge is the first Android device by Samsung to be included in Cricket's dynamic line of phone offerings. 		This latest smartphone addition brings the best of both worlds to Cricket customers in the form of a large, 3.5 inch display and a slide-out Qwerty keyboard. In addition, the Indulge is powered by a 1GHz processor and Android 2.2 with Samsung TouchWiz 3.0. Cricket's fourth Android smartphone also includes great features like a 3MP camera/camcorder, music player/microSD slot, stereo Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and a large 1500mAh battery. The Indulge features all of the popular Android apps like Gmail, YouTube and Google Search, plus Android Market(TM) which now features more than 200,000 applications and games. 		"Cricket customers have really taken to smartphones and we are evolving our portfolio to meet their needs by offering smartphone features at varying price points," said Matt Stoiber, vice president and general manager devices for Cricket. "Our customers love to text and surf the web, especially using social media applications and want an Android experience with a touchscreen and a QWERTY keyboard. And the Indulge delivers with a blazing fast 1GHz processor, vivid display and a slide-out keyboard." 		At a suggested retail price of $329.99 plus tax, the Samsung Indulge is available in Cricket branded retail stores, dealers and at www.mycricket.com. The Samsung Indulge is offered on Cricket's high-speed data network and with the all-inclusive $55 Android plan, which provides users with unlimited talk, text, 411 information, navigation, international text, unlimited picture and video messaging, nationwide data services on the company's reliable all 3G network, and more. 		For more information about Cricket's dynamic device lineup, please visit www.mycricket.com.
 