
We knew it was coming to Sprint this summer, and we knew it would run $150 (with a two-year contract and $50 rebate, of course) -- and now the carrier's given us an exact date: August 16th. (Not to say we didn't already have our suspicions...) Samsung's ATIV S Neo will become the Now Network's second Windows Phone 8 handset this Friday. The 4.8-inch smartphone packs a 1.4GHz dual-core processor, an eight-megapixel camera and NFC-based ATIV Beam sharing. More info on all of the above after the break.



Show full PR textSamsung ATIV S Neo, the First Windows Phone 8 Smartphone from Sprint with International Roaming, Available Aug. 16 for $149.99
Samsung ATIV S™ Neo will be available in Sprint direct ship sales channels, including Sprint Stores, Business Sales, Web Sales and Telesales at 1-800-SPRINT1, on Friday, Aug. 16, for $149.99 with a new line or eligible upgrade, two-year service agreement and $50 mail-in rebate via reward card1
The first Windows Phone 8 device from Sprint with international roaming capabilities, ATIV S Neo is the perfect balance of productivity and fun with a 1.4GHz dual-core processor, 16GB memory, 1GB of RAM, microSD™ memory card slot supporting up to 64GB (microSD card sold separately) and removable 2,000mAh lithium-ion battery for up to 14 hours talk time. Live Tiles provide the information you want at a glance, delivering the most personal smartphone experience possible.
Featuring an 8-megapixel main camera with LED flash and a front-facing 1.9-megapixel camera for video chat, ATIV S Neo helps customers capture more with their smartphone.
It comes equipped with a variety of preloaded camera apps, including the Beauty Shot mode for smoother-looking skin in headshots; Manga Camera to give pictures a fun twist by turning friends and family into cartoons; and built-in Photo Editor, which allows the user to edit, color, effect, decorate or share their pictures quickly and easily. ATIV S Neo also has an external camera button that works even when the phone is locked or sleeping, so you never miss a shot.
The large 4.8-inch high-definition display enables crystal-clear photo and video viewing. Sharing is easier than ever with ATIV S Neo featuring ATIV Beam using near field communication (NFC) to share photos, video and music with other Windows Phone 8 and select Android™ devices.

