
 
Also known as the Galaxy Portal in the UK, Samsung's i5700 is today officially entering the Eclair portion of its Android existence. We got a nice leak of the 2.1 ROM in February, whose small glitches will no doubt have been ironed out in this official release. You'll need to either hook up to the Samsung neural network using their proprietary PC Studio 7 software to leech the upgrade or just buy a new handset -- it all depends on the ratio between your disposable time and income. Guess this will make the Spica that little bit more seductive to Rogers customers, who only just got the option to own the handset last week. Full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textSamsung Delivers World of New Experiences With Upgraded Galaxy SpicaAndroid 2.1 gives Galaxy Spica new functionality and unrivalled user experienceSEOUL, Korea – March 17, 2010 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a leading mobile phone provider, today announced it has upgraded its powerful Galaxy Spica (I5700) smartphone to harness the power of the latest version of AndroidTM, Android 2.1. The smartphone now offers users a galaxy of new features and an unrivalled mobile experience.The Galaxy Spica retains all the features inherent in the successful Galaxy Spica (I5700), such as seamless connectivity and access to GoogleTM mobile services, multimedia functionality and speedy processor performance"Lovers of the Galaxy Spica appreciated the ease with which they could access their contacts and personalise their experience – our upgraded handset offers all this and much more; a rich and rewarding and powerful mobile experience," said JK Shin, President and Head of the Mobile Communications Business, Samsung Electronics.The upgrade will be available via PC Studio 7, Samsung's unique in-house software upgrade program. PC Studio 7 was included in the package of Galaxy Spica or can be downloaded at the Samsung mobile website (http://www.samsungmobile.com).Enhanced User ExperiencedThe Galaxy Spica becomes a highly intuitive communications device offering users the option to personalise no less than nine side-scrolling screens. Users can really let their imaginations run wild, creating different home screens according to different personal interests or requirements.The handset now features augmented reality technology that displays real-time digital information of your surroundings over the view-finder of the Galaxy Spica's 3 megapixel camera. The Galaxy Spica also features Samsung widgets, Visual bookmark and PC Sync support to enable users to synchronise their devices quickly.Enhanced Multimedia and Messaging FunctionalityThe handset now comes with a number of enhanced multimedia features which transform the Galaxy Spica into a personal entertainment device. Media browser allows you to browse through your media collection with ease. The camera has been upgraded to offer enhanced picture options and viewing functionality.Improved messaging functionality means that it is much easier to attach files to MMS and email that users can easily add contacts to messages direct from the phonebook. Improved contact management enables users to find a necessary contact very easily through the alphabetical index.The upgrade will be available from March 2010 in Germany and gradually rolled out to other European markets, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Asia, Africa and rest of the world.Samsung I5700 Product Specifications Network HSDPA 3.6Mbps (900/2100)EDGE/GPRS (850/900/1800/1900)OS Android (ver. Android 2.1)Display 3.2" HVGA(320x480) TFTCamera 3MP Camera (Auto Focus)Video / Audio Video: MPEG4, H.263, H.264, WMV,DivXAudio: MP3, AAC, AAC+, eAAC+, WMAValue AddedFeatures ** Google mobile services (Google SearchTM including search by voice, GmailTM, Contacts, Google TalkTM, Google MapsTM, YouTubeTM, Android MarketTM)Full Web Browser, 3.5mm Ear jack, GPSConnectivity Bluetooth® 2.1, USB 2.0, MicroUSB, WiFiMemory Internal memory: 180MBExternal memory: Micro SD (Up to 32GB)Battery 1500 mAhSize 115 x 57 x 13.2mm* Android, Google, Android Market, Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, YouTube, Google Talk are trademarks of Google Inc.** The launch of Google Mobile Service can differ by region.
 