
   We've known for a while that the Samsung Galaxy Note was coming to AT&T sometime soon, but now we actually have a date: February 19th. If that day just isn't going to come soon enough, there's a way to get it delivered two days earlier -- the carrier's offering a pre-order option beginning next Sunday, and your February 17th delivery is promised as long as you click that "order" button by the 15th. Just as predicted, the device will be available for $300 with a two-year commitment. Check out the press fact sheet and video past the break for more info.
 

    Show full PR text  Create, capture and share in new ways with the Samsung Galaxy Note, available from at&t Feb. 19  AT&T's Latest 4G LTE Device Offers Customers a New Way to Communicate and Collaborate  DALLAS, Jan. 30, 2012 –  Key Facts · Previously announced at AT&T's Developer Summit leading up to the International Consumer Electronics Show earlier this month, the Samsung Galaxy Note™ arrives in carbon blue and ceramic white at AT&T* stores beginning Feb. 19 for $299.99 with a two-year agreement.  · Customers excited to get their hands on this dream device even earlier can pre-order at http://www.att.com/galaxynote or any AT&T company-owned retail store beginning Sunday, Feb. 5 for delivery by Feb. 17.  · The Galaxy Note combines the best features of a smartphone with the larger viewing screen of a tablet and advanced technology in the S Pen™ -- delivering an all-in-one device that allows users to work more efficiently and maintain productivity, while communicating in a unique, personal way.  · Galaxy Note boasts the world's first 5.3-inch HD Super AMOLED™ screen (1280x800), one of the largest screens on a smartphone, for sharp, clear colors and readability – both indoors and out. With the expansive high-resolution screen that provides an immersive viewing experience, customers can take full advantage of the large display, to create and consume more.  · The Galaxy Note includes a highly advanced tool called the S Pen, which delivers fast, responsive and precise control to create fine lines and detail on the device display, much like an ink pen and pad of paper. With the S Pen, users can easily sketch drawings, jot down notes, or write emails and texts quickly and easily in free-form handwriting.  · S Memo™, a multimedia application designed to capture all forms of user-created content captured by the S Pen, allows for pictures, voice recordings, typed text, handwritten notes or drawings to be combined via a single application, converted to a 'memo', and shared as desired.  · It also includes a smart professional planning tool that makes full use of the device's large screen. The calendar integrates the phone's to-do list and schedule; control and navigation is intuitive, helping customers comprehensively organize their lives.  · An easy screen-capture function also allows users to instantly save any screen, which can also be annotated with the S Pen before being saved or shared.  · Users can communicate in personal, creative ways expanding beyond traditional sharing methods with the Galaxy Note.  Accessories The Galaxy Note features a unique portfolio of custom designed optional accessories including: · Desktop Dock to get the most out of your Galaxy Note at home  · Spare Battery Charging System that allows for a convenient backup charging solution  · Protective Flip Cover Case, available in multiple colors including tan, black, pink, red, white, blue.  · Galaxy Note S Pen Holder Kit which offers a solution for users in need of a more traditional writing instrument. With a spare S Pen included, the S Pen Holder secures the navigation tool inside and offers a comfortable grip and allows for more detailed use.  The Galaxy Note is also compatible with the following universal accessories: Micro USB Adapter, HDTV Smart Adapter, Car Power Charger with Detachable Data Cable (Micro USB), Micro USB Data Cable, Travel Charger (Detachable with USB to Micro USB Cable), and the premium Refined Sound wired headset.  Pre-Orders  Beginning Sunday, Feb. 5 customers will have the option to pre-order the Note at http://www.att.comgalaxynote or by visiting an AT&T company-owned retail store. Pre-orders processed by Feb. 15 will arrive by Feb. 17 at customers' homes.  Quote  "The Galaxy Note brings a new level of efficiency to busy customers who would normally rely on multiple devices," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "This new breed of smartphone helps consumers accomplish more with a single device than ever before. The unique all-in-one experience can simplify daily life while tapping into AT&T's 4G LTE network to let customers work even faster."  Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.  Limited-time offer. Samsung Galaxy Note requires a new 2-yr wireless agreement with voice (min $39.99/mo) and min monthly data plan ($20/mo). Subject to Wireless Customer Agrmt. Credit approval req'd. Activ fee $36/line. Geographic, usage and other terms, conditions and restrictions apply, and may result in svc termination. Coverage and svcs not avail everywhere. Taxes and other charges apply. Data (att.com/dataplans): If usage exceeds your monthly data allowance, you will automatically be charged overage for additional data provided. Early Termination Fee (att.com/equipmentETF): After 30 days, ETF up to $325. Restocking fee up to $35. Other Monthly Charges/line may include a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge (up to $1.25), a gross receipts surcharge, federal and state universal svc charges, fees and charges for other gov't assessments. These are not taxes or gov't req'd charges. Visit a store or att.com/wireless to learn more about wireless devices and services from AT&T.
 