
 

Samsung's been so busy getting its flexible displays (aka "Youm") consumer-ready, it's now got no clue what to actually do with them. As such, it's decided to pay others to be idea-men, launching the "Flexible Future Business Plan Competition" in the US. Starting August 29th and running to October 6th, the contest is calling for nifty gadget concepts that use one to 20 inches of flexible display at up to full HD resolution. They'll be judged on how important a flexible display is to the device, as well as design, practicality of hardware and business plan. The winner will receive $10k, with second and third place taking $5k and $2.5k, respectively. Samsung hopes you'll head to the source link for the full lowdown, because there are only so many bendy smartwatches one can sell before you need other gear to put wobbly panels in.


 
Show full PR textSamsung Announces the Samsung Create: Flexible Future Business Plan Competition
The Samsung Create: Flexible Future Business Plan Competition encourages entrepreneurs to develop new business ideas incorporating Samsung's flexible display technology
MENLO PARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a global leader in consumer electronics and other core components, together with Samsung Display Co., Ltd., a global leader in display panel technologies and products, today announced the launch of the Samsung Create: Flexible Future Business Plan Competition. Hosted by the Samsung Strategy and Innovation Center, the competition seeks to encourage designers, hardware engineers and entrepreneurs to begin thinking about future start-ups ideas using flexible display technology.

Winners will be selected by a panel of judges who will take into consideration the following*:

Importance of flexible display technology in the core value proposition of the productExceptional design, realistic hardware assumptions and a viable business planThe applicant deemed by the panel of judges to have the best entry will receive a prize of US$10,000. Second and third place winners will receive US$5,000 and US$2,500, respectively. Applications will be accepted through an online submission form starting on August 29, 2013 until October 6, 2013.

For more information, please visit www.samsung.com/us/flexiblefuture.

*NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. The Samsung Flexible Future Business Plan Contest starts 8/29/13 at 12:00:00 PM ET and ends on 10/6/13 at 11:59:59 PM ET. Open only to eligible legal residents of the 50 U.S. states (D.C.) who are 18 years or older at time of entry. Visit www.samsung.com/us/flexiblefuture for details on entry instructions and guidelines, judging criteria, prize details, restrictions, etc. Void where prohibited. Subject to Official Rules. Sponsor: Samsung Semiconductor Inc., 3655 North First Street, San Jose, CA 95134.


