
 
 Mad Men marathons aside, it's rare that we dream of a career in advertising, but Samsung's latest pair of commercial displays have turned our head. The Korean giant has developed a 21.6-inch, 1:1 ratio ("square" to us normals) display with a 5.5mm bezel that can be used to develop video walls, installations or 3D sculptures. It's reportedly far more environmentally friendly than whacking a TV on your showroom wall, drawing 30 percent less power and auto-adjusting its own brightness depending on the ambient light.

 It's also unveiling the NL22B, a transparent LCD screen / case that builds on the see-through tech we saw at CES. The interactive display is designed to let you see facts and figures while keeping one eye on the merchandise at all times. It's imagined to be used in high-class jewelers, using interactivity to tease us toward buying that $4,000 watch. Both are being shown at IFA this week, but don't expect to see them available to buy -- so stash those dreams of covering every wall in house with these things, at least until you own your own advertising firm.



 

 
  Show full PR text   Samsung Electronics launches LED square display and transparent display
   Samsung Electronics announced the availability of innovative 1:1 ratio LED square display (UD22B) and transparent display (NL22B), accelerating its leadership in the commercial B2B display market in the second half of this year.

   Samsung's distinctive 1:1 ratio square display and all-in-one transparent display showcase provide business owners with extraordinary solutions for creating entirely new types of promotional displays in retail, commercial and public locations.

   To mark the launch of these two new display products, Samsung Electronics will introduce them to the general public with an impressive product showcase at IFA 2012, Europe's largest consumer electronics show, to be held in Berlin, Germany, Aug. 31-Sep. 5. This exhibit will demonstrate Samsung's strong position in a new B2B market based on the needs of businesses to distinguish themselves through creative, engaging displays that capture consumer attention.

   Providing an alternative to traditional rectangular displays, Samsung's LED square display with 1:1 screen ratio supports unlimited configurations and opens up new potential for creating immersive visual experiences. With 5.5 mm bezel-to-bezel measurement for seamless installation and digital loop out to produce a single image across up to 100 displays, Samsung's 21.6" square display lets commercial users explore limitless possibilities as they design artistic video walls. Multiple displays can easily be connected to create creative mosaics as well as cubic or other three-dimensional shaped displays. Without being limited by the installation space or shape, businesses can create more interactive point-of-sale and advertising displays that engage the consumer.

   Samsung's environmentally friendly Direct LED backlight technology used in the UD22B square display generates less heat to reduce power consumption by more than 30 percent compared to existing LCD display technology, lowering operating costs. The UD22B also conserves energy by adjusting brightness according to surrounding brightness, and users easily manage content using Samsung's unique MagicInfo software solution.   Samsung's 22" transparent display (NL22B) is a new type of product, available as an all-in-one showcase, launching a new era of possibilities in digital retail design. The thin LCD panel on the front of the transparent display allows images and animations to dynamically interact with the merchandise inside the showcase while still enabling passers-by to view the product. The three remaining sides are made of protective tempered glass enclosed by a sleek metallic frame, giving the NL22B a luxurious appearance.

   Available as an all-in-one showcase for use as a stand-alone display or as an optional 22" kit for wall installation, the NL22B accentuates the display of retail products. Unlike competitive displays with lower transmittance rates (5 percent) that can hide mer­chandise, Samsung's transparent display offers a transmittance rate of 15 percent for exquisite picture quality. The all-in-one kit includes a built-in PC, speakers, LED bar and protective glass, making it remarkably simple for businesses to transform consumer shopping into an immersive in-store experience.   B2B Display Market Leadership

   Samsung Electronics is leading in the creation of new markets across the B2B space, including the premium interior market through the launch of large-size LFDs (60" and larger) as well as products that feature both high picture quality and slim design. The company plans to concentrate on developing its premium image in this category and strengthening its market position by partnering world famous luxury brands.

   Samsung Electronics has already demonstrated success in its partnership with Gucci Timepieces & Jewelry. At InfoComm 2012, Samsung showcased its cooperative work with Gucci Timepieces & Jewelry with a display featuring square displays and transparent displays as well as luxury retail products from Gucci Timepieces & Jewelry. For Samsung's exhibit at IFA 2012, Samsung's advanced commercial display products will be used to create a retail display layout identical to the immersive store environment planned for Gucci Timepieces & Jewelry store locations.

 
