
 Not content with a gazillion Galaxy phone sales, Samsung is hoping to continue winning the smartphone war in one of the biggest battlegrounds any manufacturer can face: retail. The Korean OEM has partnered with Best Buy to bring its Experience Shops to the big box retailer nationwide -- 1,400 of them by early summer (with 900 launching this month), to be precise. So what does Sammy hope to achieve? In addition to the standard shopping setup, the company wants to give customers the ability to actually use its products and get a first-hand feel of what they have to offer: phones, accessories, Smart TVs and tablets will be on display. Each shop will be manned by Samsung-employed consultants as well as specially trained Best Buy employees. This appears to be Samsung's way of offering a thorough retail experience without actually launching its very own stores across the country. It'll be interesting to see if it will be a more effective retail alternative to what companies like Apple and Microsoft have adopted, but Samsung sure seems quite optimistic about its chances. Find the press release below for the full experience. 




  Show full PR text   SAMSUNG JOINS FORCES WITH BEST BUY TO PROVIDE CONSUMERS A UNIQUE MOBILE SHOPPING EXPERIENCE
   Samsung Experience Shops in 1,400 Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile stores creates a destination where consumers can experience Samsung's extensive mobile ecosystem of products and learn how they work together from dedicated Samsung experts

   Richardson, TX - April 4, 2013 - Samsung Electronics announced today a unique relationship with Best Buy, the world's largest consumer electronics retailer, centered on retail innovation for customers to explore, purchase, activate and service the broadest portfolio of Samsung mobile products and accessories. The Samsung Experience Shop™ will be installed in more than 1,400 Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile specialty stores across the U.S. beginning this month. By early May, 900 Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile specialty stores will feature the Samsung Experience Shop, with the remainder launching by early summer.

   At the Samsung Experience Shops, consumers can experience Samsung's full range of mobile products including smartphones, tablets, laptops, connected cameras and accessories, all in one location. The shops enable consumers to interact with and buy Samsung's latest mobile products and experience how the devices connect together to enrich their lives.

   Select Best Buy stores will have Samsung Smart Service™, which includes dedicated Samsung Experience Consultants™ and Best Buy blue shirt sales associates to assist customers with purchasing and activating mobile products on the carrier of their choice, understanding their device and supporting them throughout the lifecycle of their product. The specially trained Samsung Experience Consultants will assist with product demonstrations, basic product services, Samsung account set up, warranty registration and post purchase support.

   "Samsung has been delivering the latest innovation across the consumer electronics category for some time," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Telecommunications America. "With the Samsung Experience Shops, we are ensuring consumers get the most of that innovation by learning how to leverage their mobile devices across our ecosystem of consumer electronics. Consumers will have one place to not only explore and learn about our full portfolio of mobile products, but also the support of a Samsung expert to help with selecting and servicing them. This will truly be a unique mobile shopping experience."

   The shops vary in size, with the largest being approximately 460 square feet. Within the larger shops, the Samsung Connected Solutions™ area creates a place for customers to see how easily Samsung devices connect and share content across multiple screens.

   "We look forward to showcasing Samsung products in the Samsung Experience Shop in all Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile locations. This is part of our Renew Blue transformation strategy – working closely with vendor partners to innovate and drive value, while also updating our stores to focus on growing and profitable categories," said Shawn Score, head of U.S. Retail for Best Buy. "Our promise to our customers is simple: we're committed to providing the best value, service and selection. Our partnership with Samsung on the Samsung Experience Shop is another way we're delivering on that promise."

   In addition to the in-store experience, a Samsung Experience Shop launches today online - www.bestbuy.com/samsungexperienceshop - featuring product shopping aisles and a full overview of the Samsung Experience Shop.

 
