
 


	Pay as you go / QWERTY keyboard enthusiasts rejoice -- Samsung today formally announced the Transform Ultra. The familiar-looking Android 2.3-packing slider is destined for the contract-free world of Boost Mobile, featuring a 1GHz processor, a 3MP rear-facing camera (plus a front-facing VGA) and the content-happy Mobile ID preloaded. The handset is a bit on the bulky side, which is to be expected with a full keyboard inside -- but all in all, not a bad looking piece of hardware, particularly for the world of pre-paid, where selection is sometimes limited. The Transform Ultra will be hitting Boost on October 7th for $230.Press release after the break.




 		Show full PR text   "Transform" Your Communications with the new Android-Powered Slide-Out QWERTY Phone from Boost Mobile and Samsung 			IRVINE, Calif. – Boost Mobile, ranked Highest in Customer Service Performance and			Purchase Experience among Non-Contract Wireless Providers by J.D. Power and Associates1, once again enhances its smartphone lineup of Android™ devices with the launch of the Samsung Transform™ Ultra. The Transform Ultra complements the existing Samsung Galaxy Prevail™, which in four months has become the best-selling no-contract smartphone in Samsung's history. The Transform Ultra is the perfect device for the consumer who desires an Android touchscreen along with a text-friendly full QWERTY keypad. 			"If you have been sitting on the sidelines considering no-contract plans or Android			smartphones, it's time to upgrade with the latest Samsung Android devices paired with the award-winning Boost Mobile plans and customer experience," said Andre Smith, vice president-Boost Mobile. "The Transform Ultra device includes the innovative Mobile ID platform, allowing customers to get a running start in exploring Android applications and widgets based on their personal interest." 			The Transform Ultra, powered by Android 2.3 Gingerbread, features access to Google Mobile™ services and more than 250,000 applications through Android Market. The device has a 1GHz processor, a 3MP rear-facing camera, and VGA front-facing camera for video chat while on the go. 			Mobile ID The Transform Ultra is Boost's first Android-powered smartphone to come preloaded with Mobile ID, an exclusive service from Boost that allows customers to download and install "ID packs." The packs deliver a complete mobile experience, including applications, widgets, ringtones and wallpapers, in a couple simple clicks. ID packs are designed to meet a customer's individual lifestyle or interests, such as sports, entertainment, fitness and music. 			As only one example, the MTV Music pack is a complete music experience, bringing together the best music and pop culture apps, widgets and content on your Boost smartphone. The MTV Music pack gives customers access to the biggest stars and newest artists around the clock. Plus MTV has selected the best music apps to stream, download, identify, search and discover all your favorite music. 			Other ID packs that can be loaded on the device include: E!, Socially Connected,			Professional, Entertainment, Lo2Yo Latino, Lo2Yo Mujer and Lo2Yo Futbol. 			Other Transform Ultra features include:			• Android 2.3 with Access to Android Market™			• Touchscreen			• Full QWERTY Keypad			• 3MP camera with video			• Wi-Fi®, GPS and Wireless Web enabled			• Front-facing VGA camera			• Easy access to Gmail™ and Google Talk™			• Bluetooth® capable			• Speakerphone with voice-activated dialing			• Supports microSD® cards up to 32GB (2GB card included)			• Voice mail, caller ID, call waiting and three-way calling 			Samsung Transform Ultra will be available Oct. 7 for $229.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations across the country and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. The Transform will be rolling out in select retails nationwide later this year. 
 