
 

What big, wireless brother wants, big, wireless brother gets. With its pay-as-you-go subsidiary already packing this particular piece of mobile kit, 'twas only a matter of time before Sprint got its hands on the Transform Ultra. Officially announced for the third place carrier today, Sammy's Droid Charge with a QWERTY twist packs the usual array of mid-range specs. The 3.5-incher runs Android 2.3 atop a single-core 1GHz processor, with a VGA front facing / 3 megapixel rear camera, 512MB RAM, 2GB of storage and 1500mAh battery in tow. It's no next gen, 4G beastie, but sometimes you just need a workhorse to get things done. Pricing and availability have yet to be released, although we're sure that bit of crucial info's right around the corner. Official presser awaits you after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Samsung Transform™ Ultra 		Highly-customizable Android experience 		Samsung Transform Ultra is a premium android powered device that delivers a truly customizable experience even faster than before and at an affordable price. Samsung Transform Ultra, powered by Android 2.3 Gingerbread, features access to Google Mobile™ services and more than 250,000 applications through Android Market. It has a powerful 1GHz processor, a 3MP rear-facing camera and VGA front-facing camera for video chat while on the go. Equipped with Sprint ID users can also completely customize their experience based on their needs and interests. Users can automatically get ringers, wallpapers, apps and widgets downloaded to your phone in one click.  		Productivity		• 3.5" HVGA touch screen with full QWERTY keyboard		• 1GHz processor		• Android 2.3 with Sprint ID customizable user interface		• Sprint 3G (EVDO Rev. A) network 		Entertainment and Personalization		• Dual Cameras- 3 MP camera and VGA front facing camera		• Sprint ID, a user-friendly means of customizing Android content on mobile phones. Allows users to instantly download ID packs that deliver a predefined experience, including applications, widgets, ringtones and wallpapers, all at once.		• Android Market™ – browse and download thousands of free and paid apps from around the world		• WiFi and GPS capable		• MP3 Player with MicroSD card slot (supports up to 32GB)		• Stereo Bluetooth® Wireless technology 		Specifications		• Processor: 1 GHz Qualcomm MSM8655		• Dimensions: 4.57 x 2.40 x 0.55 inches; 4.9 ounces		• Display: HVGA 480 x 320 pixels		• RAM/ROM: 512MB/2GB		• 1500 mAh Li-ION inner cell battery with up to 7 hours1 continuous talk time
 