

It looks like Kodak and Samsung's 'patent squabble' can be attributed to misplaced affection. According to some newly minted PR, the companies have inked a technology cross-license that will allow each access to the other's portfolio. Details are scarce, but apparently Sammy has already made a payment to Kodak as credit towards the royalties it will owe once it dives into the classic imaging company's back catalog. And how about all that alleged patent infringement? The lovebirds have agreed to file joint requests to terminate proceedings and settle their lawsuits against each other, heralding a new era of peace, love, and cooperation -- a great way to begin a new decade, don't you think? Chuck Woolery, you've done well. PR after the break.
 

Show full PR textKodak, Samsung Enter Into Technology Cross LicenseAgreement Is Royalty-Bearing to KodakROCHESTER, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Eastman Kodak Company (NYSE: EK) announced today that it has entered into a technology cross license with Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. that will allow each company access to the other's patent portfolio. The license agreement, which provides significant benefits to both companies, is royalty bearing to Kodak. The company received a payment from Samsung in December that has been credited toward its royalty obligation. Additional financial details were not disclosed.The companies also entered into an agreement to file joint requests for the termination of patent infringement proceedings before the U.S. International Trade Commission, and to settle their patent infringement lawsuits against each other, which are pending in U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York and in the German courts. Both the settlement of the litigation and the license agreement become effective upon approval by the International Trade Commission of the joint requests for termination. The ITC is expected to make its determination by the end of January 2010."We are pleased to have reached a mutually beneficial arrangement that advances the interests of Kodak and Samsung and which validates the strength of Kodak's intellectual property portfolio," said Laura G. Quatela, Chief Intellectual Property Officer, and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.About KodakAs the world's foremost imaging innovator, Kodak helps consumers, businesses, and creative professionals unleash the power of pictures and printing to enrich their lives.To learn more, visit http://www.kodak.com and follow our blogs and more at http://www.kodak.com/go/followus.More than 75 million people worldwide manage, share and create photo gifts online at KODAK Gallery--join today at www.kodakgallery.com.
 