
 
It's that time of the year again! Yep, the time when most laptop makers start thinking about the holiday season and unleash a massive amount of systems. Samsung's kicking off its announcements at IFA with the SF and NF Series, both of which have a brand new wave or fin-like designs -- they were apparently codenamed "shark" within the company. Beginning with the netbooks, the NF series will hit in the coming weeks and will be available in two skus -- the ivory, single-core Atom NF210 will be $379 and the silver NF310 will have a dual-core Atom processor for $399. We got a chance to check them out a few days ago and found the overall build quality to be really solid -- we really loved the new chiclet keyboard as well as the swirly pattern on the metal touchpad. Sammy's also claiming over 10 hours of battery life on them, but we'll obviously want to test that for ourselves. 

On the bigger and badder end is the SF Series. Similar to the netbooks, the mainstream laptops have glossy lids with the new wave like edges. According to Samsung's global press release, they'll be available with Core i3 / i5 processors and in three different sizes -- there's the 13.3-inch SF310, 14-inch SF410 and 15.6-inch SF510. The US team tells us the $749 Core i3-powered, 500GB hard drive-packing SF510 will hit the market soon and will be a Best Buy exclusive. We got a peek at that one as well, and similarly love the new chiclet keyboard, though we're hesitant on this one's single-button touchpad. Until we bring you some full reviews, there's additional details in the press release below and some hands-on shots in the gallery. 



 


Show full PR textSamsung Sets a New Standard in Mobile Computer Design with the launch of new SF Series NotePCs and NF Series NetbooksWith a distinctive design and powerful features, the SF and NF series targets youth-minded and style-conscious consumers Sept. 1st, 2010, Seoul, Korea– Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the launch of the SF series of ultra-portable notePCs and NF series netbooks. Without compromising on powerful performance and enhanced features, the Samsung SF Series notePCs and NF Series netbooks set a new standard for design in mobile computing.Coupling a unique, streamlined design with optimal features for mobile convenience, the new lineup of SF series and NF series notePCs and netbooks have been designed to match the dynamic and ever-changing lives of mobile users. Smooth and refined body design attracts the most sophisticated of today's computer users.Seongwoo Nam, Executive Vice President and Head of IT Solutions Business at Samsung Electronics, said, "Inspired and elegantly crafted, this new lineup is truly representative of our efforts to come up with a new style in mobile computers." He added, "I believe that Samsung's new mobile computer designs are fresh and will drive design trends across the computer industry and satisfy style-conscious users."Samsung SF Series – Samsung SF310, SF410, SF510Samsung SF series notebooks have a distinctive design that offers style-conscious users the ultimate in mobility. The Samsung SF series will be available globally from October 2010. The SF series will draw admiring glances from everyone around you with its tactile, glossy ivory exterior, stylish mat-black interior and comfortable island keyboard. It is available in three screen sizes (13.3" SF310, 14" SF410 and 15.6" SF 510) and shows refined craftsmanship with a durable case that has been constructed to be both ultra-light and scratch resistant.Powered by Intel Core i3 / i5 dual-core processors, the SF series delivers performance as well as power efficiency, keeping users connected on the road. The SF series comes with a hybrid graphics solution which uses 2 different graphic cards – one is from Intel and enables longer battery life while the other from nVIDIA allows for enhanced multimedia performance.Battery life is essential for working on-the-go so Samsung has included a premium Lithium Polymer Battery that provides up to 7.5 hours of battery life (61Wh battery). For additional convenience, the SF series also features Samsung's Express Charging Mode, reducing charging times and delivering a full battery in just 2~3 hours.Samsung's Fast Start technology enables users to open the note PC and be ready to go in seconds. The Fast Start feature eliminates the waiting around for a laptop to start. The SF series' one-touch wireless control button allows you to connect immediately without any complicated steps. The combination of Samsung's Fast Start technology with its one-touch wireless capability means that you are up and online quickly and efficiently.As well as enabling you to get started as soon as possible, the SF series helps you to stay connected using all of your devices. If you are caught short and find your smart phone, camera or other electrical devices low on power when traveling, Samsung's convenient USB Sleep & Charge lets you plug in your external devices via the USB connection, to charge without turning on your notebook.Samsung NF Series – Samsung NF310, NF210, NF110Samsung NF series netbook is a powerhouse of practical technology to help you stay connected without compromising on a stylish design. Sharing its unique design concept with the SF series, the NF netbooks deliver enhanced mobility and eye-catching design. NF series netbooks will be available in Europe in October and then expanded globally.Equipped with enhanced mobility and innovative design, the Samsung NF310 netbook is just what you need to express yourself. A crystal clear HD LED display and unique surround sound system, together with the new Intel® Atom™ N550 (Dual Core) processor*, DDR3 memory and Windows 7, take netbook computing into a whole new dimension of multimedia performance. NF 310 is also design to enjoy HD movies and images that are clear and picture perfect even in bright light with a high resolution (1366 x 768) widescreen and a proper 16:9 aspect ratio.NF210 makes anytime, anywhere mobile computing a practical reality by uniting an extensive battery life of up to 14 hours (6 cell 8850mAh battery) with its ultraportable and stylish design.NF110 gives trendsetting consumers all they want in a netbook at an affordable price. With extensive quality assurance testing and a majority of its components manufactured by Samsung, it affordably delivers exceptional reliability and long-term value.Sharing content from PC-to-PC over a network can be complex and require a lot of IT knowledge, however, with Samsung's Easy File Share it's very simple and intuitive to make a direct PC-to-PC connection over an ad-hoc Wi-Fi connection.The new notebooks also come equipped with Samsung AllShare™ allowing users to share and play videos, photos, and music across a full range of Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) certified Samsung devices, including cameras and handsets.For more product information and multimedia content, please access to http://www.samsungcomputerpr.comAbout Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 188,000 people in 185 offices across 65 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.
 