
 
As the battle between active and passive 3D glasses display technology heats up, Samsung has responded by announcing its cheapest pair of active shutter 3D glasses will cost $50 (previously $130) beginning May 1st. Additionally, all of its 3D-capable 2011 HDTVs will come with two pairs of glasses packed in, unless the purchase is eligible for the Megamind/Shrek starter kit that already comes with them. This move comes just as FPR-based displays from LG, Vizio, Toshiba and Philips hit the marketplace. LG specifically focused on the cost of glasses as a selling point over Samsung in recent ads that ran heavily throughout the NCAA Tournament (embedded after the break.) LG is charging $10 per pair for its RealD-compatible Theater 3D glasses while Vizio has pairs on its website for $29.99 or two for $44.99.

The cheap pair of Samsung glasses is the SSG-3100GB model with replaceable battery pictured above and while it promises the new, lighter Silhouette-designed SSG-3700GR glasses will also get cheaper, no new price has yet been announced. A 62% price reduction is nothing to sneeze at, but it looks like customers will still need to buy into 3D -- and that active glasses beat passive on picture quality and viewing angle like it says in the press release (after the break) -- to spur sales of the new TVs.
      

 

 Show full PR text SAMSUNG MAKES HOME 3D EXPERIENCE MORE AFFORDABLE THAN EVERAll Samsung 3D TVs to Provide Two Pairs of 3D Active Glasses; Extra Pairs to cost under $50.RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J., April 6, 2011 – Samsung Electronics America Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today announced new promotions that will make the 3D experience in the home more affordable than ever for consumers. Beginning April 24, Samsung will provide two pairs of 3D active glasses for its entire 3D lineup at no additional cost with the purchase of any Samsung LED TV or Plasma 3D TV.Also beginning May 1, 2011, Samsung's 2011 3D active glasses (SSG-3100GB) for its 3D LED and 3D Plasma televisions will be available at retail for under $50.With the new promotions and price reductions, 3D TV customers can now outfit a family of four with 3D active glasses for only $100. The SSG-3100GB model does not require charging and will provide up to 70 hours of use from the included replaceable battery.Customers purchasing the D7000 LED 3D TV and up, or the D6500 Plasma 3D TV and up, will continue to receive Samsung's 3D Starter Kit. The kit includes two pairs of 3D active glasses, promotional versions of DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.'s (Nasdaq: DWA) complete Shrek collection on 3D Blu-ray and a voucher for Megamind 3D on Blu-ray. Customers already receiving this starter kit with a step-up model will not be eligible for the new promotion.Samsung's 3D Active technology delivers a no-compromise 3D experience. Unlike other approaches to 3D, Active 3D Technology delivers 2x the resolution for an immersive, Full HD image (1080p picture for each eye), a wider viewing angle and no black lines interfering with the picture.Samsung's 2011 3D active glasses deliver superior image quality and vivid, realistic 3D imagery. Samsung's complete line of 3D glasses (including the stylish and incredibly light glasses designed by Silhouette) will also soon be price-adjusted.For more information on Samsung's full line of 3D glasses and TV accessories, please visit http://www.samsungusanews.com/. About Samsung Electronics America, Inc.Headquartered in Ridgefield Park, NJ, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., markets a broad range of award-winning, digital consumer electronics and home appliance products, including HDTVs, home theater systems, MP3 players, digital imaging products, refrigerators and washing machines. A recognized innovation leader in consumer electronics design and technology, Samsung is the HDTV market leader in the U.S. Please visit www.samsung.com for more information.# # # 
 