
So, it might not be a surprise that it was in the works, but its official announcement today almost caught us off guard. Here it is, the Samsung Galaxy S 4 Mini. Now we can say for sure that there's a (yet to be specified) 1.7GHz dual-core processor, Android 4.2.2, GPS, GLONASS, WiFi, 8GB internal memory (expandable up to 64), and 1.5GB of RAM. The display is a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED qHD affair, which will be kept going by a 1,900mAh battery, with the shooters coming in 8- and 1.9-megapixel resolutions. There's LTE support -- as you'd hope -- in 6 band sets, plus single and dual-SIM 3G versions for certain markets. Color choices are white and black (for now), with no official word on price and availability at this time. Mini, just got bigger it seems.


Update: We may have a clearer idea of when the S 4 Mini will be up for grabs -- in the UK, at least -- as retailer Phones 4U has said it'll be stocking the handset "when it becomes available in the UK in July 2013." 



Show full PR textSAMSUNG INTRODUCES THE GALAXY S4 MINIA powerful, compact smartphone designed to fit busy lifestylesLondon, UK – May 30, 2013 – Samsung Electronics today announced the Galaxy S4 Mini, a powerful, compact version of its bestselling smartphone, the Galaxy S4. The Galaxy S4 Mini delivers the superior performance, intuitive ease-of-use and sleek design of the Galaxy S4 in a portable chic and compact design.Simon Stanford, Vice President of IT & Mobile Division, Samsung Electronics UK & Ireland said: "Demand for the Galaxy S4 has been phenomenal since it launched in April and we hope to build on this success with the Galaxy S4 Mini. This new handset is the ideal smartphone companion for anyone who wants a compact device packed with innovation."With a 4.3" qHD Super AMOLED display, the Galaxy S4 Mini offers stunning images and content. At just 107g, the lightweight and compact design enables you to carry and use the device easily with one hand. The Galaxy S4 Mini also boasts powerful performance, equipped with a 1.7GHz dual core processor and supports many of the same intuitive features as the Galaxy S4, designed to enhance different aspects of life.Capturing MemoriesThe Galaxy S4 Mini allows you to capture important moments in life with an 8-megapixel rear-facing camera as well as a 1.9-megapixel HD front-facing camera. Special features include Sound&Shot, which stores sounds and images together, Panorama Shot which allows you to take a full view of what you are seeing, and Story Album, which automatically arranges photos in a smart format – photos taken by Galaxy S4 Mini are automatically gathered and saved according to your timeline, geo-tagging information or specific event, to create a photo album. You can also receive travel assistance and information services through the S Travel preloaded app which can even recommend a new trip and provide destination guides.Sharing and ConnectingThe Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini means you can share content with others around you easily. Simultaneously listen to the same music and play the same games as your friends with Group Play, and chat with multiple friends with animations, video and voice recording added to messages using ChatON.Environment FeaturesThe Galaxy S4 Mini features S Translator, for instant translation using text or voice on applications including email, text message and ChatON. You can also control your environment through WatchON's IR remote which transforms the device into a remote to control your home entertainment systems including TV, set-top box and DVD player. Content available includes live TV, cable TV and VOD based on the information provided EPG (Electronic Program Guide). In addition, Samsung Link* will help you share content across multiple Samsung digital devices. *Available in select countries. Previously called AllShare Play.Wellbeing FeaturesThe Galaxy S4 Mini keeps you up to date with health and wellbeing information. Downloadable from Samsung Apps, S Health enables you to monitor your calorie balance. It can calculate each step taken daily, monitor sleeping patterns, calculate weight and share real time heart rate information**. Adapt Display provides an optimal viewing experience, customised for each type of application, and Adapt Sound offers an optimal level and type of sound, personalised for each user. ** Functionality such as monitoring weight, heart rate and sleeping patterns is possible through the use of fitness accessories which are sold separately.AvailabilityThe Galaxy S4 Mini will be available in two colours – White Frost and Black Mist. There will be a 4G LTE version, 3G version, and 3G Dual Sim version. Details on which variants will be ranged in the UK and the UK shipping date will be announced in due course.

PHONES 4U TO RANGE THE NEW SAMSUNG GALAXY S4 MINI
LONDON, 30TH MAY 2013: Phones 4u today confirms that it will range the newly announced Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini when it becomes available in the UK in July 2013.

Scott Hooton, Chief Commercial Officer at Phones 4u, comments: "We know that there's a huge appetite for Samsung Galaxy devices, with the Samsung Galaxy S4 being the biggest selling new smartphone of 2013 at Phones 4u. With the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini, Samsung has packed the incredible new features into a smaller design which will appeal to a different audience, and we anticipate it will be well received by our customers."

Hooton adds: "We know that screen size is really important, with YouGov* research showing that 54% of people say that this is in their top five most important features when picking a new smartphone. With the addition of the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini to our current handset range at Phones 4u, we will have an extensive collection of Samsung smartphones to suit all tastes, whether big or small."

Pricing and availability for the new Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini will be revealed at a later date. Keep up to date with the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini by visiting the Phones 4u website.


