
 
Though it's just being called the "Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone" at this point, rest assured: the Android-powered device is very much real and very much destined for Verizon's airwaves. Though the inclusion of LTE is obviously a high point, the phone's claim to fame might be that it'll be among the first devices in the world to feature one of Sammy's newfangled Super AMOLED Plus displays (4.3 inches, in this case) that offers even better contrast and outdoor viewability than the original Super AMOLED did. You've got TouchWiz-skinned Android 2.2, an 8 megapixel camera with flash paired to a 1.3 megapixel front-facing unit for video calling, and a 1GHz processor that seems to mirror what's already being offered on most of the Galaxy S series today -- no dual-core madness here.

We had a few fleeting moments to touch (but not photograph) the phone recently, and the screen is definitely a sight to behold -- we're not sure how Samsung managed to make a more contrasty display than Super AMOLED, but it did. We'll admit, we didn't love the tapered shape -- we thought it looked a little strange sitting on a table, though some might like it and it's certainly not a big deal either way. We also weren't huge fans of the big physical buttons below the display, a surprising counterpoint to the recent trend toward capacitive buttons on high-end Android devices. It's a heavy phone, though probably not heavy enough to bother folks who are in the market for a 4.3-inch display anyway -- and hey, we won't know for sure how it stacks up until we pit it head-to-head in a brutal deathmatch with Verizon's other version-one LTE phones like the Droid Bionic. Follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textVERIZON WIRELESS AND SAMSUNG MOBILE ANNOUNCE SAMSUNG'S FIRST 4G LTE-ENABLED HANDSET, THE SAMSUNG 4G LTE SMARTPHONEFeatures Android 2.2 platform, Super AMOLED™ Plus Display, 1GHz Application Processor and Rear and Front-Facing Cameras LAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J. – From the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Verizon Wireless and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) today announced that the Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone will be available on the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network.Powered by an Android 2.2 operating system, the 4G LTE Smartphone is equipped with Google Mobile services, including Google Search™, Google Maps™, Gmail™, YouTube™ and access to more than 100,000 applications on Android Market™. The 4G LTE Smartphone boasts a brilliant 4.3-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus touch screen display, powerful 1GHz application processor and HTML 5 Web browser that uses high-speed 4G LTE connectivity for faster downloads. Designed with a rear-facing 8 megapixel camera with LED flash and front-facing 1.3 megapixel camera, the 4G LTE Smartphone supports video chat capabilities. Messaging is made simple on the 4G LTE Smartphone with a virtual QWERTY keyboard equipped with Swype™ technology. Additionally, the Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone will come preloaded with popular LTE-specific applications."The Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone is an ideal option for those who look to Samsung Mobile for sleek and innovative devices combined with blazing fast speeds of Android 2.2 on the nation's most advanced 4G network," said Marni Walden, vice president and chief marketing officer for Verizon Wireless. "This powerful combination enables our customers to connect face to face with family and friends, while still enjoying premium multimedia and social networking features backed by the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network."The 4G LTE Smartphone has access to Samsung's Media Hub content service available on the 4G LTE network, which offers a robust collection of premium movies and TV episodes from some of the biggest entertainment companies for purchase and rental. Users can stay connected with Samsung's Social Hub, built around messaging, contacts and calendar sync, which allows users to send and receive information, whether it is e-mail, social network updates or text messages.The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network, launched in December 2010, is the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States, providing speeds up to 10 times faster than Verizon Wireless' 3G network. Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network currently reaches one-third of all Americans, with plans to expand the network to the company's entire 3G coverage area over the next three years.The Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone will be on display at CES 2011 in Verizon Wireless' booth (#35216 in the South Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center) and in the Samsung booth (#12006 in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center). For more information about Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network, visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte and for more information about Verizon Wireless at CES please visit www.verizonwireless.com/ces or follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/verizonwireless. For more information about the Samsung 4G LTE Smartphone, visit www.samsung.com.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

