
 


Samsung continues its camera announcements today with the NX200, a 20.3 megapixel interchangeable lens system using the company's proprietary APS-C CMOS sensor. It also features a high-speed continuous mode that shoots up to 7fps and full HD video recording, 1920x1080 at 30p. If those specs aren't enough, notice the wide ISO range, from 100 to 12800, covering seven stops. Availability hasn't been announced yet, but pricing should run about $900 with an 18mm-55mm zoom lens and on-camera flash -- a number of other lenses will roll out in the coming months. Give your eyes a feast with the gallery below, and check out the full PR after the break.





 		Show full PR text  Premium Style Meets Professional Performance with the Samsung NX200 Interchangeable Lens Camera 		Capture memorable images in the best picture quality, with the Samsung NX200 		IFA - BERLIN, Germany - September 1, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the launch of the NX200. The new compact system camera delivers professional image quality with ease of use that lets users unleash their creativity. The NX200 includes a 20.3 Megapixel APS-C CMOS sensor and other premium features such as high-speed continuous shooting (7fps (max) with 100ms Advanced Auto Focus), wide range ISO (100-12,800), Full HD movie recording, and Samsung's unique i-Function lens. With exceptional performance and functionality built into a compact metallic form factor in the NX200, users no longer have to trade off camera style for image quality. 		The NX200 is the perfect combination of design and professional performance, delivering DSLR image quality in a camera that is compact and easy to use. The camera incorporates a 20.3 Megapixel APS-C CMOS sensor developed in-house by Samsung, ensuring image quality that highlights even the smallest detail and puts performance at the fingertips of all photographers. To allow for high-speed continuous shooting, the NX200 features 100ms Advanced AF. Thanks to the fast start-up time and seven fps continuous shooting, it's the perfect way to capture that split-second action in an instant. Additionally, users will never miss a moment, with the ability to move from shot to shot in only 400ms. 		The camera's wide range ISO (100-12800, covering seven stops) gives life-like color and sharp details, even in dark environments or when capturing still images of moving objects. 		To capture movement on video, the NX200 also features 1920x1080/30p (H.264) HD movie recording for exciting and vivid video with stereo sound. All this is incorporated into a compact and sleek body with a premium metal design, light enough to be carried in a jacket pocket and stylish enough that anyone will be proud to be seen with this camera. 		The NX200 also enables state-of-the-art usability through Samsung's i-Function 2.0 lenses, which allow users to control a range of parameters from the lens without having to take their eye off the shot. The NX200 is fully compatible with the wide range of nine different i-Function lenses which enable toggling between shutter speed, aperture, exposure value (EV), white balance (WB), and ISO quickly and easily through the button and ring on the lens. With the upgraded i-Function 2.0 on the NX200, users can also control six different Smart Filters and the intelli-Zoom function from the lens while in Lens Priority Mode. New lenses for the i-Function system include 18-200mm, 16mm, 60mm and 85mm focal lengths. 		"With the NX line, we have pioneered the compact system camera to allow any user to get the results that they've always wanted from their pictures without complicated controls or the need to carry heavy, clunky equipment," said Mr. Myoung Sup Han, Senior Vice President and Head of the Digital Imaging Business, Samsung Electronics. "The NX200 is the next step in providing the ambitious photographer with first-class picture quality through the combination of professional-standard features such as a 20.3 Megapixel APS-C CMOS sensor, high speed capture, wide-range ISO and HD movie capabilities. With technology like this built into a stylish and compact body, the NX200 is the ultimate tool for achieving professional quality in a compact camera. The NX200 represents Samsung's continued commitment to lead the way in producing cutting-edge technology that fits the needs and knowledge of the consumer, proving photography does not need to be complicated in order to deliver great results every time." 		Effortless creativity		One of the key ways in which Samsung's NX200 stands out is by making it easy for users to realize their own creativity through a range of fun and easy-to-use features and settings. The camera features ten different Smart Filter effects, six of which can be easily accessed through the i-Function lens, allowing the user to capture a uniquely creative image of their subject without having to take their eye off it to change the filter. The new NX200 also includes Magic Frame technology, which enables the user to encapsulate their pictures with thirteen different stylized frames, from magazine covers to holiday themes for fun photos to share with family and friends. 		Professional standards made simple		With its Smart Panel feature, the NX200 makes taking pictures simple and fuss-free, even for first-time users. The high-quality images captured can be viewed in brilliant quality on the 3.0" VGA AMOLED display. The camera's Smart Panel also offers intuitive control thanks to a Hot Key button that enables users to switch to key functions without the need to scroll through confusing menus to get to the desired shot. 		Expanding horizons		The NX200 enables users to capture even more from their experiences by using exciting new features and cutting-edge Samsung technology. The new Panorama function means that users can take lengthened shots of large objects or turn the image into a 3D scene, bringing the object to life. To capture even more of the moment for posterity, Samsung has also added the Sound Picture function to the NX200, so that a snippet of sound can be recorded to accompany a still image to add even more memories to a photograph. 		For more information about the Samsung NX200, visit www.samsung.com/NX 		About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.		Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of US$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company consists of nine independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Memory, System LSI and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, semiconductor chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.
 