
 
Camera releases are somewhat a by-the-numbers thing with so many different variations being released by numerous companies throughout the year. Samsung's pair here does have some interesting standout features, but one at a time. The 14.2 megapixel ST80 point-and-shoot boasts WiFi capabilities for email / direct upload of images (DLNA supported, to boot). It's also got 3x optical zoom, a 3-inch WQVGA touchscreen, 720p 30fps H.264 video recording, and Sammy's "Smart Crop" feature for taking angled shots and "straightening them up" (i.e. a banner that is fixed to look straight on). This one's due out September 2010 for a penny under $250. Then there's the HMX-E10 pocket camcorder with an impressive 270-degree swiveling lens and 1920 x 1080 30p H.264 HD video recording. That touchscreen you see is a 2.7-inch LCD, the lens has 2x digital zoom, connectivity is HDMI and USB (also used for charging), and release details are September as well, for $199.99. You know the drill: product shots are below, press releases after the break. 



 


Show full PR textSAMSUNG INTRODUCES THE Wi-Fi ENABLED ST80 DIGITAL CAMERASharing Images and Video is Simplified for Today's Well-Connected ConsumerRidgefield Park, NJ (July 28, 2010) – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today unveiled the ST80, a 14.2 mega-pixel point‑and-shoot camera that joins Samsung's growing line of Wi-Fi enabled digital cameras. With wireless technologies such as Wi-Fi and Samsung's AllShare™ (DNLA) connectivity, the ST80 makes it easy to share images on the move and keep friends and family updated from anywhere at any time. "We want to let people share their favorite pictures quickly while they're on the move, and the ST80 does just that," said Sangjin Park, President of the Digital Imaging Business, Samsung Electronics. "Connectivity is everywhere, and at Samsung we are committed to bringing these wireless capabilities to the digital imaging world by developing innovative cameras that satisfy the distinct needs of our consumers. The innovative and stylish design of the ST80 is also a testament to the strong vision of Samsung's design engineers. It's the perfect digital imaging solution for today's well-connected consumer." Beauty and BrainsThe unique style of the ST80 immediately makes it stand out from the crowd. Consumers will be drawn to the ST80's slim and rounded design, which houses a 3x optical zoom as well as a large, 3.0-inch wide touch‑screen on the back of the camera. Consumers will also enjoy the smart features found within the camera. The ST80 comes equipped with Samsung's new 'Smart Crop' feature, a unique editing tool which takes place directly on the camera. With 'Smart Crop,' users can crop images taken at any angle or slant, such as banners or signs, and then straighten them as if they were originally taken straight on. The ST80 also makes it easy to capture great images with Samsung's Smart Auto (Still & Movie) scene recognition technology. Smart Auto (Still & Movie) automatically recognizes the user's current shooting environment and selects the appropriate settings to achieve the best results possible. In addition to the impressive 14.2 mega-pixel resolution for digital still images, the ST80 offers HD video recording. At 30 frames-per-second, the ST80 allows consumers to record high‑quality, 720p HD video utilizing the H.264 format, which provides up to three times more recording capacity than the MJPEG video format. Wirelessly ConnectedThe ST80's wireless connectivity makes it easy for users to upload or share digital images or videos with others directly from the camera without the need to be connected to a computer. By leveraging an available Wi-Fi internet connection, consumers have the option to email their digital images and video to individual email addresses or to those stored in the camera's address book. In addition to email, consumers can also effortlessly upload images and videos directly to social networking sites such as Facebook®, Picasa™, YouTube®, Photo Bucket or even Samsung's own Web site (HYPERLINK "http://www.samsungimaging.com"www.samsungimaging.com). The ST80 range also comes equipped with an account with mobile hotspot provider Boingo, delivering broadband speeds in the palm of your hands at more than 120,000 Wi-Fi hotspots across the world. The ST80's wireless connectivity is further enhanced by Samsung's AllShare™ technology. Thanks to AllShare, users can effortlessly sync the ST80 to popular DLNA-compliant (Digital Living Network Alliance) electronics found throughout the home, such as HDTVs and digital photo frames, and wirelessly connect and share content between each device.SpecificationsST80Mega-Pixels 14.2 mega-pixels Optical Zoom3x Optical ZoomLCD SizeClear 3.0" WQVGA Touch Display (230K) LensSamsungMovie Mode720p / 30fps / H.264Size92X55.4X18.5mmSpecial Features- Wi-Fi Connectivity - AllShare (DLNA Supported)- Email / Direct upload to photo sharing websites- 3.0" Touch-Screen LCD - High-Definition 720p Video- Smart Auto (Still & Movie)-Smart Crop Feature AvailabilitySeptember 2010Pricing$249.99* Specifications and design are subject to change without notice.For additional information regarding Samsung's 2010 digital imaging product lineup, including press releases, video content and product images, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.samsung.com/newsroom"www.samsung.com/newsroom.About Samsung Electronics Co., LtdSamsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 188,000 people in 185 offices across 65 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.samsung.com"www.samsung.com.# # #Show full PR textSAMSUNG INTRODUCES POCKET-SIZED, FULL-HD CAMCORDER WITH SWIVELING LENS HMX-E10 Adds Style and Flexibility to Samsung's Growing Camcorder Family, Allowing Consumers to Picture Themselves in the FunRidgefield Park, NJ (July 28, 2010) – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today added to its point-and-shoot camcorder lineup with the introduction of the innovative HMX-E10. Offering full-HD resolution, the Samsung HMX-E10 is highlighted by a versatile, 270-degree swiveling lens that enhances consumers' creativity and allows them to add their own unique views to their video by being able to record from just about any angle. The HMX-E10's swiveling lens also brings a new sense of fun to recording video, and gives consumers the ability to step out from behind the camcorder and put themselves in the frame with their friends and family.Samsung has also strived to simplify the way consumers share content with others through the HMX-E10, with the innovative built-in USB port function. The USB feature enables users to connect the camcorder directly to any computer without added attachments like a USB cable, allowing consumers to share important moments wherever they are. The USB connection can also be used to charge the battery."Samsung is focused on introducing features to its camcorders which address unmet needs and take the video recording experience to new levels for consumers," said Sangjin Park, President of the Digital Imaging Business, Samsung Electronics. "The HMX-E10 offers the image quality, ultra-compact design and built-in USB technology that consumers expect from this class of camcorder, but goes a step beyond, offering features such as a swiveling lens, versatile LCD screen and a range of smart filters, which give users the ability to do more and express their creativity." Easy Connectivity and SharingSamsung designed the HMX-E10 to help simplify the way consumers share their content with others. The camcorder features a built-in USB connection that gives users the ability to connect the camcorder to any computer without having to worry about always carrying around a separate USB cable. In addition, the HMX-E10 is also loaded with Samsung's play‑edit‑sharing program, called intelli‑studio. This intuitive program gives users the ability to edit and play their video from any computer without having to install supporting software. This is extremely useful when traveling or when consumers are away from the own personal computers.An interactive and onscreen "upload" button on the HMX-E10 also makes uploading footage to the Web effortless. When connected to a computer with an internet connection, the one-touch "upload" button links directly to a specified content sharing Web site, such as YouTube™, and reduces the number of steps needed to successfully upload and share video.High-Performance Sensor and Versatile DisplayAt the heart of the HMX-E10 is a large, high-performance 1/3.2 inch CMOS sensor that captures impressive 1920x1080 full HD resolution video (30p / H.264) as well as eight mega‑pixel digital still images. On the back of the camcorder is a versatile, 2.7-inch wide, touch‑screen LCD that is set vertically. When recording video, the HMX-E10's LCD screen is divided into two sections; the top displays the live view showing what is currently in the frame and the bottom displays a series of touch-screen controls, including record, stop and play. Consumers can even rotate the swivel lens to utilize this screen to put themselves in the frame, allowing them to step out from behind the camcorder and become part of the action. When reviewing footage, consumers hold the HMX-E10 horizontally, so that they can leverage the entire display to view their video in widescreen. Creative ControlsThe HMX-E10 is packed with a full range of fun controls which encourage consumers to get creative with their videos. Consumers can take advantage of several Smart Filters which adjust the HMX-E10 to produce unique lens and color effects. The camcorder's lens effects include miniature, which produces the tilt and lens shift effect, and vignetting, which produces the lomo effect. Color effects include defog, which mimics the use of a CPL filter, and sketch, which gives video a pencil drawing feel.SpecificationsHMX-E10Image Sensor1/3.2" CMOSLens1x, Auto Focus (2x digital zoom) F2.2 Bright lensLCD2.7-inch Touch-Screen LCD, 230kMemorymicroSDInterfaceUSB 2.0 (Built in)HDMIUnique Features1920x1080 Full-HD VideoH.264 Video Format8MPUltra-Compact Design270° Swiveling LensHDMI ConnectivityBuilt-in USB USB ChargingSmart Filters: Miniature, Vignetting, Defog, SketchPanorama shotBuilt-In intelli-studio2.0 SoftwareOne-Touch Upload to YouTubeColorIvory / Black AvailabilitySeptember 2010Pricing$199.99* Specifications and design are subject to change without notice.For additional information regarding Samsung's 2010 digital imaging product lineup, including press releases, video content and product images, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.samsung.com/newsroom"www.samsung.com/newsroom.About Samsung Electronics Co., LtdSamsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 188,000 people in 185 offices across 65 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.samsung.com"www.samsung.com.# # #
 