
 
The UK is about to get its first taste of Samsung's Bada OS courtesy of the Wave, which is launching with Vodafone on June 1. Already announced amid the carrier's list of "coming soon" devices, this Super AMOLED-sporting phone has now been slapped with pre-order availability and some pricing info. Should you opt for Voda's £25 ($36) per month two-year plan, which also furnishes you with 300 free minutes, unlimited texts, and a 500MB data allowance, you can have the Wave for free. Prices start to climb from there, though strangely enough, no 12-month or partially subsidized options are on offer. And before we forget, buying this phone will also get you a Vodafone McLaren Mercedes rucksack as an extra freebie -- how's that for value?
      

 

Show full PR textVodafone UK Opens Pre-Order for Samsung WaveNew bada platform set to land on the UK's best networkVodafone UK customers can now pre-order the stunning Samsung Wave, the first handset to run on the new bada software platform, and Samsung's next generation, ultra responsive touchscreen smartphone.The Samsung Wave will be available for free on a £25, 24 month price plan, including 300 minutes, unlimited texts and 500MB of mobile data. The new device is the latest addition to a great range of smartphones available to Vodafone customers, including the Google Nexus One, HTC Desire, Apple iPhone and the Sony Ericsson X10.The Samsung Wave features an incredible stunning 3.3" Super AMOLED screen, and uses Samsung's HD TV technology to deliver crisp, rich images in the palm of your hand. And all of this functionality is delivered by a speedy 1GHz processor to give you a seamless experience.Through bada, the Samsung Wave offers great customisable features to allow you to adapt the phone to suit your requirements. Using the TouchWiz feature, for example, you can personalise multiple home screens with your favourite shortcuts and menus to get quicker access to the things you need most. You can also access Samsung Apps, the dedicated bada app store, giving you even more opportunities to customise your handset.Use the Social Hub to integrate SMS, IM and your favourite social networks into on place, bringing you and your friends even closer. In addition, bada supports a huge variety of features, such as Flash and in-app purchasing, to make the Samsung Wave both versatile and great fun to use. Customers purchasing the Samsung Wave on Vodafone will also receive a voucher for a free Vodafone McLaren Mercedes rucksack, which they can redeem online.For more information and to order the device ahead of its launch on 1 June, click here: http://shop.vodafone.co.uk/shop/mobile-phone/samsung-wave
 