
 If you've been looking for an unholy union 'twixt smartphone and compact shooter, then Samsung's Galaxy Camera can't come soon enough. The Android-powered snapper arrives in the UK on Thursday November 8th, with an RRP of £399, unless, that is, you're in the vicinity of the Samsung store. If so, then the devices are being sold early at 5:00pm on November 7th, when you can snag one a few hours early and enjoy some Champagne and canapés supplied by the Korean behemoth.



  Show full PR text   UK AVAILABILITY OF SAMSUNG GALAXY CAMERA ANNOUNCED FOR 8th NOVEMBER
   Samsung brand store customers to get new connected camera from 5pm on November 7th

  5th November 2012, London, UK – Samsung Electronics has today announced the Galaxy Camera will be available across the UK from November 8th. Samsung brand store customers will get the opportunity to buy it earlier, from 5pm on November 7th. First seen in Berlin at IFA 2012 in August, the new connected camera combines high performance photography with the cutting-edge design of Samsung's Galaxy smartphone range.

   Simon Stanford, Vice President, Telecommunications & Networks Division, Samsung UK and Ireland said: "The initial response to the Galaxy Camera has been amazing and we are really looking forward to offering our customers a completely new type of digital photography device. The Galaxy Camera is a fantastic example of our continued passion for innovation and we are excited to be evolving our Galaxy range even further."

   The Samsung Galaxy Camera features a 21x optical zoom lens, the latest Android OS (4.1 Jelly Bean) and 3G connectivity so it's possible to go online and share photos with friends and family anytime anywhere. Plus photographs and videos can be edited and shared easily and spontaneously wherever you are.

   A 21x optical touch zoom lens and super-bright 16M BSI CMOS sensor means it's possible to take high quality pictures with the Galaxy Camera and its 'Smart Pro' technology guarantees the end result is a professional-looking, stunning shot every time. The Galaxy Camera's 16-Megapixel 1/2.3" BSI CMOS sensor makes sure that every image is captured in brilliant colour and resolution, and even wide-angle shots are possible thanks to the 23mm aperture lens. With the world's largest and most vivid camera display – a 121.2mm HD Super Clear Touch Display - photographs are always crystal clear.

   The Galaxy Camera will be available exclusively at the Samsung Brand Store with champagne and canapés on offer from 5pm on November 7th and it will then hit a range of high street stores and online retailers including Carphone Warehouse, Phones 4u and Jessops on November 8th.

 
