
 US launch details for the Galaxy S 4 are arriving at last, and both Sprint and T-Mobile are on the vanguard. The two carriers plan to sell Samsung's flagship for $150 in 16GB form, albeit with different pricing strategies: T-Mobile's plan includes its now-standard device payment installments, while Sprint is discounting the phone from its normal $250 price through a $100 instant credit for those switching to the network. Just when you'll have the chance to plunk money down also varies. Sprint plans to offer pre-orders starting on April 18th, with an actual launch on April 27th. T-Mobile isn't giving customers the same opportunity to buy in advance, although they will get to take the Galaxy S 4 home a few days earlier, on April 24th. We're still waiting on other American carriers to hop on the bandwagon, but we suspect it won't be long.



  Show full PR text   Sprint Brings Truly Unlimited Data to Samsung Galaxy S 4 on April 27
  New customers switching their phone number to Sprint can get an additional $100 instant credit, reducing the price of Galaxy S 4 to $149.99
  Pre-order opens on April 18 at www.sprint.com/galaxys4
  OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), April 17, 2013 - Sprint (NYSE:S) will offer Samsung Galaxy S® 4 (16GB version) beginning on Saturday, April 27, for $249.99 (excluding taxes) with a new line or eligible upgrade and two-year service agreement. For a limited time only, new customers who switch their phone number to Sprint from another carrier will receive an additional $100 instant credit, reducing the price of Galaxy S 4 to $149.99 (excluding taxes).
  Pre-order for Galaxy S 4 will open on Thursday, April 18, at www.sprint.com/galaxys4, while supplies last.
  Galaxy S 4 will be available at Sprint Stores, Sprint Business Sales, Telesales (1-800-SPRINT1) and Web Sales (www.sprint.com), and comes in two color options – White Frost and Black Mist.
  Sprint offers Truly UnlimitedSM 4G LTE data, text and calling to any mobile device with no metering, no throttling, and no overages, all while on the Sprint network, making it the ideal carrier for customers who want to use every single feature of their Galaxy S 4 every single day of the month without worry. Sprint 4G LTE is available in select markets.
  "Galaxy S 4 is packed with incredible new features that will benefit from unlimited data plans on the Sprint 4G LTE network," said Fared Adib, senior vice president – Product Development, Sprint. "Sprint encourages our customers to really use their smartphone to its full potential – from surfing the Web to listening to streaming music or watching YouTube videos - without worry about data caps, throttling or silly overage charges on their monthly bill. I know our customers will enjoy this device as much as I do."
  Manufactured by Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), Galaxy S 4 is powered by Android™ 4.2.2, Jelly Bean, boasts a brilliant 5-inch full HD Super AMOLED™ touchscreen, 1.9GHz quad-core processor and access to the Sprint 4G LTE network. It also offers Multi Window, which allows the use of two apps side-by-side.
  Galaxy S 4 is the perfect device for vividly capturing life's most important moments by featuring dual cameras: a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera and 2-megapixel front-facing camera with a Dual Camera function allowing simultaneous use of both cameras. Galaxy S 4 is loaded with several innovative capabilities:
  * Drama Shot captures a progressive event, like a baby's first steps or a basketball player's slam dunk, in one frame  * Eraser Shot removes unwanted objects or people from an otherwise perfect picture  * Live Filters allow an individual to see how a picture will look – on both the camera and camcorder – before the photo is taken  * Story Album™ compiles photos with location and weather information to create the most comprehensive and personalized memory book
  Galaxy S 4 adds new touchless navigation with innovative features that detect face, voice and motions to enable screen control.
  * Air View™ lets the user preview emails, photos in the gallery, or even the stories in Flipboard by hovering a finger over the screen  * Smart Pause pauses a video by looking away from the screen  * Air Gesture allows the user to answer a call or skip to the next song by waving their hand in front of the screen
  Galaxy S 4 also features Polaris® Office to get work done using Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint files from almost anywhere.
  T-Mobile to Offer Samsung Galaxy S 4 at Exceptional Upfront Cost
  Only U.S. wireless company to sell Galaxy S 4 with unlimited talk, text and Web with no annual service contract on a fast, nationwide 4G network
  BELLEVUE, Wash. - April 17, 2013 - America's Un-carrier continues making bold moves to give consumers affordable, unrestricted1 and hassle-free ways to get the latest 4G LTE smartphones.
  T-Mobile USA, Inc. announced today the Samsung Galaxy S® 4 will be available online at www.T-Mobile.com beginning April 24 for just $149.99 down - plus monthly device payments - for qualifying customers with the new Simple Choice Plan.
  The availability of Samsung Galaxy S 4 comes as T-Mobile is delivering the most popular smartphones in revolutionary new ways and giving customers far more flexibility with how they buy and use their wireless devices.
  "Samsung has a proven track record of delivering the 'Next Big Thing' in smartphone innovation," said John Legere, president and CEO, T-Mobile USA. "By combining our bold, Un-carrier moves - no restrictions, no limits and an unbeatable value - with Samsung's leading-edge technology, you're going to get the most from your Samsung Galaxy S 4 at T-Mobile -hands down."
  T-Mobile is the only major U.S. wireless company offering the Samsung Galaxy S 4 with the following:
  ·  No annual service contract plus unlimited talk, text and Web on a blazing-fast nationwide 4G network.
  ·  The ability to save money upfront and every month over AT&T, Verizon and Sprint through the Simple Choice Plan.
  ·  HD Voice for nationwide crystal-clear high-definition calling and reduced background noise.
  ·  Smartphone Mobile HotSpot feature for sharing the Samsung Galaxy S 4's connection to the T-Mobile 4G network with up to five Wi-Fi capable devices (tablet, e-reader, laptop, portable gaming device and more). Smartphone Mobile HotSpot is included with every Simple Choice Plan.
 
