
 

Right on cue, Boost Mobile launched its first CDMA Android device today, the Samsung Galaxy Prevail. As we previously reported, this low-end smartphone features a 3.2-inch touchscreen, a 2 megapixel camera, Bluetooth and GPS. The Prevail runs Android 2.2 (Froyo), and comes preloaded with a slew of apps you may or may not have any interest in, including SCVNGR, Poynt, Twidroyd, Facebook, Hookt, ThinkFree Office, and YouTube. It's expected to be available in "late April" for $180 with a 2GB microSD card, which equates to a song when you consider how much a typical smartphone runs you off-contract. There's no word yet on details such as WiFi support, screen resolution and CPU type or speed, but we've got a hands-on of the unit coming right up. Until then, you'll find the press release after the break.

Update: We were able to catch a bit of hands-on time with the Prevail down in NYC tonight, and it's safe to say that it feels lightweight in the hand, especially compared to the original Motorola Droid, which we happened to be carrying. It's reminiscent of another featherweight phone of yore: the HTC Droid Eris. Even after just a few minutes of poking around, we noticed a pinch of lag in the touchscreen operation. There were times when it responded smoothly to swipes and taps, and other times the screen stuttered as we tried to flick through webpages. Even the pre-loaded Swype keyboard felt more cumbersome to use than it has on other phones, registering nothing as we drew imaginary lines between the letters. Then again, this is a low-end smartphone that comes with dirt-cheap data and a no-strings-attached attitude.

Update 2: While there's strangely no mention of it in the press release, we've confirmed that the Prevail supports WiFi.

[Thanks, Stephen]

Dana Wollman contributed to this report.





Show full PR textWhy Settle When You Can "Prevail" with the new Android-powered Phone from Boost Mobile and SamsungThe new Samsung Galaxy Prevail combines all the features of Android with Boost Mobile's $50 Monthly Unlimited plan, which includes nationwide talk, text, Web, e-mail and payments that shrinkIRVINE, Calif. – Boost Mobile, the top carrier in the recent 2011 J.D. Power and Associates Wireless Non-Contract Customer Satisfaction Index Study (SM), unlocks the power of Android with the introduction of the Samsung Galaxy Prevail™, available exclusively with Boost Mobile on the Nationwide Sprint Network. As the first CDMA Android device on Boost Mobile, the Galaxy Prevail is designed to provide an uncompromised Android experience while maintaining the great value of Boost's $50 Monthly Unlimited plan with no hidden fees and no contracts required.The Galaxy Prevail will be available late April for $179.99 (excluding taxes) at Boost Mobile's exclusive retail stores, select independent wireless dealer locations across the country and at www.boostmobile.com with free shipping. By the middle of May, the Galaxy Prevail will be available in select retail outlets nationwide."We are excited to partner with Samsung to launch this innovative touchscreen phone for wireless users who are interested in upgrading to an Android experience without spending more on their monthly plan," said Andre Smith, vice president-Boost Mobile. "The Samsung Galaxy Prevail delivers the power of the Android platform to our customers' fingertips while bringing tremendous value to our customers' wallets."The Galaxy Prevail will be available on Boost Mobile's $50 Monthly Unlimited with Shrinkage plan, where the longer you stay, the less you pay simply by making on-time payments. For every six on-time payments, a Boost Mobile customer's monthly cost will shrink by $5, eventually getting down to as low as $35 a month for unlimited nationwide talk, text, Web, e-mail, IM and calls to 411. Payments do not need to be consecutive to qualify for the next savings milestone. The first wave of Boost customers will be hitting their first six-month milestone this month and will be paying $45 per month for Monthly Unlimited service.Galaxy Prevail features include:· Android 2.2 with Access to Android Market™· 3.2-inch touchscreen· 2MP camera with video· GPS enabled· Bluetooth® capable· Easy access to Gmail™ and Google Talk™· Wireless Web enabled· Switch between portrait and landscape· Speakerphone with voice-activated dialing· Telenav navigation, free and unlimited· Supports microSD™ cards up to 32GB (2GB card included)· Voice mail, caller ID, call waiting and three-way callingWith Android, consumers can create their own arsenal of fun and productivity by selecting from more than 100,000 applications. In addition to the features listed above, the Galaxy Prevail's preloaded applications include SCVNGR™, Poynt™, Twidroyd™, Facebook©, Hookt™, ThinkFree Office© and YouTube©.Customers can also protect their Samsung Galaxy Prevail with Phone Insurance that is now available for Boost Monthly Unlimited customers. For $5 per month customers are covered if their device breaks, is lost, stolen or damaged – even by liquid. Go to www.boostmobile.com for more information.
 