
 Samsung latest 3.5-inch EcoGreen desktop hard disk does with three platters what its F3EG did with four: obtain a 2TB capacity. That's 667GB per platter for what Samsung calls the world's highest areal density, environmentally friendly hard disk drive on the market. Specifically, this 3.0Gbps SATA disk with a 32MB buffer brings a 19 percent improved standby performance and requires 23 percent less power in standby mode than its EcoGreen F3EG. Better yet, it does all this for $60 less (just $119.95) when it ships to the US and EU markets in early September.
      

 

Show full PR textSamsung Announces Two-Terabyte EcoGreen Hard Drivewith the Highest Areal Density for High-performance Desktop SystemsSeoul August 3, 2010 -- Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a world leader in digital consumer electronics and information technology, today announced the F4EG, theworld's highest-density, environmentally friendly hard disk drive (HDD) for the desktop market. The EcoGreen™ F4 features a 2-terabyte (TB) capacity – 667GB for each of its three disks – and is capable of storing up to 880 hours of DVD video or 500,000 songs in MP3 format.The internal F4EG utilizes Samsung's high-density design technology to provide better performance, low power and improved reliability to its 'EcoGreen' hard drives."Storage-hungry multimedia professionals, gamers and home PC users continue to increase the amount of video, music, photo and other personal data they store and back-up," said I.C. Park, vice president, Storage Sales, Semiconductor Business, Samsung Electronics. "The F4EG delivers all the benefits of a low-power drive yet features top performance quality and is environmentally friendly."With its three disks and advanced technology, the F4EG drive is 19 percent better in standby time performance and has 23 percent lower power consumption in standby mode than the previous four-disk model, the F3EG.Eliminating halogen compound and brominated flameretardant from the PCBA, the new model is produced with eco-friendly materials and meets all the environmental regulations including RoHS (Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment) which is applied worldwide, including the European Union.Samsung's new hard drive utilizes its low noise operation technology SilentSeek™ and NoiseGuard™ to achieve quiet system operation.The F4EG incorporates a 3.0Gbps SATA interface, Native Command Queuing and a 32MB buffer memory. The 3.5" F4EG drive is available in 1.5TB and 2TB capacitiesin the United States and EU markets with a MSRP of $119.99. Initial shipment is scheduled for early September. 
 