
 
Other brands may view networked fridges as the key to going green, but it seems Samsung is more interested in letting users access Pandora or tweet while grabbing a snack. At least that's the impression we got from its staff while playing with the RF4289 fridge at CES, which the brand touts is the first of its kind to feature integrated WiFi. To be fair the unit provides a few pragmatic features too like the ability to view Google calendars, check the weather, download recipes from Epicurious, or leave digital notes -- though we'd have been more impressed by functions such as remote temperature adjustment or food spoilage alerts. We also found that the stainless steel exterior made reading the 8-inch LCD touchscreen screen difficult from more than a few feet away. Otherwise, further details on the software and definite pricing are nonexistent at this point, but we do know the appliance will be available to cutting-edge Canadians sometime in May. For more details check out shots of the UI in the gallery below, and hit up Samsung's vague press release after the break.





Show full PR textSamsung Brings the Wonder of Home Appliances To the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Showon Jan 05, 2011Appliance Innovations Attract Attention for Flexible Designs and Organizational CapabilitiesCES, Las Vegas – January 5, 2011 – At the 2011 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Samsung Electronics Canada affirms its dedication to creating moments of wonder by introducing appliance innovations that deliver high performance, greater flexibility, superior organization, and more convenience for today's busy families.From Samsung's new refrigerators featuring Wi-Fi enabled LCD screens to access the apps you need in the kitchen, to the new Flex Oven range which can be divided into two separate oven chambers, and Samsung's 5.0 High Capacity Front-Loading Washer (WF520), the company continues to create moments of delight for Canadians and their families.Proving efficiency is just as important as innovation, both the washer and Flex Oven range took top honours in the eco-design category of this year's CES 2011 Innovations Awards. In addition, Samsung fully supports the Smart Grid initiative and will begin to roll out products with the ability to efficiently manage power consumption."We wondered what it would be like to design a refrigerator where you can access the weather and recipes while getting the kids ready for school or preparing dinner. And, thanks to the new Flex Oven range, home cooks will rethink meal preparation as they can now simultaneously bake cookies and cook salmon in the same appliance," said Warner Doell, vice president, Home Appliance division, Samsung Electronics Canada. "These new innovations bring the wow of cutting-edge technology and flexible design together to simplify daily routines and delight consumers by making their lives easier."Refrigeration Offers OrganizationAvailable on the new Samsung RSG309 side-by-side and RF4289 four-door French Door models, the industry-first Wi-Fi enabled 8" LCD screen is integrated directly above the water and ice dispenser on the front of the appliance, and provides access to a series of kitchen-relevant applications. Now, consumers can quickly reach recipe collections, check the weather, leave notes for their kids, review the family's Google calendar, check the latest headlines, or enjoy a photo slide show.No other refrigerators keep families better organized and connected to one another – and the world around them – while also offering the quality refrigeration technologies that consumers crave. Both the RSG309 and RF4289 feature the Twin Cooling Plus System® that keeps perishable produce fresher, longer. And with capacities of 30 cu. ft. and 28 cu. ft. respectively, the RSG309 and RF4289 provide an abundance of storage space and options. Both refrigerators will be available in Canada later in 2011.Cooking ConvenienceSamsung helps you prepare family meals more quickly, and any way you want. The new Flex Oven (FE710DRS) range is the world's first 30" freestanding electric range with an oven cavity that can be divided into two separate cooking chambers. Consumers have the flexibility to use the full large 5.9 cu. ft. cavity, or divide it into two smaller chambers (2.6 cu ft. top and 3.1 cu ft. bottom) which can be used together or separately. When using both oven chambers, dinner and dessert cook simultaneously without smells or tastes mixing and both chambers are housed behind the beauty of a sleek single exterior oven door. When not in use, the oven divider conveniently stores in a discreet space above the warming drawer.Samsung designed the Flex Oven to provide all of the features families need, including a 1.4 cu. ft. warming drawer, a five burner smooth electric cooktop with one triple burner and one dual fast boil burner. The model also has a dual convection system which quickly and evenly preheats the oven in single mode, and permits convection cooking in both chambers when in dual oven mode, resulting in more even cooking / baking and reduced time to reach the optimal temperature. Another benefit is the oven's 20-minute SteamQuick™ cleaning feature that uses less heat than traditional oven-cleaning systems to save both time and energy. The Flex Oven will be available in Canada in the first half of 2011.Laundry PerformanceSamsung's 5.0 High Capacity Front-Loading Washer (WF520) helps tackle the biggest loads with the best performance. It is one of the largest front-load capacity washers available that can wash the equivalent of up to 31 bath towels in a single load. This washer features Samsung's proprietary Vibration Reduction Technology™ Plus where the drum keeps perfect balance to offer quiet operation. And with the advanced technology of PowerFoam™, a foam you can see that offers a clean you can feel, clothes receive a thorough wash for even the biggest loads of laundry. The WF520 and its dryer partner (DV520) are available now with an MSRP of $1999 for the washer and $1499 for the dryer.About Samsung Electronics Canada Inc.Samsung Electronics Canada, Inc. (SECA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., markets a broad range of award-winning digital consumer electronics, information systems, telecommunications and home appliance products. SECA upholds Samsung's mission to provide consumers with innovative digital convergence products that possess exceptional technology, quality, features, performance and value.Samsung has been a global TOP sponsor of the Olympic Games since 1998 and has been a presenting sponsor of the Olympic Torch Relay from 2004 to 2008. Also through Samsung's Four Seasons of Hope charity, Samsung helps athletes and celebrities raise funds for their respective charities, including the Wayne Gretzky Foundation in Canada. Samsung is also a proud sponsor of Hockey Canada, Stars on Ice and is the official HDTV sponsor of the NFL.For customer service inquiries, please call 1-800-Samsung (1-800-726-7864), and for more information, please visit www.samsung.com.
 