
 

It's shaping up to a be a busy IFA for Samsung. Barely 24 hours after announcing its new ChatON messaging client, the manufacturer is now gearing up to release a troika of new Bada 2.0-powered Wave handsets -- the Wave 3, Wave M and Wave Y -- set to make their debut this week in Berlin. Leading the pack is the Wave 3, which leaked earlier this week. Powered by a 1.4GHz processor, this little guy boasts a 4-inch WVGA Super AMOLED display, 3GB of memory (along with a 32GB microSD slot) and a five megapixel, auto-focus-enabled shooter. The Wave M, meanwhile, packs slightly less juice, with a 832MHz processor, a 3.65-inch WVGA screen and 150MB of onboard storage (with a 2GB inbox and 32GB microSD slot). Rounding out the collection is the Wave Y, with its 3.2-inch HVGA display, 832MHz engine and two megapixel camera. All three feature your usual smattering of WiFi / Bluetooth 3.0 capabilities and will ship with ChatON and Samsung's Social Hub baked into their DNA. No word yet on pricing or availability, but you can find out more in the full press release, after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Samsung debuts a trio of new bada 2.0-powered Wave smartphones, in the lead of Wave 3 		New Wave 3, Wave M and Wave Y smartphones combine stylish design with ChatON mobile communication service 		Seoul, Korea, August 30, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a leading mobile phone provider, today announced the launch of the flagship 4" chic smartphone Wave 3, the social-powerhouse Wave M and the smart-start Wave Y. 		All three devices, borne of Samsung's heritage in innovation, are powered by Samsung's own new bada 2.0 platform which brings together a wide variety of new capabilities including multi-tasking, Wi-Fi Direct, voice recognition and Near Field Communication (optional). It enables smartphone users to experience advanced services such as photo and file sharing without Internet networking, mobile payment and transport pass-card recharge. 		ChatON is Samsung's proprietary mobile communication service that works across all major mobile devices. A global cross-platform communication service links all your friends and contacts instantly. Micro-communities can be set up through group chat, while a web client allows the sharing of content and conversations between mobile and PC. 		Samsung Apps, an integrated application store for Samsung smartphones, is also available. With an improved UI and enhanced store features, Samsung Apps offers a wide variety of applications from globally well-known content to locally-customized applications. 		"Smartphones are gaining popularity by the day. The new additions to the Wave portfolio are the first to benefit from the power of our bada 2.0 platform; the full extent of our commitment is clear to see in each device. We've produced easy-to-use smartphones that will inspire the market," said JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications business. 		Smarts meet style, the Wave 3 		The Samsung Wave 3 is a beautiful and chic smartphone that crams a market-leading 4" Super AMOLED display, a 1.4GHz processor and HSPA connectivity into a 9.9mm brushed-metal case. Building on the Wave series' style heritage in full metal design, the Wave 3 is the perfect device for the style-conscious consumer. Excellently constructed of anodized aluminum, the slim yet solid unibody design supports your active, on-the-move lifestyle. 		The Wave 3 includes Samsung's integrated Social Hub and Music Hub, allowing the purchase and download of tracks and albums over-the-air. With smarter multi-tasking, seamless push notification and Wi-Fi Direct, the Wave 3 has the capabilities to keep you connected and entertained at all times. 		The first ChatON equipped smartphone, the Wave M 		The Samsung Wave M allows users to keep up-to-date with their hectic social lives with ChatON and Social Hub. With a wide 3.65" HVGA screen made from tempered glass and a metallic body, the Wave M lets users stay socially connected from everywhere. ChatON, streamlined messaging feeds, enhanced on-the-go web browsing and Wi-Fi applications deliver a seamless mobile experience. Wi-Fi Direct and NFC (optional) add further functionality. 		A smart-start, the Wave Y 		The Samsung Wave Y is the perfect device to introduce new users to the world of smartphone experiences. With a stylish metallic hairline body and large 3.2" HVGA screen, new users can take their first steps to mobile social networking with Social Hub and ChatON. Simple personalisation is enabled via the Live Panel, Lock Screen and Folder management, while Music Hub, a portable music manager, gives users a jukebox in their pocket. 		The Wave 3, the Wave M and the Wave Y will all be on display at Samsung's Stand at IFA 2011 in Berlin.
 