
Right on schedule, Samsung has released its earnings estimates for Q2 2013 ahead of its full announcement later this month. And, as you might expect, the company made a lot of money: a tidy profit of 9.5 trillion won, or $8.33 billion dollars, to be exact. Naturally, that record-setting number is due in no small part to the success of the Galaxy S 4 and a strong showing by its components division as well. Should the estimate prove perfectly accurate, Q2 2013 will have been a significant improvement over last quarter's $6.4 billion profit, and a massive $3 billion improvement over Q2 of 2012. Of course, we'll get to see its full slate of numbers come July 26th when the financials are officially revealed, but it's looking like Sammy's doing just fine.



Show full PR textSamsung Electronics Announces Earnings Guidance for Second Quarter 2013
(Seoul - Korea Newswire ) July 5, 2013 - Samsung Electronics Co.., Ltd.. The TODAY announced its Second Quarter Earnings guidance for 2013 of. Consolidated sales: English by approximately 57 trillion won (Range: 56 - 58 trillion won English) Consolidated Operating Profit: English by approximately 9.5 trillion won (Range: 9.3 - 9.7 trillion won English) The Figures above are estimates based on K-IFRS Consolidated Earnings Disclosure regulations in South Korea do Not allow Earnings to be Provided guidance as a range, therefore disclosure was made ​​based on The Official The Median value as stated above. Provided Ahead of The The guidance is full announcement of quarterly earnings results for the convenience of investors and media, before our external audit on the financial results of our headquarters, subsidiaries and affiliates is completed. Therefore, The above estimate The May differ from actual results. The full Earnings for Second Quarter Will be The disclosed Following The Board of Directors' approval of The Financial statements and quarterly reports. About Samsung Electronics Co.., Ltd.. Samsung Electronics Co.., Ltd. is a global leader in technology, opening new possibilities for people everywhere. Through relentless innovation and discovery, we are transforming the worlds of televisions, smartphones, personal computers, printers, cameras, home appliances, LTE systems, medical devices, semiconductors and LED solutions. We employ 236,000 people across 79 countries with annual sales of US $ 187.8 billion. To Discover More, Please Visit www.samsung.com .


