
 

That Samsung Galaxy R we've heard about? Yep, it's real. Not that it's much of a surprise to us, considering we've seen leaked press renders and even a four-minute video about the device, but Samsung and NVIDIA have finally banded together to give the "mystery phone" its official blessing. Here's the skinny: the Galaxy R will house a 1GHz Tegra 2 CPU, a 4.2-inch WVGA (800 x 480) Super Clear LCD, dual 5MP / 2MP cameras in the rear and front (respectively), and Gingerbread with Samsung's TouchWiz UI. The phone's already available in Sweden as the Galaxy Z, but it's finally on its way to parts of Europe and Asia (including China). No word on if or when we can plan on seeing the R in North America, but it's likely that its launch would be quickly obscured by its older brother, the Galaxy S II, if it made an appearance. A full press release and demo video can be found after the break for your enjoyment.
      

 

     			Show full PR text  NVIDIA and Samsung Expand GALAXY Smartphones with New GALAXY R Smartphone 			World's Largest Android Smartphone Maker Ships First Tegra-Powered			Super Phone 			Santa Clara, Calif. ­- Aug. 10, 2011-NVIDIA and Samsung Electronics announced the latest GALAXY smartphone, the GALAXY R, which sports a 4.19-inch screen, features the NVIDIA® Tegra™ 2 mobile super chip and the Android 2.3 (also known as Gingerbread) operating system. 			Samsung's GALAXY smartphones are among the world's most popular handheld devices. 			The GALAXY R gives more consumers the opportunity to enjoy the never-before-seen experiences enabled by Tegra, the world's first mobile processor with a dual-core CPU. The GALAXY R also features a GeForce™ GPU for fast Web browsing with hardware-accelerated Adobe Flash Player support, full HD video and console-quality gaming. 			Using the GALAXY R, consumers can multitask efficiently, surf the Web quickly with fast-loading pages and Flash-based content and enjoy HD movies. They can also access Tegra-optimized games through the Tegra Zone app on Android Market. 			"Samsung's newest super phone shows off Tegra's multimedia power, and is a great example of what consumers expect from one of the world's top phone makers," said Michael Rayfield, general manager of NVIDIA's mobile business. 			The GALAXY R features:			· Tegra 2 super chip			· 4.19" WVGA Super Clear LCD touchscreen			· Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) operating system			· 720p HD video capture and 1080p Full HD playback (Divx, WMV, MP4, H.264 B/P only)			· Built-in memory of 8GB and support for 32GB Micro SD			· Size: 125.7 x 66.7 x 9.55 mm			· Weight: 131 grams 			The GALAXY R is available in Sweden, and is coming to other regions soon, including North & Eastern Europe, South East & West Asia, Middle East Asia, and China. 
 