

More Info

Samsung Galaxy S III (I9300) review
Samsung Galaxy S III review shootout: AT&T and Sprint
Samsung Galaxy S III (T-Mobile) hands-on


If three's a crowd, the Samsung Galaxy S III party in the US is about to get pretty stuffy. Having already reviewed AT&T and Sprint's variants -- not to mention the original I9300 before them -- we're now ready to put a third iteration through its paces, this time from the country's fourth-largest carrier, T-Mobile.

Of course, the phone itself needs no grand introduction, as it's fast become the new darling of the smartphone world. And rightfully so, in many respects: it's the first high-end device to launch on all four major mobile operators in the US (a feat in and of itself), and it's done so with minimal carrier branding, hardware changes or bloatware levies. It is, in essence, an unadulterated handset. The reason this piece of news is so wondrous is that it opens up your ability to choose your phone service based on the network, not on the actual phone each individual carrier offers.

Sadly, the big tradeoff here is the loss of an Exynos quad-core processor in exchange for a Snapdragon S4 dual-core chipset and additional RAM. Join us as we take a deeper look at the T-Mobile Galaxy S III. Is it the best phone on the network? Is it worth shelling out $280 (with a two-year contract) for the 16GB model or $330 for 32GB? How well does it perform? This and more answers await you in our full review below.




HardwarePerhaps you've read our reviews on the global Galaxy S III (aka the I9300) or our shootout involving the AT&T and Sprint versions. If so, you'll understand if our hardware section is a wee bit briefer than in a standard review. Here's the concern: so little is different with T-Mobile's model -- the SGH-T999 -- that you'll have an awfully difficult time distinguishing between this one and the others. But with each and every version we review, we continue to be amazed at how Samsung was so effectively able to leverage its brand and convince all four major US carriers (and a couple regional ones too) to give up nearly all opportunities to differentiate themselves. No logos on the front. No frilly firmware tweaks beside the basic pre-loaded apps. No exclusivity agreements. In fact, we were flabbergasted even by the fact that American consumers had the GSIII in their fingertips within a month after the European release.

Yes, the SGH-T999 does have a unique trait, but it's in the radio setup tailored to T-Mobile's frequencies: the device is the only version in the US that offers HSPA+ / WCDMA with AWS radio support (850 / AWS / 1900 / 2100), as well as the usual quadband GSM / EDGE coverage for global roaming. And as T-Mobile's LTE-Advanced network won't be deployed until next year, no support is found for the next-gen speeds. But beyond that, it features the same 2,100mAh battery under the hood, along with a micro-SIM slot and a microSD reader that supports SDXC (meaning you can pop in 64GB microSD cards if you so desire, pushing your total capacity up to 80GB). The edges of the phone are all as anticipated: 3.5mm headphone jack and noise cancellation mic on top, micro-USB / MHL dock down south, power / screen lock button on the right and volume rocker over to the left. Let's go over a few other details. First, despite reports of some US models only taking advantage of 1GB of RAM, we were able to confirm that the T-Mobile, Sprint and AT&T versions all have a full 2GB. Since all US iterations use a Snapdragon S4 1.5GHz dual-core processor rather than the international's quad-core Exynos, this is a helpful compromise to ensure American users enjoy a smooth performance. It's also a huge bar-raiser for flagship devices that will make their debut sometime this year -- if a smartphone doesn't offer that extra gigabyte of memory, it had better be extremely efficient with the RAM it already has.

The extra gigabyte of RAM makes the phone a huge bar-raiser for future devices.At 5.38 x 2.78 x 0.34 inches (136.6 x 70.6 x 8.6mm), the dimensions of T-Mobile's Galaxy S III are -- you guessed it -- completely identical to every single one of its counterparts. Color us pleasantly surprised, since carriers have cited the inclusion of AWS as an excuse to revamp lesser phones. We're happy to report, then, that not a single metaphorical hair has been touched here, and everything fits in the chassis exactly the way it should. The gentle curves on the back and edges make the Galaxy S III very comfortable to hold, though anyone with smaller hands may still feel more at ease with T-Mobile's other star phone, the petite HTC One S. Fortunately, the GSIII doesn't add as much width to the frame as you'd expect, so it's really not as bad as the 0.5-inch difference implies. The best part of this cross-carrier compatibility might be the interchangeable battery and back lids. Granted, we're not raving fans of accessorizing our covers, but the fact that we can swap them and the batteries means we can look forward to an incredibly wide variety of accessories. After all, a healthy ecosystem (and tens of millions of phone users) will be plenty of incentive for companies to come up with a plethora of offerings in this department. Plus, having multiple batteries at your disposal isn't too shabby either.


We borrowed a pebble blue unit to use for our T-Mobile tests, which was the same color as the AT&T device we played with last week. Yet for some inexplicable reason, we felt that T-Mo's cover was more prone to fingerprints than its AT&T counterpart. We doubt this will be of much concern for those of you interested in the white model, since smudges are difficult to see on that surface. Yes, the plastic bits on the Galaxy S III do feel a tad frail, especially when you're taking the covers off and nearly bending the thing in half in the process. Still, we didn't feel any worse off with this phone than any other Samsung devices we've tested.

But the important part is not how it feels, it's how it holds up. The front face is coated with second-generation Gorilla Glass, which should help fortify the phone against routine wear and tear, as well as keep the display safe from scratches. Of course, though, we doubt it'll actually protect the panel from cracking if you drop it from waist-level or higher. While we haven't had the opportunity to kick this thing around of our own accord, we encourage you to hit up the More Coverage link at the bottom of this post if you want to see a few durability tests in action. Nothing is lost on the gorgeous Super AMOLED HD display, a PenTile panel whose 1280 x 720 resolution translates into a pixel density of 306ppi. We've seen better, but by no means is the Galaxy S III display an eyesore. Viewing angles are not as wide as what you'll find on the HTC One X; once you start getting close to edge-on, you begin losing much of the rich color and readability you'd enjoy on the X. But let's be real here: while we're completely dazzled by the One X's screen, we doubt many users will find themselves angry that they can't look at it from oblique side angles.

Software
Again, we had a difficult time detecting any noticeable differences here. Isn't it glorious? The same firmware experience on the other models -- even the global version -- can be had on the T-Mobile version, save for a few carrier-specific applications that we'll discuss in a moment. This time around, we're not going to lecture the masses on the merits or hazards of Samsung's proprietary TouchWiz UI as seen on the latest version of Android (4.0.4, to be specific), because we've done so at length already in our past reviews. But it's there, it's heavy and the firmware is identical.



 Now, about those pre-loaded apps. You'll find a grand total of 49 applications when you boot up the device for the first time --that's the most we've seen of the three US models we've reviewed so far (AT&T had 42; Sprint, 47). What's on board here? Access T-Mobile, Amazon, Game Hub, Mobile Hotspot, Music Hub, More Services, T-Mobile Name ID, T-Mobile TV and Visual Voicemail. Also, we'd be remiss if we didn't mention that the Music Hub is nothing but a pretty icon at the moment -- it doesn't actually launch the app but instead tells us that service will be available soon.