
  It's no secret that Samsung's been teasing a major interest in premium audio since CES, blending digitally powered speakers with vacuum tube pre-amplifiers. We didn't get a chance to check the systems out in Vegas, but today the company's spilling the details regarding US pricing on a trio of systems, all of which will be available in the spring. The star of the show is the $800 DA-E750 Audio Dock, featuring the rear-mounted dual dock for Galaxy (charging only) and iOS devices we first saw last month. Clad in a polished wood case (available in black or cherry), the 2.1 stereo system pumps out up to 100 watts of power through its glass fiber speakers and tweeters. As an added touch, its JJ Electronics 12AU7 tubes (the same you could use for guitar amps) are sunken in from its top under glass, allowing for clear view of their glow. Best of all, aside from the requisite USB and 3.5mm inputs, the DA-870 works wirelessly with Samsung's AllShare Play, AirPlay and Bluetooth 3.0 w/ aptX.Moving past the HiFi category, Samsung's also priced a duo of surround sound systems aimed at the home theater market. To start, there's the $1,000 HT-E6730W Blu-ray 3D 7.1 home theater system and its $800 5.1 sibling, the HT-E6500W Blu-ray 3D -- both of which feature the same tube pre-amp and similar wireless capabilities as the DA-E750. Notably, the E6730W features a tiltable top speaker on each of its stereo towers, allowing for a more personalized output depending on your room. Furthermore, if you happen to have a DA-E750, too, you'll be able to stream the audio via Bluetooth if you find yourself far away from your television. There's no exact date on when you'll be able snag any of them, but Samsung notes that the 5.1 system is currently shipping.Update: You'll find a press release with all the drool-inducing details after the break.





  Show full PR text  Samsung expands home audio business with new premium products  MISSISSAUGA, ON, March 28, 2012 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- Vacuum tube amplifiers deliver warm, natural sound  Samsung Electronics today announced the availability of new premium products incorporating vacuum tube amplifiers that offer rich, harmonious sound qualities. The Samsung DA-E750 Audio Dock (msrp:$699.99), Samsung HT-E6530 3D Blu-ray 5.1 Home Entertainment System (msrp:$699.99) and Samsung HT-E6730W 3D Blu-ray 7.1 Home Entertainment System (msrp:$999.99) will be shipping this spring in Canada. With these products, Samsung also underscores its commitment to extend its leadership in audio products with premium offerings.  New in 2012, Samsung's patented vacuum tube amplifier technology allows audio enthusiasts to enjoy music the way it was meant to be heard. Vacuum tubes, which use a long-lasting heated cathode inside a glass bulb to amplify sound, offer a warmer, more natural sound compared to conventional products utilizing transistors.  The vacuum tube is also combined with a digital amplifier, which delivers crystal clear sound and reduces unnecessary harsh sound distortions. By combining the best of both worlds in a compact form factor, Samsung has achieved a technology breakthrough that raises the bar in sound quality for mainstream audio products.  "With these offerings we're taking our first step into a commitment to the premium audio market," said James Politeski, President, Samsung Canada. "Audio plays a critical factor in the overall home entertainment experience, and the premium sound quality achieved through our innovative vacuum tube amplifiers will allow consumers to continue to pursue their passions."  Sophisticated Design with Multi-device Support and Enhanced Connectivity  Consumers will be able to use the DA-E750 with their Galaxy S II smartphones (Galaxy Note and Galaxy Player) as well as Apple iOS devices, thanks to a unique dual docking structure. Its 2.1-channel woven glass fiber speakers and powerful built-in subwoofer deliver 100 watts of crystal clear sound with enhanced bass for a quality music experience. Consumers can use Samsung's AllShare to share multimedia content between the audio dock and compatible smartphones, tablets, cameras and computers, or AirPlay to stream audio from iOS devices. The DA-E750 also includes analog (composite) input and connectivity via Bluetooth to MP3, WMA and WAV files from a broad range of devices - thumb drives, portable hard drives, music players and mobile devices - for the ultimate in flexibility.  The elegant design of the DA-E750 exudes the highest level of sophistication by combining classic design elements with a touch of luxury. The sleek high gloss wood finish is available in either mahogany or piano black, which is accentuated by the warm glow from the vacuum tubes inside the docks when in operation. For added convenience, the audio dock will simultaneously charge the Galaxy S II or iOS device while streaming music.  The Ultimate in Movie Theatre Quality Entertainment in the Home  Samsung's flagship 3D Blu-ray Home Entertainment System, the HT-E6730W, offers outstanding high-definition audio and superior video for the best all-in-one solution for any home entertainment room. The HT-E6730W is a 1,330-watt 7.1-channel system with two tower speakers and four additional speakers. Innovative swivel speakers are mounted on the specially designed front height speakers and may be turned upwards so sounds vertically cascade down onto the listener. The two rear wireless satellite speakers may be placed anywhere in the room without the need for additional wires to create a truly immersive vertical surround sound experience. A dual-unit passive radiator subwoofer provides clear, rich bass response.  Samsung's vacuum tube pre-amplifier may be seen on the front and top of the system. The glass fiber cones in the speakers improve sound quality and minimize distortion, for the ideal combination of style and performance. Samsung's Crystal Amp Plus technology offers pure digital audio playback and quality while also protecting listeners from unexpected jumps in volume.  The HT-E6730W seamlessly up-converts content to 1080p from a variety of sources, including DVDs, streaming video and connected media devices. Each home theater system employs a Samsung-developed system-on-a-chip (SoC), which has cutting-edge image quality enhancement algorithms, Samsung's video processor and scaler, and various high definition codecs. The system also comes with built-in Wi-Fi for easy access to Samsung Smart Hub and AllShare. Newly designed for 2012, Samsung Smart Hub allows consumers to download hundreds of premium apps and use the web browser surf the Internet. They can also interact with friends and family using popular social networking services such as Facebook or Twitter.  The features of the HT-E6730W are also included in a 1,000 watt, 5.1 version, the Samsung HT-E6530 3D Blu-ray 5.1 Home Entertainment System. The HT-E6530 includes two tall speakers, satellite surrounds, centre channel and subwoofer. It's vacuum-tube power that delivers brilliant sound by combining the best of digital and analog audio technologies.  About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Canada delivers unrivalled consumer experiences. Samsung enables Canadians to pursue their passions by offering a broad range of award-winning digital consumer electronics, IT, telecommunications and home appliance products. The Canadian arm upholds Samsung's global mission to provide consumers with innovative digital convergence products that possess exceptional technology, quality, features, performance and value. As a result of its commitment to innovation and unique design, Samsung has become one of the most decorated brands in the electronics industry. The company was ranked #17 in BusinessWeek/Interbrand "100 Best Global Brands" and was named as one of Fast Company's "50 Most Innovative Companies of 2011."  For more information, please visit www.samsung.ca . You can also Like Samsung on facebook.com/SamsungCanada or follow Samsung on twitter @SamsungCanada. For customer service inquiries, please call 1-800-SAMSUNG (1-800-726-7864).  SOURCE Samsung Electronics Canada Inc.  Copyright (C) 2012 PR Newswire. All rights reserved
 