
Thanks to the internet, we've already seen leaked images of Samsung's flagship Galaxy Tab S. So when the company announced a press event for June 12th, we had a pretty good idea of what was in store. Sure enough, the company just unveiled the Tab S family, which includes models with 8.4- and 10.5-inch screens.


Update: You can check out our hands-on impressions here!


The rumors were true, folks. After what seemed like ages of keeping them solely in smartphones, Samsung has made more tablets that use Super AMOLED screens. They're only 6.6mm thick too, which is pretty staggering... if not quite as thin as Sony's Xperia Z2 Tablet. We're live at Samsung's event in New York, and right now the topic of conversation is software -- a new app called Photogarden delivers digital versions of magazines (including those from Condé Nast) to your Tab S, and Netflix just got a shout-out for bringing full hi-definition content to the 2560 x 1600 screens on both Tab S models. Oh, and if you have a Galaxy S5, you'll be familiar with Galaxy Gifts -- freebies that you get for being one of Samsung's faithful. That's back, so you can quickly claim your free 6 month subscription to The Economist.


These things are lookers, too. Both Tab S size models are available in white and a very subdued bronze, but the real draw here are those displays -- Samsung thinks they deliver the "ultimate viewing experience." The benefits of a Super AMOLED screen have been thrown around for years: you get richer colors and deeper blacks, and a boost in detail thanks to that heightened contrast. Samsung's Adaptive Display tech also changes the screen's saturation and brightness while certain apps are being used, and an RGB sensor detects ambient light to adjust white balance on the fly. To top it all off, we're told that the Tab S can hang in there for a full 11 hours of 1080p video playback, perfect for those marathon Sherlock sessions.

Samsung might be onto something with its newest tablet recipe -- we'll see for sure when the Tab S's launch in July. Prices start at $399 and $499 for the WiFi-only 8.4-inch and 10.5 tabs, respectively, and LTE-friendly models should hit shortly after.





