
 
Convergence. The buzzword of the past decade is still working its magic across the consumer electronics industry, this time unleashing hot fury on Samsung's freshest point and shoot. The simplistic PL90 touts a 12.2 megapixel sensor, 4x optical zoom, a 2.7-inch LCD around back and a VGA (640 x 480) movie mode with 30fps and 15fps options. The real kicker here is the integrated USB plug, which eliminates the need to tote around a USB cable, a (presumed) SD card reader or a machine with an inbuilt memory card slot. Newcomers to the digital world will likely appreciate the heavy amount of automated features meant to make the best of your terrible photo shoot selections, but considering that Sammy doesn't even mention what breed of flash card this thing accepts, we suspect the pros should keep on keepin' on. Everyone else can get in next month for $149.99. 






Show full PR textSAMSUNG'S LATEST ALL-IN-ONE CAMERA OFFERS THE ABILITY TO CAPTURE AND CONNECT ON-THE-GO The PL90 is Designed With a Built-In USB Connector, Eliminating the Need for Wires and Cords Ridgefield Park, NJ (August 4, 2010) – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the 12.2 mega-pixel PL90 digital camera featuring a built-in USB connector, enabling consumers to capture images and connect to a computer on the move without the need for additional wires or cords. The PL90's integrated USB connector allows content to be shared with friends and family quickly and easily, with the camera's plug and play capabilities, including the Auto-install intelli-studio software, and instant access to any computer via the USB. In addition, users will never have to worry about running out of power with the PL90, as the USB connector also allows consumers to charge the battery without a separate power cord. "We want consumers to enjoy the entire photographic experience through the PL90, with the ability to capture, connect, and share pictures instantly and even charge on the move," said Sangjin Park, President of the Digital Imaging Business, Samsung Electronics. "In this fast paced world, we understand that our customers need to have these capabilities at their fingertips, and the PL90 puts this power in their hands. The PL90 is further evidence of the continued innovation behind Samsung cameras." Smart FeaturesThe PL90 features Samsung's new Smart Auto (Still & Movie) technology which enables consumers to capture the perfect picture in virtually any conditions. The intelligent Smart Auto function automatically adjusts the camera's mode to instantly match the shooting environment. Whether the shot is being taken during the day or at night, in portrait or landscape, simply activating the capture button will ensure a beautiful and perfectly tailored image. The innovative PL90 also features Samsung's Perfect Portrait System which includes several modes to help users take better photos. With the Self Portrait function, users can step out from the behind the camera and know they will be in focus because the camera tracks the subject's face and alerts the user with an audible noise when the subject is in frame. The Face Detection feature automatically detects and recognizes up to twelve different faces simultaneously, ensuring that the faces will be in clear focus, even when the subjects are part of a group photograph. The innovative Beauty Shot function allows users to adjust brightness and face tone, while also reducing flaws on all faces in a photo. The PL90 also incorporates Smile and Blink Detection features which automatically snaps a photo when the subjects are smiling and intelligently detects if the subject's eyes were closed in the shot.In addition, the PL90 features the intelligent and advanced Smart Album feature. Smart Album enables users to quickly locate pictures without trawling through every individual photograph by automatically managing content on the camera so users can search for images based on the date, time or even color.
 