
 


	The Samsung Galaxy lineup has become so diverse that nearly every demographic has at least one selection to choose from, with one clear exception: we haven't seen a rugged version. Samsung's hoping to fill that gaping hole by announcing the Galaxy Xcover, the world's first Android device with IP67 certification -- which means it can be submerged in water up to 1 meter deep and can hold its own against a continual onslaught of dirt and dust. The Xcover will offer Gingerbread out-of-box, and features a 3.6-inch scratch-resistant display, a 3.2 megapixel camera with LED flash, and 7.2Mbps HSDPA. The company's still vague on the other details, such as pricing and availability; the only country announced so far is Germany, which should see the device sometime in October. We hope the device will have a wider distribution; we know for a fact Germans aren't the only folks on this Earth that are hard on their phones. Translated press release after the break.

Update: The Galaxy Xcover isn't actually the world's first Android device with IP67 certification; we've been told by Motorola that this honor belongs to the Motorola Defy instead.
 

    			Show full PR text  Water-resistant case meets social networking and Android ™ 2.3: The Samsung Galaxy Xcover 			Tuesday, 9 August 2011 			The combination of protective housing with IP67 certification, scratch-resistant touch screen display, Android and Samsung Social Hub ™ 2.3 makes the Samsung Galaxy Xcover the ideal device for users with an active lifestyle 			Schwalbach / Ts., 9 August 2011 - With the Galaxy Xcover Samsung expands its range of rugged mobile phones for outdoor use. The device combines outdoor skills with the ability of a powerful smartphone. 			Whether water, dust or hard surfaces: the Samsung Galaxy Xcover is well prepared against harmful environmental influences. This IP67 certified enclosure protects the unit against dust and dirt there. In addition, the Samsung Galaxy Xcover to a depth of one meter for a period is waterproof up to half an hour. The touch-screen display with a diagonal measurement of 9.27 cm is made of scratch-resistant tempered glass. The 3.2-megapixel camera of the Samsung Galaxy Xcover is supported by an LED photo light, which can be used when needed as a flashlight or signal light. 			Smart through social networking apps and running the Samsung Galaxy Xcover with the Android ™ 2.3 platform and is using apps ideally suit her personal needs. Provide wireless connectivity for fast n-standard, and an HSDPA connection with a transfer rate of up to 7.2 Mbit / s. 			The Samsung Galaxy Xcover is available from October in the trade. 
 