
 
 While we wait for the LTE version of the Samsung Galaxy S III to arrive in the US this summer, UK punters will have opportunities to preorder the new flagship device starting right away on these carriers: Vodafone, Orange, O2, T-Mobile and Three. Although details and specific availability vary from carrier to carrier, retailer Carphone Warehouse currently lists a SIM-free preorder price of £499.95. While Orange didn't mention any other details than that it will offer the phone, Vodafone has revealed that beyond the 16GB edition, it has a timed month long exclusive on the 32GB version. On Three, preorders open tomorrow, May 4th, with the all-you-can-eat data One plan for £34 monthly. The phone will launch May 30th in the UK, a day after the May 29th global release date. There's a few UK / Ireland specific press releases included after the break and links below, check those out for all details, preregistration and information on preorder bonuses some are offering.



  Show full PR text   SAMSUNG INTRODUCES THE GALAXY S III  Effortlessly smart and intuitively simple - a new kind of smartphone
   3 May 2012, London, UK – Samsung Electronics today announced the third generation Galaxy S, the Galaxy S III, a phone so intuitive that it is able to recognise your voice and understand your intention. Sleek and innovative, this latest smartphone is packed with enhanced intelligence to make everyday life easier: designed for humans and inspired by nature.   With the Samsung Galaxy S IIII, you can view content like never before on a 4.8 inch HD Super AMOLED display, whilst an 8MP camera and an 1.9MP front camera offer a variety of intelligent camera features and face recognition related options so you can capture all moments easily and instantly. The Samsung Galaxy S III is powered by Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and full of intuitive technology, delivering a uniquely personalised mobile experience.   Andy Griffiths, Managing Director, Samsung UK and Ireland said: "Our aim with the Galaxy S III was to develop the best smartphone ever made, and by focusing on creating a unique user experience through superior hardware and enhanced usability we believe we have done just that. The device has been created by keeping in mind our daily needs and capabilities as human beings. Simple yet brilliant, the Galaxy S III is packed with smart features that enable it to understand and respond to our actions providing the most seamless, natural and human-centric mobile experience."   Introducing Natural Interaction  The Galaxy S III's main USP is that it enhances the interaction between the device and its owner. Smart enough to detect your face, voice and gestures, the Galaxy S III adapts to the individual user to provide a more convenient and natural user experience. With the innovative 'Smart stay' feature, the device recognises how you are using your phone – reading an e-book or browsing the web for instance – by using the front camera to identify your eyes; the phone maintains a bright display for continued viewing pleasure.   With 'S Voice,' an advanced natural language user interface, the Galaxy S III listens and responds to your words. In addition to allowing information search and basic device-user communication, 'S Voice' provides powerful device control and commands. When your phone alarm goes off but you need a little extra rest, just tell the Galaxy S III "snooze" – and it snoozes. You can also use 'S Voice' to play your favorite songs, turn the volume up or down, send text messages and emails, organise your schedules, or automatically launch the camera and capture a photo – all through you speaking to the device.   In addition to recognising your face and voice, the Galaxy S III understands your motions. If you are messaging someone but decide to call them instead, simply lift your phone to your ear and 'Direct call' will dial their number. With 'Smart alert,' the Galaxy S III will catch any missed messages or calls; your phone will vibrate to notify missed statuses when picked up after being idle.   Easy and Instant Sharing  The Samsung Galaxy S III is more than a personal device that can be enjoyed by one person - it wants you to share and experience smartphone benefits with family and friends, regardless of where you are. With the new 'S Beam,' the Galaxy S III expands upon Android™ Beam, allowing a 1GB movie file to be shared within three minutes and a 10MB music file within two seconds by simply touching another Galaxy S III phone, even without a Wi-Fi or cellular signal. The 'Buddy photo share' function also allows photos to be easily and simultaneously shared with all your friends pictured in an image directly from a camera or photo gallery.   With 'AllShare Cast', you can wirelessly connect your Galaxy S III to your television to immediately transfer smartphone content onto a larger display. 'AllShare Play' can be used to instantly share any files between your Galaxy S III and DLNA supported tablet, PC, and televisions regardless of the distance between the devices. The 'Group Cast' feature also allows you to share your screen among multiple friends on the same Wi-Fi network; you can make comments and draw changes at the same time with your co-workers, witnessing real-time sharing on your individual device.     Human-centric Design with Uncompromised Performance  The Galaxy S III not only has features with enhanced usability, but also provides an ergonomic and comfortable experience through its human-centric design, with a comfortable grip, gentle curves, and organic form. Inspired by nature, its design concept is the flow and movement of nature. The elements of wind, water and light are all evoked in the physical construct of the Galaxy S III. Available in Pebble Blue and Marble White at launch, Samsung will introduce a variety of additional colour options at a later date.   Thanks to its 4.8" HD Super AMOLED display, the Galaxy S III offers a large and vivid viewing experience. Samsung Mobile's heritage Super AMOLED display even enhances to HD and 16:9 wider viewing angles. To ensure faster connectivity, the Galaxy S III offers Wi-Fi Channel Bonding which doubles the Wi-Fi bandwidth.   The Galaxy S III also sports a range of additional features that boost performance and the overall user experience in entirely new ways. It introduces 'Pop up play,' a feature that allows you to play a video anywhere on your screen while simultaneously running other tasks, eliminating the need to close and restart videos when checking new emails or surfing the Web. Its 8MP camera features a zero-lag shutter speed that lets you capture moving objects easily without delay – the image you see is the picture you take.   With the 'Burst shot' function that instantly captures twenty continuous frames, and the 'Best photo' feature that selects the best of eight photographs for you, the Galaxy S III offers a more enhanced and memorable camera experience. HD video can be recorded even with the 1.9MP front facing camera, which you can use to capture a video of yourself. Improved backside illumination further helps to eliminate blur in photos that result from shaking, even under low lights.   Mobile payment is also accessible with the device through advanced Near Field Communication (NFC) technology. The gaming experience is enhanced through 'Game Hub', providing access to numerous social games, whilst Video Hub brings users high quality TV and movies. Furthermore, Samsung Music Hub will offer a personal music streaming service. Game Hub, Video Hub and Music Hub will be introduced in select countries initially before being rolled out globally.   The Samsung Galaxy S III will be available in the UK from the Samsung Brand Store at Westfield Stratford City and all other retailers.  For multimedia content and more detailed information, please visit www.samsungmobilepress.com.  - Ends -  Note to Editors:  Samsung Galaxy S III Product Specifications  Network  2.5G (GSM/ GPRS/ EDGE): 850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900 MHz  3G (HSPA+ 21Mbps): 850 / 900 / 1900 / 2100 MHz  4G (Dependent on market)  Display  4.8 inch HD Super AMOLED (1280x720) display  OS  Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)  Camera  Main(Rear): 8 Mega pixel Auto Focus camera with Flash & Zero Shutter Lag, BIS  Sub (Front): 1.9 Mega pixel camera, HD recording @30fps with Zero Shutter Lag, BSI  Video  Codec: MPEG4, H.264, H.263, DivX, DivX3.11, VC-1, VP8, WMV7/8, Sorenson Spark  Recording & Playback: Full HD (1080p)  Audio  Codec: MP3, AMR-NB/WB, AAC/AAC+/eAAC+, WMA, OGG, FLAC, AC-3, apt-X  Additional  Features  S Beam, Buddy photo share, Share shot  AllShare Play, AllShare Cast  Smart stay, Social tag, Group tag, Face zoom, Face slide show  Direct call, Smart alert, Tap to top, Camera quick access  Pop up play  S Voice  Burst shot & Best photo, Recording snapshot, HDR  Google™ Mobile Services  Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, Google Latitude  Google Play Store, Google Play Books, Google Play Movies  Google Plus, YouTube, Google Talk,  Google Places, Google Navigation, Google Downloads  Connectivity  WiFi a/b/g/n, WiFi HT40  GPS/GLONASS  NFC  Bluetooth® 4.0(LE)  Sensor  Accelerometer, RGB light, Digital compass, Proximity, Gyro, Barometer  Memory  16/ 32GB User memory (64GB available soon) + microSD slot (up to 64GB)  Dimension  136.6 x 70.6 x 8.6 mm, 133g  Battery  2,100 mAh  * Specifications above may differ on the LTE version.  * All functionality, features, specifications and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.  * Android, Google, Android Beam, Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, Google Latitude, Google Play Store, Google Play Books, Google Play Movies, Google Plus, YouTube, Google Talk, Google Places, Google Navigation, Google Downloads are trademarks of Google Inc.  About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2011 consolidated sales of US$143.1 billion. Employing approximately 206,000 people in 197 offices across 72 countries, the company operates two separate organisations to coordinate its nine independent business units: Digital Media & Communications, comprising Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, and Digital Imaging; and Device Solutions, consisting of Memory, System LSI and LED. Recognised for its industry-leading performance across a range of economic, environmental and social criteria, Samsung Electronics was named the world's most sustainable technology company in the 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.

  Samsung Galaxy SIII – available to pre-order on Three from 4th May.   Samsung's much anticipated smartphone, the Samsung Galaxy SIII, will be available to pre-order on Three from 4th May.

    The Galaxy SIII will be available on The One Plan with all-you-can-eat data at £34 per month and with no upfront cost.

   In addition, everyone that pre-orders the Samsung Galaxy SIII with Three before the 30th May will be automatically entered into a daily draw to win one of 26 brand new Samsung Smart TVs.

   Nigel Field, director of devices at Three, said, "We can't wait to bring Samsung's amazing Galaxy SIII to Three, and we're very proud to be one of their UK launch partners. With our high speed, award-winning network and market-leading all-you-can-eat data, we believe we can deliver the ultimate mobile internet experience to our customers with this phone.

   "The Galaxy SII was one of the smartphones of 2011, and we're expecting its successor, the Samsung Galaxy SIII, to be amongst 2012's biggest mobile success stories."

   Customers can pre-order a Samsung Galaxy SIII by calling 0800 358 1799 from 9am tomorrow, or by visiting their local 3Store. They can register for updates and information about the Samsung Galaxy SIII at http://three.co.uk/SamsungGalaxy .

   Pricing:

   Samsung Galaxy SIII on The One Plan

   £34 per month  No upfront cost

   All-you-can-eat data  2000 any network minutes  5000 Three-to-Three minutes  5000 texts  Tethering included

  Orange UK is pleased to confirm that it will be ranging the new Samsung Galaxy SIII. More details on pricing and availability will be announced on www.orange.co.uk in due course.
  Carphone Warehouse confirms Samsung Galaxy SIII
   First 1,000 customers to place pre-orders* online and over the phone  receive a 10" Galaxy Tab absolutely FREE!

   http://www.carphonewarehouse.com/NEW-SAMSUNG-GALAXY

   LONDON, 3rd May 2012 – Following today's announcement by Samsung in  London, Carphone Warehouse has confirmed that it will be stocking the  hotly anticipated Samsung Galaxy SIII. The new handset will be  available to purchase in stores nationwide, but eager fans who don't  want to wait can pre-order the new device in store, online and over  the phone. The handset is available on Vodafone, Orange, O2, T-Mobile  and Three and will be available for free on a selection of tariffs  from £36 per month.

   The first 1,000 customers to place pay monthly pre-orders online and  on the phone (via the Carphone Warehouse call centre) will receive a  FREE 10" Samsung Galaxy Tab (worth at least £399), InvisibleSHIELD™  screen protector (RRP £14.99) and in-car micro USB charger (RRP  £14.99) – a combined value of £428.98.

   All other customers who pre-order a device will receive a free Sandisk  32GB micro SD memory card (RRP normally £29.99), Invisishield Screen  Protector (RRP £14.99) and in-car micro USB charger (RRP 14.99) –a  combined value of £59.97. The addition of the Sandisk memory card will  bring the combined memory capacity of the device to a massive 48GB,  making it unlikely that even the most active users will be short on  space to store their videos, pictures, music and favourite apps.

   Andrew Harrison, CEO of Carphone Warehouse said: "Anticipation  surrounding the Samsung Galaxy SIII launch has been huge, it's one of  the biggest launches of the year and marks an exciting and innovative  new stage in the smartphone market. The unveiling at Earl's Court  today certainly didn't disappoint - this phone is an impressive piece  of kit, perfect for people looking for a large high resolution screen  and a fluid user experience. We're sure that Carphone Warehouse  customers will be very keen to try it out".

   The Samsung Galaxy SIII will be available from Carphone Warehouse  stores nationwide, and customers can pre-order at  http://www.carphonewarehouse.com/NEW-SAMSUNG-GALAXY now.

   *Pre-orders are available on new subscriptions only and not on upgrades.

 
