
   There's some pretty big news coming out of South Korea today, where Samsung has just announced the Galaxy S II LTE handset, along with its even more alluring cousin, the Galaxy S II HD LTE -- the first member of the Galaxy S family to rock an HD display. The new device, pictured on the right, boasts a 4.65-inch HD Super AMOLED screen with 1280 x 720 resolution, which translates to about 316 pixels per inch. Other than that, its specs are identical to those of the Gingerbread-laced S II LTE, which is powered by a 1.5GHz dual-core processor and features 16GB of internal memory, an eight megapixel camera that supports 1080p HD video and the usual collection of WiFi, Bluetooth, GPS and NFC capabilities. No word yet on pricing or availability, but the Galaxy S II LTE will be available exclusively on SK Telecom, while the HD variant will be available on all three Korean carriers -- SK Telecom, LG U+ and KT. Full PR after the break.
 

  Show full PR text  Samsung opens the door to the high speed, high resolution 4G era by unveiling new LTE smartphone line up in Korea  SEOUL, Korea, September 26th, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the launch of 'GALAXY S II LTE' and 'GALAXY S II HD LTE' in Korean market.  On September 26th, Samsung Electronics holds a Media Day event in Seoul, hosted by JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications Business. At the event, Samsung Electronics set to launch GALAXY S II LTE, its first LTE smartphone in Korean market.  "Using the advanced technologies it has as the leader of the domestic smartphone market, Samsung Electronics will enable consumers to enjoy a truly smart life with the LTE smartphone. The company will continue to release innovative LTE smart devices in the domestic market, thereby leading the LTE market", said JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications Business.  GALAXY S II LTE  The GALAXY S II LTE is Samsung Electronics' first LTE smartphone launched in Korean market, showcasing LTE communication technology on top of the cutting-edge smartphone features offered by GALAXY S II, the company's global hit model.  The portability has been enhanced with a slim design (9.5mm), while offering powerful smartphone performance, including Android 2.3, the latest version of the Android platform, 4.5-inch WVGA (800×480) SuperAMOLED Plus, and 1.5GHz dual core AP.  The GALAXY S II LTE supports LTE with transmission five times faster than 3G, allowing the user to download 138 music files (4MB), 110 eBooks (5MB), and six HD games (90MB) in a minute.  Multimedia functions have also been substantially improved including the 8 megapixel camera, 1080p-level full HD video, and TV-OUT function based on the MHL (Mobile High-Definition Link) adapter.  The phone also supports other cutting-edge smartphone functions. They include embedded 16GB memory, large battery capacity of 1850mAh, NFC (Near Field Communication), WiFi a/b/g/n support, and Bluetooth 3.0＋HS.  GALAXY S II HD LTE  Samsung Electronics declared the launch of the Mobile HD era by unveiling the world's first LTE smartphone with the HD Super AMOLED GALAXY S II HD LTE.  With HD (1280X720) resolution, the HD Super AMOLED is the first AMOLED display to feature 316 pixels per inch (ppi), higher than the standard 300ppi, resulting in substantial improvements in screen sharpness and readability.  A wide variety of high-resolution content services that are provided via the LTE communication network, such as high-resolution video telephony, real-time VOD services, and network games, can be enjoyed more vividly thanks to the HD SuperAMOLED. The GALAXY S II HD LTE will serve as an 'HD theater in hand' by offering an optimal environment for watching films, including the large 4.65-inch screen, screen ratio of 16:9, 110％ natural color reproduction, and 180-degree viewing angle that ensures a clear image from far left or right.  The phone supports multiple modes including LTE, HSPA＋ (for SKT and KT) and Rev.A (for LGU＋), and WCDMA/GSM (roaming), enabling a domestic user to seamlessly access the fastest high speed wireless Internet.  Substantial improvements were made to the design as well. The narrow bezel technology was employed for the front to make the frame of the 4.65-inch AMOLED display as thin as possible. Emphasis was thus placed on a slim, refined design. The slim feature (9.5mm) ensures a more comfortable grip.  Other cutting-edge smartphone functions are provided, including a large battery capacity of 1850mAh, NFC (Near Field Communication), flash support, 8 megapixel camera, WiFi a/b/g/n support, and Bluetooth 3.0＋HS.  ※ The LTE speed specified above is based on theoretical value (LTE bandwidth of 10MHz each). The actual speed may differ according to the LTE bandwidth, communications standard, and usage environment. Areas where LTE services are provided may differ among operators.
 