
Samsung's flagship interchangeable-lens camera, the NX300, is by far the company's most impressive shooter to date. It offers stellar hybrid-autofocus capabilities, excellent image quality and integrated WiFi, and it retails for a hair over $550. For all intents and purposes, it's a very competitive option, if not one of the best deals on the market today. It's frustrating, then, that Samsung opted to price the Galaxy NX -- an Android-powered camera based on the NX300 -- at an obscene $1,700, lens included. If you're not a deep-pocketed early adopter, it's absolutely a dealbreaker. But I still enjoyed my two-week test with the Galaxy NX, and if you manage to overlook the MSRP, you might just fall in love.





Hardware
There are two systems to consider when evaluating the Galaxy NX's hardware: the 20.3-megapixel APS-C CMOS sensor and DRIMe IV image processor, and the 1.6GHz quad-core Pega-Q chipset that keeps the Jelly Bean (4.2.2) operating system purring at an entirely usable pace. The NX is first and foremost a camera, and it's a powerful one at that, and smartphone chips, like WiFi, LTE and HSPA+ radios, and a virtually unlimited array of apps, transform this otherwise ordinary mirrorless model into a robust connected beast.

Shape and size aside, the NX is aesthetically more akin to a smartphone or tablet. There are far fewer buttons and dials than you'd expect to find on a camera -- instead, all settings are adjusted from within the Android camera app, which you'll access through the 4.8-inch, 720p, touch-enabled LCD. There's also a 0.46-inch SVGA electronic viewfinder, which outputs a more traditional preview screen, with information like aperture, shutter speed and ISO.

From the front, the Galaxy NX looks like any other EVF-equipped mirrorless camera. It's taller, wider and heavier than most similarly specced models on the market today, but not uncomfortably so. There's a lens release and focus-assist light flanking the 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 kit optic around front, then a pop-up flash (with release), hot shoe, microphone, power button, control dial, video record button and shutter release up top. On the left side, you'll find a standard headphone jack, a micro-USB port (which you'll use to charge the camera) and an HDMI port. The bottom contains a tripod mount and a large door covering the micro-SIM, microSD and battery compartments. All three components, including the relatively massive 4,360mAh cell, slide in behind the large extended grip.

Software and user interface
You've got the full power of Android at your disposal, which means thousands of compatible photo apps to play with. You can install applications to add funky effects to your photos, organize stills and video clips or share your shots with friends. And if you're considering the NX as a newsgathering tool, it is theoretically possible to instantly upload full-res frames directly to the cloud from anywhere in the world. And unlike other Android-powered cameras, like the Galaxy S4 Zoom, the NX features a manual zoom lens, so you can zoom in and focus in any app.

I shot exclusively with the Galaxy NX during a two-week journey around the world. I lugged the camera through Zurich, Tokyo, Taipei and Shanghai every day of the trip, staying online with an unlimited global SIM from KeepGo. That latter bit of technology enabled flawless connectivity everywhere I traveled, letting me use the device dangling around my neck to navigate city streets, respond to email and, of course, share dozens of high-quality photos and videos on Instagram seconds after they were shot. Most of the time I left my smartphone at the hotel, relying on the NX and its fantastic battery to help me navigate each city as I uploaded photos in real time and kept in touch with the office while 8,000 miles from home.

But the moment I returned to New York, the Galaxy NX went into a drawer and didn't re-emerge until I began working on this review. While the NX was a great fit for that two-week tour, it's just not very practical at home. And that makes sense. Snapping a casual photo every other day was much easier to accomplish with a traditional smartphone, and if I'm not exploring a new city, there's really no need to capture images with a fantastic camera.


Worse yet, however, is the fact that Android ultimately serves to complicate the shooting process here. There's a hardware dial up top, but you need to unlock the NX and launch the camera app to tweak any settings. The interface is nearly identical to what you'll find on the GS4 Zoom, and it's not great. You can select from "expert" options like aperture and shutter priority, or a full manual mode, but the process of tweaking ISO and exposure is far more cumbersome than on a traditional mirrorless camera or DSLR, where dedicated dials and immediately accessible options make on-the-fly adjustments more straightforward.

Of course, if you're shooting through a third-party app, you'll need to depend on that UI for any exposure adjustments. Generally you'll be limited to automatic mode, without an option to change ISO or take advantage of any of the "Smart" options, like Rich Tone or Action Freeze. You can theoretically shoot from the native camera application, save images to the gallery and access them later through another app like Twitter or Instagram, but a bug in the software version I reviewed made sharing full-res images from the gallery impossible. Samsung is looking into the issue, however, and I imagine a fix is in the works. As a workaround, I used a generic Android app called "Images easy resizer" to scale down images and save a copy, at which point I was able to access them through Instagram and Gmail.





