
 

Since its debut in April, Samsung claims to have moved 10 million Galaxy S IIs -- not quite iPhone numbers (which sold 20 million units in Q2 alone), but still quite impressive. It's especially noteworthy since, at the end of July, only five million had passed into customers' hands. In just eight weeks the number of Galaxy S IIs sold has doubled, and Sammy's flagship device has yet to even make a dent here in the US. At this rate the S II is set to far eclipse its ubiquitous predecessor's sales figures, which took over seven months to hit the same milestone. Check out the self-congratulatory PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Samsung GALAXY S II continues success reaching 10 Million in global sales 		Global popularity with customers drives momentum for Samsung's flagship smartphone 		SEOUL, Korea – September 25th, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced that the Samsung GALAXY S II (Model: GT-I9100) has achieved 10 million global channel sales, doubling from five million in just eight weeks. 		The GALAXY S II is Samsung's flagship smartphone device - a beautifully thin (8.49mm) and lightweight dual-core smartphone that combines an unmatched Super AMOLED Plus viewing experience with powerful performance, all on Android, the world's fastest-growing mobile operating system. The next generation smartphone also includes Samsung's four content and entertainment hubs, seamlessly integrated to provide instant access to music, games, e-reading and social networking services. 		"Since its launch in late April 2011, the GALAXY S II has seen continued sales success, demonstrating Samsung's industry-leading capabilities in - and commitment to - the smartphone market" said JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications Business. 		"In just five months the GALAXY S II has seen tremendous growth, reflecting its tremendous popularity with customers around the world, who in selecting the GALAXY S II as their device of choice have driven the device's strong market position globally." 		About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 		Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of US$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company consists of nine independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Memory, System LSI and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, semiconductor chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.
 