
 
 Wireless power has until now been closely associated with the Wireless Power Consortium's Qi standard. There's now a second proposed common ground in the Alliance for Wireless Power, or A4WP. Samsung and Qualcomm, along with some help from Powermat, SK Telecom, Ever Win Industries, Gill Industries and Peiker Acustic, are making an alternative that allows for "spatial freedom" between your gadget and the charging source, although whether or not that's better than the 1.6-inch distance of the updated Qi spec is left to the imagination. The strategy doesn't just let your device avoid French kissing the charger: it lets you power up through a material besides a metal plate, and it reduces the cost by eliminating repeaters. A4WP should power everything from low-power headsets through to smartphones and tablets, although with partnership talk just getting started at CTIA Wireless 2012, we wouldn't hold off on buying wired-power gadgets in the near future.



  Show full PR text   Global Technology Power Players Unite to Form Alliance for Wireless Power Creating Spatial Freedom in Consumer Electronics Charging
  CTIA WIRELESS 2012
  SAN DIEGO & SEOUL, South Korea--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Wireless technology leaders Samsung and Qualcomm Incorporated have joined other technology leaders to form the Alliance for Wireless Power (A4WP), it was announced today.
  The independently operated organization's mission is to promote global standardization of a wireless power transfer technology that offers spatial freedom, to develop product testing, certification and regulatory compliance processes, and to foster industry dialogue with regulators on wireless power policy development. The alliance is targeting a broad base of consumer electronic devices to establish a worldwide wireless power technology ecosystem.
  The A4WP will focus on a new wireless power transfer technology that provides spatial freedom for charging of electrical devices in cars, on tabletops and for multiple devices simultaneously.
  Benefits of this wireless power approach include: a transmitter and receiver antenna design that is easily implemented, a simple wireless power control system, and the ability to transfer power through non-metallic surfaces. The A4WP expects to achieve this capability without the need for costly multi-coil repeaters, which are required for other systems. A single specification is envisioned that will address simultaneous charging of multiple devices ranging from very low power products, such as Bluetooth headsets, to today's most sophisticated tablets.
  The A4WP is open to new members and welcomes participation from vendors in all segments of the potential ecosystem, including: handheld devices, consumer electronics, semiconductor products, automotive, furniture, test equipment, cellular operators, and retail.
  Alliance members will be available to discuss membership opportunities at the launch event on May 8, to be held at Ernest N. Morial Convention Center, New Orleans, USA, during CTIA Wireless 2012.
  According to the analyst firm IMS Research, shipments of wireless power enabled devices are projected to surpass 100 million by 2015.
  Jason dePreaux, a research manager at IMS Research comments, "Wireless power has the potential to increase convenience and improve the user experience in consumer devices like mobile phones by untethering the charging process. For these benefits to be realized, wireless power infrastructure must be deployed to enable wireless charge points in the home, at work, or while traveling without concern for compatibility. Industry alliances will play a critical role in developing this infrastructure."
  "Qualcomm is delighted to be involved in this dynamic initiative to set the standard for wireless power. WiPower™ Technology by Qualcomm is ideally suited for a forum like the A4WP. As a leader in delivering enabling technology solutions, Qualcomm is helping to define the next-generation consumer electronics experience," said Derek Aberle, Executive Vice President and Group President, Qualcomm. "Going forward, we hope to welcome additional companies and organizations who are looking to contribute towards setting the best possible standard for wireless power."
  "A4WP will accelerate the commercialization of this technology and will contribute to expanding its market. As a founding member of A4WP, Samsung is committed to supporting standardization of wireless charging technology boasting spatial freedom, contributing to the eco-system, and exploring possibilities of a variety of services," said Executive Vice President KiHo Kim, head of Digital Media & Communications R&D Center, Samsung Electronics.
  Joining Qualcomm and Samsung are: Ever Win Industries, Gill Industries, Peiker Acustic, Powermat Technologies, and SK Telecom.
  Editors notes:
  A4WP will focus on the standardization of a wireless charging solution offering spatial freedom, a certification program and supporting marketing activities with the intent to expand the wireless charging technology eco-system.
  In addition, members will also work on the following:
  * Set up and issue technical specifications  * Collaboration on a wireless charging solution ecosystem  * Co-operation with existing industry organizations  * Securing new members from across the industry
 
