




	If you like your tablets of the Samsung persuasion, AT&T has just promised an abundance of riches. The carrier has confirmed that both the Android-toting Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 and the Windows 8-based ATIV Smart PC will reach its stores and LTE network by November 9th at respective contract-free prices of $500 and $800. Those who spring for the ATIV-badged hardware can deck it out with a $49 Stand Dock and a $40 VGA adapter, both available in late November, if they're keen to transform their 11.6-inch slates into tiny desktops. And if you'd really, really like to go all-in with Samsung, there's a promo running through the holidays that knocks as much as $100 off the tablet price if you're willing to buy a Samsung phone (and the matching two-year contract, naturally) at the same time.



 		Show full PR text   Samsung ATIV Smart PC and Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 Available at AT&T Retail Stores Nationwide Nov. 9 on AT&T's 4G LTE Network
  For a Limited Time, Buy any Samsung Galaxy Smartphone1 and Receive up to $100 off a Second Connected Samsung Device including the new Samsung ATIV smart PC and Galaxy Tab 2 10.1. Available Exclusively at AT&T this Holiday Season, New Samsung ATIV smart PC Delivers Windows 8
  Dallas, Texas, November 05, 2012
  ShareThis
  AT&T* and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (Samsung Mobile)2, today announced availability of the Samsung ATIV smart PC, a new tablet designed for the new Windows® 8 operating system, and the Samsung Galaxy Tab® 2 10.1, a 4G LTE Android tablet. Both tablets will be available for AT&T customers this holiday season beginning Nov. 9. The Samsung ATIV smart PC will be priced at $799.99 and the Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 will be available for $499.99.
  AT&T is giving customers more reasons to purchase a Samsung device this holiday season as part of a limited time offer that gives customers up to $100 off the purchase of any connected Samsung device of lesser or equal value, including the new Samsung ATIV smart PC and Galaxy Tab 2 10.1, when they purchase any Samsung Galaxy smartphone (w/ two-year agreement incl. qualifying voice and data plans).
  Samsung ATIV smart PC
  Samsung ATIV smart PC combines premium computing power in an elegant tablet form factor while providing AT&T customers the ultimate in productivity and entertainment features. The powerful ATIV smart PC has an 11.6-inch HD PLS display, 64GB of internal storage memory and a microSD card slot to support up to an additional 32GB of memory and the Intel® Atom™ dual-core processor, up to 1.5 GHz. ATIV smart PC comes installed with Windows 8 (which can be upgraded to Windows 8 Pro). It is also backward compatible and supports all existing software and applications that run on older windows OS such as Windows 7, Vista, and XP. ATIV smart PC also comes preloaded with a trial version of Microsoft Office 2010 for a complete PC experience and for productivity while on-the-go.
  ATIV is Samsung's brand for Windows 8 products including Smart PCs, tablets and Windows Phone 8 for smartphones. Samsung will continue to announce ATIV products to provide advanced, productive and creative experiences.
  "We are excited to offer the Samsung ATIV smart PC in stores nationwide ahead of the holiday shopping season," said Chris Penrose, senior vice president, AT&T Emerging Devices. "Connected by the nation's largest 4G network, this Windows 8 tablet gives customers optimized touch interface, instant live tile updates and PC capabilities."
  Samsung Mobile and AT&T are offering the following accessories3 to get the most out of the ATIV smart PC:
  * Stand Dock – Dock the ATIV smart PC in the Stand Dock to turn any environment into a personal office. In addition to providing a charge when docked, the Stand Dock is equipped with a built-in USB port and Ethernet (RJ45) port to connect the ATIV smart PC to LAN and various USB peripherals.			* VGA Adapter – Expand your workstation and give presentations with ease with the VGA Adapter (micro HDMI to VGA connectivity). Use the VGA Adapter to connect the ATIV smart PC to external displays, monitors and projectors for second-screen viewing and enhanced productivity.			* Additional accessories will also be available.
  Beginning in late November online at www.wireless.att.com, the ATIV smart PC Stand Dock will be available for $49.00 and the VGA adapter will be available for $40.00.
  Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1
  The Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.14 is a 4G LTE Android 4.0 tablet that delivers entertainment and productivity to fit your whole life. Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 offers a 10.1-inch display and premium entertainment options including Media Hub, Smart Remote and AllShare® Play. 3 Features like on-device encryption and VPN access ensure the tablet is secure for business use, while the 7000 mAh battery allows for all-day connectivity. For more information on Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1, please visit www.att.com/galaxytab2.
  AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering 285 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas.5 With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.
  Customers purchasing tablets from AT&T have more options in choosing the plan that's right for them and their mobile devices. With new AT&T Mobile Share plans, new and existing customers can share a single bucket of data across smartphones, tablets, and other compatible devices. AT&T Mobile Share allows customers to build a plan to fit their devices and usage. For as low as $10 per month, customers can connect the Samsung 4G LTE tablets with AT&T's new Mobile Share plans. Customers can select one of the new shared data plans or choose one of AT&T's existing individual or family plans. 6
  Beginning Nov. 9, Samsung ATIV smart PC and Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 will be available in AT&T company-owned retail stores nationwide and online at www.wireless.att.com.
  For more information on AT&T, please visit www.att.com.
  *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.
  1 Samsung Galaxy promotion requires two-year smartphone agreement including qualifying voice and data plan.
  2Samsung Mobile is the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States according to Strategy Analytics, North America Handset Vendor Marketshare, Q2 2012. Samsung Electronics Company is the No. 1 smartphone provider worldwide according to Strategy Analytics Global Smartphone Vendor Market Share by Region: Q2 2012.
  3ATIV smart PC accessories sold separately.
  4Samsung, Galaxy Tab, and AllShare are registered trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Other company names, product names and marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners and may be trademarks or registered trademarks.
  54G speeds not available everywhere. Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network. 4G when used in connection with the ATIV Smart PC refers to the fact that the device can operate on AT&T's 4G network.
  6Smartphone required. Up to ten devices per plan. Additional monthly charge per device. $15 per GB for add'l data. Unlimited talk and text for phones only. Activation fee may apply. Additional deposits and other restrictions may apply. Access to corporate email, intranet sites and apps available for $15/mo. per device.
 
