
At Samsung's press conference it's bringing some of those extra large Ultra HD TVs it promised at CES, and mentioned something even more tantalizing: a 4K OLED. Unfortunately that last one did not make an appearance on stage (check after the break for a couple of pictures of the 55-incher), however the company has promised it will be present in its booth for demos tomorrow. We expect that, like the ones shown by Sony and Panasonic at CES, this is just a prototype, but if it's anywhere near as beautiful as those we can't wait to see it. As far as products that are actually shipping, Samsung also showed off its 55-inch curved OLED again, as well as the 65-inch F9000 UHD TV. As far as the supersized 4K sets, Samsung is showing off 98-inch and 110-inch models that outsize the 85-inch behemoth it kicked this crazy trend off with back in January. Finally, it's trying to address the issue of high-res content, with representatives from Eutelsat and TF1 present to talk about the projects they have in the works.


Update: We stopped by big blue's digs here at IFA to see the sets in action, and they're as impressive as you might think. Even at such a large size, the resolution doesn't appear to degrade when compared to their smaller brethren. Naturally, however, you'll want to stand a few feet away from these behemoths for the optimal viewing experience. Just like the other panels in the line, the TVs produce vibrant colors, strong contrast and crisp visuals. When it comes to overall design, Samsung's kept the S9 series Timeless Gallery frame, complete with speakers all around its stand -- for better or worse.







Show full PR textSamsung unveils UHD OLED TV at IFA 2013Samsung delivers an unparalled viewing experience with both of flat and curved formatsBERLIN, GERMANY – Sept. 5, 2013 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. showcased its Ultra High-Definition (UHD) OLED TV at IFA 2013, the largest consumer electronic trade show in Europe. The UHD OLED TV is a proof of concept that combines the fantastic detail of UHD with the brilliant contrast and colors of OLED."Samsung has retained its No. 1 position in the global TV market for eight consecutive years by pioneering a new innovation each year, including cutting-edge displays, 3D and Smart TVs," said Hyun-Suk Kim, Executive Vice President, Visual Display Business, Samsung Electronics. "This year we are showcasing our vision for the industry, which will undoubtedly be centered around the detail and the brilliance that only our UHD and OLED technologies can offer."Samsung's UHD TVs deliver an unparalleled viewing experience born of pure innovation. With more than eight million pixels and a resolution four times greater than Full HD, the most intricate of visual details are defined, clear and breathtakingly lifelike.Meanwhile, Samsung's OLED technology represents an unprecedented leap forward for picture quality and sharp contrast with its self-emitting pixels and natural motion. Combined, the fantastic sharpness of UHD and the contrast and colors of OLED usher in the next generation of television.The Samsung UHD OLED TV is on display in both flat and curved formats. The Curved UHD OLED TV includes the subtle curvature design and creates an immersive cinematic viewing experience.Both the UHD OLED TVs are 55-inches and stand alongside Samsung's Curved OLED TV and full line of UHD televisions, including 110-, 98- and 85-inch models and 65- and 55-inch sets that made their European debut at IFA.About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in technology, opening new possibilities for people everywhere. Through relentless innovation and discovery, we are transforming the worlds of televisions, smartphones, personal computers, printers, cameras, home appliances, LTE systems, medical devices, semiconductors and LED solutions. We employ 270,000 people across 79 countries with annual sales of US$187.8 billion. To discover more, please visit www.samsung.com.###

Alexis Santos contributed to this post.

