
 Remember the Galaxy Player (or Galaxy S WiFi) we saw back at MWC? Sure you do, it basically strips out the 3G and calling functionality of a Galaxy S phone and leaves you with a Android 2.2 media player or shrunken tablet. Well, it looks like both the 4-inch Galaxy Player 4 and the 5-inch Galaxy Player 5 will be headed to the US this spring. Samsung's demoing the players here at its NYC Spring Product Showcase today, although it isn't talking exact timing or pricing. Either way, it looks like this Android 2.2 player (it's upgradable to 2.3, by the way) with full Market access will be headed stateside sometime soon. We've got the full specs after the break and we'll be trying to dig up more details here -- stay tuned.
 

Show full PR textSAMSUNG UNLEASHES GALAXY PLAYER ULTRA-MOBILE DEVICES -- COMMUNICATION, ENTERTAINMENT AND INFORMATION ARE IN HANDTwo Light and Slim Devices Deliver the Full Internet and Thousands of Android Apps Without Monthly Connection Fees NEW YORK, March 16, 2011 – Samsung Electronics America Inc. ., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today expanded the Galaxy Family of portable devices with the addition of the unique Galaxy Player, the first in a new category of Android-based ultra-mobile devices. The large 4" or 5" screen on the two new models offer an ideal to enjoy games, music, videos, social media and e-books, yet still easily fit in a pants pocket.The 4" and 5" screen models of Galaxy Player, weighing just 5 and 7 ounces respectively, deliver powerful features for entertainment, communication and information on the go. Both devices boast Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n) connectivity for quick and easy access to online services, front and rear cameras (including flash on the 5" model) for videoconferencing or photography, stereo speakers for enjoying music or videos, and support for Adobe Flash 10.1 to access virtually any content on the Web."Our Galaxy Family – including Galaxy S mobile phones and Galaxy Tab – has been a success because we give people what they truly wish for – access to thousands of Android Apps coupled with Samsung's sleek design," explained Tim Baxter, President, Consumer Business Division at Samsung Electronics America. "Our new Galaxy Players deliver that same experience in two terrific, ultra-portable form factors – without incurring fees for a monthly data plan." Convenient Communication FeaturesGalaxy Players comes with Qik applications for VoIP calls over a WiFi connection; Skype will also be pre-loaded on the 4" model. A microphone and speaker in the device provides a comfortable and natural communications experience.Video-conferencing is a joy through the front-facing camera on the devices and the large 4" and 5" screens provide for a crystal-clear view of the other side of the conversation.Social networking comes alive on the Galaxy Player models – users can download popular apps like Facebook, Twitter and many others to take full advantage of the generous 4" and 5" screen real estate. Now, users can connect with more friends than ever without squinting on a tiny screen.Unprecedented Multimedia, Gaming in Style – and Drag 'N PlayGalaxy Player's large 4" or 5" screens are perfect for reading e-books on the go, while the built-in Wi-Fi makes it easy to browse and download new books from almost anywhere. Stereo speakers, with Virtual 5.1 surround sound and Samsung's SoundAlive post-processing technology, makes the Galaxy Player a portable boombox to enliven any occasion. The LCD WVGA display on the 5" model makes watching movies or TV shows a superb experience, while the Super Clear WVGA LCD screen on the 4" model provides bright, clear access to online videos.In addition, both Galaxy Players support numerous multimedia formats natively, eliminating the need to transcode files. Videos in the popular DivX, Xvid, WMV, MPEG4 and H.264 formats play effortlessly. Music lovers will love the audio support for MP3, WMA, AAC, Ogg, and Flac.Drag 'N Play support means files can be simply dragged from a PC right onto the player – no need for installing special software of any kind on the PC. A MicroSD slot allows 32 GB of extra storage, supplementing the on-board 8 GB.Galaxy Players are DLNA Certified® and support AllShare – so content can be streamed to and from a PC or television without wires – anywhere in the home.Gamers are sure to embrace the Galaxy Player – the vibrant and expansive 5" and 4" screens, stereo sound, access to thousands of games via the Android Marketplace, and extreme portability all add up to a package that is simply perfect for both hardcore and casual games.Access to an Amazing Lineup of Apps- and Flash 10.1The two Galaxy Player devices are the only Mobile Internet Devices with Google certification – so they can access over 100,000 Android applications via Google's Android Market. The Web browsing experience on the Galaxy Player devices is unparalleled. Support for Adobe Flash 10.1 means no limits – and no frustration – when browsing online.Both devices run Android version 2.2 (Froyo) and will be upgradeable to version 2.3 (Gingerbread). 
 