


Not to be forgotten amid other new Samsung products, the company has announced that its complete Galaxy Tab 3 lineup will arrive in the US next month. The tablet family launches in the states on July 7th, with all three screen sizes (7, 8 and 10.1 inches) going on sale at Samsung.com, Amazon, Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Office Depot and other brick-and-mortar retailers. As a refresher, the entry-level Galaxy Tab 3 7.0 is priced at $199 and sports a dual-core 1.2GHz processor, 8GB of storage (plus microSD expansion), and a 7-inch 1,024 x 600 TFT display. There's Android Jelly Bean (4.1) from the outset, as well as Samsung's various apps and built-in hubs. 

In addition to having a larger screen, the Galaxy Tab 3 8.0 ($299) bumps up other specifications, with a more potent Exynos 1.5GHz dual-core processor and higher-resolution (1,280 x 800) TFT display. It's got the very latest Android build (4.2), as well as a rear-facing 5-megapixel camera capable of 720p video capture. Storage is also doubled to 16GB, with extra space available through microSD, and 1.5GB of RAM to keep apps running smoothly.


Finally, there's the Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 ($399), which packs an Intel Z2560 processor (1.6GHz dual-core) and the same resolution as the Tab 3 8.0, albeit stretched a little further. It also matches the smaller model on storage and camera specs, although RAM has inexplicably dropped to just a single gig. The larger model does include a built-in IR blaster, however, as well as Samsung's WatchON TV recommendation service. All three WiFi-only models will arrive in white and a previously leaked gold brown hue. Pre-orders start tomorrow.



Show full PR textSamsung Galaxy Tab 3 Portfolio Offers Consumers New Variety and Personalized Experiences for Staying Connected
As consumer tablet usage swells, new consumer research shows demand for more choice and Samsung's new 7", 8", and 10.1" tablets deliver

RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. – June 24, 2013 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today debuted three new tablets as part of the Galaxy Tab 3 family, allowing consumers to choose which tablet suits them best. The 7 inch, 8 inch and 10.1 inch Galaxy tablets offer a range of screen sizes and a suite of experiences built for a broader set of individual and family preferences, making this lineup of tablets ideal for both home and on-the-go uses. The Wi-Fi-enabled Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio will be available in three form factors: Galaxy Tab 3 7.0, Galaxy Tab 3 8.0 and Galaxy Tab 3 10.1., and will be available in the U.S. beginning July 7, with pre-orders starting tomorrow.

"Samsung's industry-leading smartphones, Note devices and tablets address consumers' diverse demands and personal preferences," said Nanda Ramachandran, vice president of emerging business at Samsung Telecommunications America. "The Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio offers consumers more options for tablets that serve as their ultimate smartphone companion, the center of home and on-the-go use, and mobile devices packed with content and services."

New consumer data* from Forrester Research validates that tablets are quickly becoming a central mobile device for consumers. Specifically, 49 percent of U.S. consumers who own both a mobile phone and tablet prefer the tablet as their primary device to go online. Data from the same Forrester survey further indicates that across 25 types of tablet applications there is no single dominant use of tablets by users. The typical user is more well-defined by their lack of uniformity as evidenced by the fact that they engage in a widely varied mix of five to six different application types in a given month. Only games top the 50 percent threshold for all tablet users – so it is obvious that each consumer is looking for a customized device that fits their personal needs on functionality in addition to size, price, power and connectivity. Whether reading an e-book, engaging on social networks, or allowing the kids to play games, the Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio has something for everyone."In addition to providing consumers greater variety in terms of size, form factor, price points and experiences, the Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio will be widely available for purchase from a multitude of retail channels further reinforcing Samsung's commitment to delivering personal choice to all," said Travis Merrill, vice president of tablet marketing at Samsung Electronics America.

Familiar Galaxy Experience

The Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio blends the familiar Galaxy family feel in sleek and slim designs with compelling content and services that consumers will want to use in their everyday lives. Created to be the perfect companion to the Galaxy line of smartphones, the Galaxy Tab 3 devices give consumers a seamless transition of content and services between their various Galaxy products. Similar to the Galaxy Note 8.0 and Galaxy smartphones, physical home and capacitive buttons are included.

Home Entertainment Hub

The Galaxy Tab 3 has various form factors and light-weight builds, which quickly and easily transition into the center of the home. Research shows that 85% of tablet users watch TV while using their tablet, with 41% of them doing this daily.** For this consumer, each Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio device's built-in IR blaster turns the tablets into a universal remote and can activate Samsung's innovative WatchONTM service. This service recommends TV shows and on-demand content, enabling the tablets to function as the hub of the living room and king of second screen consumption.

Packed with Content

This newest portfolio also makes discovering, accessing and sharing new content, including over 750,000 apps, from the Google Play and Samsung Apps stores even simpler. The Galaxy Tab 3 makes it convenient to stay connected on-the-go, balancing any number of tasks, such as emailing, managing your schedule, social networking, online shopping, reading, playing games and streaming content.In addition, each of the devices in the Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio will come with a bevy of content value through pre-loaded content and Galaxy Perks available at www.samsung.com/us/galaxyperks. Specifically, hundreds of dollars' worth of content, including a $10 voucher for the purchase of applications, books, movies and music in Google Play; one year of free Boingo hotspot service; three months free Hulu Plus service; two years free DropBox Service with 50GB storage space; and more.

The Galaxy Tab 3 7.0 is aimed at consumers who are in the market to purchase a portable tablet with all the features and reliability they need to stay connected throughout their daily activities. Built for portability, the Galaxy Tab 3 7.0 allows users to consume and manage content on-the-go. It is compact enough to easily slide into handbags or a jacket pocket so that consumers on-the-go will appreciate its compact size and lightweight design.

The premium Galaxy Tab 3 8.0 product is thin, lightweight, feature-packed and powerful, making it the ideal portable tablet for on-the-go performance. With Samsung's built-in Reading Mode, the Tab 3 8.0 is the perfect e-reader-sized tablet.New for the Galaxy Tab family of devices is Samsung's Multi-Window functionality. Following the popularity of the feature on Note devices, Multi-Window comes to the Galaxy Tab 3 8.0. Offering true PC- like multi-tasking, consumers can use two apps side-by-side, with support up to 20 applications, including Polaris Office, Google Chrome and Facebook.The Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 offers a larger HD screen optimized for entertainment – watching movies and playing games. With Samsung's WatchON TV recommendation service, built-in IR blaster and 10.1-inch screen, the Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 is the new hub of the living room. As a second screen companion and perfect tablet for viewing content and watching movies, the Galaxy Tab 3 10.1 transforms the ultimate content-consumption device.

The latest Galaxy Tab family is also SAFETM (Samsung for Enterprise), allowing users to work and play with confidence that their photos, emails and contacts are protected. The portfolio also includes expandable memory up to 64GB through a microSD card.This newest family comes in two color options – White and a unique Gold Brown. The Galaxy Tab 3 7.0, 8.0 and 10.1 will be available for purchase from major retailers nationwide on July 7 with pre-sales beginning June 25 at Best Buy/Best Buy Mobile, Amazon, Wal-Mart, h.h. Gregg, Office Depot, Toys 'R' Us, P.C. Richard & Son, Fry's, Newegg, Sears and Samsung.com. The Galaxy Tab 3 portfolio will be priced at $199, $299 and $399, respectively.


