
 
 While Samsung's Galaxy Ace Duos has already burst onto the scene in India pulling double duty on GSM and CDMA networks, the company today announced its dual-SIM GSM-only cousin will begin shipping in June in Russia, before rolling out to Europe and other regions later. Running Android 2.3 on an 832MHz processor and flashing a 3.5-inch HVGA screen, that dual-SIM capability is the highlight, with Samsung's "Dual SIM always on" feature that forwards calls from the phone number on SIM 2, even if the user is on a call through SIM 1. Bill Bellamy and all others in need of such features can check the press release after the break for a few more details, or the gallery below to get a look from a few more angles of this son of the original Galaxy Ace.




  Show full PR text    Always On Call with the Samsung GALAXY Ace DUOS

 
   May 24, 2012

 
 
   Stylish GALAXY Ace successor delivers Dual SIM flexibility with high-end performance and user experience

 
 
   Seoul, KOREA-May 24, 2012-Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the new Samsung GALAXY Ace. Designed for users with active lifestyles who don't compromise on style or convenience, the GALAXY Ace DUOS will be available from June starting in Russia and gradually rolled out to Europe, CIS, Latin America, Southeast and Southwest Asia, Middle East, Africa, and China.

 
   Building on the success of the popular GALAXY Ace, the GALAXY Ace DUOS combines a premium design, high-performance features, and rich smart experience with a Dual SIM support system, allowing users to manage their work and personal lives with one smartphone. Users can also use the device to carry two SIM cards with different billing plans, switching when convenient or cost-appropriate.

 
   "With Dual SIM convenience, enhanced connectivity, and performance features, the GALAXY Ace Duos delivers a sleek design and incredible features intended to provide consumers with a smartphone that meets their hidden needs." said JK Shin President and Head of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung. "We continue to listen to our customers and lead them to a life extraordinary by expanding our GALAXY smart device range, which continues to gain traction as one of the most recognized and popular mobile brands in the world."

 
   The GALAXY Ace DUOS's Dual SIM system maximizes communication flexibility by allowing users to manage two separate phone numbers on one smartphone. Samsung's unique 'Dual SIM always on' feature automatically forwards calls from the phone number on SIM 2, even if a user is on the phone with SIM 1's number. This ensures that a user can always manage their work and personal lives and never miss a call.

 
   The GALAXY Ace DUOS builds on the GALAXY Ace's style heritage. Sleek, compact, and ultra-modern, this is a device that complements the style. It encases a 3.5'' touch screen that lets users view messages, multimedia, and Web content and scores high on performance. HSDPA 7.2 connectivity delivers enhanced browsing performance and fast content downloads with minimal lag-times, so users can balance personal and professional tasks with ease. Additionally, users can take advantage of the integrated 5MP camera to take and share stunning photos and videos.

 
   In addition to its power and connectivity features, the GALAXY Ace DUOS delivers the rich, intuitive smartphone experience that users have come to expect from GALAXY devices. Samsung's Touchwiz user interface lets users navigate the phone easily and fluidly. A 3GB of storage ensures users can comfortably store videos, music, and images on the go. And ChatON, Samsung's communication service that connects users on any phone platform into a single community, ensures users are always connected with the content and contacts that matter.

 
   Notes to Editors

   Samsung GALAXY Ace DUOS Product Specifications

   ﻿﻿

   Network

   HSDPA 7.2 Mbps 900/2100  EDGE/GPRS 850/ 900/1800/1900

   Display

   3.5" HVGA (320x480) TFT-LCD

   OS

   Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)

   Processor

   832MHz Processor

   Camera

   Main(Rear): 5 Mega pixel Auto Focus camera  - Single Shot, Smile Shot, Panorama Shot

   Video

   Codec: MPEG4/H263/H264/VC-1  Format: 3gp(mp4), WMV (asf), MKV, FLV  VGA Video Player & Recorder (640 x 480) @ 30fps

   Audio

   Codec: MP3/AAC/AAC＋/eAAC＋/OGG/WMA/AMR-NB/  AMR-WB/WAV/MID/AC3/IMY/FLAC/XMF eACC＋  Music player with SoundAlive  FM Radio and RDS  3.5mm Ear Jack & Speaker

   Additional

   Features

 
   Samsung Touchwiz UX

   Samsung ChatON mobile communication service

   Samsung Social Hub  - Integrates all SNS, email, and calendar accounts  - Integrated Calendar (Google/MS Outlook)

   Swype

   Document Viewer

   Multi-touch zoom-in & out

   A-GPS

   Google™ Mobile Services

   Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, Google Latitude  Google Play Store, Google Plus, YouTube, Google Talk,  Google Places, Google Navigation, Google Downloads

   Connectivity

   WiFi 802.11 (b/g/n)  USB 2.0  Bluetooth technology v 3.0

   Sensor

   Accelerometer, Digital Compass

   Memory

   3GB User memory ＋ 512MB (RAM) ＋ microSD slot (up to 32GB)

   Dimension

   112.74 x 61.5 x 11.5 mm, 122g

   Battery

   1,300 mAh  Talk time : 2G/ 1,000 minutes, 3G/ 390 minutes  Standby : 2G/ 520 hours, 3G/ 410 hours

   ﻿

   ＊ All functionality, features, specifications and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.

 
