
 
 Folks in Canada using Samsung's Smart lineup of home theater equipment have a new app to be excited about, thanks in part to Cineplex Entertainment. The two companies have teamed up for a video-on-demand app, dubbed Cineplex Store, which will allow owners of "select models of Samsung's Smart TVs, Blu-ray players and home theater systems" to purchase or rent videos from the comfort of their couches. Pricing is set from about three to five bucks for 48-hour unlimited play rentals (from the time you hit play within a 30-day period), while buying titles outright will cost ya between $10 and $20 -- all without any pesky contracts. Notably, for those prices you'll also be able to store your content in a "digital locker" and rack up Scene points with Cineplex. While it appears that there's nary mention of which Smart devices are compatible, you can hit up the source link below and the press release after break for more details.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Canada and Cineplex Entertainment Announce the Launch of the Cineplex Store Application on Samsung Devices
  App will allow consumers to rent or purchase movies on select Samsung TVs, Blu-ray Players and Home Theatre Systems
  MISSISSAUGA, ON, April 17, 2012 /PRNewswire/ - Samsung Electronics Canada and Cineplex Entertainment ("Cineplex") announced today the launch of the Cineplex Store App on select models of Samsung SMART TVs, Blu-ray Players and Home Theatre Systems.
  Allowing Canadians to share their passion for movies at home, the Cineplex Store has thousands of movie titles available to rent or purchase. With no monthly subscription, Samsung owners pay only for the movies they watch, and they can conveniently store and manage all of their purchases with the Cineplex digital locker feature. What's more, SCENE™ members earn points with every purchase or rental.
  "The Cineplex Store App is all about adding value for our Samsung customers by giving them access to content that will improve their experience with the device," said Craig McLennan, Vice-President, Consumer Electronics at Samsung Canada. "It's just another way that we are helping Canadians to share their passions, in this case for great entertainment at home."
  "When Canadians think of movies, we want them to think of Cineplex. As the leader in Canadian theatrical exhibition, Cineplex can leverage the strong brand loyalty we have developed with our theatre guests into the home," said Pat Marshall, Vice President Communications and Investor Relations. "We are very pleased to work with another industry leader in Samsung to add our Cineplex Store App to their TVs, Blu-ray players and home theatre systems."
  Customers can stream their rentals and purchases. Cineplex Store rentals range from $2.99-$4.99, varying by new release versus catalogue title. Rentals provide customers with up to 30 days to view their movie. Once they start to playback their movie rental they have 48 hours to watch it and can do so as many times as they wish. Movies can also be purchased, with prices ranging from $9.99 - $19.99.
  In addition, Samsung and Cineplex are currently giving viewers a chance to win a Samsung SMART TV and free Cineplex Store downloads for a year! Go to Cineplex.com/Samsung to enter to win this Grand Prize, as well as other prizes that include Samsung Blu-ray players, digital cameras, free movies through the Cineplex Store App and more.
  For more information visit Facebook (http://www.facebook.com/SamsungCanada, YouTube Channel http://www.youtube.com/SamsungCanadaFilms or check out the chatter at Twitter - http://twitter.com/samsungcanada
 
