

More Info

Samsung Galaxy Note review
AT&T Galaxy Note review
T-Mobile officially confirms Samsung Galaxy Note, more details in coming weeks


The Samsung Galaxy Note is among a rare breed of smartphones that need no introduction. It's polarizing, memorable and single-handedly responsible for the popularization of the term "phablet." It's also the indisputable king of that category, having recently defended its throne against LG's Optimus Vu. Aside from the Note's sprawling display, much of its appeal lies in the tight software integration with the S Pen stylus, which endows the phone with notepad-like functionality.


The first (and second) time we reviewed the Galaxy Note, it featured Android 2.3. Since then, it's received an update to Android 4.0, along with a new set of productivity apps dubbed the Premium Suite. Now as the phone arrives at T-Mobile (for $250 with a contract and after a $50 rebate), we're taking the opportunity to review not just the new variant, but in this case, the latest OS as well. You already know much of the Galaxy Note's story, but now the question remains: just how much of the text has been re-written? Let's find out.




Hardware
We first met the Galaxy Note at IFA nearly a year ago, so its arrival at T-Mobile is quite tardy indeed. Like the AT&T version, it's based on a dual-core 1.5GHz Snapdragon S3 that's part of Qualcomm's previous generation of chips. We'll discuss performance in greater detail a bit later, but suffice to say this modest hardware, transplanted to support T-Mobile's bands, leaves us with a phone that no longer feels cutting-edge.

If you were to run down the spec sheet and compare the Galaxy Note on T-Mobile to its AT&T sibling, you'll be hard-pressed to spot any meaningful differences. Both phones offer 1GB of RAM, 16GB of internal storage and an empty microSD card slot. As ever, the Note has a beefy 2,500mAh battery, and we're happy to report that its NFC hardware remains intact, too. As we've alluded to, the only worthwhile difference in this particular Galaxy Note is the new-found support for T-Mo's AWS infrastructure. This time around, you'll find 42Mbps HSPA+ connectivity across the 2100MHz, 1900MHz, 1700MHz and 850MHz bands.


Cosmetic stylings reveal a similar story: for better and worse, this is the same US variant of the Galaxy Note that you've already gotten to know. Button placement remains the same, along with the location of the camera pod, sensors and S Pen. While it's hard to ding Samsung for demanding consistency across its US lineup, we genuinely prefer the physical home button of the global Galaxy Note, which was eschewed in favor of an all-capacitive scheme for the US variants.



