
 Samsung's ATIV branding might not yet be a household name, but that could very well change, as the company has just announced a new naming scheme that places all of its Windows PCs under the ATIV umbrella. As you may recall, the ATIV scheme was previously reserved for convertibles, but under the new structure, even Samsung's existing PC lineup -- we're looking at you, Series laptops -- will retroactively take on the new scheme. The news doesn't stop there, however, as Samsung has also announced two new ATIV Book models and a nifty bit of software known as SideSync to the mix. Read on for the details.





 In particular, we're talking the ultraportable ATIV Book 5 and performance-oriented ATIV Book 6. From a spec standpoint, ATIV Book 5 is very similar to the Series 5 Ultra that we saw at CES. We're talking a 14-inch, 1,366 x 768 touchscreen, an Intel Core i5 (3337U) CPU, 4GB of RAM, 500GB of storage with 24GB of ExpressCache and Intel HD 4000 integrated graphics. The ATIV Book 5 weighs in at 4.19 pounds, is available for pre-order now and rings in at $900. Stepping it up a notch in size and performance is the ATIV Book 6. Here, you'll find a 15.6-inch, 1080p touchscreen display, an Intel Core i7 (3635QM) CPU, 8GB of RAM, a 1TB hard drive and a discrete Radeon HD 8770M graphics chipset. This more powerful model weighs in at 5.18 pounds, and is available on pre-order now for $1,200.

 Going forward, all Samsung ATIV PCs will come pre-loaded with a desktop app called SideSync, which offers an integrated experience between Windows 8 and an Android tablet or smartphone. The software requires both devices be connected by a USB cable, but offers the ability to respond to text messages, view maps and multimedia files from the PC. As another nice touch, SideSync also offers the ability to edit documents on the mobile device, and move files between the two.

 Read on for a complete look at Samsung's new naming scheme, and a more detailed spec sheet of its latest laptops. It's a lot to digest, but we're sure you can manage.

 Samsung Unifies Fastest Growing PC Line under Newly Expanded ATIV Brand; Launches Two New Laptops
 Samsung ATIV PCs offer seamless solution to transition between PC and mobile devices with SideSync, extending Samsung's mobile innovation and user experience
 RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. – April 25, 2013 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today announced it will expand the ATIV brand to include all of its Windows® based PCs. ATIV, previously the brand for the company's Windows based convertible PC devices, now unites all of Samsung's Windows devices under one cohesive brand, representing the convergence of PC and mobile technologies. The new product names under the ATIV brand will provide customers an easy way to understand the product segments across Samsung's PC portfolio. Samsung ATIV will also offer users a consistent and seamless computing experience across Samsung's diverse PC line.

 "Samsung has been the fastest growing PC brand for the past three years1, in part because of our commitment to developing solutions that meet and exceed the ever-evolving needs of our customers," said Mike Abary, senior vice president of consumer IT product marketing at Samsung Electronics America. "Our expanded ATIV brand and the introduction of solutions like SideSync create the necessary synergy between our mobile and PC lines to create real ease of use for consumers. These synergies enable us to maintain our momentum and continue to offer our customers innovations that enhance the way they live and work."

 ATIV Brand Expansion
 The unification of all Samsung Windows PC products under the ATIV brand represents Samsung's commitment to grow as a global leader in the PC space, as well as its dedication to extending mobile innovation and user experiences across all devices by integrating PCs into the mobile division.

 Current products will be rolled out with new names under the ATIV brand beginning today. More details on the existing and new product names are included below.

 Flexibility and Convenience Across Devices
 Samsung customers will now enjoy a completely integrated experience across their smartphones, tablets and PCs, thanks to SideSync technology, the first of several new ATIV features that will be introduced this year. This new technology enables users to seamlessly switch from working on their PC to their Android-based Samsung smartphone by simply connecting the two devices via a USB cable. When connected, users can respond to a text on a mobile phone from their PC keyboard; view maps, photos and multimedia from their phone on their PC screen; make edits to files on their phone via their ATIV PC; and even drag and drop files from one unit to another. The result is a more seamless experience, fewer interruptions to work and everyday life, and the ability to utilize the best features of both devices.

 SideSync is compatible with all ATIV notebooks, laptops, tablet devices and All in One PCs with Windows 8 (32/64 bit), and currently supports Samsung Android-based devices. It will be pre-loaded as a desktop app on all Windows 8 ATIV models.

 New Samsung ATIV Books
 In addition to renaming its existing products, Samsung today introduced two ATIV Book models, ATIV Book 5 and ATIV Book 6, which mark the continued expansion of its best-in-class PC business.

 Samsung ATIV Book 5
 Designed for speed and mobility, the Samsung ATIV Book 5 represents the next generation of Samsung Ultrabooks. With 24GB of ExpressCache3, users enjoy rapid boot up and load times, enabling them to access their favorite apps and programs on the vibrant 14-inch touchscreen nearly instantly. The powerful processor perfectly balances work and play, allowing consumers to easily crunch numbers in spreadsheets, produce impressive presentations and more. Weighing just 4.19 pounds and measuring less than an inch thick, users won't think twice about taking the Samsung ATIV Book 5 on-the-go, while the sleek design will make them proud to show it off everywhere from the coffee shop to the airport.

 Samsung ATIV Book 6
 The Samsung ATIV Book 6 offers the ultimate computing experience without sacrificing mobility. This elegant touch-enabled laptop is packed with a top-of-the-line Intel® Core™ i7 processor, empowering users to tackle the most demanding jobs with greater efficiency. Rich graphics and a 15.6-inch full HD touchscreen make the Samsung ATIV Book 6 an ideal device for content creation and multimedia from developing presentations to watching videos. Enhanced performance provided by Samsung's exclusive RAMAccelerator technology makes ATIV Book 6's 8GB of RAM2 work up to 1.5 times harder than traditional memory.

 Both the Samsung ATIV Book 5 and ATIV Book 6 come equipped with preinstalled SideSync technology and are currently available for preorder starting at $899.99 and $1199.99, respectively.

     Feature
    Samsung ATIV Book 5
    Samsung ATIV Book 6
        Operating System

      Windows 8

      Windows 8

        Processor

      Intel® Core™ i5-3337U

      Intel® Core™ i7-3635QM

        Screen Size

      14"

      15.6"

        Resolution

      1366x768

      1920x1080

        Brightness

      200 nits

      300 nits, SuperBright™ Technology

        Processor Speed (max)

      1.8 GHz

      2.4 GHz

        Memory2
      4GB

      8GB

        Storage3 (max)

      500GB + 24GB ExpressCache™ Technology

      1TB HDD

        Graphics

      Intel® HD Graphics 4000

      AMD Radeon™ HD 8770M Graphics

        Speakers

      JBL® Stereo Speakers 4W (2W x 2)

      JBL® Stereo Speaker 4W (2W x 2)

        Web Camera

      720p HD

      720p HD

        Wireless

      802.11 a/b/g/n

      802.11 a/b/g/n

        Battery4
      Up to 6.5 hours

      Up to 4.7 hours

        Weight

      4.19 lbs.

      5.18 lbs.

        Dimensions

      13.31" x 9.21" x 0.82"

      14.75" x 9.84" x 0.90"

    Details on the existing and new Samsung PC product names are below.

     ATIV Category
    Former Product Name
    New Product Name
        Tab

      ATIV Smart PC Pro

      ATIV Tab 7

        ATIV Smart PC

      ATIV Tab 5

        One

      Series 7 All-In-One PC

      ATIV One 7

        Series 5 All-In-One PC

      ATIV One 5

        Series 3 All-In-One PC

      ATIV One 3

        Book

      Series 9

      ATIV Book 9

        Series 7 Chronos

      ATIV Book 8

        Series 5 Chronos

      ATIV Book 6

        Series 7 Ultra

      ATIV Book 7

        Series 5 Ultra

      ATIV Book 5

        Series 5 510

      ATIV Book 4

        Series 3 370

      ATIV Book 4

        Series 3 300

      ATIV Book 2

    Samsung, ATIV and SideSync are all trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Other company names, product names and marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners and may be trademarks or registered trademarks.
 All functionality, features, specifications, and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.
 1 According to IDC.
 2Total amount of available memory may be less based on system configurations, graphics support, and other factors.
 3Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes, GB = 1 billion bytes, TB = 1 trillion bytes. Please note that a portion of the hard drive is reserved for system recovery, operating system and preloaded content software.
 4Battery life will vary depending on the product model, configuration, power management settings, applications used, and wireless settings. The maximum capacity of the battery will decrease with time and use. Test results based on independent third party Mobile Mark (or Battery Mark) tests. Non-Metric weights and measurements are approximate.

