
 


	It looks like Samsung is about to dip its toes in the mobile messaging market, with a new service called ChatON. Slated to debut at this week's IFA, the app brings texting, group chat and image / video sharing to not only Samsung's Bada OS, but to iOS, Android and BlackBerry platforms, as well. According to the Korean manufacturer, the new client will be available in two versions: a basic one for feature phones and another, more complex variation that allows smartphone users to comment on other profiles, send animated messages and visualize their most frequently contacted friends, as displayed above. The company is also planning to release a web-based version that would bring similar functionality to PCs. ChatON is slated to go live next month (in more than 120 countries and 62 languages), but you can find more information in the demo video and translated PR, after the break.
 

  		Show full PR text  Mobile Messenger More than that, Samsung ChatON (chaeton) 		Samsung Electronics, a global communications services for the coming September 'ChatON' (hereinafter chaeton) start the service. The world and provides services to more than 120 countries, up to 62 languages ​​that you'd support. This world of mobile phone users to communicate beyond borders and languages, is expected to be enabling. 		Chaetoneun simply is not just talking to pass the mobile messenger. Trunk (Trunk), such as sharing content through the box and profile comments to share with your friends lives the concept of micro-community is a global SNS. In addition, allowing users to communicate more effectively with a wide variety of message types, and many more platforms and is designed to be in terminal. 		From now on, Samsung's ambitious, let's look chaetone. 		Generation and space to support a variety of platforms can communicate beyond! 		Multi-platform support chaetoneun smartphones, as well as the general consumer with a mobile phone is a characteristic that can be used deulkkaji. 'Chaeton' Galaxy of the Samsung products and its own sea-based platform offers new features, starting with phone services, also for third-party's main platform is expected to expand in stages. Mobile phone users worldwide smartphone, feature phone to break into the 'chaeton' will communicate through the mornings I'm not that far! 		Micro-community-oriented mobile communication services 		Chaetoneun various user groups to community-based micro-oriented. Contact with the balloon that displays the frequency of conversations with the number of 'intimate position' feature can be a simple social networking. In addition, the 'word to your friends' with the ability to determine a group of friends might like to comment briefly. 		Support for multimedia content to communicate emotion. 		In addition to the chat room, you do not need to find each other, sharing content. Group-based content storage space of 'trunk' through to see at a glance because you can find. In the trunk of your photos and videos can also leave a brief moment. 		1:01 chaetoneseoneun chat and group chat, group message (bulletin), and the dialog is available in a variety of ways. In addition, photos, videos, voice message, location, contacts, calendar, and supports a wide variety of multimedia content. Specifically, the background music, photos, handwritten cards and make it yourself with the ability to send animated messages can be an emotional communication. 		Samsung Media Solution Director yihosu vice president, "chaetoneun Samsung's service technology created a global mobile communications for the core services," said "consumers want and social networking needs to meet the service to become a future sustainable performance upgrades to introduce new features," he said.
 