
 


	We had a pretty clear indication that the Samsung Stratosphere was headed to Verizon soon, and the carrier has now made it official. As expected, the Android 2.3-based phone will be available on October 13th, when it'll set you back $149.99 after the usual rebate / two-year contract business. In addition to LTE capabilities and a slide-out QWERTY keyboard, that will buy you a 4-inch Super AMOLED screen, a 1GHz Hummingbird processor, and a 5 megapixel camera with an LED flash 'round back that's paired with a 1.3 megapixel counterpart up front. Press release is after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  First 4G LTE smartphone with qwerty keyboard for Verizon wireless; the SAMSUNG STRATOSPHERE 		Features a 4-inch Super AMOLED™ Display, 1GHz Processor and B2B Enterprise Solutions 		BASKING RIDGE, N.J. –Verizon Wireless and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) today announced the Samsung Stratosphere™, a Samsung Galaxy S® smartphone, will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com beginning Oct. 13. 		The slim Samsung Stratosphere is the first 4G LTE smartphone from Verizon Wireless equipped with a 5-row QWERTY keyboard and designed with Samsung's 4-inch Super AMOLED™ display. Additionally, the Stratosphere supports enhanced B2B-enabled connectivity services from Cisco™, the most comprehensive mobile implementation of Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync® and support for secure remote device management from Sybase. 		Ideal for the business professional, the Samsung Stratosphere offers robust data management support. The Stratosphere will support Samsung's Enterprise Platform enhancements such as VPN, encryption and Mobile Device Management (MDM). The Stratosphere will also come equipped with Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync® (EAS), features such as direct push, email, calendar, contact sync, Global Address List (GAL) as well as EAS policies including storage card encryption, device encryption and simple & complex password support, all essential for streamlining business on the smartphone. 		Key features:		4G LTE– customers can expect fast download speeds of 5 to 12 Mbps and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps in 4G Mobile Broadband coverage area		· 5-row QWERTY keyboard 		· Samsung Super AMOLED™ Screen Technology – Brilliant screen makes watching movies, viewing videos and playing games come to life, even in bright light and outdoor environments 		Android 2.3, Gingerbread– support for Google Mobile™ Services including Gmail™, YouTube™, Google Talk™, Google Search™, Google Maps™ and access to more than 250,000 apps available to download from Android Market™		· Samsung 1GHz Cortex A8 Hummingbird Application Processor 		Front-facing 1.3 megapixel camera for video chat and 5 megapixel rear-facing camera with auto focus and flash (720p HD playback/480p DVD-quality recording; playback on Stratosphere screen in HD-like quality)		Mobile Hotspot Capability – share 4G connection with up to 8 Wi-Fi®-enabled devices or a 3G connection with up to 5 devices		AllShareÔ – Enables wireless connectivity through Digital Living Network Alliance® (DLNA®), so customers can send multimedia content to other DLNA Certified®-enabled devices such as TVs and laptops		· Samsung Media Hub – Samsung's own content service, offering a vast lineup of critically acclaimed films and TV programs for rent or purchase		· Bluetooth® 3.0 Technology – Support for headset, hands-free, stereo, phonebook access, and object push for vCard and vCalendar 		· Multiple video file formats supported, including DivX and XviD support		· Wi-Fi® Connectivity (802.11 a/b/g/n)   		Business features: 		Samsung's enterprise mobility solutions will provide flexibility and connectivity for mobile workforces, ensuring that users are able to operate more efficiently on–the-move.		· Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync® (EAS) - Communicate directly with your Microsoft Exchange Server enabling push email, calendar, and contacts		· Support for Cisco AnyConnect 2.1 SSL VPN – Supports access to private corporate networks using industry-standard VPN protocols with enhanced security of 4G LTE networks helps users tap into VPN networks with no waiting		· Encryption Services - Users and IT administrators can initiate a remote wipe command to erase private information		· Support for Sybase Afaria® - Mobile device management (MDM) capabilities that allows an integrated experience for the end user in the event it is required by their IT department or corporate policy   		Pricing and data packages:		The Samsung Stratosphere will be available on Oct. 13 in Verizon Wireless Communication Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com for $149.99 after a $50 mail in rebate with a new two-year customer agreement. Customers will receive the rebate in the form of a debit card; upon receipt, customers may use the card as cash anywhere debit cards are accepted.		Customers that purchase a Samsung Stratosphere smartphone will need to subscribe to a Verizon Wireless Nationwide Talk plan beginning at $39.99 for monthly access and a smartphone data package starting at $30 monthly access for 2 GB of data. 		About Verizon Wireless		Verizon Wireless operates the nation's largest 4G LTE network and largest, most reliable 3G network. The company serves 106.3 million total wireless connections, including 89.7 million retail customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 83,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia. 		About Samsung Telecommunications America		Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, a Dallas-based subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., researches, develops and markets wireless handsets and telecommunications products throughout North America. For more information, please visit www.samsungwireless.com. 		LTE is a trademark of ETSI. 4G LTE as used herein refers to the fact that the Samsung Galaxy S® Stratosphere™ can operate on Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network. Stratosphere is a trademark of Verizon Wireless.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

