
 Let's not speak of the several months it took for Ice Cream Sandwich to finally begin showing up on Samsung devices. Rather, the fine mobile-loving folks in Canada should just take a brief moment to embrace the present and not-too-distant future, because Samsung is now officially rolling out its long-awaited Android update to the nation up north -- complete with the latest version of TouchWiz -- to select devices today and continuing throughout the rest of the quarter. The list of featured products include the Galaxy S II (along with its LTE, LTE HD and X variants), Galaxy Note and several Galaxy Tabs, such as the 7.0, 7.0 Plus, 8.9 and 10.1. Of course, not everyone will get the beloved installation invitation today, since these large-scale rollouts seem to take a healthy amount of time. If you simply can't wait, it couldn't hurt to give the 'ol manual update method a try.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Canada Offers Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich Upgrade
    Samsung Electronics Canada Inc.  4/30/2012 11:33 AM EDT

    Now available in Canada for Select Samsung GALAXY devices

    MISSISSAUGA, ON, April 30, 2012 /CNW/ - Samsung Electronics Canada is pleased to announce the availability of Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) software upgrade for Samsung GALAXY devices. The upgrade will be available today on select devices in Canada and will continue rolling out to devices and carriers throughout the quarter.

    Ice Cream Sandwich brings a fresh look and feel to Android. It has a new user interface with improved multi-tasking, notifications, Wi-Fi hotspot, a full Web browsing experience and innovations such as Face Unlock, which uses the front facing camera for facial recognition to unlock the smartphone.

    "We are passionate about providing the best possible mobile experience to Canadians and the upgrade to Android 4.0 will offer an improved user experience for Samsung GALAXY devices," said Paul Brannen, Vice President, Mobile Communications at Samsung Canada. "We expect that our customers will enjoy an enhanced experience with their GALAXY device through this upgrade and we remain committed, alongside our carrier partners, to satisfy our customer needs".

    Devices eligible for an ICS upgrade include:

    GALAXY S II  GALAXY S II LTE  GALAXY S II LTE HD  GALAXY S II X  GALAXY Note  GALAXY Tab 7.0  GALAXY Tab 7.0 Plus  GALAXY Tab 8.9  GALAXY Tab 10.1

    Recently introduced to the Canadian marketplace, Samsung GALAXY S II X and Samsung GALAXY S II LTE HD are NFC enabled, which enables consumers to utilize Android Beam™. Android Beam allows users to quickly share Web pages, apps and YouTube™ videos with friends by simply tapping two phones back-to-back. Users can even use fun effects while shooting video or video chatting with Google Talk™.

    The availability and scheduling of the software upgrade and specific models upgradable to Android 4.0 will vary by market and wireless carriers' requirements. For carrier specific details, please visit your nearest carrier retailer. For more information on Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, please visit www.samsung.com.

 
