

 Refrigerators with touchscreens haven't made much of a dent in the American home, but they're certainly a staple at CES. Samsung's latest entry, the rather large 32 cubic-foot four-door T9000 LCD, isn't exactly new territory for the company. At 2011's show the the RF4982 showed what was possible with an 8-inch display and a few productivity apps, but the 9000 adds some much needed versatility by integrating Evernote into the Linux-based OS. The connected household can quickly update a shopping list when looking in the fridge or pull up recipes to reference while milling about the kitchen. It also goes big by moving up to a 10-inch panel. Sadly Samsung has not announced pricing or availability yet for the LCD version, but the touchscreen-less edition of the T9000 will set you back a rather jaw-dropping $4,000 when it ships this spring. For more check out the PR after the break.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Samsung Redefines Flexibility in the Kitchen with New Home Appliance Innovations at 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show
   America's fastest growing home appliance brand expands award-winning line with stylish new form factors in refrigeration and cooking

   LAS VEGAS – January 7, 2013 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. announced today its expanded line-up of premium home appliances for the kitchen at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) from January 8-11, 2013. Samsung, the company that revolutionized the home appliance category with the four-door refrigerator and a freestanding range with the FlexDuo oven, is once again redefining the appliance experience in the kitchen with new refrigerator and range form factors that bring unmatched ease of use, convenience, organization and style to the kitchen.

   "As America's fastest growing appliance brand, Samsung's award-winning products deliver the flexibility that busy families not only need in the kitchen, but also want," said Kevin Dexter, senior vice president of home appliances sales and marketing, Samsung Electronics America. "From our latest four-door refrigerator with unsurpassed fresh food storage, to appliances that open a host of new cooking possibilities, this year's kitchen line from Samsung will make entertaining at home easier and more fun."

   The Home Entertainer's Ultimate Refrigerator

   The 32 cu. ft. capacity Samsung T9000 Four-Door Refrigerator represents the next evolution in refrigerator design, with a new form factor that delivers the most fresh food storage in its class. This sleek refrigerator features a 19.4 cu. ft. capacity French Door refrigerator compartment on top, and a 6.1 cu. ft. compartment on the lower right side, providing an extraordinary 25.5 cu. ft. of fresh food storage. The lower right compartment can also be used as a freezer if desired, and is complemented by a 6.1 cu. ft. freezer on the left side in this unique and versatile design. Imagine the possibilities of using the lower right side compartment as a kid zone, as a prep zone for a special meal, as a centralized storage area for a family member with dietary restrictions, or to replace a separate beverage refrigerator.   In addition to being flexible and stunningly beautiful, this refrigerator also performs. To help ensure optimal temperature and humidity control, as well as performance in each of the fresh food zones, the T9000 has Samsung's Triple Cooling system. This unique cooling technology ensures that commercial grade humidity levels are maintained in the fresh food compartments with the help of two compressors, three evaporators and an array of sensors to keep produce fresher longer.

   Finally, only at CES in the Samsung booth, the T9000 LCD is on display, featuring apps to help families stay organized and connected in the kitchen. In particular, the T9000 LCD includes the Evernote app, which allows consumers to share photos, videos, and even recipes with family and friends. The T9000 LCD also includes calendar and weather apps, and more.

   The Samsung T9000 Four-Door Refrigerator (Model: RF32FSQDBSR) will be available in late Spring 2013 for an MSRP of $3,999.

   First-of-their-Kind Flexible Cooking Solutions

   For premium kitchens and high-end renovations, the beautiful and sleek Samsung NE58F9710SR is the first-ever 30" slide-in range with an oven cavity that can be split into two separate compartments, making the cooking experience easier, more efficient and more convenient than ever before. Technologically According to Traqline 2012inspired by Samsung's highly successful FlexDuo Oven, the NE58F9710SR offers new kinds of flexible cooking options that enable families to use the full large 5.8 cu. ft. capacity oven cavity for larger dishes like holiday turkeys, or they can use the Smart Divider to divide the oven into 2.4 cu. ft. and 3.3 cu. ft. top and bottom compartments for smaller items like dinner and dessert. This allows consumers to cook multiple dishes at two different temperatures at the same time with no noticeable aroma transfer. The  NE58F9710SR Slide-in Range with FlexDuo Oven will be available in June 2013 for an MSRP of $2,399.

   Flexible cooking options don't stop there. The Samsung NE597N0PBSR Induction Range – a 2013 CES Innovations Award Honoree – is the first-ever 30" freestanding electric range to feature the FlexCook Zone™ and Samsung Boil Alert™, as well as SteamQuick technology. The FlexCook Zone acts as a fulllength bridge element, letting consumers cook large pots and pans across one large induction element without having to worry about incomplete heat distribution. When the bridge element is not in use, it can be used as two separate 9-inch elements. The NE597N0PBSR Induction Range also features intuitive Samsung Boil Alert™ technology, which senses small vibrations as water begins to heat up. When the vibrations reach a certain level, it provides less heat and also notifies consumers with a series of beeps. In the oven cavity, the NE597N0PBSR has a Triple True Convection system that combines a convection oven with a multi-fan system to circulate heat evenly throughout the chamber, resulting in faster and more  energy-efficient cooking. Finally, traditional oven cleaning typically requires long periods of high heat, then manually wiping out the charred residue. Samsung's SteamQuick technology requires less time, power and effort. All that is required is one cup of water to clean in just 20 minutes. The Samsung NE597N0PBSR range will be available in June 2013 for an MSRP of $1,999.

   Also a 2013 CES Innovations Award Honoree, the Samsung ME179KFETSR OTR Speed Oven provides everything that busy families need to prepare a home-cooked meal. It is a convection oven for even cooking, a toaster, a broiler, a microwave, and range hood all in one powerful appliance. The Samsung ME179KFETSR even makes maintenance easy with the first-of-its-kind Simple Clean Filter, which revolutionizes how consumers change their OTR filter – a task that few realize is necessary to reaching optimal performance from the appliance. The ME179KFETSR also features smart yet practical details like best-in-class LED lighting that rarely requires replacement yet offers superior cooktop illumination and Ceramic Enamel interior for easy cleaning. The ME179KFETSR OTR is available now for an MSRP of $649.

 
