
 


	Samsung has been taunting us with the promise of 30nm DRAM for quite sometime, and when the tiny chips went into mass production last year it was the world's servers that got first dibs. The average consumer stuck with that aging 40nm stuff -- blech. This summer though, you'll finally be able to snatch up some of Sammy's latest tech in the form of two and four GB DDR3 1600 sticks for both laptops and desktops. The company claims that its new RAM modules are up to two-thirds more energy efficient than more common 60nm chips and 20 percent faster that its own 40nm ones. Both solo and dual packs will be hitting retailers soon starting at "less than $30." Check out the PR after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  SAMSUNG Introduces First Consumer 30nm‐class DDR3 DRAM Modules 		Memory Upgrades for Desktop and Notebook PCs Offer Speed, and Energy Savings 		Ridgefield Park, NJ (June 9, 2011) – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader		and award‐winning innovator in digital consumer electronics and information		technology, today announced the introduction of 30‐nanometer‐class1 DDR3		synchronous dynamic random‐access memory (DRAM) modules for PC upgrades. This		new generation of faster, more energy efficient DRAM modules will be available		through consumer retail channels this summer. 		"Replacing your DRAM can be one of the easiest, most cost‐effective ways to upgrade		your PC's performance, and these new products offer the most energy‐efficient option		currently available to consumers," said Reid Sullivan, senior vice president of mobile		entertainment marketing, Samsung Electronics America. "Samsung is committed to		bringing performance‐enhanced computing to consumers, and our 30nm‐class process		technology offers an outstanding combination of advanced low‐power DDR3		technology, with blazing speed up to 1,600 megabits per second (Mbps)." 		Samsung's new DDR3 DRAM modules are available in 2 and 4 gigabyte capacities, in		very low profile (VLP) unbuffered dual in‐line memory module (UDIMM) configurations		for desktop PCs, and small outline DIMM (SODIMM) configurations for notebook PCs.		Backwards compatible with systems designed for previous DDR3 and DDR2 memory,2		the modules are available in single or dual‐pack quantities. 		Thanks to its leading‐edge 30nm‐class manufacturing technology – which achieves		higher memory capacity while using less power – the latest generation of Samsung's		DDR3 DRAM modules use up to two‐thirds less energy than those manufactured with		the industry‐standard 60nm‐class technology. This improvement in energy efficiency		does not come at the expense of performance. The new modules transfer data at up to		1,600 Mbps, 20 percent faster than Samsung's current 40nm‐class generation of DDR3		DRAM. 		Samsung has been leading the advancement of DRAM technology since it developed the		industry's first DDR DRAM in 1997. In 2001, it introduced the first DDR2 DRAM. In 2005,		it announced the first DDR3 DRAM using 80nm‐class technology, and in January 2011, it		announced the development of the industry's first DDR4 DRAM modules. 		Availability		Samsung's new 30nm‐class DDR3 DRAM modules will be available in the U.S. through		numerous online and retail suppliers, including Amazon, Fry's, Micro Center, Newegg		and TigerDirect. Estimated street prices for single pack modules will range from less		than $30 to less than $55; dual pack modules will range from less than $55 to less than		$110. 		About Samsung Electronics America, Inc. Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA),		based in Ridgefield Park, N.J., is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. The		company markets a broad range of award‐winning consumer electronics, information		systems, and home appliance products, as well as oversees all of Samsung's North		American operations including Samsung Telecommunications America, LP, Samsung		Semiconductor Inc., Samsung Electronics Canada, Inc. and Samsung Electronics Mexico,		Inc. As a result of its commitment to innovation and unique design, the Samsung		organization is one of the most decorated brands in the electronics industry. 		For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. You can also Fan Samsung on		www.Facebook.com/SamsungUSA or follow Samsung via Twitter @SamsungTweets. 		1		30nm‐class means a process technology node somewhere between 30 and 39 nanometers.		2		Check with your PC manufacturer to assure compatibility.
 