

It'd be silly of me to talk about tablets in the past tense -- we still write stories about them daily and clearly, we review them, too. But of the ones we've seen lately, most have been low-end; mid-range at best. The market for high-end slates, once crowded with companies big and small, now looks more like a fraternity. At this point, the only players left are mostly big names like Apple, Microsoft, Sony. And, of course, Samsung. The outfit just announced the Galaxy Tab S, its flagship tablet for 2014. Available in 8.4- and 10.5-inch sizes, it comes armed with the best possible specs, including a stunning 2,560 x 1,600 Super AMOLED screen, 12-hour battery life and a slim build that measures just 6.6mm thick. In addition, Samsung added a fingerprint reader (still a rarity on tablets) and free goodies like popular magazines, Dropbox storage and a six-month Wall Street Journal subscription. The tablet's up for pre-order now, starting at $400 for the 8-inch model and $500 for the 10-incher. So, you can't test-drive it yet, but, as it happens, I've been playing with it for almost a week. Suffice to say, I've enjoyed myself. Mostly.





HardwareLet's call a spade a spade: The Galaxy Tab S is basically a blown-up version of the Galaxy S5. Available in "Dazzling White" and "Titanium Bronze" (brown, really), the Tab S has a plastic rear lid with a grid of dots on the back that look like dimples. Yep, just like the GS5. And the similarities don't end there. Both devices mix rounded corners with blunt-cut sides that make it easy to hold. Even the home button is the same: an oval-shaped key with a fingerprint reader built in (more on that later).

It so happens I find the design pleasant. Elegant, even. My colleague Brad Molen, who reviewed the GS5, was less impressed, calling the look "inoffensive" (ouch, Brad). But none of that matters, really; it's irrelevant if either of us likes the design. What I can say -- and what I think you'll find more helpful -- is that regardless of whether you dig the aesthetic, this is most certainly a well-made piece of hardware. Part of it's the build quality: Though the plastic might not be as premium-feeling as metal, it's basically immune to both scratches and fingerprints, meaning it continues to look pristine much longer than you'd otherwise expect it to. Then there's ergonomics: The blunt edges, pancake-flat back and soft-touch finish on the rear make it comfortable to hold.

There's also the size to consider. At 6.6mm thick, the two Galaxy Tab S tablets are skinnier than both the iPad Air and the iPad mini with Retina display. (Sony's Xperia Z2 Tablet beats them all, at 6.35mm thick.) The Galaxy Tab S is lighter than Apple's tablets, too: The 10-inch version weighs a pound (the same as the 9.7-inch iPad), while the 8-inch model comes in at 0.63 pound (10 ounces), beating out the Retina display iPad mini. I say all that to illustrate how dang thin this guy is. It's one thing to parrot Samsung's marketing material and say it's as thick as five credit cards. It's another to tell you that it's even thinner than two popular tablets that are already known for being skinny.

Ready for a tour? Both the 8- and 10-inch models have the same camera setup: a 2-megapixel webcam up front, and an 8-megapixel shooter with LED flash around back. For navigation, you've got back and multitasking keys, both built into the lower bezel next to the home button. The selection of ports is the same too, though the layout is going to be different, considering the 10-inch tablet was designed for landscape use, and the 8-inch model was primarily meant to be used in portrait. Starting with the 10-incher, you've got the power/lock button up top, along with a volume rocker and an IR blaster, allowing you to use the device as a remote. Stereo speakers line both the left and right sides, with a headphone jack on the left, and a microSD reader on the right capable of supporting 128GB cards. The right edge is also home to a standard micro-USB port for charging. On the smaller model, meanwhile, the power/lock button, volume rocker, microSD slot and IR emitter are all on the right, with the speakers spread across the top and bottom. The headphone jack and micro-USB socket are also on the bottom, exactly where you'd expect to find them.


That's about it for the hardware tour. Well, except for one thing. Peek around the back and you'll see two circles, which depress, like trapdoors. These are called "Simple Clickers" and are there to attach Samsung's optional cases. These include the Simple Cover ($40), which only covers the screen, as well as the Book Cover ($60-plus), which wraps around the whole device and can also stay propped up at one of several screen angles. Both cases are well-made, with holes for the camera and they come in an assortment of cheerful color options. Most importantly, of course, both have little nubs that stick out, allowing you to press the case into the back of the tablet.






