
 
 Just hours after Samsung's Korean arm remarked on the sales of its Galaxy Note II, Samsung Poland jumped into the act confirming the Galaxy S III has moved 30 million units. We don't know if the celebration included taking a victory lap going the wrong way, but the figure is the highest announced for a phone in the series, after the original Galaxy S topped 10 million in 2011, and the Galaxy S II breached 20 million earlier this year. The line has even spawned spinoffs like the aforementioned Note and upcoming Galaxy S III mini, all while showing no sign of slowing any time soon -- lawsuit or not.

 Update: Samsung has filled in a few more details, revealing that mark was reached from the supply-side (read: shipped) in just five months, faster than any of its previous phones. That's one Galaxy S III out of the warehouse every 0.45 seconds, at a rate of about 190,000 per day for 157 days. Compare that to the Galaxy S which took 17 months to pass 20 million, and the Galaxy S II's 14 month journey to 30 million. Take a peek after the break for a chart and infographic.



 
  Show full PR text   The Samsung GALAXY S III achieves 30 million sales in five months
  November 4, 2012
  Samsung's flagship smartphone continues record-breaking success
   SEOUL, Korea - November 4, 2012 - Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, announced today the GALAXY S III has surpassed 30 million global sales in approximately five months since its debut in May.

   "The GALAXY S III continues to be a runaway favorite with customers around the world. Meeting this sales milestone in five months sets another record for Samsung, and we are extremely proud and yet motivated to continue to provide our customers with products that they love," said JK Shin, President and Head of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung Electronics. "On behalf of Samsung Mobile, I appreciate millions of customers around the world that have chosen the Samsung GALAXY S III."

   Putting this number into perspective, during a similar selling period (150 days), the acclaimed GALAXY S II, launched in 2011, globally sold 10 million devices.

   Now upgradable to Android™ 4.1 (Jelly Bean)＊, the nature-inspired GALAXY S III is a revolutionary smartphone packed with intelligent features that make everyday life easier. Its expansive 4.8-inch HD Super AMOLED display lets users view multimedia and web content in brilliant color and clarity; and its camera understands human gestures to make using the phone incredibly natural and intuitive. A powerful hardware ensures blazing-fast performance and seamless multi-tasking.

   Committed to providing the best mobile experience for its customers, Samsung continues to work to enrich the GALAXY S III experience. It now allows users to explore their personal style through an expanded collection of new colors that take their inspiration from nature: Amber Brown, Garnet Red, Sapphire Black and Titanium Grey. Samsung also offers continuous software upgrades for the device, enhancing user experiences and allowing a life extraordinary.

   ＊ Availability and timing of the Jelly Bean upgrade will vary depending on the country and mobile carrier.  ＊＊ All functionality, features, specifications and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.  ＊＊＊ Android, Google, Android Beam, Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, Google Latitude, Google Play Store, Google Play Books, Google Play Movies, Google Plus, YouTube, Google Talk, Google Places, Google Navigation, Google Downloads are trademarks of Google Inc.

   About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with consolidated sales of US$143.1 billion in 2011. Employing approximately 206,000 people in 197 offices across 72 countries, the company operates two separate organizations to coordinate its nine independent business units: Digital Media & Communications, comprising Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunications Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, and Digital Imaging; and Device Solutions, consisting of Memory, System LSI and LED. Recognized for its industry-leading performance across a range of economic, environmental and social criteria, Samsung Electronics was named the world's most sustainable technology company in the 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.

 
