
 
 Samsung's decidedly grounded Stellar smartphone just got the official nod from Verizon, launching on Thursday with a $50 price tag (before a $50 mail-in rebate). The "free" handset packs a 1.2GHz dual-core Snapdragon, Ice Cream Sandwich, LTE connectivity, a 4-inch WVGA display an a rather modest image capture duo -- a 1.3-megapixel camera up front and an autofocus-capable 3.2-megapixel snapper on the rear. There's also 802.11n WiFi and support for microSD cards up to 32GB. As unimpressive as they may be, none of these specs comes as a surprise, following the smartphone's early debut on Best Buy's site last week. Still, if you're in the market for an upgrade with a non-existent equipment budget, this little Galaxy may be just what Big Red ordered.



  Show full PR text   Verizon Wireless Launches Feature-Packed Samsung Galaxy Stellar™ Smartphone
   Features 4G LTE Connectivity, Dual-Interface Options and B2B Enterprise Solutions

   BASKING RIDGE, NJ and DALLAS, TX - Verizon Wireless and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) announced today that they will offer the exclusive Samsung Galaxy Stellar™ starting Sept. 6 in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com.

   The easy-to-use 4G LTE enabled Samsung Galaxy Stellar is designed to be compact so it fits easily in a customer's hand and makes the first-time smartphone experience simple. The Stellar features a dual interface option so customers can choose between Starter Mode or Standard Mode. Starter Mode features a simplified home screen display with preset widgets such as Favorite Apps, Favorite Contacts and Favorite Settings for quick and easy access to frequently used apps and settings. Starter Mode also features a quick dialer icon that allows customers to make phone calls directly from the home screen. Standard Mode provides customers with a more conventional layout and gives customers the traditional Android™ experience. The Stellar also includes a Help app that features guided tours and tips for changing settings and more, so customers can master their devices.

   Samsung Galaxy Stellar customers can take advantage of blazingly fast 4G LTE connectivity to access an array of convenient and multimedia rich apps. A suite of Amazon apps is included that offers customers easy ways to discover content such as watching movie trailers on the IMDB app, downloading audio books with the Audible app, and one-click ordering with the Amazon shopping app. The Stellar also offers a variety of premium TV and film content for rent or purchase through the Samsung Media Hub.

   The Galaxy Stellar is a SAFE™ (Samsung Approved For Enterprise) approved device featuring on-device AES 256-bit encryption, enhanced support for Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync® and support for industry-leading Virtual Private Network (VPN) and Mobile Device Management (MDM) solutions to make working on the go secure.

   Additional features:

   4G LTE – customers can expect fast download speeds of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps in 4G LTE coverage areas

   4-inch WVGA display (800 x 480)

   Suite of Amazon apps includes Kindle, Shopping, MP3, Zappos, IMDB and Audible

   1.2 dual-core GHz Snapdragon™ application processor

   Wi-Fi connectivity (802.11 a/b/g/n)

   microSD™ card slot with support for up to 32 GB

   Android™ 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich – support for Google Mobile™ Services including Gmail™, YouTube™, Google Talk™, Google Maps™ and access to more than 600,000 apps available to download from Google Play

   Front-facing 1.3-megapixel camera for video chat and 3.2-megapixel rear-facing camera with auto focus

   Backup Assistant Plus – media management and online storage service designed to help customers store and access media content such as music, videos, pictures, documents and contacts.

   Business features:

   Samsung's SAFE enterprise mobility solutions provide flexibility and connectivity for mobile workforces, ensuring that users are able to operate more efficiently while on–the-move.

   Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync® (EAS) – communicate directly with your Microsoft Exchange Server enabling push email, calendar and contacts

   Virtual Private Network (VPN) and Mobile Device Management (MDM) Support from Industry-Leading Solutions Providers – supports industry-standard VPN protocols to help users efficiently tap into VPN networks and MDM capabilities that allow IT departments to effectively safeguard employees' mobile devices and corporate data.

   On Device Encryption –SAFE helps prevent unauthorized access to mobile data by leveraging the AES 256-bit encryption standard, encrypting all data, including app-specific internal data and internal/external memory.

   Pricing and availability:

   The Samsung Galaxy Stellar will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com starting Sept. 6 for free after a $50 mail-in rebate with a new two-year customer agreement. Customers receive the rebate in the form of a debit card; upon receipt, customers may use the card as cash anywhere debit cards are accepted.

   Customers purchasing the Galaxy Stellar will need to subscribe to a Verizon Wireless data plan. Share Everything Plans allow customers to add the Stellar to their account for $40 monthly access. For additional information, customers should go to www.verizonwireless.com/shareeverything

   For additional information on Verizon Wireless products and services, visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

