
  It was only a matter of time, we suppose. After having seen the Samsung Rugby Smart poke its head out from time to time, Samsung's new rugged smartphone is officially hitting AT&T stores on March 4th. Much like the Pantech Element, the Rugby Smart will be "waterproof," meaning it can be submerged for up to 30 minutes in one meter of water. The phone itself is built to mil-spec 810F standards, so it's going to handle most extreme conditions pretty well. So let's list off the specs we've heard so far: it will launch with Android 2.3 -- shocker, we know -- as well as a 3.7-inch WVGA Super AMOLED panel, 4GB of internal storage, 1,650mAh battery and a 1.3MP front-facing shooter for video chat along with a 5MP rear facing autofocus camera with LED flash and 720p video capture. The Smart will also be 12.19mm thick (also not a surprise, given its rugged nature) and weigh 4.2 ounces. We don't know what CPU's inside yet, but we'll update as soon as we find out. To check out all the extreme details, head to the videos and press release under the break.Update: As noted by NJTechReviews, Samsung has confirmed it's a single-core 1.4GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S2 powering this guy.
      

 

  Show full PR text  SAMSUNG & AT&T DELIVER BRAINS AND BRAWN  Waterproof and Dustproof Samsung Rugby® Smart Available Starting March 4  DALLAS, February 23, 2012 -  Key Facts  · On March 4, AT&T* will begin selling the Samsung Rugby® Smart in company-owned retail stores and online. The smartphone will be sold for $99.99 with a two-year commitment and monthly minimum data plan.  · Samsung Rugby® Smart is dustproof, can be submerged in up to 1m of water for 30 minutes, and can withstand extreme temperatures.**  · Runs on Android™ 2.3 with 4G capabilities and boasts a virtual QWERTY keyboard, 3.7-inch Super AMOLED™ touchscreen display, 5MP camera and an integrated flashlight.  Samsung Rugby® Smart  The Samsung Rugby® Smart is a rugged, dustproof device designed to handle the elements with water resistance (submergible up to 1m for 30 minutes) and built to mil-std 810f military spec standards**.The Android 2.3 smartphone features a 3.7-inch WVGA Super AMOLED touchscreen display and a 5MP camera with HD video recording***. It also supports 4G service, Wi-Fi®, corporate email and the full line of media including location, music and social networking services. From the work site to the camp site and beyond, Rugby Smart fulfills all your smartphone needs with the physical strength to handle whatever life throws at it.  Specifications  · Technology: GSM, EDGE, UMTS, HSPA+  · Operating System: Android 2.3  · Display: 3.7-inch WVGA Super AMOLED display  · External Memory: Supports up to 32GB via microSD™  · Internal Memory: 4GB  · Dimensions: 122.4mm x 65.9mm x 12.19mm  · Weight: 4.2 oz  · Camera: 5MP rear facing with flash and auto focus with HD 720p video capture; 1.3 MP front facing camera;  · Battery: 1650 mAh LiIon Poly  · Talk Time: Up to 8 hours  · Standby Time: Up to 16 days    Quotes  "The Samsung Rugby Smart is perfect for active customers who need another level of durability with their smartphone," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "It is water and dustproof and has all the features of a leading smartphone."   "We continue to bring the highest quality devices – the Rugby Smart is the ultimate smartphone to withstand extreme conditions," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "AT&T customers are now able to stay connected with a durable smartphone while experiencing even the roughest environment."
 