
True to JK Shin's promise, Samsung is indeed introducing a new Android-powered mirrorless camera: the Galaxy NX. Although it runs Google's mobile OS (version 4.2.2 Jelly Bean) and bears LTE radios, the NX is not quite a direct sequel to the Galaxy Camera, the company's glorified point-and-shoot for all comers. Rather, the Galaxy NX is what Samsung calls an interchangeable-lens CSC (or Compact System Camera), featuring a 20.3-megapixel APS-C sensor, as well as 3G / 4G LTE, WiFi and Bluetooth 4.0 connectivity -- making it worthy of that Galaxy moniker.


As you can tell from the above image, the Galaxy NX also packs a large 4.8-inch HD LCD display on its rear and is powered by a 1.6GHz Pega-Q quad-core setup and separate DRIMe IV Signal processor for imaging. The UI should look pretty familiar to anyone who's used an Android device before, with the common apps and widgets submenus, as well as the wheel interface for its 30 Smart Modes -- employed when selecting imaging settings. And if you happen to own any of the company's other NX cameras, you'll be able to swap out lenses (13 in all) as the Galaxy NX is fully compatible with that range. It also incorporates a hybrid AF, culled from the best of DSLRs and compacts, with a shutter speed of 1/6,000th of a second and 8.6fps shooting.


Samsung's been pretty forthcoming about all the tech and software it's put into the Galaxy NX, but there are two key bits it's still withholding: pricing and availability. For now, it appears UK residents will have first crack at the Galaxy NX, as PR pegs its release for that territory as sometime this summer. The same, however, can't be said for a US launch. Regardless, as the Galaxy NX is more a proper camera for experienced photogs and less Android phone like the Galaxy Camera and S4 Zoom, you can bet on its price tag being relatively high when it launches. In the meantime, check out our Galaxy NX hands-on for more detailed impressions.



 
Show full PR textSAMSUNG INTRODUCES THE GALAXY NXWorld's first 4G interchangeable-lens camera with 3G/4G LTE & Wi-Fi Connectivity

London, UK – June 20, 2013 – Samsung Electronics today announced the launch of the Galaxy NX, the world's first 4G interchangeable lens Connected Compact System Camera (CSC). Versatile and easy to use, the Galaxy NX combines cutting edge optical performance with connectivity capabilities and Android applications. The result is a new type of connected device which means you can share your experiences instantly in amazing colour and outstanding detail.

Simon Stanford, Vice President of IT & Mobile Division, Samsung UK & Ireland said: "We're excited to be leading the way in innovation with the launch of the Samsung Galaxy NX. The aim of this device is to combine the high image quality associated with the NX camera with the ease of use and speed of 4G capability with Android. Perfect for taking incredible images and sharing them quickly."

Share everything, from anywhereFeaturing 3G/4G LTE technology, the Galaxy NX means anyone interested in photography can stay constantly connected with their world. Promising speedy sharing whether on the move or at home, the seamless connectivity of the Galaxy NX makes it a device that puts the sharing of professional level images at its heart. It embraces the era of visual communication by providing an outlet for passionate photographers to express their exciting experiences immediately and in spectacular quality.

The Galaxy NX is designed to help you capture the scene and mood of every place you visit. Photo Suggest gives you location-based recommendations of popular photography spots, sourced from a huge library of images taken by other photographers from around the world. Story Album allows you to look back at your photos on one timeline, reframing and resizing them to create digital photo books which can be viewed and shared on your other devices.

Stunning picture qualityImage quality is really something to shout about thanks to the array of interchangeable lenses available with the Galaxy NX. The 20.3MP APS-C Sensor produces images which are bright and detailed, even in low light conditions, while the DRIMe IV Image Signal Processer delivers the speed and accuracy that today's photographers demand.

Its Advanced Hybrid Auto Focus (AF) System ensures accurate phase and contrast detection so you can capture crisp, vibrant shots, while the 1/6000 sec shutter speed and 8.6fps shooting means you can capture the action as it is happening.

The flexibility offered by the Galaxy NX's selection of interchangeable lenses - from compact pancake lenses and an ultra-wide fisheye, to longer prime and zoom lenses - places creative control firmly in the hands of the photographer. True 3D Creator also brings an added element of realism to the Galaxy NX results, allowing you to shoot images and movies in 3D with Samsung's 45mm 2D/3D lens.

Simple and easy to useWith Android 4.2 Jelly Bean, the functionality of a smartphone is used to improve the photographic experience you get with the Galaxy NX. You can choose from a huge array of Android apps to help personalise your device and do more than just shoot amazing photographs and video, from editing images, to adding special effects and staying in touch with friends and family.

More than 30 Smart Mode options mean you can choose the optimum settings for the environment you are capturing, as well as create fresh, artistic images. Multi Exposure merges two different shots together to produce one distinctive image, while Animated Photo connects continuous shots of up to five seconds, creating a moving GIF file. For added realism, Sound & Shot stores sound and voice together as the picture is taken, so moments are captured exactly as they happen.

For added personalisation, Camera Studio allows you to easily customise settings with your most frequently used applications or camera modes, so you can capture your photos exactly how you want them.

AvailabilityThe Galaxy NX will be available to buy in the UK as a 4G variant that supports 3G from selected online and high street retailers this summer.


