
 
 If you live north of the 49th parallel, you're no doubt frustrated that Samsung teased a summer launch for the Galaxy S III in North America but made no initial mention of its Canadian plans. Don't fret, as virtually every Canadian carrier and its mother has now pledged to carry the giant Android 4.0 smartphone while you're on your summer vacation -- the first carrier commitments in North America that we've seen. Bell, Rogers, Telus, Virgin Mobile and Wind Mobile have all stepped up as national providers, while regional carriers such as SaskTel and Videotron have also signed on. The Galaxy S III is a special milestone for Virgin, as it's the first 4G LTE phone on the Bell-run budget network. We're still waiting for Mobilicity and other cellular services to hop on the Galaxy S III bandwagon, and details like pricing and exact ship dates are still elusive, but odds are that Canucks will have a wide choice of carriers when the 4.8-inch flagship hits stores. Update: Sure enough, Mobilicity is also onboard, which along with Wind Mobile makes it pretty clear that T-Mobile-friendly AWS frequencies are baked in.



  Show full PR text   TELUS and Samsung Mobile Canada Announce the Availability of the Samsung Galaxy S III™
  Galaxy S III reveals a new concept of smartphone to provide users with the most natural and human-centric mobile experience
  TORONTO, May 7, 2012 /CNW/ - TELUS and Samsung Canada today announced that the Samsung Galaxy S III will be arriving on TELUS' 4G LTE network in time for the summer. With intuitive design and features, the Galaxy S III introduces a new concept in mobile usability - allowing users to communicate and share their experiences naturally and instantly.
  The Galaxy S III combines innovative smartphone design and heightened intelligence to make everyday life easier. With enhanced interaction between device and user, the Galaxy S III allows users to share and experience smartphone benefits with family and friends, regardless of location. The Galaxy S III also sports a range of additional features that boost performance and the overall user experience in an entirely new way.
  "Our customers have told us they love the Samsung Galaxy family and we are thrilled to bring the latest in the Galaxy line-up to TELUS, Canada's Galaxy Headquarters," said Brent Johnston, TELUS vice-president of mobility solutions. "We are committed to exceptional customer experiences and the new Samsung Galaxy S III not only brings to our customers an exceptional on-device experience but also access to TELUS' Clear and Simple initiatives such as flexible rate plans, data notifications and our new trade-in program that allows customers to upgrade to the latest and greatest devices like the Galaxy S III more easily and more often."
  "Samsung is dedicated to taking a leadership position in the smartphone space and that is why we are thrilled to work with TELUS to bring the Samsung Galaxy S III to Canadians," said Paul Brannen, Vice President, Mobile Communications at Samsung Canada. "With its intuitive design and features, the Galaxy S III introduces a whole new concept in smartphone user experience through gesture-based communication - allowing users to communicate and share their experiences naturally and easily."
  Model specifications, pricing and availability will be announced in the coming weeks.  For more information on the Galaxy S III, please visit telusmobility.com or www.samsung.com.
 
