
 


	Nearly a month after its initial announcement, Samsung's ready to deliver the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus to the good ol' US of A just in time for the winter gift-giving season. The WiFi-only device, which packs a 1.2GHz dual-core CPU with 1GB of RAM, Android 3.2, 3MP camera with 720p HD video capture and a 7-inch LCD with 1024 x 600 resolution, will be begging for your credit card as of November 13th at Best Buy, Amazon and other retailers. Are you an early adopter? No prob -- you'll have the opportunity to pre-order yours at "select retailers" this coming Sunday, though no specific outlets were called out by name. The 16GB is the only version arriving so far, but Sammy told us to expect the 32GB flavor later this year or early 2012 (likely for $499, if yesterday's brief appearance on Amazon is any indicator). No word on partnerships with carriers yet, but we'll keep you posted on any updates. View the press release in all its glory below.
 

 		Show full PR text  Samsung Expands U.S. Tablet Portfolio with Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus 		Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus Featuring Peel Smart Remote App Delivers Powerful "Discover, Tap and Watch" Home Entertainment Experience 		DALLAS and SANTA CLARA, Calif.– October 21, 2011 – Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S.1, and Samsung Electronics America today announced the upcoming availability of the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 7.0 Plus featuring Peel Smart Remote TV application. Peel allows users to instantly find and watch their favorite TV shows and discover new shows based on their preferences, all with the tap of a screen. 		Offering a portable, rich multimedia experience on a 7-inch display, the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus packs power and productivity into a chic lightweight design, weighing just 345g and measuring 9.96mm thin. The Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus runs Google AndroidTM Honeycomb platform, enabling an easy and intuitive user experience. In addition, the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus delivers a smooth and intuitive user experience with powerful performance powered by a 1.2GHz dual core processor. 		Featuring built-in infrared capabilities, the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus can control the user's home theater/TV setup. The Peel integration on the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus goes beyond the Peel application available for download today by no longer requiring additional hardware or cables for TV control functionality. Peel allows users to control any home entertainment system regardless of manufacturer. 		Peel displays personalized programming recommendations in an intuitive and content-driven graphical interface, completely eliminating the need to scroll through traditional channel-listing grids. The application's home screen displays colorful thumbnail images of "Top Picks," or favorite shows. Touch one of the thumbnails and the application displays what channel that show is on as well as a brief description of the episode that is playing. Simply tap "Watch On TV" and the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus will automatically change the channel to the selected program. 		"The Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus optimized with the innovative Peel application will enable users to connect seamlessly to view their favorite TV shows," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "Our partnership with Peel further builds on Samsung's convergence strategy to create enhanced user experiences." 		Peel combined with the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus can control the entire home entertainment system, including the TV, set-top box, DVD, Blu-ray player and AV audio system. Peel will provide Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus users with a social aspect as well, connecting them directly to Facebook and Twitter to share what they are watching with their social networks. 		"This partnership continues Peel's vision of eliminating the barriers between you and your favorite shows," said Greg Lindley, chief experience officer for Peel. "The Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus – with its built in IR remote functionality – is a great platform for the Peel app and creates an ideal second screen experience for any TV lover." 		The 16GB Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus will be available nationwide through Best Buy, Amazon, Tiger Direct, Fry's and other fine retailers starting November 13th for $399.99. Pre-orders will begin October 23rd with select partners. 		Samsung's relationship with Peel is part of Samsung's overall commitment to convergence and the companies are working to integrate the Peel Smart Remote Application into future Samsung mobile devices.
 