
 While most eyes have been focused on Microsoft finally slapping an official price tag on its upcoming Surface tablet this morning, let's not forget there other companies involved in the Windows 8 madness as well. Just a few moments ago, Samsung announced it's now ready to take your money in exchange for one of the many offerings inside its hefty PC repertoire, such as the ATIV Smart PC, Series 5 Ultra Touch, Series 7 Notebook, Series 9 Premium Ultrabook and the Series 5, Series 7 all-in-ones -- all of which will be available on that now-famed October 26th date. Naturally, pricing depends on what kind of setup gets added to your cart, but chances are you'll find one that's right for you amongst this extensive PC feast from the Korean electronics giant.



  Show full PR text   Samsung's Windows 8 PC Lineup Now Available for Pre-Order; In Stores October 26
   New Laptops, Samsung ATIV Smart PCs and All-in-Ones Feature Exclusive Software Offering Extended Usability Options, Convergence and Apps

   RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics America Inc., a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, today announced details about its upcoming Windows 8 mobile PC and All-In-One product lines. Building on its leadership position in the PC and tablet market, Samsung is bringing premium computing power, elegant design and an intuitive user experience to its PCs along with seamless convergence across devices, thanks to Samsung AllShare® Play. In addition, Samsung offers a range of unique applications across devices including Samsung Quick Starter, and exclusive S Pen apps such as S Note and S Memo.

   "Samsung has seen extraordinary growth in the mobile PC category over the past few years, and we're now taking our success to the next level by connecting the PC to other devices in the home or office through our convergence technology, Samsung AllShare Play"

   "Samsung has seen extraordinary growth in the mobile PC category over the past few years, and we're now taking our success to the next level by connecting the PC to other devices in the home or office through our convergence technology, Samsung AllShare Play," said Mike Abary, senior vice president of consumer IT product marketing at Samsung Electronics America. "The launch of Windows 8 provides an inflection point in the evolution of the PC. Samsung has always focused on pushing the boundaries of design to create truly remarkable products that consumers and businesses want. We're confident that we will continue to lead the future with our thoughtful, powerful approach to the computing experience."

   Samsung's Windows 8 Product Lineup

   The Samsung Windows 8 product lineup includes a diverse range of computing solutions, from highly portable laptops and Samsung ATIV Smart PCs to sleek All-In-One desktop PCs. Each product incorporates Samsung's stylish design, intuitive hardware and premium computing components. Samsung's new product lineup includes:

   Samsung ATIV Smart PC 500T: Engineered for highly mobile users, this device provides enhanced content consumption and creation by allowing users to effortlessly switch between a traditional clamshell notebook PC and tablet PC.  Samsung ATIV Smart PC Pro 700T: With a blazing-fast Intel® Core™ i5 processor, the Samsung ATIV Smart PC Pro 700T is a powerful PC designed for on-the-go professionals. Like the 500T, the Pro 700T can easily switch between a clamshell and tablet form factor, resulting in maximum usage and compatibility from anywhere.  Samsung Series 5 Ultra Touch: The Samsung Series 5 Ultra Touch is Samsung's first Ultrabook™ with a 10-finger multi touchscreen. With a third-generation Intel® Core™ i3 or i5 processor, premium multimedia capabilities, a high-definition screen, and an ergonomic, stylish design, the laptop delivers the mobility and performance demanded by both consumers and business users.  Samsung Series 7 All-In-One: The Samsung Series 7 All-In-One PC is a premium home PC with powerful performance packed in sleek minimalistic design. In addition to 10-finger touch capabilities, the display also recognizes hand gestures for maximum usability.  Samsung Series 5 All-In-One: Also a powerful All-In-One PC, the Series 5 was designed to serve as an ideal kitchen PC, with a keyboard and mouse that fit neatly in between the legs of the base to open up counter space and a slightly smaller screen size that users look for in that room.  Samsung Series 7 Notebook: Featuring a blazing-fast Intel® Core™ processor and a stunning aluminum shell, the Samsung Series 7 Notebook offers an excellent blend of beauty and power. With an ultra-thin LED-backlit LCD screen, it is one of the thinnest and brightest quad-core PCs on the market.  Samsung Series 9 Premium Ultrabook: Featuring one of the thinnest, lightest laptop form factors ever introduced, the Series 9 represents the pinnacle of innovation and was designed to turn heads everywhere. Its unique design and innovative engineering breaks all common perceptions of premium notebook PCs.

   Powerful Connectivity and Applications

   Samsung's newest PCs feature powerful, exclusive applications that maximize productivity and ease-of-use. All of the products have the ability to seamlessly interact with other Samsung devices, such as mobile phones, tablets and TVs, through Samsung AllShare Play, fully integrating the PC into users' home or office ecosystems. Users can easily share content between their All-In-One and other Samsung devices on the same network. They can showcase photos from their phone to the larger All-In-One display, or share a document drafted on their All-In-One with their tablet and continue editing while on the road.

   Samsung's new PCs also feature S Manager for the latest software and drivers. Included within S Manager is Samsung's Quick Starter feature, which adds a toolbar and start button to the Windows 8 interface. This provides users with a choice of interface and offers a familiar navigation scheme. In addition, S Manager includes AllShare Play for seamless convergence across devices.

   The ATIV Smart PC Pro devices are preloaded with S Pen optimized apps such as S Note, S Memo and S Cloud, allowing users to fully capitalize on the S Pen that ships embedded in a slot on the device. With 1,024 levels of sensitivity, the S Pen is designed for natural and intuitive content creation, and offers features including handwriting to text conversion and varying thickness when drawing or writing, depending on the pressure applied.

   Looking up recipes on your computer has also never been easier than it is on the new Samsung Series 5 and Series 7 All-In-One PCs, thanks to Jamie Oliver's application Jamie Oliver's Recipes, which is exclusively pre-installed on Samsung's Windows 8 PCs. Users can enjoy delicious recipes from around the world, developed specifically for the application and displayed in an easy to follow step-by-step format, each with beautiful high-definition photographs.

   Pricing and Availability

   Samsung's Windows 8 product line is available for pre-order now at www.Samsung.com and will be available in stores October 26, 2012.

   The MSRP for each product is as follows:

   Samsung ATIV Smart PC 500T = $749.99  Samsung ATIV Smart PC Pro 700T = $1,199.99  Samsung Series 5 Ultra Touch: Intel® Core™ i3: $809.99; Intel® Core™ i5: $859.99  Samsung Series 7 All-In-One: 27-inch: $1,699.99; 23.6-inch: $1,099.99  Samsung Series 5 All-In-One: $799.99  Samsung Series 7 Notebook: $1,099.99  Samsung Series 9 Premium Ultrabook: Starting at $1,299.99

   About Samsung Electronics America Enterprise Business Division

   As a global leader in Information Technology, Samsung's Enterprise Business Division (EBD) is committed to bringing meaningful innovation to businesses of all types from small/medium businesses to the Fortune 500 elite and public agencies alike. Samsung offers a complete portfolio of solutions including virtualization, printing, displays, notebook and tablet PCs and digital signage; all designed to move businesses forward while helping to reduce operating cost and the environmental footprint. Samsung EBD is a division of Samsung Electronics America (SEA), Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. (SEC) and is among the world's largest technology companies. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com/business or call 1-866-SAM-4BIZ.

   About Samsung Electronics America, Inc.

   Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), based in Ridgefield Park, NJ, is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. The company markets a broad range of award-winning consumer electronics, information systems, and home appliance products, as well as oversees all of Samsung's North American operations including Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, Samsung Semiconductor Inc., Samsung Electronics Canada, Inc. and Samsung Electronics Mexico, Inc. As a result of its commitment to innovation and unique design, the Samsung organization is one of the most decorated brands in the electronics industry. The company was ranked #19 in BusinessWeek/Interbrand "100 Best Global Brands," and named as one of Fast Company's "50 Most Innovative Companies of 2010." For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. You can also Fan Samsung on www.Facebook.com/SamsungUSA or follow Samsung via Twitter @SamsungTweets.

   About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd

   Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2011 consolidated sales of US$143.1 billion. Employing approximately 206,000 people in 197 offices across 72 countries, the company operates two separate organizations to coordinate its nine independent business units: Digital Media & Communications, comprising Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, and Digital Imaging; and Device Solutions, consisting of Memory, System LSI and LED. Recognized for its industry-leading performance across a range of economic, environmental and social criteria, Samsung Electronics was named the world's most sustainable technology company in the 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.

   * Accessible capacity varies; MB = 1 million bytes, GB = 1 billion bytes, TB = 1 trillion bytes. Please note that a portion of the hard drive is reserved for system recovery, operating system and preloaded content software.

   ** All functionality, features, specifications and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, to benefits, design, components, performance, availability and capability of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.

 
