
 
 There must be a resurgence of mobile TV in the works at Samsung. Just hours after it brought out the TV-equipped Galaxy S Lightray 4G, the company has confirmed (through partner Anritsu) that it's successfully testing LTE Broadcast technology. As the name implies, the standard and its evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (eMBMS) pipe software-independent services like TV over a 4G network's ample bandwidth rather than requiring dedicated networks and the costs that come with them -- we all know how that last strategy panned out in the US. Unsurprisingly, Samsung isn't saying what its long-term plans might be at this early stage, although we'd note that it isn't alone. Qualcomm was showing LTE Broadcast back at Mobile World Congress, for example. While it's far too soon to tell if there will be any American revival, Samsung's help puts the writing on the wall for conventional mobile TV formats like T-DMB.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Demonstrates Broadcast Services Over LTE Using Anritsu's Rapid Test Designer (RTD) and MD8430A
  RICHARDSON, Texas, Aug. 3, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, has successfully demonstrated clear reception capabilities of LTE Broadcast services using evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (eMBMS) technology using Anritsu's (www.anritsu.com) Rapid Test Designer (RTD) and MD8430A to simulate the LTE network environment.
  eMBMS technology allows the LTE network infrastructure to be used for the delivery of broadcast services, such as TV. It enables carriers to adjust coverage and capacity as needed, allowing for more efficient use of network resources. Samsung Electronics and Anritsu (two long-time leaders in new mobile technologies) have collaborated to bring this new technology to market.
  Anritsu's RTD delivers a rich set of test features using its fast and flexible flowcharting user interface. The Samsung engineers were able to create the eMBMS demonstration using RTD's graphical script design to drive the execution of the test simulation on an Anritsu MD8430A LTE signaling tester.
  "Anritsu is delighted that Samsung, the world's largest cell phone maker, has selected the technology-leading capabilities of the RTD and MD8430A to verify the implementation of eMBMS capability in its devices," stated Kenji Tanaka, Executive Vice President at Anritsu. "Samsung's demonstration shows how Anritsu's RTD helps LTE device makers prove their leading-edge technology in an intensely competitive market where reducing the product launch cycle time is critical to success."
  "We have used Anritsu test equipment from the very beginning of our LTE development programs," said Inyup Kang, Executive Vice President at Samsung Electronics. "Anritsu's RTD and MD8430A have made a significant contribution to our leading position in the LTE device market."
 
