
There were no heckles, boos or crickets for Samsung's reps back at IFA. But it's fair to say that the atmosphere following its unveiling of the Galaxy Camera was as muted as it was polite. It didn't help that most journalists in that meeting room were there primarily to see the Galaxy Note II, which was undoubtedly the show's headline act. It was also worrisome that Nikon had recently released a half-hearted Android camera of its own -- the Coolpix S800c running on lowly Gingerbread. And finally, some folks in the room -- ourselves included -- may have been put off by Samsung's talk of "convergence," in reference to the fact that the Galaxy Camera has a micro-SIM slot for HSPA+ cellular data. After all, the whole notion of converged hardware has lost the sheen it once had. Hybridized, perhaps. Modular, maybe. But please, not a camera-phablet.


Here's the thing, though: the Galaxy Camera is not a converged device. It's a camera, plain and simple. It just happens to be one that's hooked up (in a multitude of ways) to the glorious world of Android. More specifically, we're looking at full-throttle Jelly Bean sitting astride the same optically stabilized 21x zoom lens and almost half-inch 16-megapixel sensor that have already been deployed in Samsung's WB850F WiFi camera. These are components which far exceed anything you'd find in even the most image-conscious smartphone. If you want to put a label on it, it's probably more meaningful to describe all this as software convergence. The same OS and cloud-connected apps that have so radically transformed phones, tablets and TVs are now also being deployed in a camera -- and there's no reason why they shouldn't be just as invigorating in this new role. At the very least, don't dismiss this device as a curiosity until you've read our take on it.




Hardware
Just so we're clear: the Galaxy Camera has more heft than a regular compact, and it feels nothing like a phone. The 35mm maximum thickness (with the lens closed) means it'll just about fit into a breast pocket or baggy shorts, but the 305g weight may compel you to invest in a case, belt clip or strap. At the very least, you'll want to attach the bundled wrist strap, because even with a Gorilla Glass screen there's no way this camera will withstand a fall -- and its surfaces are scarily smooth indeed.

In fact, the lack of protruding dials and buttons is one of the biggest differences between this and its non-Android cousin, the WB850F. As you'll see later, most camera controls are handled via the huge 4.8-inch touchscreen display, such that the physical realm only includes a power / standby button, pop-up flash button and combined zoom knob and shutter release.

You'll want to attach the bundled wrist strap, because even with a Gorilla Glass screen there's no way this camera will withstand a fall.

Of course, there's also a bunch of ports and other inputs. These include a mic at the top of the camera and a speaker on the left side below the flash button, which together allow you to use the camera like a VOIP phone. On the right side we have a 3.5mm audio jack and a handy micro-USB port for charging the device from the mains or a travel charger. Finally, on the underside of the camera you also get a tripod mount and battery compartment flap, which opens slightly too easily if the device is left to tumble about in your bag. Open that flap and you'll find the SIM slot -- which is, if you have a data plan, provides a uniquely direct way of sharing your photos when you're out of the reach of WiFi.


Sure, that SIM slot is interesting -- but it's just one of many ways to get images in and out of the device. Whereas regular cameras generally shoot on full-size SD cards, the Galaxy Camera can shoot to its own 4GB of internal storage or to a microSD card that can readily be transplanted to a smartphone or tablet with its own data plan. More conveniently, since the Galaxy Camera also has WiFi, you could simply tether it to your smartphone or MiFi -- which is actually how we preferred to use the device. If you happen to own a phone that does WiFi Direct, then you can also beam photos and video straight from the camera at very high data rates. All of these connectivity options boil down to the same question: why would you spend extra for a SIM with a data plan that only works for this camera?

No doubt some professionals and power users will decide to invest in a dedicated SIM, if they're likely to need to file photos over the internet daily and to tight deadlines. Over time, remote control apps for the camera may also be developed that will benefit from a direct cellular data connection -- and frankly it's impossible to anticipate all the ways in which this hyper-connected camera could be put to use. But nevertheless, for regular use the SIM slot feels like an unnecessary expense. One of the biggest joys of this camera for us was actually using it to browse, edit and share photos while at home or in a hotel, in which case the camera was simply connected to the local WiFi network. If a version of the Galaxy Camera without a modem would have been cheaper, then that's a missed opportunity to make the device more mainstream.

Display
One feature that will cause little debate is the big, bright and extremely rich HD Super Clear LCD. It's only when you start taking photos through a window of this size -- perhaps on a Galaxy S III or a Galaxy Note II -- that you realize how much a large screen helps with framing and composition. Moreover, the 1,280 x 720 panel does a good job of fending off direct sunlight, which means you won't especially miss the presence of an electronic viewfinder -- even though the Galaxy Camera feels almost large enough to have contained one. One unusual omission is auto-brightness, which means you'll occasionally find yourself burning the battery with a stack of lumens that you don't necessarily need.

As you'll see when we delve into the camera's software interface, this huge display is essential for taking creative control of the camera, since pretty much every aspect of an exposure is dictated by tapping the screen. It's also a requisite of making full use of Android -- not only the ability to play back and edit your photos easily, but also having a decently sized onscreen keyboard with which to type in captions, messages and so on. In other words, this heavy, power-hungry component isn't only justified by the photography, but also by what you're going to be doing with your photographs after you've taken them.


All told, the panel on the Galaxy Camera isn't the best we've seen for all-round use, because it's entirely geared towards brightness and outdoor viewing. When displaying text, either the pixel or sub-pixel density makes the characters slightly hazy at their edges. Compared to the HTC One X's LCD panel, for example, the irregular placing of the dots actually makes this look strangely like a PenTile display. However, this component is intended for viewing images rather than words and it does an excellent job.

Image quality

What do we stack the Galaxy Camera up against? Although it's priced right at the top end of what a compact camera should cost, much of that outlay is going on the display, quad-core processor and connectivity options. If we were to remove these costly elements, we'd end up with the WB850F, which has the same 21x zoom lens and 1/2.33-inch sensor, and which currently sells on Amazon for just $260. This simple fact tells us much of what we need to know: the Galaxy Camera's image quality is going to jar with its $500 price tag.



