
 


More Info

Samsung Galaxy S4 Zoom hands-on
Samsung Galaxy Camera review
Samsung Galaxy S 4 review


Android on a point-and-shoot? Last year we learned that it could be done. But with some features that duplicate the functionality of a smartphone without an ability to make calls, Samsung's Galaxy Camera was a confusing mix of form and function. It was very much a first-generation device, and while they may have regretted it later, some curious early adopters did drop $500 for the soon-to-be-obsolete hybrid. The cumbersome compact, with its massive 21x lens and power-hungry 4.8-inch touchscreen, may not have won over the photography community, but Samsung's 2013 approach has a much better chance at success.


With a design that's based on the Galaxy S4 Mini, the Galaxy S4 Zoom adds a fair amount of heft to accommodate the feature that sets it apart from every other smartphone on the market: a 10x 24-240mm optically stabilized lens. But it's still pocketable, believe it or not, and it functions quite well as a phone. While the Galaxy Camera was first and foremost a camera, the Zoom's primary function is as an ordinary Android smartphone -- albeit one with a larger sensor and a powerful lens. Can it replace both devices? And will you want it to? Shoot past the break for our take.





HardwareUnder the hood, the Zoom (SM-C101) is far more similar to the GS4 Mini than Samsung's full-fledged flagship. There's an Exynos 4212 chipset with a dual-core 1.5GHz Cortex-A9 CPU and 1.5GB of RAM. The battery capacity has been boosted slightly, from 1,900 to 2,330mAh, given that the increased body size can accommodate a larger cell. The Galaxy Camera, for its part, includes a 1,650mAh pack, and considering the paltry longevity of that device, we certainly appreciate the extra juice here.

If your current smartphone has a 5-inch or larger touchscreen, the Zoom's panel is likely to be a bit of a letdown. It measures just 4.3 inches, and while the AMOLED structure does enhance contrast and saturation, the 960 x 540-pixel (qHD) resolution is not ideal. It looks all right given the relatively small 4.3-inch panel size, but we would have preferred to see a higher-res display on such a photo-centric device. With the added camera components, there's a lot of potential for damage here if the device collides with another surface, but the Corning Gorilla Glass 3 layer should help protect the screen from scratches, at the very least.


The Zoom adopts the GS4's plasticky design, so right off the bat it doesn't feel like a premium device. It's significantly thicker than any current smartphone, and even most point-and-shoot cameras. Still, it fits in a jeans pocket, and it's comfortable to hold both as a phone and as a camera. Curiously, every side of the device is slightly curved, so it's impossible to stand the camera up on its own. You can mount it on a tripod, of course, but if you don't have one around and need to do some hands-free shooting, you're out of luck.

On the imaging front, there's a 1/2.33-inch, 16-megapixel BSI CMOS sensor -- the chip is large for a phone, but on the smaller side when it comes to cameras. The f/3.1-6.3, 24-240mm, 10x optical zoom isn't particularly fantastic for low-light shooting, but if you're used to snapping images on a standard smartphone, the optics here should be more than adequate. There's a 1.9-megapixel front-facing camera as well, for capturing self-portraits and conducting video chats. And there's a standard xenon flash on the rear.


While the Zoom resembles a fairly sizable point-and-shoot camera from behind, it looks entirely like a compact smartphone from the front. Hardware controls are incredibly limited, with the standard home key representing the only button on the front, positioned just below the bottom of the LCD. It's flanked by the standard menu and back touch controls that should be familiar to any recent Samsung smartphone owner -- a backlight comes on to make them visible whenever you tap, and they fade from view after a user-selectable period of inactivity.

On the right side of the device (top side in camera mode), there's a narrow power button up top, a volume rocker below and a shutter release button towards the bottom, positioned just beside the handgrip. On the bottom (right side in camera mode), there's a battery compartment with an incredibly flimsy door, and a micro-SIM slot beneath a flip-out plastic cover. Around the left side, you'll find a microSD slot and a tripod socket -- the latter is filled with a removable plastic dowel, so it's flush when not in use.


On the top, there's a standard 3.5mm headphone jack and an infrared port, which pairs with the included WatchON app, enabling the device to serve as a universal remote control. Additionally, there's an earpiece, front-facing camera and various sensors above the display, and a flash and focus-assist light flanking the 10x camera lens as well. There are microphones installed on both the left side and the right in camera mode, but that second mic is positioned in such a way that it's blocked by your hand if you're holding the device by the grip. Finally, a rotating ring installed around the lens serves as a zoom trigger in shooting mode and enables other camera-related functions as well, which we'll cover a bit more later on.

    Samsung Galaxy S4 Zoom     Dimensions 125.3 x 63.3 x 15.25mm (4.93 x 2.45 x 0.6 inches)   Weight 208g (7.34 oz)   Screen size 4.3 inches   Screen resolution 960 x 540 (256 ppi)   Screen type Super AMOLED   Battery 2,330mAh Li-Polymer (removable)   Internal storage 8GB   External storage MicroSDXC (up to 64GB)   Rear camera 16MP, BSI CMOS   Front-facing cam 1.9MP   Video capture 1080p / 30 fps (front)   NFC Yes   Radios Varies by region and operator   Bluetooth v4.0 LE   SoC Exynos 4 Dual 4212   CPU 1.5GHz dual-core   GPU Mali-400   RAM 1.5GB   Entertainment MHL 2.0, IR transceiver, DLNA, WiFi Direct   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.2.2 (TouchWiz)  Software


