
 
Samsung's i8910 HD-based Windows Phone 7 prototype has probably been the single most publicly-recognizable face of the platform this year, so it should come as little surprise that the Korean giant has come out swinging with production hardware today -- and fortunately, the pair of retail models look nothing (well, very little) like the proto. The Focus is the phone we've been calling the i917 Cetus in leaks, a curvy, glossy slate with a 4-inch WVGA Super AMOLED display (presumably ripped right out of the Galaxy S line), a 5 megapixel camera, and support for microSD expansion up to 32GB; it'll be hitting AT&T in the States. The Omnia 7 is the second model, launching on Orange, SFR, Movistar, and T-Mobile across Europe with the same Super AMOLED display, Snapdragon processor (rare for a Samsung, by the way), 5 megapixel cam, and either 8GB or 16GB on board. Expect both of these to launch in time for the holidays; in fact, the Focus can be yours on AT&T come November 8 for $199.99. Follow the break for Samsung's Omnia 7 press release.
      

 

Show full PR textSamsung OMNIA 7 Delivers Breakthrough Entertainment for Your Life in MotionSamsung's First Phone with Windows® Phone 7 to bring more choices for consumers to meet their lifestylesOctober 11, 2010, SEOUL, Korea – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a global leader in mobile technology, today announced the launch of the Samsung OMNIA 7 (Model: GT-I8700). Designed for a lifestyle in motion, the smartphone will be the first device to launch from Samsung with Microsoft's Windows® Phone 7 platform across Europe and Asia. Samsung OMNIA 7 supports a 4-inch SUPER AMOLED touch screen, 1GHz application processor and a 5 megapixel camera. The phone offers an unparalleled entertainment experience directly on the mobile with Xbox LIVE® features and games, and Zune® music and video. The OMNIA 7 will be available in select markets during the holiday 2010 timeframe."The Samsung OMNIA 7 is our first Windows Phone 7 smartphone and we anticipate that consumers will be drawn to the premium entertainment experience. The device demonstrates our commitment to satisfying consumers with a choice of platforms that fit diverse needs," said JK Shin, president and head of the Mobile Communications Business at Samsung Electronics. "We are excited to partner with Microsoft for this milestone," he said."Samsung has been a key partner to Microsoft in bringing Windows Phones to customers all over the world," said Andy Lees, President of the Mobile Communications Business at Microsoft. "Their launch of the Samsung OMNIA 7, a new Windows Phone, marks a significant step in delivering to customers a different kind of phone that will stand out amongst the competition. We are thrilled to continue our strong partnership and embark on this journey with a smartphone industry leader."Breakthrough hardwareFeaturing Samsung's crisp and clear 4-inch SUPER AMOLED touch screen, the OMNIA 7 delivers a brilliant viewing experience, even outdoors. With surround sound and clear voice quality, users can talk to a friend or conduct a conference call as if they're in the same room. The OMNIA 7's good looks and metallic body make it a stylish companion for any setting and the phone's minimalist design and clean finish will entice consumers who don't want compromise style for technology.Ultimate entertainmentWith Samsung OMNIA 7, users can access Xbox LIVE® and Zune® directly on the mobile for the ultimate entertainment experience. Gamers will enjoy a diverse lineup of titles through Xbox LIVE whilst multimedia buffs will be keen to access a host of video and music content through Zune. The OMNIA 7 enables users to automatically synch content from their PC via Wi-Fi so that they can enjoy music and videos anywhere.Life in motionSamsung OMNIA 7 offers a different kind of experience that lets users keep up with lifestyle. Users will love the intuitive, dynamic user interface of Windows Phone 7 whilst the Windows Phone Hubs help them to organize information and simplify tasks. The phone's customizable Start Screen features live Tiles that display real-time updates from the web, news, appointments, or social media status directly to the home screen.Enhanced media sharing is another feature of a life in motion. On the OMNIA 7, users will have access to an expanded catalog of social networking and photo sharing sites and can share images and media files with friends with a single touch. The device even includes a 5 megapixel camera with LED flash so that you capture, create and share your life in motion.
 