
 
Ok, this display at the CES Unveiled event has been wrapped in some funky curved frame yet, but Samsung is showing it off because by producing a 1080p 240Hz LCD with edge lighting only on two sides instead of the traditional 4, it uses 52 percent less energy than existing models. While we still prefer plasma or LED backlighting for picture quality, viewed in the light of this showcase it didn't seem to particularly suffer compared to its edge LED lit brethren. It won't hit the sweet spot for everyone,but if you pay as careful attention to the energy bill as you do your HDTV then it might have an impact, and has already done enough to nab Samsung a 2011 Innovation award,.
      

 

Show full PR textSamsung Electronics Honored with 37 CES 2011 Innovation AwardsIndustry Specialty Awards include Two Best of Innovation and Six Eco-Design Products2011 International CESRIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics, a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, semiconductors and telecommunications, today announced that it was recognized with 37 prestigious International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2011 Innovation Awards. CES, the world's largest consumer technology tradeshow held by the Consumer Electronics Association® (CEA) every year has honored Samsung with a 3-year total of more than 100 awards (23 in 2009; 46 in 2008). Among the CES awards, Samsung was recognized with two Best of Innovation awards and six Eco-Design honors. Products entered in the CES Innovations program are judged by a preeminent panel of independent industrial designers, engineers and members of the media to honor outstanding design and engineering in cutting edge consumer electronics products across 36 categories."We are honored to be recognized by the Consumer Electronics Association and their industry experts for our technology and design innovation. Samsung's employees, all over the world, work diligently to create products that make a difference in people's lives and receiving these Innovation Awards is a tribute to their efforts""We are honored to be recognized by the Consumer Electronics Association and their industry experts for our technology and design innovation. Samsung's employees, all over the world, work diligently to create products that make a difference in people's lives and receiving these Innovation Awards is a tribute to their efforts," said CS Choi, president and CEO, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. "CEA is a prestigious and respected organization and this kind of validation of our commitment is very important to all of us at Samsung."Samsung Electronics' award-winners include three TVs, nine Blu-ray players and home theater systems, a digital camera and camera lens, five mobile phones, an SSD, three 3D monitors, a 3D projector, and two mobile PCs. In addition, Samsung received six eco-design winners including two home appliances, an LED monitor and semiconductor and panel products. All of Samsung's award-winning products will be on display during the 2011 International CES, which runs January 6-9, 2011, in Samsung booth #12006 in the Central Hall and in the Grand Lobby of the Las Vegas Convention Center.The following are additional details for some of the CES innovation honoree award recipients:* Samsung's new NX100 offers the performance and image quality of a DSLR and the portability and convenience of a point-and-shoot in a compact form factor. It is the world's first mirror-less interchangeable lens camera to feature a lens-based camera control interface, allowing users to control and set key camera settings directly from the lens.* The world's first intelligent i-Function lens, the NX 20-50mm, is a revolutionary lens that is putting professional-quality images at everyone's fingertips. With a touch of the i-Function button and turn of the focus ring, the NX 20-50mm delivers unprecedented lens-based control, granting users quick access to camera settings without having to navigate through multiple menu options.* Samsung's HT-C9950W 3D Blu-ray home theater system is as feature-rich as it is stylish – with slot-in disc loading and a premium volume wheel that controls the sound. Users can access information, entertainment and content via Samsung Apps, or use Samsung's AllShare™ to watch content from your DLNA certified devices on the TV.* In the mobile phone category Samsung received honors for the Samsung Craft™ and three Galaxy S™ smartphones including the Vibrant™, Captivate ™, and Epic™ 4G.* Samsung's 512GB SSD provides outstanding performance and reliability with reduced power consumption using a 3.0 Gbps SATA interface and 30nm-class, 32 gigabit NAND flash chips based on toggle DDR NAND technology. The SSD can run at a sequential read speed of up to 250 MBps and up to a 220MBps sequential write speed, 3X faster than a typical notebook hard drive.As part of Samsung's PlanetFirst™ initiative - a companywide commitment to become one of the world's most environmentally friendly companies by 2013 - Samsung has a dedicated goal to develop environmentally friendly products and building green manufacturing sites. In its latest effort to support that commitment Samsung received six Eco-Design awards, the most ever for the company. Some examples of the CES Eco-design award recipients include:* Samsung's 55-inch 2-sided Edge-lit 3D LED panel (shutter glasses design) which uses new local dimming technology that requires up to 52 percent less power than conventional CCFL LCD's of equal size. The Edge-lit panel employs LEDs on the left and right edge side of the display as its sole light source, and incorporates the industry-leading Auto Motion Plus 240Hz technology to eliminate most motion blur. This panel is also RoHS compliant, PVC-Free, Arsenic-free and mercury-free.* The Samsung 32 gigabyte Green DDR3 RDIMM is the industry's highest-density memory module, designed for use in advanced server systems, which requires high-density and high-performance with low-power consumption. By equipping 36 dual-die 40 nanometer-class 4Gb DDR3 chips, the highly-efficient 32GB RDIMM can operate at 1,066Mbps (max) while providing over 83% power savings when compared to widely used DDR2 memory modules.* Samsung's F4EG is an environmentally friendly hard disk drive for desktops. With the world's highest-density, the EcoGreen™ F4 features a 2-terabyte (TB) capacity – 667GB for each of its three disks – and is capable of storing 880 hours of DVD video or 500,000 songs in MP3 format (max). The three-disk drive is up to 19 percent better in standby time performance and also up to 23 percent lower power consumption in standby mode than the previous four-disk model.* Named an Eco-Design honoree, the Samsung WF520 Front-Loader Washing Machine delivers the best of both worlds – energy efficiency and high capacity performance.The variety of award recipients demonstrates Samsung's continued commitment to research and development across all product categories. In 2011 Samsung aims to consistently bring the latest advancements in product technology and design to its consumers.Sponsored by the CEA, the prestigious Innovations Design and Engineering Awards have been recognizing achievements in product design and engineering since 1976. The CES Innovation entries are judged based on the following criteria:* Engineering qualities, based on technical specs and materials used* Aesthetic and design qualities, using photos provided* The product's intended use/function and user value* Unique/novel features that consumers would find attractive* How the design and innovation of the product compares to other products in the marketplaceProducts chosen as Innovations Honorees reflect innovative design and engineering of the entries. Examples may include the first time various technologies are combined in a single product or dramatic enhancements to previous product designs.About Samsung Electronics America, Inc.Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), based in Ridgefield Park, NJ, is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. The company markets a broad range of award-winning consumer electronics, information systems, and home appliance products, as well as oversees all of Samsung's North American operations including Samsung Telecommunications America, LP, Samsung Semiconductor Inc., Samsung Electronics Canada, Inc. and Samsung Electronics Mexico, Inc. As a result of its commitment to innovation and unique design, the Samsung organization is one of the most decorated brands in the electronics industry. The company was ranked #19 in BusinessWeek/Interbrand "100 Best Global Brands," and named as one of Fast Company's "50 Most Innovative Companies of 2010." For more information, please visit www.samsung.com. You can also Fan Samsung on www.Facebook.com/SamsungUSA or follow Samsung via Twitter @SamsungTweets.About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 188,000 people in 185 offices across 65 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.About CEAThe Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) unites 2,200 companies within the consumer technology industry. Members tap into valuable and innovative members-only resources: unparalleled market research, networking opportunities with business advocates and leaders, up-to-date educational programs and technical training, exposure in extensive promotional programs, and representation from the voice of the industry, CEA, promoting and advancing member needs and interests. Find CEA online at www.CE.org.Innovations 2011 Design and Engineering honoree products are featured on www.CESweb.org/Innovations, which lists product categories, as well as each product name, manufacturer information, designer, description, photo and URL.
 