
       Samsung's just gushed its 2010 TV lineup, and chief among the troops is the 9000 series LED with built-in proprietary 3D processor and, more importantly, full support for a full color touchscreen remote control, integrated with WiFi and IR. Paired with the ultra-slim 9000 series (right), you can watch broadcast directly from the handheld and swipe it to the TV to enjoy. The 8000 and 7000 series also enjoy 3D capabilities, as does the 750 LCD set. Left out of the 3D fun? The 6500 LED and 650 LCD models -- sorry gang. All models are reportedly Energy Star 4.0 compliant and the premium ones also come with Internet@Home with apps including Netflix. All the press releases after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textSamsung's New Lineup of LED HDTVs Raises the Bar for TV Excellencemmersive Lifelike Depth and 3D Capabilities, Connected Interactive Content and Services, and Mold-Breaking Design Set Next Generation of Samsung LED back-lit HDTVs ApartLAS VEGAS, January 6, 2010 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, unveiled today the next generation of its award-winning LED back-lit TVs, featuring a first of its kind built-in 3D processor, connected interactive experiences and innovative, trend-setting designs with a wide range of options to match the décor of almost any living room. . This year's flagship Series, the 9000, has proudly won the 2010 CES Best of Innovations award. Perhaps most notably, Samsung offers its most versatile LED TV lineup, which consists of entry level HD offerings to its highest performing full HD TV's ever, in a variety of screen sizes. Samsung's latest HDTVs will be on display at Booth #11026 during the International Consumer Electronics Show, which will be held at the Las Vegas Convention Center, January 7 -10, 2010."Our leadership in the LED TV category is no accident; we identified a consumer need for superior picture quality, ultra slimness and more eco-friendly energy consumption," said Yangkyu Kim, Senior Vice President of Visual Display Division for Samsung Electronics. "We have put all our energy and passion into this year's LED TV lineup with the single objective to deliver stunning experiences that bring life-like depth to TV. With this award-winning lineup, Samsung is once again setting the industry standard not only for quality TV experiences but for technology and innovation leadership."With eight product series, and screen sizes ranging from 19" to 65", this is the industry's largest lineup of LED TVs to date. From the award-winning 9000 Series, to the Innovations Honoree 7000 and 6500 Series, consumers have virtually unlimited choice of models to fit their individual entertainment preferences and lifestyle. The flagship 9000 series specifically is flat-out Samsung's most impressive HDTV to date - the quintessential slim LED TV with a premium touch-screen remote control and built-in 3D technology, setting a new standard for jaw-dropping home theater picture quality and connectivity. The world's slimmest fully integrated LED TV, the 9000 Series was designed to end all depth competitions, and raise the bar yet again with an innovative stand that includes the built-in tuner.Built-in 3DNew in 2010, this year's premium models in the LED TV lineup, the 7000, 8000 and 9000, all include Samsung's proprietary built-in 3D processor and emitter that is optimized for, and enables compatibility with multiple 3D standards including half and full HD resolution formats as well as the Blu-ray Disc Association approved "Blu-ray 3D" standard. In addition, Samsung's 3D system delivers a picture using a full color spectrum for an unbelievable, immersive viewing experience. Along with the company's 3D Blu-ray player (BD-C6900), Samsung offers a complete solution allowing consumers to bring the 3D theater experience home. For those who want to add the third dimension to their regular TV viewing, Samsung included in its 3D processor an auto-conversion technology that renders 2D content into 3D in real time. Consumers can add a level of depth and clarity to a live football game, making them believe they are part of the action. Connected TV and Samsung AppsWith built-in Ethernet connection and wireless-ready capabilities, the 2010 LED TV lineup is ready to meet the growing consumer demand for "content without borders." The upgraded Internet@TV feature now includes Samsung Apps, providing consumers with an expanded, easy to navigate selection of content and applications from leading services like Accedo Broadband, AccuWeather.com, The Associated Press, Blockbuster, Fashion TV, Netflix, Picasa, Pandora, Rovi, Travel Channel, Twitter, USA TODAY, and Vudu. Applications can be downloaded and viewed all while watching TV. All of the premium LED TVs, 6500 Series and above, will include the upgraded Internet@TV with Samsung Apps.Unsurpassed Picture QualitySamsung's premium LED TV's will boast unsurpassed picture quality by using a Samsung-developed technology that merges the advantages of LED edge-lighting with the control of local dimming technology in directly back-lit LED televisions. This technology along with Samsung's high-efficiency LED light source and proprietary picture enhancement engine with video processor ensure unsurpassed picture quality with vibrant colors, deep blacks and better contrast ratios. Focus on DesignIn 2010, Samsung builds on its tradition of innovative design by introducing narrower bezels and brushed metal frames in silver and black– pushing the limits beyond the familiar black bezels of many HDTV's. In particular, Samsung developed a groundbreaking four-legged quad stand that makes the TV look more like furniture than device and a new "mystic earth" Touch of Color™ (ToC™) design scheme with chrome edging to better match a living room's décor. With a wide-ranging pallet of materials and designs, Samsung offers something for virtually anyone's tastes and interior design preferences. What's more, the new LED TVs match Samsung's 2010 line of Blu-ray players and home theater systems bringing a cohesive element to a home entertainment room.Green DesignAll these functionalities are delivered without compromising on the energy efficiency that Samsung LED TVs are known for and meet even higher standards of sustainability. They all exceed the more stringent EnergyStar® 4.0 guidelines. Samsung LED TVs are the highest performing and eco-conscious HDTV products Samsung has ever released, continuing to set new standards every year.Redefining the RemoteIn another industry first, Samsung developed an easy to use on-board TV display full touch-screen remote control. The remote's color touch-screen makes understanding features and options easy and simple. Its integrated Wi-Fi and infrared technology controls TV and AV devices with the on-screen buttons and QWERTY keyboard. It allows users to watch broadcast content directly on the remote so you can watch the first part of the big game, while a Blu-ray movie is just wrapping up on the large screen HDTV(9000 Series only). You can also browse music, photos, and video files from a DLNA certified PC then swipe the chosen content in the direction of the TV to enjoy on the larger screen (9000 Series only). The remote is the primary remote control for the 9000 Series and a derivative version of it is sold separately as an option for other LED TV models including the 7000 and 8000 Series.Samsung Electronics America's CES press releases, product images and video content is available at www.samsung.com/newsroom.About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2008 consolidated sales of US$96 billion. Employing approximately 164,600 people in 179 offices across 61 countries, the company is recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands. Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.Samsung Unveils 2010 LCD LineupNew HDTVs offer enhanced picture quality and advanced connectivity;Select TVs to have 3D support  LAS VEGAS, January 6, 2010 – Samsung Electronics Co. ., Ltd., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today unveiled its 2010 portfolio of LCD HDTV's including the 750 and 650 Series. Each includes enhanced picture quality and advanced connectivity. With DLNA networking capabilities, and new Touch of Color™ (ToC™) designs, these HDTVs raise the bar of excellence in their respective categories. The 750 Series features built-in 3D technology, making images leap off the screen so you feel like you're a part of the action. Across the board Samsung is delivering a host of picture improvements including its picture enhancing HyperReal™ Engine, for a true-to-life range of color and contrast. Additionally, all of the 2010 LCD TVs fall far below the maximum allowance for the new Energy Star® 4.0 rating. Samsung's LCD TV lineup will be on display at Booth #11026 during the International Consumer Electronics Show at the Las Vegas Convention Center, January 7 – 10, 2010. "Samsung prides itself on delivering increasingly better HDTV experiences that continue to exceed consumer expectations," said Yangkyu Kim, Senior Vice President, Visual Display Division at Samsung Electronics. "With new breakthrough designs, significant improvements in viewing quality, connectivity capabilities and energy efficiency, our 2010 LCD TV line promises the greatest value for consumers."   Connected TV and Samsung Apps With built-in Ethernet connection and wireless ready capabilities, the 2010 LCD TV lineup is ready to meet the growing consumer demand for "content without borders." The upgraded Internet@TV feature now includes Samsung Apps, providing consumers with an expanded, easy to navigate selection of content and applications from leading services like Accedo Broadband, AccuWeather.com, The Associated Press, Blockbuster, Fashion TV, Netflix, Picasa, Pandora, Rovi, Travel Channel, Twitter, USA TODAY, and Vudu. Applications can be downloaded and viewed all while watching TV. All of the premium LCD TVs 650 Series and above, will include the upgraded Internet@TV with Samsung Apps. Also included is DLNA compatibility for wireless connectivity and multimedia sharing across devices, allowing consumers to wirelessly transfer photos, movies and music from PCs, mobile phones and digital cameras to their TV for big screen enjoyment with friends and family. Samsung LCD 750 Series The Samsung 240Hz LCD 750 Series sets a new bar for modern innovation for LCD HDTVs by offering built-in 3D technology, including the emitter. Samsung is delivering the best 3D HDTV experience possible by leveraging a number of proprietary technologies. The built-in 3D processor was developed to comply with the major 3D formats. In addition, Samsung's 3D system delivers a picture using a full color spectrum for an unbelievable, immersive viewing experience. Along with the company's 3D Blu-ray player (BD-C6900) and active shutter glasses, Samsung offers a complete solution allowing consumers to bring the 3D theater experience home. The processing can even be applied to broadcast TV, gaming content and legacy DVDs to automatically convert 2D viewing into 3D in real time. If you're not in the 3D mood, you're back to watching one of the best quality HDTVs on the market with the push of a button.     Samsung LCD 650 Series With an exhaustive range of features and capabilities, Samsung's 650 Series is a beautifully crafted, multimedia centerpiece that plays a wide array of digital content in pristine Full HD glory. The 120Hz 650 Series features a new Ultra Clear panel to produce richer, more natural colors, deeper contrast and greater clarity than have ever been seen before on an LCD HDTV. The design of the LCD TVs has a distinct look and feel recreating the U-line Touch of Color™ (ToC™) design of its predecessor in a sleeker and more compact form. Samsung's press releases, video content and product images are available at www.samsung.com/newsroom. About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Unveils Slim 2010 Plasma Series HDTVsNew TVs Offer Enhanced Picture Quality and Advanced Connectivity in New Slim Designs. .Select Plasma HDTVs to Have 3D Support.LAS VEGAS, January 6, 2010 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, today unveiled its new portfolio of ultra-slim Plasma HDTVs with the 8000, 7000 and 6500 Series. Each provides technologies that deliver exceptional picture quality, advanced connectivity with the updated Internet@TV feature and compliance to revised EnergyStar 4.0 standards – all in a slim form factor. Additionally, the premium plasma TV line (8000 and 7000 Series) includes Samsung's proprietary built-in 3D processor that adds a new dimension to TV viewing at home. The TVs will be on display at Booth #11026 during the International Consumer Electronics Show at the Las Vegas Convention Center, January 7 – 10, 2010."Samsung has raised the bar for the plasma TV marketplace by providing exceptional picture quality in a slim and energy efficient package," said Sung-ho Jun, Senior Vice President of Visual Display Division at Samsung Electronics. "With select models also including 3D capabilities and Web-enabled multimedia access, Samsung's promise to create products that evolve with the needs and desires of our customers is reflected in our new 2010 plasma TV lines."Samsung Plasma HDTV 8000 SeriesFeaturing a slim brushed titanium bezel with hints of the Touch of Color™ (ToC™) design, the Samsung Plasma HDTV 8000 Series provides consumers with the perfect combination of design and performance. Samsung's built-in 3D technology makes images leap off the screen while innovations like Real Black Filter and Motion Judder Canceller (MJC) deliver unprecedented picture quality. The Real Black Filter reduces the onscreen glare caused by ambient light, so blacks and shadow details are as crisp and defined as possible, while MJC reduces motion judder inherently found in fast-paced action scenes in film-based movies.In order to ensure that consumers get the entertainment experience that best fits their tastes, the Samsung Plasma 8000 Series comes with a calibration mode that allows them to adjust key picture quality aspects for optimized viewing. The TVs are also equipped with Samsung's CinemaSmooth™ technology for playback of 24fps Blu-ray content mirroring the quality of the latest movie theaters.The upgraded Internet@TV feature now includes Samsung Apps, providing consumers with an expanded, easy to navigate selection of content and applications from leading services like Accedo Broadband, AccuWeather.com, The Associated Press, Blockbuster, Fashion TV , Netflix, Picasa, Pandora, Rovi, Travel Channel, Twitter, USA TODAY, and Vudu. Applications can be downloaded and viewed all while watching TV. The first batch of TV apps will launch in the spring free of charge, while premium apps will be available for purchase via the engine's monetary transaction solution in the summer of 2010.Samsung Plasma HDTV 7000 SeriesThe Samsung Plasma HDTV 7000 Series brings the high-quality of plasma displays and the immersive experience of 3D entertainment in a slim, brushed black bezel designed to delight entertainment enthusiasts. This ultra-slim TV comes equipped with a wealth of immersive viewing technologies and picture enhancing technologies, including Samsung's Clear Image Panel technology which delivers clear images from every angle without the dual images and blurring typically found with conventional panels. It also features High-Definition 3D Processing and Internet@TV connectivity.In particular, Samsung's built-in 3D processor was developed to comply with major 3D formats including the recently ratified "Blu-ray 3D" standard. In addition, Samsung's 3D system delivers a picture using a full color spectrum for an unbelievable, immersive viewing experience. Along with the company's 3D Blu-ray player (BD-C6900) and active shutter glasses, Samsung offers a complete solution allowing consumers to bring the 3D theater experience home. The processing can even be applied to broadcast TV, gaming content and legacy DVDs to automatically convert 2D viewing into 3D in real time. If you're not in the 3D mood, you're back to watching one of the best quality HDTVs on the market with the push of a button.The 58-inch class model received a 2010 CES "Innovations Honoree" Award.Samsung Plasma HDTV 6500 SeriesThe Plasma HDTV 6500 Series is Samsung's entry-level ultra-slim TV. While the TV's exterior features the company's signature ToC design, the TV comes with Samsung's Wide Color Enhancer and Clear Image Panel to achieve the highest picture quality available on a plasma TV. The 6500 Series also provides expansive access to entertainment options with the updated Internet@TV feature.Ever More EfficientSamsung's 8000, 7000 and 6500 Series Plasma HDTVs feature a high-efficiency panel that lowers the TVs power consumption to meet the more stringent Energy Star® 4.0 guidelines.Samsung's press releases, video content and product images are available at www.samsung.com/newsroom.About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2008 consolidated sales of US$96 billion. Employing approximately 164,600 people in 179 offices across 61 countries, the company is recognized as one of the fastest growing global brands. Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.# # #
 