
After releasing its massive 85-inch UHD TV with a stunning $39,999 price in the US earlier this year, Samsung is ready to follow up with a few models that are more easily attainable. The 65- and 55-inch F9000 UHD TVs will carry US pricetags of $7,499 and $5,499, respectively, with pre-orders starting July 21st and shipments expected in early August. Samsung just began delivering these in its home country, and others like Sony, LG, Sharp and Toshiba are starting to offer 4K TVs in smaller sizes (not to mention value priced contenders like Seiki.) The F9000 series includes all of Samsung's latest features like 3D, Micro Dimming Ultimate LED display, Wi-Fi and an embedded camera, plus support for Evolution Kit upgrades the company claims will let it keep pace with any future UHD standards.



Show full PR textSamsung Expands Its Ultra High-Definition TV Lineup in the U.S. With New F9000 Series
New 55- and 65-inch UHD Models Offering Brilliant Picture Quality and Superior Upconverting Technology Are Available for Pre-Order from July 21
RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung's best-in-class Ultra High-Definition (UHD) TV family is expanding in the United States. Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today announced its next wave of UHD TV models with the introduction of the F9000 line. They will be available for pre-order starting July 21. Offered in 55- and 65-inch models, the F9000 UHD TVs take home entertainment to a new level by delivering the highest resolution and best-in-class picture quality, regardless of video source.

"Revolutionizing the home entertainment viewing experience is a hallmark of the Samsung brand"Following in the footsteps of the award-winning Samsung S9 UHD TV introduced earlier this year, the F9000 series offers four times the resolution of Full HD TV for a vivid, crystal-clear picture. The F9000 UHD TV utilizes Samsung's proprietary Quadmatic Picture Engine, a four-step process including signal analysis, noise minimization, UHD up-scaling and detail enhancement to seamlessly upconvert SD, HD or Full HD content to UHD-level picture quality. Both the TV and its software can be upgraded to be compatible with future UHD standards with a separate Evolution Kit.

"Revolutionizing the home entertainment viewing experience is a hallmark of the Samsung brand," said Joe Stinziano, Executive Vice President, Samsung Electronics America. "The F9000 series are Evolutionary TVs that will give consumers great peace of mind in their entertainment investment. Now home entertainment lovers will have the opportunity to truly see and enjoy their favorite shows and movies like never before, in crystal-clear ultra high-definition, and in the beautifully designed 55- and 65-inch sizes they demand."

The new models feature Samsung Smart TV, designed to help consumers search less and watch more. The new Smart Hub interface organizes entertainment and content into five convenient panels: On TV, Movies and TV Shows, Social, Apps as well as Photos, Videos and Music. The built-in S Recommendation feature helps customers discover something new to watch, now or next time. And with Smart Interaction, the F9000 UHD TV is brought to life as consumers use hand gestures or voice commands to navigate and browse, creating a new and interactive TV experience.

With Samsung's Precision Black Local Dimming technology, the F9000 UHD TV delivers a much greater increase in contrast and black levels by dimming LEDs in dark areas of the picture, making blacks darker without affecting brighter elements of the picture. It also features Micro Dimming Ultimate, which combines the use of a special algorithm and scanning technology for sharper images and enhanced contrast. The F9000 series comes with 3D technology as well as built-in Wi-Fi and an embedded camera for staying connected with friends. The fast quad-core processor enables true multitasking capabilities between content and apps for a premium Smart TV experience.

The F9000 UHD TV comes with 2-way 2.2 channels of 70-watt sound, which is more than three times better than a typical TV. This system provides a dynamic range of sounds for a commanding and outstanding experience to complement the UHD picture.

Designed to create an immersive picture, the F9000 UHD TV features Samsung's award-winning Ultra Slim Bezel design, providing a virtually edgeless picture. The TV design also extends to the rear of the TV with Samsung's Clean Back design and comes with the stylish Arc Stand -- an eye-catching complement that enhances the interior design of any room.

Starting July 21, the F9000 will be available for pre-order in the U.S. with select authorized retailers for an estimated retail price of $5,499.99 for the 55-inch model and $7,499.99 for the 65-inch TV. Shipping of the F9000 UHD TV is expected in early August.


