
 Samsung's quietly introduced replacement for the NX1000, the NX1100, just hit stores today with a $600 price tag. The camera, which sports a 20.3-megapixel CMOS sensor, 921k-dot, 3-inch LCD, 8 fps RAW and JPEG shooting, a top sensitivity of ISO 12,800, 1080p video capture, built-in WiFi and an Android and iOS companion app, comes bundled with a copy of Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 4, which typically carries a sticker price of around $125. You also get a 20-50mm f/3.5-5.6 lens and an external flash in the box, making this quite an appealing offer for beginners looking to step up from a point-and-shoot.



  Show full PR text   Samsung's NX1100 SMART Camera Blends Professional Image Quality, with Instant Photo Sharing and Editing
   Includes Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 4 Editing Software for Photographers

   RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. - April 11, 2013 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc., today announced that the new NX1100, compact system camera (CSC) with built-in Wi-Fi and AutoShare, is now available nationwide bundled with Adobe® Photoshop® Lightroom® 4 for a MSRP of $599.99.   "Never before has Samsung offered a SMART Camera with this level of image quality and AutoShare at this price point," said Ron Gazzola, vice president, marketing for digital imaging, Samsung Electronics America. "Bundled with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 4, the NX1100 is a great introduction for photographers in the CSC category and ideal for consumer photographers looking to upgrade their photo taking, editing and sharing experience."   Portable, powerful fashion forward camera  Boasting a 20.3-megapixel CMOS sensor and fast shutter speeds of up to 1/4000 seconds, the sleek NX1100 captures premium photos and videos that are the standard of Samsung's NX Series. The Samsung NX1100 offers a large, bright 3.0-inch LCD screen for composing images, 1080p HD video capture, and technologies like Smart Auto 2.0, which allows even a novice photographer to take pictures like an expert.   Sharing made easier  The sleek NX1100 makes it easy to capture and share memories using Samsung SMART Camera 2.0 features. With the touch of a button, consumers can connect via Wi-Fi thanks to a dedicated Smart Link Hot Key on the top of the camera that shares photos instantly and securely between the camera and a mobile device or directly to social media sites like Facebook and YouTube.   The Samsung SMART Camera App, available for both Android and iOS, creates a secure connection with the camera. The NX1100 is able to detect and auto-connect to a mobile device wirelessly whenever any of the SMART Camera features are activated. These include AutoShare, which automatically sends full resolution images and video to your mobile device; Mobile Link, which allows users to select and transfer images or albums from the camera directly to your smartphone at their leisure; and Remote Viewfinder, which provides users the ability to control the camera from a smartphone or tablet.   Edit like a pro with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom  Adding more value to the NX1100, the camera comes bundled with Lightroom 4, the essential digital photography workflow solution, helping amateur and professional photographers quickly import, manage, enhance and showcase all their images within one application. Lightroom 4 is a $149 value and easily upgradeable once future versions are released.   Creativity is a Snap  Expression through photography is made a reality for photographers at any level with the NX1100. With the Smart Auto setting, the camera analyzes, identifies and automatically selects the most appropriate scene mode for the best results. Scene detection technology identifies the conditions and automatically adjusts settings to help achieve dynamic images-whether photos are taken at a low-light fashion event or while capturing dazzling fireworks at a summer gathering. For users seeking more control, the Smart Panel feature allows them to explore their own photography skills with Full Manual Control settings for aperture, shutter speed, flash intensity and more – all from a single, intuitive menu screen.   The NX1100 touts ten exclusive Smart Filters and a new Selective Color function, which allows users to isolate a single color in an image for a dramatic effect. Capturing an expansive scene is also a breeze, thanks to the innovative 3D Panorama feature that creates immersive shots of landscapes and scenery.   Pricing and availability   The NX1100 (MSRP: $599.99) is now available in white and black from authorized Samsung retailers nationwide and at www.samsung.com.

 
