
 The rumors didn't lead us astray this time around: T-Mobile's latest QWERTY device, the Samsung Galaxy S Blaze Q Relay 4G has been officially announced. While we're still waiting to hear pricing and availability (aside from the usual "coming weeks," that is), we have confirmation that the 4-inch Super AMOLED device will offer ICS, HSPA+ 42Mbps connectivity and a 1.5GHz dual-core Snapdragon S3 processor. Additionally, it has a 5MP rear camera, 1.3MP front-facing cam, 5-row keyboard and it's been certified for SAFE (Samsung Approved for Enterprise). We're still wrapping our brains around the name, but fortunately we have some time to do so before the device officially drops onto store shelves.

 Update: TmoNews has gotten word that the Relay 4G is actually carrying a Snapdragon S4 processor, not an S3. Enjoy the extra horsepower.



  Show full PR text   T-Mobile Continues to Expand Popular Samsung Galaxy Lineup With the
  Samsung Galaxy S® Relay™ 4G
   Exclusive to T-Mobile, the Android-powered Galaxy S Relay 4G offers another choice for customers who want to stay connected no matter where their job or life takes them

   BELLEVUE, Wash. - Sept. 6, 2012 - T-Mobile USA, Inc., the No. 1 mobile operator brand in Samsung Galaxy S™ sales, and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S.1, today announced the upcoming availability of the Samsung Galaxy S® Relay™ 4G - a T-Mobile® exclusive and the newest smartphone to join T-Mobile's popular Galaxy S® portfolio. Powered by Android™ 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, the Galaxy S Relay 4G leverages T-Mobile's fast 4G (HSPA+ 42) network, allowing consumers to quickly and efficiently balance business productivity with entertainment and play on one device.

   The Galaxy S Relay 4G is also a SAFE™ (Samsung Approved for Enterprise)-designated device that offers a full portfolio of enterprise-ready features and capabilities. Samsung SAFE offers comprehensive IT Policy support for top-tier mobile device management (MDM) solutions, on-device AES-256 bit encryption, and enhanced support for Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync®, as well as integrated support for a range of virtual private network solutions. The Galaxy S Relay 4G also boasts a full 5-row QWERTY keyboard and 1.5-GHz Dual-Core Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ S3 processor that enables business customers to accurately and quickly view and edit documents and share files instantly. The smartphone also features Wi-Fi Calling and support for Smartphone Mobile HotSpot for up to five devices with a qualifying rate plan.

   "Consumers are increasingly looking for a powerful device that makes it easy to integrate their busy work and personal lives," said Andrew Morrison, vice president of product management, T-Mobile USA. "The Galaxy S Relay 4G is the perfect addition to T-Mobile's popular Galaxy smartphone lineup, providing our customers with a reliable and business-centric Android experience - and the easy access to entertainment for which Galaxy devices are known."

   In addition to its business features, the Galaxy S Relay 4G makes it easy to enjoy entertainment on its 4-inch, Super AMOLED™ screen. The new smartphone includes a number of compelling features, such as T-Mobile TV in mobile HD2 for watching live TV programming, Samsung Media Hub for renting and buying the latest movies and TV shows, and Google Play Music for streaming and purchasing music. The Galaxy S Relay 4G also makes capturing photos and HD videos a breeze with its 5-megapixel rear camera, a 1.3-megapixel front-facing camera and 720p HD camcorder (1280x720) resolution.

   Availability

   The Samsung Galaxy S Relay 4G is expected to be available nationwide at T-Mobile retail stores, select national retailers and dealers, and online via www.T-Mobile.com in the coming weeks. For more information, visit www.T-Mobile.com.

 
