
  Well, we thought it would already be here, but it looks like Samsung had other ideas. It's confirmed that the HSPA+ version of its premier Android 4.0 phone will be available across UK retailers from February 13th -- that's next week. The suitably snowy smartphone packs all the specifications of the original and, well, it just suits that Ice Cream Sandwich OS a little bit better, doesn't it?




  Show full PR text    SAMSUNG LAUNCHES THE GALAXY NEXUS WHITE  Samsung's latest Android device coming to UK shores 13th February   6th February 2012, London, UK – Samsung has today confirmed the availability of a white variant of the Galaxy Nexus in the UK. The first smartphone to feature Android™ 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, the Galaxy Nexus White can be bought in a range of stores across the country from 13th February.  Simon Stanford, UK & IRE Telecommunications & Networks Division said: "After much speculation, we are pleased to announce the availability of the Galaxy Nexus White which follows the great reception the phone has received since it was launched back in November. One of the things we at Samsung pride ourselves on is the choice we offer customers, and we've enjoyed huge success to date by introducing white variants of our most popular models to our product portfolio."  The Galaxy Nexus™ White offers customers all the features found in the original Galaxy Nexus, from the 4.65'' HD Super AMOLED display which boasts a market-leading resolution of 720p (1280x720), to the 5 megapixel camera and super-fast 1.2GHz dual core processor and HSPA+ connectivity so owners can connect to and browse the internet quickly and easily when they're out and about.    As the first smartphone to run on Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, the Galaxy Nexus White offers customers an entirely new look and feel, including a redesigned user interface with improved multi-tasking, notifications, Wi-Fi hotspot, NFC support and a full web browsing experience. In addition to a rounded slim design, the Galaxy Nexus White also introduces new innovations such as 'Face Unlock', which uses facial recognition to unlock the phone. Whilst integration with Google+™ means owners can easily stay in touch with friends and family and talk over Google+ Messenger.
 