
 Samsung's got a handful of announcements to offer its mobile fans at IFA this year, and it's started big with the Galaxy Note II. The new Android device packs a larger 5.5-inch, 1,280 x 720 16:9 screen, but still falls roughly within the same generous footprint of its predecessor. A year on, we've now got a more powerful SoC, up from a dual-core 1.4GHz processor to a new quad-core 1.6GHz Exynos chipset (yes, that's even faster than the one found in the Galaxy S III) and Android Jelly Bean right out of the box -- not to mention this being the LTE model. Samsung's putting a lot of focus on making the most of all that screen space and S Pen functionality and we got our hands (both of them) on the Galaxy Note II just a few hours earlier, so after the gallery, skip past the break for our first impressions.





  
 (Note: the Samsung representative in the video above mentions Super AMOLED Plus in error -- the screen is familiar PenTile HD Super AMOLED utilizes a new type of subpixel arrangement that sets RBRBRB in one row, then GBGBGB in the next one, and so on. Like the PenTile HD Super AMOLED display on the GS III, however, it still looks great. See our hardware hands-on below for more.)

 The Galaxy Note II speaks the same design language as the Galaxy S III, with a glossy shimmering plastic finish that envelops the back of the device, plus the same slim bezel. The button space below the screen has been slimmed down, as has the thickness of the device: 9.4mm instead of 9.7mm on the old Note. If you were able to hold the original Galaxy Note, there shouldn't be any problems here either. In the hand, the device feels just as solid as you'd expect considering its heritage -- it's impeccably well-built.

 
 Physically, there aren't many changes to talk about here -- ports and buttons are where you'd expect to find them, which is mostly a good thing, and the camera looks to be very similar to the 8-megapixel module we're familiar with -- with an LED flash and 1080p video skills.




