
 Samsung has just announced the Galaxy S III mini, a 4-inch David version of its Goliath big brother -- will it be worthy of its name? The rumor mill churned out that it might be a dumbed down version, but an oblique comment by mobile head JK Shin suggests otherwise -- either way, we're on the scene in Frankfurt, Germany to give you the long (and short) of it. According to the spec sheet we just received, this Android 4.1 phone features a dual-core 1GHz chip (which is good news for the 1,500mAh battery), 1GB RAM, 8 or 16GB of internal storage plus an extra 32GB maximum via microSD. The 4-inch Super AMOLED screen comes with a WVGA resolution, while the main camera takes five-megapixel photos plus 720p video, and there's a VGA front-facing camera as well for fans of video chats. There's obviously the usual bundle of radios as well, including 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi, GPS, GLONASS, FM radio, Bluetooth 4.0 (LE) and even NFC, but for now, this 111.5-gram TouchWiz device will only support HSPA 900/1900/2100 networks along with EDGE 850/900/1800/1900.

 Update: Our hands-on with the phone is live!

 Richard Lai contributed to this report.




  Show full PR text    Samsung Introduces GALAXY S III mini, a compact yet powerful smartphone   GALAXY S III's nature-inspired design and intuitive ease-of-use in one stylish, compact smartphone   SEOUL, Korea – October 12, 2012 –   Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today unveiled the GALAXY S III mini,  a compact version of the flagship smartphone GALAXY S III.  The GALAXY S III mini brings the high performance, intuitive ease-of-use and nature-inspired design of the GALAXY S III to an elegant,  compact smartphone with a 4.0-inch screen. It can be an optimal choice for consumers who are looking for more practical smartphones.   "The GALAXY S III introduced a new concept of smartphone that has proven hugely popular around the world.  We're now delighted to bring its revolutionary design, intuitive usability and intelligence to the GALAXY S III mini in a more compact form," said JK Shin, President and Head of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung Electronics. "We continue to make every effort to provide extraordinary mobile experiences to meet a wide variety of user needs."   The GALAXY S III mini is powered by Android™ 4.1 (Jelly Bean), the latest version of the world's most popular smartphone operating system.  Jelly Bean has fast, fluid and smooth graphics along with a new Google Search™ experience featuring Google Now™, which brings you just the right information, before you even ask.   Stylish and compact, the GALAXY S III mini shares the GALAXY S III's breakthrough design and simple elegance.  Its ultra-minimal curved frame delivers a rich natural feel, which is also reflected on its nature-inspired home screen, wallpapers and ringtones.  Its beautiful 4.0-inch Super AMOLED display offers a generous viewing experience that lets you view multimedia and Web content in brilliant color and clarity.  Its compact size gives users a comfortable grip and allows a convenient one-hand operation.   The GALAXY S III mini is packed with intelligent technology designed to make interacting with the phone incredibly natural and intuitive.  S Voice, Samsung's advanced natural language recognition software, lets you use your voice to unlock the phone with  simple customized commands, or to play your favorite songs, turn the volume up or down, organize your schedule, or automatically launch the camera and start taking photos.   The GALAXY S III mini also understands your gestures to make using your phone easier and more natural: With Smart Stay,  the phone's camera tracks your eyes and keeps the screen lit as long as you are looking at it. When reading a text message from a friend,  Direct Call enables you to automatically dial a call simply by lifting the phone to your ear; and Smart Alert conveniently alerts you to missed calls or messages as soon as you pick up your phone.   Content sharing is easy and fast on the GALAXY S III mini: Its S Beam feature lets you share a 10MB music file in just two seconds  by simply tapping on another S Beam-enabled device including GALAXY S III or GALAXY Note II, even without a Wi-Fi or cellular signal.  The 'Buddy photo share' function also allows photos to be easily and simultaneously shared with all your friends pictured in an image directly from the camera or the photo gallery.

 
