
After Samsung's latest product push in London, we have nothing short of a Galaxy S 4 franchise on our hands. While the company unveiled its expected Mini version along with a photography-focused variant, it also took a step in the rugged-device direction by announcing the Galaxy S4 Active. With IP67 water and dust protection, the phone promises to see you through 30 minutes of aquatic activity at a time. Ruggedness aside, though, this device is quite similar to the GS4, albeit in a slightly heftier -- and arguably more attractive -- package. We spent some quality time with Galaxy S4 Active on AT&T, which retails for the same $199.99 as the original S 4. So is this a better pick? You know where to find out. 




Hardware
We're likely not alone in equating "rugged" with "boxy and unattractive." Our initial response to the idea of a GS4 Active wasn't exactly one of enthusiasm, then, as we knew it would sport a thicker profile than the flagship S 4. The Active measures 5.5 x 2.81 x 0.36 inches (139.9 x 71.4 x 9.1mm), while its predecessor is more petite at 5.38 x 2.7 x 0.31 inches (136.6 x 69.8 x 7.9mm). Weight-wise, too, the rugged version is a bit chunkier: 5.29 ounces (150g) compared to 4.59 (130g). When we actually got the device in our hands, though, that extra bit of bulk was appreciated. The Active is arguably even more comfortable to hold than the original S 4, as its edges are more rounded and the extra fractions of an inch make for a sturdier grip.

The Galaxy S4 Active sports a polycarbonate design, a mainstay for Sammy's flagship handsets, but the body has a metallic, rather than a plasticky, finish. Our review unit came in a punchy turquoise shade called Dive Blue -- it's definitely more exciting than the white and cobalt hues available for most Galaxy products, and also pretty appropriate given the device's water-resistant features. There's even a hint of metal, courtesy of rivets, on the Active's backside. These details add up to a phone that, quite frankly, looks higher-end than the Galaxy S 4.

While the rim and backing of the S4 Active are decked out in blue (or Urban Gray, as the case may be; there's also a Flame Orange option for the international variant), the front face sports a texturized cobalt finish around the 5-inch display. The bezels are wider than on the S4, which also has a 5-inch panel. Cosmetically, everything else is pretty similar across both devices -- you'll find the usual speaker grille and Samsung logo above the screen, along with the LED indicator lights and 2-megapixel camera -- although there are a few exceptions. First, the Active's display is coated with Gorilla Glass 2 rather than Gorilla Glass 3 for scratch resistance, which strikes us as odd, considering that the phone is supposed to be especially durable. There are also three physical buttons for home, back and menu rather than just one hardware key. The raised buttons are easy to find by feel, which comes in handy when you attempt a little eyes-free operation. Some may say they cheapen the look of the device, but from a usability standpoint, they're definitely superior.


You'll find the micro-USB port on the bottom edge of the phone, and it's covered with a rubber flap. The left side of the device sports the volume rocker, while the right has the power button. Up top, there's a water-resistant headphone socket and IR transceiver for using the phone as a TV remote. Flip the handset over, and you'll see the 8MP shooter with LED flash (a step down from the 13MP unit on the GS4) along with both AT&T and Galaxy branding and another speaker grille.

Finally, removing the cover reveals the 2,600mAh battery along with the micro-SIM and microSD card slots. This is also where you'll find the phone's rubber waterproofing seal, which encloses those elements -- the camera, on the other hand, remains exposed. Removing the backing was easy enough for this reviewer with medium-length nails; there's an indentation on the upper-right edge of the phone that helps you pry it loose. On the other hand, getting the casing to reattach is a little more difficult, as you have to hold it in exactly the right position for it to firmly snap in everywhere.

If you're enticed by the Active's pedigree as a durable device, we should temper your expectations just a bit. This isn't a phone that can survive all the elements: Samsung very specifically states that it's water-resistant for up to 30 minutes at a depth of one meter or less. It's protected from dust as well, but it doesn't have the government-issued MIL-SPEC-810G certification to technically qualify as rugged. In other words, there's no guarantee you'll have a working cell if you take the Active deep-ocean (or pool) diving.

    Samsung Galaxy S4 Active     Dimensions 5.5 x 2.81 x 0.36 inches (139.9 x 71.4 x 9.1mm)   Weight 5.29 oz. (150g)   Screen size 5.0 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080 (441 ppi)   Screen type TFT LCD   Battery 2,600mAh Li-Polymer (removable)   Internal storage 16GB   External storage MicroSDXC (up to 64GB)   Rear camera 8MP with LED flash   Front-facing cam 2.0MP   Video capture 1080p / 30 fps (rear); 1080p (front)   NFC Yes   Radios  LTE: 700 / 850 / 1700 / 1900 / 2600 (bands 2,4, 5, 7 and 17)

 HSPA/UMTS: 850 / 1900 / 2100

 GSM/GPRS/EDGE: 850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900

    Bluetooth v4.0 LE   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 600   CPU 1.9GHz quad-core   GPU Adreno 320   RAM 2GB   Entertainment MHL 2.0, IR transceiver, DLNA, WiFi Direct   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n/ac   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.2.2 (TouchWiz)  Display
The Galaxy S4 Active sports a 5-inch Full HD (1,920 x 1,080) TFT panel, and you'll definitely notice the difference between this LCD and the Galaxy S 4's Super AMOLED screen (also with 1080p resolution). While images and text look clear on both, colors aren't nearly as vibrant on the Active. When we compared our review unit with the Sprint version of the Galaxy S 4, blacks appeared slightly bluish, and overall colors seemed slightly flat and muted. By comparison, images virtually pop off the screen on the GS4. We also noticed a slightly magenta cast on the Active's panel. Compared to the Droid DNA's Super LCD 1080p screen, too, the Active's panel delivered more washed-out tones and slightly less-detailed images.

We asked Samsung why it opted for a lower-quality screen on this model, but the company hasn't yet issued a response. In the absence of an official answer, we'll venture that it has something to do with price: the GS4 and the GS4 Active both go for $199.99 on AT&T, after all, and what the Active lacks in screen luster it makes up for in build quality and water resistance.

That said, the Active's capacitive screen is far from average -- especially considering that many phones don't even offer a 1080p resolution. Viewing angles are very wide, and text looks perfectly crisp. Plus, it's very easy to read items on-screen in direct sunlight, more so than on the S4. So while it may be a step down from the GS4, it's still more than satisfactory.

Software
We covered Samsung's latest software features in great detail in our Galaxy S 4 review, and things are pretty much the same on this device. That's not an exaggeration: the Active also runs Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean, which gives you seven home screens to fill with widgets and apps, and the Samsung-standard TouchWiz interface is layered on top. You'll find the same notification bar present on the GS4, and all of the company's new smart features (Smart Stay, Smart Scroll, Smart Pause and Smart Rotation) are here as well. Both devices let you switch between an expanded view of the notification bar and a collapsed mode for toggling features such as screen mirroring, multi-window and S Beam. Moreover, both phones offer Samsung's on-screen keyboard powered by Swiftkey, which allows for swiping between letters to create words. 



