
  
 The Nokia Lumia 900 may be the current leader when it comes to a quality Windows Phone handset on a budget, but Samsung is under-cutting the competition with the newly announced Focus 2. Succeeding the Focus and Focus S, this new handset offers LTE and comes in any color you like (so long as it's white) for the low-low price of $49.99 on-contract. It has a 4-inch Super AMOLED (non-Plus) display up front and a five megapixel sensor in the back, capable of recording 720p video, paired with a VGA camera facing forward. No details on processor memory at this point, but for that price we wouldn't expect to be too overwhelmed. Intrigued? You can sate that curiosity when it hits AT&T stores on May 20th.

 Update: AT&T's site now specifies that the Focus 2 will use a 1.4GHz CPU.


 
  Show full PR text   AT&T to Launch Samsung Focus 2; Offers Cutting-edge Capabilities at an Attractive Price
   Samsung's First 4G LTE Windows Phone Offers AT&T Customers User-Friendly, Affordable Windows Phone in a Slim, Stylish Design

   Dallas, Texas, May 07, 2012

   The Samsung Focus® 2, an affordable Windows® Phone on AT&T's 4G LTE network, will be available from AT&T beginning May 20 in pure white for $49.99 with a two-year service agreement.  With the launch of the third Windows Phone smartphone on its 4G LTE network, AT&T continues to offer customers the most robust Windows Phone portfolio of any carrier.  As Samsung's first 4G LTE Windows Phone, the Focus 2 is sleek and stylish. Measuring 10.98mm thin and weighing only 4.3 ounces, it fits perfectly in your hand, purse or pocket.  In April, AT&T launched the first 4G LTE Windows Phones in the world with the Focus 2 marking the carrier's third 4G LTE offering on this operating system. AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering over 260 million people. As 4G LTE expands, AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you're on a much slower 3G network.

   Beginning May 20, customers can purchase the Focus 2, available in a glossy pure white, from AT&T for $49.99 with a two-year contract.

   Like AT&T's other new 4G LTE Windows Phones, the Samsung Focus 2 features the Windows Phone 7.5 operating system which makes it easier to do everyday tasks faster. Only Windows Phone has Live Tiles, providing real time updates on your Start Screen including calendar appointments, emails or social media feeds. With Bing Search built-in, you'll never be lost, as finding directions or a highly rated restaurant nearby is quick and easy. Microsoft® Office Mobile and SkyDrive® also allow you to create, save and access documents anywhere from the cloud to help maintain productivity while on-the-go.

   The Samsung Focus 2, the latest addition to the Focus family (following the Focus, Focus Flash and Focus S), comes with a 4-inch Super AMOLED™ screen and 5-megapixel camera that makes taking pictures or shooting video in HD 720p a breeze. The front-facing VGA camera provides the ability for video chat. Hands-free messaging is available through speech-to-text and text-to-speech features that make it easier to stay in touch safely while out and about.

   "AT&T offers our customers the broadest Windows Phone portfolio of any carrier, with three 4G LTE Windows Phones – the only 4G LTE Windows Phones in the U.S. – now at a variety of price points and form factors," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility. "The Samsung Focus 2 brings the people-first Windows Phone interface together with AT&T's fast 4G LTE network for an unbeatable experience."

   "Samsung is the unmatched leader in offering smartphones across a variety of platforms and the Focus 2 is a powerful example of our continued commitment to Windows Phone," said Dale Sohn, president of Samsung Mobile. "As our first 4G LTE Windows Phone, the Focus 2 is a fast and versatile device for productivity, entertainment and social networking."

   For more information, customers can visit http://www.att.com/samsungfocus2 or http://www.samsung.com/us/focus2.

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   Samsung, Samsung Focus, and Super AMOLED are trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd

   Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.

   Limited-time offer. Samsung Focus 2 requires a new 2-yr wireless agreement with voice (min $39.99/mo) and min monthly data plan ($20/mo). Subject to Wireless Customer Agrmt. Credit approval req'd. Activ fee $36/line. Geographic, usage and other terms, conditions and restrictions apply, and may result in svc termination. Coverage and svcs not avail everywhere. Taxes and other charges apply. Data (att.com/dataplans): If usage exceeds your monthly data allowance, you will automatically be charged overage for additional data provided. Early Termination Fee (att.com/equipmentETF): After 30 days, ETF up to $325. Restocking fee up to $35. Other Monthly Charges/line may include a Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge (up to $1.25), a gross receipts surcharge, federal and state universal svc charges, fees and charges for other gov't assessments. These are not taxes or gov't req'd charges. Visit a store or att.com/wireless to learn more about wireless devices and services from AT&T.

 
