
 

Samsung just accidentally leaked a Sprint-bound Android QWERTY slider called the Moment in an otherwise totally boring press release about its OLED handset lineup -- it'll have an 800MHz processor, a 3.2-inch AMOLED screen, optical trackpad and a 3.2 megapixel camera. We're guessing this is the long-rumored "high-end" InstinctQ, but we're not sure why Sprint and Sammy have dropped the Instinct branding in favor of Moment. Samsung has a press event scheduled for 2PM EST, so we're guessing we'll find out more shortly -- stay tuned. Follow the break for live shots!

Update: Oop -- Sprint just posted its PR ahead of the event as well, along with a pre-registration page. Yep, the Moment is indeed the InstinctQ. Pricing will be $179 on a two-year contract after $50 instant savings and a $100 mail-in rebate when it launches November 1. Oh, and there's no TouchWiz here after all -- that's another hyped manufacturer UI shelved in favor of "With Google" branding. Interesting.
 

 Show full PR textSamsung Telecommunications America Showcases Portfolio of Mobile Phones Featuring Ultra-Brilliant AMOLED Screen TechnologyCTIA Wireless I.T. & Entertainment 2009 Booth #635 SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile)1, the No. 1 phone provider in the U.S. 2, and a global leader in mobile phone display technology, has expanded its mobile phone portfolio of touchscreen phones that feature the ultra-brilliant Samsung AMOLED screen. With the addition of the Samsung Behold® II and Samsung Moment™ to its portfolio which includes the Samsung Impression™ and Samsung Rogue™ announced earlier this year, Samsung Mobile is a leader in providing clearer and brighter screen technology. Samsung's revolutionary AMOLED technology provides screens with higher resolution that result in best-in-class screen clarity both indoors and in daylight. The AMOLED screens give users an enhanced mobile experience by providing true color and higher contrast ratio for a bright and vivid screen at any angle, perfect for viewing high resolution video and photos and browsing the Internet. In addition to providing crystal-clear resolution, the AMOLED screen creates a thinner mobile phone form factor and consumes less battery power."Samsung Mobile's AMOLED screens are a differentiator in our mobile phones that we're proud to continue featuring in our U.S. portfolio," said Omar Khan, Senior Vice President of Product Management and Strategy for Samsung Mobile. "The bright, vivid colors and thinner form factor take the user's mobile experience to the next level."The Samsung Moment integrates the open and innovative Android platform with Google complete with built-in Google mobile services, including Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail and YouTube as well as the thousands of applications built on the Android platform. The Moment is the first Sprint device to include a brilliant 3.2-inch AMOLED touchscreen display and is designed with a tactile QWERTY keyboard that slides out horizontally and a virtual QWERTY keypad for versatile text messaging and email access. Device navigation is simple thanks to an optical joystick located just below the expansive display.Powered by an 800 Mhz processor, the Samsung Moment is one of the fastest available in the market and features WiFi capability, integrated GPS navigation, 3.2 megapixel camera and camcorder and stereo Bluetooth® technology. Samsung Behold II is a full touchscreen phone integrating the open and innovative Android platform from Open Handset Alliance with Samsung's next generation TouchWiz™ user interface that provides one-touch access to a user's favorite and most commonly used features and applications.Available exclusively from T-Mobile USA later this year, the WiFi-enabled Behold II also allows access to corporate email through Exchange ActiveSync and personal email, as well as instant messaging, and text, picture and video messaging. Additional features include a 5-megapixel camera, visual voicemail, MP3 player, up to 16GB of external memory, assisted GPS and Bluetooth® 2.1 wireless technology. The Samsung Rogue is a sleek messaging phone with a full touch display that provides an optimized messaging experience with a horizontal slide-out, four-row QWERTY keyboard, threaded messaging and one-touch access to popular social networking widgets, including Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, YouTube and Photobucket. The Samsung Impression, available exclusively through AT&T, was the first commercially available mobile phone in the U.S. to feature an AMOLED screen. The Impression's advanced touchscreen is paired with a full QWERTY keyboard in a slim, metallic blue slider form factor for quick and easy messaging. The Impression includes a 3.0 megapixel camcorder-capable camera, 3.2-inch screen and full Web browser.See all of Samsung's mobile phones featuring AMOLED technology on display at CTIA IT & Entertainment 2009 at the Samsung booth, #635 in the San Diego Convention Center. For additional information, product photos and videos, please visit www.samsung.com/newsroom.
 