
 

We're seated here at Samsung's 2012 CES press event, and the company just revealed that it'll be matching rival LG's 55-inch OLED TV... when a 55-inch OLED TV of its own. Not surprisingly, the outfit's trumpeting its terrific color reproduction, the virtual absence of motion blur and face recognition. Sadly, there's not even a model number to mark down, and a price estimate should be even harder to find. It is, however, expected to ship in the latter half of 2012. There's no color filter needed here, either, as the self-emitting RGB sub-pixels take care of themselves; since light output on the Super OLED is controlled on a pixel-to-pixel basis, you can rest assured that your blacks will be deep and your whites bright. Other specs include a dual-core processor and 3D support. We'll be doing everything we can to get a peek at one, so keep it locked for more as we heard it.

Update: Check out our eyes-on video here





 		Show full PR text  Samsung Unveils the Super OLED TV – The Ultimate in Picture Quality 		CES Best of Innovations Award Honoree features elegant design, dual-core processor and Smart Interaction technology 		LAS VEGAS – January 9, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. today unveiled its 55-inch Super OLED TV, a masterpiece that will be acclaimed by home entertainment and design enthusiasts alike. The OLED TV will be produced from a single pane of glass and uses Samsung's Super OLED technology to deliver the ultimate in picture quality and thinness. 		Super OLED technology eliminates the need for a color filter as the OLED pixel unit comprises self-emitting RGB sub-pixels laid directly on the display panel, each emitting its own light. The technology is also able to differentiate varying degrees of blacks and shadows, so that users can enjoy unparalleled detail even in the darkest of scenes for the ultimate TV experience. 		"Samsung has had a long and successful history of creating innovative OLED products, including mobile phones, digital cameras and tablet PCs. Today, we are proud to extend our OLED leadership to the TV category with this spectacular 55-inch Super OLED," said Hyunsuk Kim, executive vice president, Visual Display Business at Samsung Electronics. "By incorporating true-to-life picture quality with ultimate speed and vividness, Smart Interaction, Smart Content and ultimate thinness, Samsung is delivering the ultimate TV today."		The Samsung Super OLED TV, a Best of Innovations Award Honoree at 2012 CES, will be on display at the 2012 International CES, booth #12004, in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center (LVCC) from January 10-13, 2012. It will be available commercially worldwide this year. 		The Ultimate in Picture Quality and Design		Samsung's Super OLED TV represents the culmination of Samsung's latest engineering technologies, and marks a new era of minimalistic design. 		It features unmatched vivid and true-to-life picture quality in both 2D and 3D, with significantly improved color accuracy compared to conventional LED TVs. Since light output on the Super OLED is controlled on a pixel-to-pixel basis, the truest blacks and purest whites can be achieved. 		Further, the Samsung Super OLED offers faster response times than LED, virtually eliminating motion blur even in the fastest-moving scenes. 		Because Super OLED technology features self-emitting RGB sub-pixels which do not require a backlight, the TV weighs significantly less than a standard LED TV. 		The design of the Samsung Super OLED is an engineering feat that provides a breathtaking form factor that blends into any environment. The Super OLED was also recognized by the Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA) for its flawless design.		When powered on, a bright, vibrant picture illuminates the screen from edge to edge. When turned off, the TV appears like a framed piece of luxurious floating glass; when hung on the wall, it more closely resembles a work of art than an electronic device. 		Intuitive Controls and a Camera with Smart Interaction Technology		Consumers can use Samsung's new Smart Interaction technology to easily manage their TV experience. By using Voice Control, Motion Control and Face Recognition features to complement the remote control, users can turn the TV on or off, adjust the volume or activate selected apps through speech. They can also use voice to activate the search function in the web browser and "tell" the TV what they are searching for. 		The Super OLED's built-in camera recognizes movement in the foreground to enable intuitive control, and two unidirectional array microphones recognize voice at an incredibly accurate rate. Noise cancellation technology helps to separate any background noise from the users' commands. 		Richer Content for Outstanding Entertainment		The Samsung Super OLED TV is equipped with Samsung's new dual core processor, which allows users to run multiple apps simultaneously for a faster, uninterrupted experience, as well as a smoother web browsing experience. 		The Super OLED TV also offers the latest improvements to Smart Hub, Samsung's integrated destination for access to all types of content from a single screen. The interface has been updated for easier navigation and faster performance. With a new tabbed web browser, users can conveniently open multiple pages at a time for an improved web experience. 		Additional first-of-its-kind signature services such as Family Story, Fitness and Kids will allow users to get more out of their TV experience, and help foster closer connections between friends and family members. 		Samsung's AllShare Play offers a seamless way for users to access, manage and share content through cloud storage and access that content on supported smartphones, tablets, cameras, computers or TVs, regardless of their location. 		Please visit our booth to experience this future technology firsthand. Samsung's product line will be displayed January 10-13 at booth #12004 in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center. Full details, video content and product images are available at the Samsung microsite at: www.samsungces.com. The press conference will also be streamed live from : www.samsungces.com, www.global.samsungtomorrow.com.
 