
 At CES 2013, it is apparently a must for mainstream HDTV manufacturers to bring a 4K television and as a market leader, Samsung is no different. So what does the mighty S9 UHD TV bring to the table? At 85-inches, it claims a size that's one inch beyond the competition, and features a crazy "Timeless Gallery" frame design that Samsung says "showcases the juxtaposition of a minimalist concept with such a large display." Even after getting a firsthand look at it we're still not sure how to interpret its odd stance, but after promising an "unprecedented new shape" we guess this... had to be it?

 No matter how it's propped up, it's still high end all the way, with "Precision Black Pro" display tech for an extremely high contrast ratio, 2.2 channel audio and integrated scaler to make your 1080p videos viewable at the higher res. Naturally, you can also count on all of Samsung's 2013 smart TV features with quad-core processor, voice and gesture control and apps making an appearance. There's no word on pricing or ship date, but Samsung is promising 95- and even 110-inch sizes before the year is out -- check below for more pics in the gallery and details from the press release.




   Show full PR text   UHD TV – The Highest Resolution on the Largest Screen
   Samsung's S9 UHD TV represents the largest screen in home entertainment viewing with brilliant picture quality in ultra-HD resolution. The S9 comes complete with features to ensure the best picture quality possible regardless of video source. Samsung's proprietary up-scaling engine can up-convert HD or Full-HD to UHD-level picture quality by restoring detail information to create greater precision and real-life picture quality.

   With Samsung's Precision Black Pro technology, the S9 delivers deep, real blacks as well as pure vivacious whites. It combines an extremely high contrast ratio and Ultimate Dimming control functionality – which utilizes hundreds blocks of LEDs and precise BLU control – to deliver sharp resolutions previously unseen on large format displays.

   In addition to picture quality, the S9 combines a powerful sound system with a fast quad-core processor to ensure a premium experience and true multitasking capabilities between content and apps. The S9 comes with 3-way 2.2 channels of 120 watt sound for an audio experience six times better than a typical TV. This system provides a dynamic range of sounds in a commanding and outstanding experience to complement the UHD picture

   The Timeless Gallery design of the S9 raises the standards of luxury television design. The TV appears to be floating within its frame and showcases the juxtaposition of a minimalist concept with such a large display.

 
