
B&H may have jumped the gun a bit, but here's the word from the proverbial horse's mouth: Samsung's high-specced ATIV Book 9 Plus will be available for pre-order in the United States beginning August 18th, with shipments of the $1,399 laptop to commence shortly thereafter. For those in need of a brief recap, the 13.3-inch rig packs a QHD+ (3,200 x 1,800) touchpanel, a Core i5 4200U processor, 128GB SSD, a battery good for 7.5 hours and a copy of Windows 8.


Meanwhile, that ATIV Tab 3 that we handled back in June is getting a proper ship date of its own, with Sammy assuring Americans that they'll be able to snap one up starting on September 1st for $699.99 -- thankfully, that tally does include a Bluetooth keyboard / cover combo. It's said to be the planet's thinnest Windows 8 slate at 0.31-inches thick, with a proposed 7 hour battery, preloaded Office Home & Student and one of those always-lovable S Pens. For whatever it's worth, it appears that Samsung's distaste for Windows RT in the States hasn't carried over to tablets with Windows 8 onboard... yet, anyway.


Oh, and for the enterprising individuals in attendance? Samsung has promised "to introduce versions of both products specialized for business use in the fall." Nifty!




Show full PR textSamsung Announces U.S. Launch of ATIV Book 9 Plus and ATIV Tab 3ATIV Book 9 Plus and ATIV Tab 3 offer stunning design, intelligent performance, enhanced touch capabilities and increased mobilityRIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. – August 9, 2013 – Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today announced the U.S. launch of the ATIV Book 9 Plus and ATIV Tab 3. These two additions to Samsung's PC lineup represent the company's continued commitment to offering consumers choice and easy convergence between PC and smartphone devices. In keeping with the iconic design legacy of the award-winning Book 9, the Book 9 Plus delivers an unparalleled and superbly vivid display, a 10-point touch-screen and enhanced performance in a beautiful and sleek form factor. The ATIV Tab 3 takes design cues from the popular Samsung GALAXY series and is the world's thinnest Windows 8 tablet. The Book 9 will be available for pre-sale in the U.S. on August 18 and the Tab 3 will be in stores beginning on September 1. Samsung also plans to introduce versions of both products specialized for business use in fall 2013."We continue to push the boundaries of design, innovation, performance and mobility with the ATIV Book 9 Plus and ATIV Tab 3," said Mike Abary, senior vice president of consumer IT product marketing at Samsung Electronics America. "We've closely listened to our customers and are offering an even wider variety of solutions within our computing portfolio, as well as seamless interconnectivity between the mobile and PC ecosystems."ATIV Book 9 PlusThe ATIV Book 9 Plus offers a striking design enhanced with an incredibly precise 13.3-inch QHD+ (3200 x 1800) Gorilla Glass® touch-screen display. The screen is 2.8X sharper than full HD and with 350nit SuperBright™ technology; you will never miss a detail. The panel also tilts back up to 180-degrees, so you can change or share your perspective with just a touch of your finger. Additionally, the display locks at approximately 110-degrees to ensure a comfortable touch experience without wobbling.Built with the latest Intel® Core™ i5 Processor 4200U, a 128GB SSD, and with lightning-fast boot-up (as fast as 5.9 seconds) and wake-up (as fast as 0.9 seconds), the Book 9 Plus allows users to access the information and programs they need nearly instantly. And with up to 7.5 hours of battery life (MM12), consumers can go from meeting to meeting throughout a business day on a single charge.ATIV Tab 3A tablet with the power of a PC, the ATIV Tab 3 makes personal computing more stylish, mobile and productive than ever. The Tab 3 is the world's thinnest Windows 8 tablet at 0.31 inches thick and weighing just 1.28 pounds. It is the perfect companion device for travel as well as everyday use at work and home. It comes with a Bluetooth keyboard that functions as a cover and kickstand for protection and ease-of-use. The tablet also features up to 7 hours of battery life (MM12), eliminating the need to carry a charger for most long-distance flights.The ATIV Tab 3 is preloaded with Office™ Home & Student for the best experience at home, at work or on go. It is the ideal device for both creativity and productivity thanks to improved S Pen functionality. The included S Pen offers more than 1,000 levels of pressure sensitivity and is compatible with Microsoft Office™, as well as Samsung programs including S Note and S Memo.SideSyncSideSync is available on the ATIV Book 9 Plus and ATIV Tab 3, enabling users to seamlessly switch from working on their PC to their GALAXY smartphone by simply linking the two devices via a USB cable or even over WiFi. When connected through USB or wirelessly, users can effortlessly work across devices, including responding to a text on a mobile phone from the PC keyboard; viewing maps, photos and multimedia from their phone on their PC screen; making edits to files on their phone via their ATIV PC; and even dragging and dropping files from one unit to another. The result is a more unified experience, fewer interruptions to work and everyday life, and the ability to utilize the best features of both devices.The ATIV Book 9 Plus will be available for pre-sale for an MSRP of $1,399.99 from August 18 and the ATIV Tab 3 will be available for in-store purchase beginning September 1 for an MSRP of $699.99.


