
 
 It's alive! The budget-friendly Samsung Exhilarate was announced alongside several other LTE phones at the AT&T Developer Summit in January, and we never heard about it since. Pricing, availability and most other major details were left out of the conversation, but it turns out this isn't another case of the Skyrocket HD (a phone that was announced at the same time but was eventually cancelled). The Exhilarate will finally arrive on June 10th and can be yours for $50.

 So what about the missing details AT&T's kept tight-lipped about for the last five months? The Exhilarate sports a 4-inch Super AMOLED panel, Android 2.3 (as far as we can tell from the press images), 1.2GHz dual-core Scorpion CPU, LTE connectivity, 5MP rear camera capable of taking 720p video, a 1.3MP front-facing cam and UL Platinum certification. Essentially, this particular status from Underwriters Laboratories means the phone passed a set of minimum requirements and can now be considered "environmentally preferable." The rear casing is made from 80 percent recycled material, and the device itself is slated to undergo AT&T's new eco-rating system which will launch later this summer. We can't imagine that too many people will exemplify the feeling portrayed in the device's name, but we're glad this one didn't mysteriously disappear.



 
  Show full PR text   AT&T to Launch its First LTE Smartphone with Environmentally Conscious Features, the Samsung Galaxy Exhilarate
   Dallas, Texas, June 05, 2012

    Beginning June 10 AT&T will offer a new option for customers looking for sustainable features in a smartphone – the Samsung Galaxy Exhilarate™. The Exhilarate will be available in all AT&T channels for $49.99 with a two-year agreement and is the first AT&T 4G LTE smartphone to obtain UL Platinum certification. This phone is also set to be one of the first to go through AT&T's eco-rating system, which will be unveiled later this summer.

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network, covering more than 260 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you're on a much slower 3G network.

   The Exhilarate features a rear casing made from 80 percent recycled (post-consumer waste) material and is packaged with a low-load, energy-efficient charger that alerts customers when the device is fully charged. The device also boasts a 4-inch touchscreen Super AMOLED display, a dual core 1.2 GHz Scorpion processor, voice recognition and access to AT&T U-verse® Live TV. It also features a 5-megapixel auto-focus rear-facing camera that lets you record videos in 720p HD and a 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera.

   In addition, the Exhilarate is the first 4G LTE smartphone to receive platinum certification from UL Environment, a business unit of UL (Underwriters Laboratories). Since 2011, AT&T has joined UL Environment and other sustainability stakeholders in working towards the development of requirements to identify leading mobile phones from an environmental and human health perspective. UL Environment sets minimum requirements for "environmentally preferable" mobile devices by measuring environmentally sensitive materials, energy management, manufacturing and operations, impact to health and environment, product performance, packaging and product stewardship.

   AT&T will also offer two custom case options by Incipio. These ECO ® SILICRYLIC® cases are made from a combination of biodegradable and recycled materials. Composed of two parts, an inner silicone rubber made of recycled silicone regrind material, and an outer bio resin plastic shell, ECO SILICRYLIC complements the environmentally conscious features of the smartphone it protects.

   "AT&T is committed to developing and supporting products, like the Samsung Galaxy Exhilarate, that enable consumers to reduce their environmental impact without sacrificing features or the ability to enjoy a world-class smartphone experience," said Jeff Bradley, senior vice president, Devices, AT&T Mobility. "We're working hard every day to empower consumer choice and provide consumers with more options in-store as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainability."

 
