
 
We didn't have a date for Samsung's 9 Series when it became official a couple of days ago, but now we do: it's coming next month. Sammy's press release makes sure to run us through all the bodacious specs of this 13.3-inch machine, including the LED-backlit display with 400 nits of brightness, 128GB SSD, 1.4GHz Core i5-2537M CPU, and MacBook Air-like proportions, before disclosing its arrival month as February 2011. The starting price is still a high and mighty $1,599, but then you do get a pretty stellar laptop for your cash money. Check out the full announcement after the break.

[Thanks, Mario]
      

 

Show full PR textSAMSUNG Introduces New 9 Series Thin And Light Laptop WIth Stunning Superbright Plus Display And Premium DesignAll-new Durable Design and Long Battery Life Create Capable Computing for Professionals On-the-GoLAS VEGAS, NV, January 5, 2011 – Samsung Electronics America Inc., a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Corporation, today announced the 9 Series, a durable, ultra premium, lightweight laptop computer at the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. The 13.3-inch 9 Series offers mobile professionals and power users a sophisticated laptop equally suited for work and entertainment. Thanks to a stunning design, Samsung's hallmark SuperBright Plus display and Intel performance processing power, the notebook ushers in a new era in mobile computing. The 9 Series will be available on display at Central Hall booth #12006, January 6-9, 2011."Weighing less than 3 lbs., Samsung has designed the 9 Series to stand out, completely reimagining the notion of the traditional laptop," said Scott Ledterman, director of mobile PC marketing at Samsung Enterprise Business Division. "When designing a premium laptop like the 9 Series, Samsung wanted to offer an unforgettable experience without limitations. The 9 Series laptop successfully combines elegant styling, performance and ease of use in an ultra thin and lightweight package."Unparalleled StylingThe 9 Series is made from material known as Duralumin, typically found in advanced aircrafts and offers construction quality twice as durable as aluminum, all while keeping the laptop weight under 3 lbs. To develop the 9 Series with the use of this new material, Samsung created an exhaustive testing process to ensure that the notebook is not only extremely sturdy, but also constructed with the perfect look and feel for technology savvy users.The 9 Series' naturally flowing design takes cues from the sleek styling and sophisticated beauty of a premium sports car. The silhouette evokes thoughts of speed and performance with an ultra-thin 0.64 inch profile. Additionally, the naturally flowing arch maximizes the laptop's ergonomic appeal, making it easier to use and a natural fit for the human grip.Ultra Vivid DisplayThe 13.3-inch 9 Series features a LED-backlit screen, offering users the highest quality visual experience expected from Samsung, thanks to SuperBright Plus display with 400- nit brightness. Digital images and multimedia are brought to life on the 9 Series, assisted by a 100,000:1 contrast ratio and true-to-life color reproduction (16 million colors), enriching the computing experience for end users.Additionally, the wide 160-degree viewing angle allows users to appreciate breathtaking screen images from a variety of vantages points, making the 9 Series easy to use whether in a user's lap, on a desk or shared in a communal space. The laptop's ambient light sensor adjusts the display brightness based on surrounding lighting conditions and reduces user eye strain. This innovative feature is complemented by an automatically adjusting backlit keyboard that adapts to darker light conditions with greater illumination.Innovation InsideThe 9 Series integrates the second generation Intel® CoreTM i5 processor, affording users the latest in performance computer technology. Intel HD graphics, combined with the new processor, deliver crystal-clear visuals, vibrant colors and smooth high-definition (HD) video and audio playback.Ensuring users are ready anytime anywhere, the 9 Series makes use of Samsung's new power-efficient lithium polymer batteries, and achieves up to 6.5 hours of battery life on average. Lithium polymer batteries extend the life of the product with double the lifespan for up to three years or 1,000 charging cycles. Additionally, various charging settings, like a "Battery Life Extender Mode" and "Express Charging Mode" empower users with options to get the most from their experience.Signature Samsung TechnologySamsung's Support Center ensures all content stays safe and can help troubleshoot any particular problem. Accessible with a keyboard shortcut, the Support Center helps users manage their system settings or arrange for a tech-support web chat. Samsung's Back-up & Recovery Solution also allows users to create and restore back-ups of system data on the device, or on a network or removable storage device.Lastly, focusing on convenience and connectivity, the new 9 Series boasts USB 3.0, Bluetooth 3.0, built-in WiMax and utilizes the latest in Wi-Fi and USB Sleep & Charge technologies.The Samsung 9 Series is scheduled to be available in February 2011, starting at $1,599. All Samsung mobile PC products are available through Samsung resellers and distribution channels, which can be located by calling 1-800-SAMSUNG or by visiting www.samsung.com.Key Specs:• CPU: Second Generation Intel® CoreTM i5 Processor 2537M (1.40 GHz, 3MB; turbo up to 2.3 GHz)• Operating System: Genuine Windows® 7 Home Premium (64 bit) / Windows® 7 Professional (64 bit)• Memory: 4GB DDR3• Storage (max): 128GB Solid State Drive (SSD)• Screen: 13.3-inch HD LED-backlit SuperBright Plus display (400 nit)• Resolution: 1366x768• Graphics: Intel HD GT2 Integrated Graphics• Speakers: 3 watt (1.5W x 2) stereo speakers and 1.5 watt sub-woofer• Battery: Lithium Polymer; up to 6.5 hours• Wireless: 802.11b/g/n; WiMaxi• Weight: 2.89 lbs.
 