
This is the story of a little smartphone series that grows up and, three years later, positions itself to take over the world. The device in question, the newest addition to that lineup, doesn't really need much of an introduction thanks to some of the most successful marketing campaigns in the world. We'll be happy to give it anyway: pictured atop this very text sits the Samsung Galaxy S 4, the latest and greatest flagship out of Korea. This is the hero, the device chosen to lead the charge for Samsung as it ventures deeper into 2013, and it's fitted with the best of everything: a 1080p Super AMOLED display, 1.9GHz quad-core (or 1.6GHz Exynos 5 Octa 5410, depending on market) chipset, Android 4.2, 13MP camera and a wide assortment of brand-new firmware amenities, to name just a few.


Despite the fact that its predecessor sold millions upon millions of units in the past year, the Galaxy S 4 isn't alone in its quest for global Android domination this time. HTC, the underdog of the fight, has launched the One, a flagship that rivals the GS4 in almost every way and does so in a physically attractive package complete with a solid aluminum build. Where do these two devices stand in comparison to each other? Does the GS4 reign supreme? Will its onslaught of new software features send the phone to the top of the pack? These answers and more await you after the break.






Hardware
If your first impression of the Galaxy S 4 was like ours, we're guessing you had a hard time differentiating it from last year's flagship model. Take a closer look, however, and it becomes more apparent that Samsung's design team didn't actually use the past year to catch up on the sleep it lost crafting the GS3. The phone maker kept to the same overall style, but it made a few crucial tweaks along the way to improve its fit and finish.Samsung's choice of build material wasn't one of them. If you were a critic of the GS3's plastic construction, you'll be disappointed with its successor -- the company's continuing its long-standing tradition of keeping metal out of the assembly lines, building the frame, back cover and faux-chrome edges with polycarbonate. It's similar -- though lower-grade and not machined -- to the type of plastic you'd enjoy on flagships like the Nokia Lumia 920 or even the HTC One X+, so it's nothing out of the ordinary for Samsung. The biggest benefit in using this type of material is that it offers a little more give when you drop the phone. It's still plenty sturdy, and it feels like it's just as durable as the GS3 or Galaxy Note II. This may be ideal for a large number of potential buyers, but we still prefer the HTC One's premium build quality and visual appeal, thanks to its use of high-grade aluminum through its entire unibody chassis.

The GS4 uses polycarbonate and is pretty sturdy, but the HTC One still has a more premium build quality and visual appeal.One of the subtlest tweaks to the design in the GS4 may also be one of the most effective: the Gorilla Glass 3 rests just a hair below the edge of the screen. This tiny move makes the screen a tad less vulnerable than the GS3, which features glass that sits slightly above the edge. This won't guarantee your screen's safety when you drop your phone, but it at least increases the likelihood of it surviving an impact at an angle.


Another design shift is in Samsung's choice of decor. At launch, the GS4 will be offered in Frost White and Black Mist, and both colors feature a cross-stitching pattern across the front and back. This style is sufficiently subtle on our white review unit and adds a little extra personality to an otherwise plain and glossy device. It stands out more on the black model, however, to the point where it's a bit of an eyesore. When it comes to comparing the darker-hued versions, we much prefer the brushed-metal look on the blue GS3. (In full disclosure, we've spent far more time with the white unit, so our views of the black version are based on first impressions we had prior to our review.)Although it technically has a larger display than its 4.8-inch predecessor, the 5-inch GS4 is actually narrower (69.8mm wide, versus 70.6mm on the GS3) because it only adds vertical screen space and has skinnier bezels on each side. The GS4 loses most of the well-polished curves prominently featured in the past-gen flagship, as it's designed with broader corners and a filled-out back, both of which are signs that Samsung has veered away from its "inspired by nature" mantra. Fortunately, this means we finally get to say goodbye to the pebble look and feel: the edges are straighter from top to bottom, giving our fingers more surface to grasp onto, and the back cover fits flat on the faux-chrome edge instead of curving around it like waves of the ocean. The entire surface is still slick and glossy, but even so, it's still easier to wrap your hands around this device. Measuring 7.9mm (0.31 inch) thick, the Galaxy S 4 is 0.7mm (0.027 inch) thinner than its older sibling. It's also a mere three grams (0.11 ounce) lighter. All that said, the difference between the two devices isn't noticeable unless you're closely inspecting the pair side by side.


Whereas the home button was almost completely flush with the rest of the body on the GS3, the S 4's is raised a fair amount. On one hand, physical buttons are much easier to press this way; on the other, it stands out above the rest of the screen so much that our fingers catch on it as we swipe down on the display. It's an aspect of the phone we can get used to, although it's unfortunate that its placement interrupts the design flow. As for the rest of the front side, the menu and back keys flank the home button on the left and right, respectively, which is completely opposite of the layout used on a large number of OEM Android devices. Along the top of the screen, you'll see the 2.1-megapixel front-facing camera, earpiece grille and an assortment of sensors.Flip the phone over and you're presented with a slightly raised camera module on the top with an LED flash just below, and a pair of slits over the mono speaker sitting near the bottom; the plastic between them is raised to prevent sound from being muffled when the phone is lying face-up. The obligatory logos are here as well: "Galaxy S 4," located just above the speakers in traditional fashion, and the carrier logo (T-Mobile in this case) underneath the flash.


Samsung prefers to make the back cover removable, meaning you have easy access to the 2,600mAh battery (which doubles as the NFC antenna), along with the microSDXC and micro-SIM slots -- as well as contacts for inductive charging -- just above it. We expect to hear more about the phone's wireless charging options from Samsung eventually, but all we know for now is that the company plans to sell an optional back cover with this capability built-in. (Given Verizon's interest in Qi, we won't be surprised if its version of the GS4 launches with the option.)Going around the faux-chrome edges, you'll find the volume rocker on the left, power button on the right, micro-USB / MHL 2.0 connection port on the bottom and the 3.5mm headphone jack, mic and infrared transceiver on the top. It's refreshing to see infrared resurging in popularity, as we're now seeing it in several flagship devices, though it's used in a completely different way now than in the days of the Palm Treo and other IrDA-clad devices. Which is to say, the primary reason for the tech used to be focused on data transfers and "beaming," and now it's simply offered as a universal remote.

    Samsung Galaxy S 4     Dimensions 136.6 x 69.8 x 7.9mm (5.38 x 2.75 x 0.31 inches)   Weight 4.59 oz. (130g)   Screen size 5.0 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080 (441 ppi)   Screen type Full HD Super AMOLED   Battery 2,600mAh Li-Polymer (removable)   Internal storage 16 or 32GB   External storage MicroSDXC (up to 64GB)   Rear camera 13MP, BIS   Front-facing cam 2.0MP, BIS   Video capture 1080p / 30 fps (rear); 1080p (front)   NFC Yes   Radios Varies by region and operator   Bluetooth v4.0 LE   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 600   CPU 1.9GHz quad-core   GPU Adreno 320   RAM 2GB   Entertainment MHL 2.0, IR transceiver, DLNA, WiFi Direct   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n/ac,   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.2.2 (TouchWiz)  Display
In the last two months, Sony and HTC have both released flagship phones, each with a spec sheet-topping 1080p display. Although both looked great on their own, the HTC One bested the Xperia Z in nearly every possible way. But now that Samsung is finally tossing its hat into the ring, will its 5-inch, 1080p Super AMOLED screen top the LCD used on its bitter rival?In short, the two are incredibly close, and you'd probably be happy with either one. But let's dive into more detail about how they differ. AMOLED panels are generally more saturated in color than their LCD counterparts, but we were a little surprised to see the level of color toned down from the GS3; so much, in fact, that most images we viewed matched the natural color reproduction we enjoyed on the One. The blacks were still darker on the GS4, while the whites were brighter -- and viewing angles better -- on the One. Blues looked the best on the GS4, but the reds were a little too saturated for our taste. Yes, the world of 1080p smartphone displays is a nitpicker's heaven, but unless you have an aversion to AMOLED panels, you'll be amazingly happy with the crisp text and vibrant visuals. Lastly, to make sure we avoid any confusion, it is indeed a clear improvement over the 720p display on the GS3.

The new Synaptics ClearPad in the GS4 is capable of detecting your finger from 2cm away.Additionally, the GS4 uses an advanced capacitive touchscreen powered by Synaptics, also known as ClearPad. This particular screen features a new tech dubbed "3D-Touch" which gives the phone the ability to detect your finger from up to 2cm away. Not only does this make it possible to use Air View without an S Pen, it also allows cold-weather folk to touch the screen while wearing gloves if you've activated the "extra sensitivity mode" in the settings. (In case you're wondering, an S Pen won't work on the GS4 due to the lack of Wacom digitizer, but we're told that the C-Pen and other capacitive styli should function perfectly fine.)

Software
Despite the fact that Android received nary a mention in Samsung's GS4 launch event last month, the device is actually one of the first smartphones (outside the Nexus 4, of course) to run Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean, the most recent version of Google's mobile OS. Considering it was introduced nearly six months ago, this is a pretty huge deal -- not to mention yet another scathing reminder of the lengthy waiting period Android fans endure between updates.

The GS4 runs Android 4.2, which is still rarely used in brand new devices.Since the GS4 uses Android 4.2, it offers many of the same additions introduced with the refresh -- but not all. One feature that didn't make the cut is Photo Sphere, a clever camera option which lets you stitch together panorama photos aligned both horizontally and vertically. You also can't use the stock Android keyboard, though Samsung's collaboration with SwiftKey is definitely an acceptable alternative. What you can do, however, is take advantage of expanded Google Now features, use the Daydream screen saver and pull down the notification bar with two fingers to access the quick settings notification bar. (In fact, Samsung's TouchWiz version boasts even more toggles to choose from in this menu, and you can customize the order in which they appear.) Lock screen widgets will also be at your disposal every time you wake your phone up -- and Samsung has even developed a few of its own, such as widgets for WatchON, Samsung Music and a customizable grid of your favorite apps.




