
 Samsung's massive booth here on the CES 2013 show floor has barely opened and already we're getting a look at one of its latest TV innovations. Sitting pretty in a far roped-off corner and hailed as a "world's first," is the company's Curved OLED TV. Not much has been divulged about the uniquely shaped set at this time, but official details should be forthcoming quite soon. In the meanwhile, check out our gallery below.

 Update: Although it's been on the floor for some time now, Samsung's just gotten around to making the Curved OLED set official. Details are still meager at best, but we do know that its contour is intended to create a "life-like" experience that's more pleasing to the eye.





  Show full PR text    January 08, 2013 in CES News  SAMSUNG Introduces World's First Curved OLED TV at CES 2013

  Samsung's Curved OLED TV Delivers Truly Immersive Viewing Experience by Creating Panorama Effect
   LAS VEGAS – January 8, 2013 – Today at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. unveiled Samsung's Curved OLED TV, breaking the barrier of innovation in home entertainment.

   The OLED panel is curved, which provides depth to the content displayed for a more life-like viewing experience.

   Additionally, consumers will enjoy the Curved OLED TV for its immersive panorama effect, which is currently not possible with conventional flat-panel TVs. When watching captivating content such as vast landscapes and scenes from nature on the Curved OLED TV, they will feel like they are surrounded by the beautiful scenery.

   Leveraging its expertise in display technology, Samsung has optimized the picture quality of the Curved OLED TV to deliver a comfortable viewing experience. Viewing visual contents on Samsung's Curved OLED TV is a comfortable experience for the human eye, as the curved panel allows the distance between the user and TV screen to be the same from almost any angle.

   "Samsung is dedicated to developing innovation television solutions, beyond what consumers could ever expect, or could even imagine. We will continue our tradition of developing Samsung TV innovations by steadily introducing new TV technology that helps enhance the lives of users, even beyond the World's First Curved OLED TV," said HS Kim, executive vice president of Visual Display Business, Samsung Electronics.

   Please visit our CES booth to experience this future technology firsthand. Samsung's product line will be displayed from January 8-11 at booth #12004 in the Central Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center.

   Full details, video content and product images are available at the Samsung microsite at www.samsungces.com or mobile site at m.samsungces.com as well.

   Be sure to also check out the Samsung Tomorrow TV CES 2013 Specials, which will be streamed live throughout CES on the Samsung Tomorrow blog at global.samsungtomorrow.com and the Samsung microsite. After the live presentations, videos will be available at http://youtube.com/SamsungTomorrow

 
