
 
That's right, the Galaxy S is officially official, as are its 4-inch Super AMOLED display, 1GHz processor, and "Smart Life" ecosystem integration, and more. It'll be available worldwide -- including the US -- this year, and as we type this our hard-working team on the ground is rushing off to get a hands-on with the device. In the meantime, check out the image gallery below and PR after the break.





Show full PR textSamsung Welcomes You to the "Smart Life" with the Global Launch of the Galaxy SPowered by 4-inch Super AMOLED and the latest version of Android, Galaxy S brings rich technology and enhanced mobile experienceLAS VEGAS, March 23, 2010 – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a leading mobile phone provider, today introduced the Galaxy S (Model: GT-I9000), a smart phone that makes users' lives more convenient, more exciting, and more integrated. JK Shin, president and head of Samsung Electronics' Mobile Communications Business announced the global launch of the Galaxy S at his keynote speech at the International CTIA Wireless 2010. The Galaxy S will be available in Europe, North America, Latin America, Australia, and Asia soon. The Android-powered Galaxy S incorporates a 4-inch Super AMOLED screen and a 1 GHz application processor that enables vibrant HD videos, rich augmented reality content through Layar Reality Browser, and advanced LBS (Location Based Services). The 'Social Hub' provides always-on social networks connectivity allowing users to enjoy communications with their friends, colleagues, and families whenever they want and wherever they are. The Galaxy S is designed to provide immersive, intelligent and integrated experiences, with the power to enrich people's lives through best-in-class services and technologies. The Galaxy S will allow users around the world to experience the "Smart Life," which Samsung anticipates will shift the way that consumers view smart phones and how they interact with them in their daily lives. The Galaxy S immerses users in a world of rich multimedia. The large 4-inch Super AMOLED display delivers unrivalled screen quality, with less reflection, free viewing angles and super-fast touch-response. The mDNIe (mobile Digital Natural Image engine) – a technology used in Samsung's best-selling LCD and LED TVs – boosts an even sharper and crisper viewing experience for photos, videos, and e-books. It creates a perfect environment to record, edit and play HD video, to browse the Internet, and to read your favorite e-books. A variety of applications from Android Market allows users to even more extend the benefits and excitement of smart phone experience. Plus, users have access to Google mobile services, such as Google Search, Gmail, and Google Maps.Living a "Smart Life" requires intelligence, and the Galaxy S delivers just that by utilizing personal preferences to gather information online that each user needs and wants. With a user-defined daily briefing, lightning-fast processing speeds and location-based search options like Layar Reality Browser – the Galaxy S gives users the information they need wherever and whenever needed. The Galaxy S represents the next level of intelligence in smart phones.The Galaxy S integrates every aspect of life in a smart and sophisticated way. In addition to wireless integration with a variety of other devices, such as notebooks, TVs and cameras, the highly advanced Social Hub plugs users quickly and conveniently into their complete world of social networking and email."The Android-powered Galaxy S will set a new standard for smart phones," said JK Shin, president and head of Mobile Communications Business. "The Galaxy S is the perfect device for people in all corners of the world who want that extra edge; to be more effective, productive, better connected, and in tune with their smart life – both personal and professional – all in a very easy and simple way." Other Key Features* Daily Briefing: Offers instant access to weather, news, stocks, and the scheduler.* All Share: Enables inter-device connectivity via DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) technology.* Home Cradle: Enables use as a digital photo frame, table clock, calendar, and music station.* Write and go: Jot down an idea first and later decide on a format such as SMS/ MMS, email, calendar or memo.* Swype: Provides fast and easy way to input text on screen while on-the-move.* ThinkFree: Apps to view and edit Microsoft Office 2007 documents.* Smart Alarm: Wakes up with a natural alarm sound and automatically turned-on display light.The Galaxy S is exhibited at The International CTIA Wireless at booth # 1023.
 