
 Despite big splashes at CES last year, we never saw any OLED HDTVs hit store shelves from Samsung or its competitor LG, but both are fixated on changing that in 2013. Although availability and pricing are still TBD, the KNF559500 is rocking a model number and loads of specs. While most of them are on par with Samsung's other top of the line HDTVs this year (quad core CPU, five panel Smart Hub and apps, recommendations, gesture control etc.), it's differentiating itself with a display based on self-emitting RGB sub-pixels which it claims makes for absolute blacks, pure whites and prevents colors from being washed out or distorted.

 
 Also unique to this HDTV from all others is support for Multi-View, which, with the addition of appropriate 3D glasses (each with their own built-in headphones) lets two people watch two entirely different things on the same screen at once. We'll have to spend some time with it to know if the performance matches up to what will probably be a pretty hefty price tag, but if you've been looking for new display tech (and not just a jump in resolution) then this should be your year.



  Show full PR text   OLED TV – Multiple Viewing and Picture Quality
   Samsung's OLED TV – the F9500 – provides self-emitting red, green and blue sub-pixels, eliminating the need for backlighting so that images are produced with absolute blacks and pure whites. The F9500 is the world's first television to offer Samsung's Multi-View feature, a unique feature that allows the TV to become a truly personal experience. Multi-View allows two people the ability to watch completely different Full-HD content simultaneously on the same screen with corresponding audio and controls. This feature is enabled by Samsung's special 3D glasses, which come with personal speakers built in, providing clear stereo sound for the corresponding program. With a significantly high contrast ratio that provides unparalleled detail in shadows, shapes and subtle colors even in the darkest of scenes, the F9500 delivers the most immersive experience without any motion blur.

 
