
 

Any way you look at it, nine thousand dollars is a heck of a lot to spend on a television. But in the case of Samsung's 55-inch Curved OLED set, it's a fair share less than the $15,000 we heard quoted just last month. Just like LG's equivalent, the Samsung KN55S9C was designed with a curved profile in order to "envelop" viewers -- your viewing experience is improved, in theory, because you're more immersed in the display. The OLED set includes the company's Multi-View feature, which lets two people watch different programming at the same time when using compatible active 3D glasses, and it's compatible with the Evolution Kit Samsung introduced at CES. The 55-inch KN55S9C is on its way to select retailers, and can be yours for the considerable sum of $9,000.





Show full PR textSamsung Delivers "Life in Every Pixel" With Its Breathtaking Curved OLED TV
Ushers in the next wave of TV innovation with unparalleled picture quality, true-to-life color and ultimate contrast

RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. – August 13, 2013 – Demonstrating what is possible when breakthrough technology meets breathtaking design, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today announced the availability of its first-ever Curved OLED TV in the United States. An unprecedented leap forward for picture quality, sharp contrast and a whole new way to experience television, the KN55S9C is also the first TV to feature Multi View capabilities with Full HD and stereo sound.

The Samsung Curved OLED TV is a true technology statement, showcasing the unique possibilities of OLED technology while giving video content a presence not felt on flat screens. The curved KN55S9C creates a captivating and vibrant picture that envelops viewers in spectacular color and beauty.

"As a leader in standout design and television display technology, Samsung's new Curved OLED TV sets the bar for the next generation of televisions coming to market," said Joe Stinziano, Executive Vice President, Samsung Electronics America. "Customers have come to expect brilliance from Samsung, and our Curved OLED TV is just that. With true-to-life color, ultimate contrast, and superior picture quality, this new TV delivers an astonishing home entertainment experience."

Unparalleled Picture Quality

Samsung's Curved OLED TV produces bright, awe-inspiring images, delivering breathtaking picture quality for a cinematic and natural viewing experience. The TV boasts response times that are exponentially faster than conventional TVs, virtually eliminating motion blur and crosstalk. The self-emitting RGB sub-pixels are laid directly on the color display panel, so no color filter is required. Without the need for backlighting, the Samsung Curved OLED TV displays pictures with absolute blacks at a contrast ratio never before seen on conventional TVs. The KN55S9C provides the ultimate in picture quality with rich colors and clear images that are beyond comparison.

The Personal Viewing Experience

The Samsung OLED TV introduces advanced technology and features for a truly personal TV experience. With Samsung's Multi View feature, it's like having two TVs in one. For the first time, two people can simultaneously watch completely different full-screen Full-HD content, even in 3D, on the same display, with corresponding audio and controls. The innovative Multi View feature is enabled by Samsung's 3D Active glasses, which come with built-in personal speakers providing crisp, full stereo sound. Samsung makes it seamless for viewers to switch between the two sources with the touch of a button, without changing glasses.

Samsung's Curved OLED TV also incorporates the latest Samsung Smart TV features like the new Smart Hub interface, which organizes entertainment and content into five convenient panels: On TV, Movies and TV Shows, Social, Apps as well as Photos, Videos and Music. The built-in S Recommendation feature helps customers discover something new to watch, now or next time. All models will be Evolutionary TVs allowing consumers to easily update hardware and software via an Evolution Kit so that they can stay up-to-date with the latest Samsung innovations.

Artistic Design

The design of Samsung's new Curved OLED TV draws audiences into the picture. The elegantly crafted design is inspired by a 'Timeless Arena' in which the display is placed within a luxurious frame whose curved shape emulates the curvature of an arena. The premium metallic frame adds a touch of style and sophistication to any setting. The 'Timeless Arena' design provides a floating canvas for OLED's true-to-life colors and absolute blacks. A single cable for all connections reduces clutter and completes the minimalistic design with a "Clean Back" finish.

The 55-inch KN55S9C is now shipping to specialty retailers nationwide and will be available for $8,999.99.


