
Samsung's virtual reality headset, dubbed "Gear VR," is available for purchase as of today. For those not following the last three years of virtual reality's return from obscurity, today is a big day: Gear VR is the first virtual reality headset available to general consumers. Though Sony's PlayStation arm and Facebook's Oculus VR have high-powered development kits in the wild, Samsung's the first major electronics company to go to market with a VR headset. Almost, at least -- the headset's full name is, "Gear VR Innovator Edition." In fact, when you buy the headset on Samsung's website, you have to agree to this condition: "I understand the Gear VR is an Innovator Edition device targeted specifically to developers or early adopters of technology."


So, what's the goal with Gear VR for Samsung? And what are its plans for the future? We asked Nick DiCarlo, VP/GM of immersive products and VR at Samsung, in an interview this morning. Head below for his answers, and for the full list of apps coming to Gear VR today.



ALL APPS ARE FREE ON GEAR VR AT LAUNCH. WHEN IS THE STORE COMING?Building a business model for VR developers and filmmakers and everybody is super critical. It's some of the most talented people out there doing this stuff. It's something that's absolutely on our radar screen to do, and Oculus' as well. It's just a matter of: Let's get the basic product out there and that's something that can be quickly added. I think you'll expect to see that in early 2015. It's not gone unnoticed that that's missing for sure.

The whole input system -- to experience the startup experience, experience the navigation -- the input system is very new to people. And building a payment environment within that -- you can't just take an existing payment workflow and put it in. You've got to design all these things from scratch, and that's really been the driver of making sure the product got out there so developers have something to develop on. They couldn't even necessarily get their hands on enough DK2s [Oculus Rift's second development kit], and payment will come quickly.

#fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-91227{display:none;} .cke_show_borders #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-91227, #postcontentcontainer #fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-91227{width:570px;display:block;}try{document.getElementById("fivemin-widget-blogsmith-image-91227").style.display="none";}catch(e){}
WHAT ARE SAMSUNG'S GOALS WITH THE FIRST VERSION OF GEAR VR?If this is not gigantic right away, we shouldn't be disappointed by that. The criteria that we're evaluating our launch by is, "Do the people who bought it like it?" We don't even really care how many we sell. It's about: Do the people who bought it like it. Is it comfortable? Do they feel like it's compelling? Is it something they're showing their friends? And that's really the key goal from this: learning.

We believe that the experience is very, very good right now -- it's perfect for you; it's perfect for me -- that's what we believe. But that there's always opportunities to improve things. The major smartphone OSes are still getting major overhauls in their seventh and eighth years. So it's the same thing where we don't want VR to be evaluated like an eight-year-old smartphone OS. The whole thing that we're trying to convey is that, compared to VR that's existed in the past, this is crazy amazing. But is this as polished as everything that you see out there in the smartphone space? Probably not.

HOW DOES CONSUMER RESPONSE AFFECT SAMSUNG'S PLANS GOING FORWARD?This launch absolutely is no bearing on our go-forward planning for VR. Meaning that we're not measuring sales results to decide whether we go forward with this.




