
 Samson isn't bothering to wait until NAMM kicks off on January 15th; instead, it's bringing its newest handheld recording device to Las Vegas. The Zoom H4n takes off where the H2 and H4 left off, offering up an improved user interface, built-in X/Y stereo condenser mics, a digitally controlled mic preamp and the ability to use internal and external mics simultaneously for 4-channel recording. You'll also find a spacious LCD, a Broadcast Wave Format (BWF) compatible time stamp, track marker functions and audio recording at up to 24bit/96kHz on SD/SDHC media. Unfortunately, there's no word on a price, but we are told that its rugged exterior can handle even the rowdiest of shows. Full release is after the break.
      

 

Samson to Debut Zoom H4n Handheld Recording Device at 2009 CES A state-of-the-art recording device complete with an onboard reference speaker, 4-channel high resolution audio recording and variable recording pattern capabilityOn display at CES, January 8th-11th in Las Vegas at South 4 Booth #35528 and at NAMM, January 15th -18th in Anaheim Booth #5940Hauppauge, NY – January 5th, 2009 – As the leading manufacturer of portable handheld recorders, Zoom is pleased to introduce the next generation in its line, the H4n. With a focus on new features and improving the user experience at every level, the H4n is also Zoom's most sophisticated handheld recorder to date.Zoom's H4n offers superior, built-in X/Y stereo condenser mics that allow variable recording patterns at either 90° or 120°. Audio quality is improved through its new digitally controlled, high-quality mic preamp and the ability to use internal and external mics simultaneously for 4-channel recording. A large LCD screen, a more intuitive interface and onboard reference speaker will take the user's recording experience to the next level."We have learned a great deal from the success of the H2 and H4, and have continually sought to bring the most important improvements to our designs," says Masa Iijima, CEO of Zoom Corporation. "Our new H4n confirms our commitment to this category while bringing users substantial improvements to their experience," added Iijima.Additionally, Zoom has incorporated several of the most popular features from its H2 to the H4n such as Broadcast Wave Format (BWF) compatible time stamp and track marker functions and its auto-record and pre-record features so you never miss a moment. Of course, the H4n records high-resolution audio at 24bit/96kHz on SD/SDHC media of up to 32GB and is USB 2.0.The H4n is also the most robust recorder from Zoom, with a rubberized, shock resistant body for improved chassis protection, all-metal microphone design and a built-in mounting joint for tripod and microphone stand use.For musicians and songwriters, the H4n has a more user-friendly multi-track recording capability along with Hi-Z Inputs for recording guitar and bass, variable speed playback capability for "phrase training", onboard studio effects, and over 50 guitar and bass amp modeling settings. In addition, a new stamina mode enables the H4n to operate for 10 hours continuously on a single set of AA batteries.Most importantly, Zoom continues to place an emphasis on value, including everything you need to get started with the H4n. The package includes a 1 GB SD card, wind screen, mic clip adapter, AC adapter, USB cable, protective case and Cubase LE recording software. An optional remote control is also available.The H4n truly represents a leap to the next level of handheld recording ability. See, hear and feel the new Zoom H4n at CES or NAMM.

       

 