
   It looks like Samsung has just taken the wraps off its latest tablet offerings, with the Galaxy Tab 2 (7.0) -- an ICS-laced follow-up to the company's original seven-incher. Available in both 3G and WiFi varieties, this redux doesn't mark a huge departure from its predecessor, packing a 1GHz dual-core processor, 1GB of RAM and a 1024 x 600 LCD. The big changes, however, come in the software department, with the Galaxy Tab 2 shipping with Android 4.0 straight out of the box. Other than that, you'll find a three-megapixel rear-facing camera, a VGA shooter up front, Bluetooth capabilities, and HSPA+ connectivity. No word yet on pricing or availability, but it's worth noting that we first saw this announcement hit Samsung's RSS feed earlier this morning, and it appears to have been pulled since then. It all looks awfully official to us, but when it becomes officially official, we'll be sure to update this post accordingly. Until then, be sure to head past the break for a shot of its backside.  Update: Samsung has just issued an official press release for today's announcement, specifying that the device will launch first in the UK, beginning in March. Price remains a mystery, but you can find more information in the full release, after the break.  Update 2: After the break, you'll also find the keynote announcement as recorded by dotekmánie.
 

      Show full PR text  Samsung's new GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) offers optimal multimedia experiences in life   February 13, 2012   Samsung expands the GALAXY Tab range with GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) powered by the AndroidTM 4.0 and a 1GHz dual core processor   Prague, February 13, 2012 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today introduced its first line-up of tablets for 2012 with the launch of the GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0), expanding the choice of tablets to customers. Light and portable, the GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) is the ideal personal on-the-go device, available in 3G and WiFi versions. Starting from UK, the GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) will be launched in global market from March.   "Two years ago, Samsung GALAXY Tab began to offer customers more possibilities on the go. Since then, Samsung has actively enhanced our tablet line-up with several tablets in different sizes," said JK Shin, President of IT & Mobile Communications Division at Samsung Electronics. "The new GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) will provide people with delighted multimedia experience and allow efficient communication."   Samsung's first Android 4.0 Tablet   Samsung's first Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)-powered tablet offers a variety of new and improved Android OS features. An upgraded Android Market enables access to more than 400,000 applications which can be enjoyed across phones or tablets. Furthermore, a more intuitive user interface includes the ability to swipe-control applications as well as a wholly redesigned app gallery for easier sharing of content. The new OS's vastly faster performance and response times across multiple applications is further enhanced by HSPA＋ 21Mbps or WiFi connectivity.   Additionally, Android 4.0 includes a selection of embedded Google applications that enables users to quickly launch sites and applications that they use frequently; meanwhile, the innovative Face Unlock feature unlocks the tablet through unique facial recognition software.   A complete experience with enriched multimedia content   The GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) offers users easy multimedia access, playback and sharing experiences with Samsung Hub services. Samsung's Music Hub provides a full music store solution with access to over 17 million tracks. Additionally, the Readers Hub provides the user with access to over 2.3 million e-books, 3,500 magazines and over 2,000 newspapers in 51 languages, while the Game Hub instantly connects users to the latest game titles. Samsung is also introducing the Video Hub, which offers over 1,000 film titles for purchase or rent, and provides reviews, trailers and recommendations for easier content selection using the GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0).   Complementing the GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0)'s multimedia offering is Samsung's upgraded Touchwiz user interface that features Hub widgets for one-step access to users' content in Hubs; the device also presents S Suggest, a new service offering recommendations of apps suited to users' tastes directly on a home screen.   The GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0)'s superb multimedia experience is further boosted by Samsung's AllShare Play, a new content-sharing service available for the first time on any Samsung mobile device. AllShare Play allows users to play or live-stream their multimedia content on their GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) from PCs, other Samsung smart devices as well as third-party web storages. Users can also easily transfer content to other devices or directly to web services.   Better Communication Capabilities   Connecting socially has never been easier with GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0)'s built-in powerful communication capabilities.With the voice call capability, the GALAXY Tab 2 (7.0) can be used just as easily as a phone, affording users the handy convenience of a second device in case they misplace their primary phone. It also lets users to spontaneously arrange multi-party video calls via Google＋ hangouts, as well as engage in group chats or micro-communities to collectively chat or share content. In addition, ChatON, Samsung's cross-platform communication service, connects all phone users of any platform into a single community. ChatON uses phone numbers instead of ID and passwords, and provides easy instant messaging and group chatting in various formats-images, video, voice, contacts-to make messaging simple and intuitive. 
 