
 


	Samsung's new range of super-thin, super-powerful Smart TVs got another big fillip at CES: the company's teamed up with DirecTV to offer its service without the use of a set top box. Hook up your TV to the connection and a STB server will replicate the full user interface, including being able to record five shows at once, live pause TV and access DVR content. The TVs will be available in Spring, but there's no mention on if the additional functionality will mean an increase on your subscription. Deep dish is after the break. 
 

 		Show full PR text  SAMSUNG ANNOUNCES SET-TOP "BOXLESS" VIEWING IN ALL 2012 SMART TVS 		DIRECTV and Samsung Showcase Multi-room DVR Technology On Samsung Smart TVs  LAS VEGAS, January 9, 2012 – Today at the 2012 International CES, DIRECTV and Samsung Electronics Co, Ltd. unveiled their plans to offer DIRECTV's more than 19.7 million customers the ability to watch live broadcast and stored content from a compatible DIRECTV DVR on Samsung's 2012 line of Smart TVs without the need for additional set-top boxes. This newly enabled feature will also provide the same seamless user experience and replicate the full User Interface (UI) of a DIRECTV DVR set top box. Installers and homeowners alike will benefit from the ability to mount the TV without having to worry about locating an additional set top box. 		As founding members of the RVU Alliance, Samsung and DIRECTV are committed to providing a more seamless entertainment experience for consumers across multiple rooms and a variety of screens through the use of standardized Remote User Interface (RUI) technology. Samsung and DIRECTV previously announced the launch of the first RVU-enabled Televisions models at the 2011 CES, with DIRECTV launching their first RVU capable DVR in late 2011. 		This year, Samsung will embed the RVU protocol in its entire line of Smart TVs and underscores the company's ongoing commitment to deliver to consumers high-quality, visually enhanced and connected entertainment experiences in their home. Based on industry standards such as DLNA and UPnP, RVU allows a set-top box server to provide a complete, multi-room viewing experience that includes DVR services across all the connected TVs in the home through a single set-top box. 		"Many homes today have more than one TV to cater to the different needs of everyone in the family. By working with a leading provider like DIRECTV, we're able to offer consumers enhanced convenience in access so they can enjoy the content they desire from any room in the home, any time they choose," said Stephen Goldstein, vice president of Samsung Electronics America. 		"The CES demonstration of the RVU-enabled Samsung Smart TV is exciting news for the industry and consumers who want a consistent, superior user experience throughout the home," said Romulo Pontual, CTO of DIRECTV. "Making DIRECTV features and content available on Samsung TVs through the RVU server allows consumers to enjoy our innovative service without the need for additional set-top boxes. We are pleased to see our successful partnership with Samsung expand to include support for RVU in its 2012 Smart TV model range." 		Capable of supporting multiple connected televisions simultaneously, DIRECTV's HR34 Home Media Center HD-DVR enables the set-top box UI and features to be displayed directly on Samsung Smart TVs. DIRECTV customers can enjoy the full DIRECTV experience, including DVR services, live pause abilities on all screens in the home, 200 hours worth of shared storage, picture-in-picture capabilities and the ability to record up to five shows at once. Samsung's RVU-compatible Smart TVs will be available in spring 2012. 		The Samsung RVU-compatible production TV will be on display at Booth #12004 in the Central Hall at the 2012 International CES, at the Las Vegas Convention Center (LVCC), January 10-13, 2012.
 