
 Samsung just sweetened the streaming video pot for current and would-be owners of its modern Smart TVs. Viewers who've been craving Amazon Instant Video can download an app today to watch movies and TV shows through their 2012 set's internet link, in the event options for Blockbuster, Hulu Plus, Netflix and Vudu weren't already enough. It's not necessarily a cut-and-dried port, either -- Samsung is flaunting a redesigned interface tuned for big-screen distances and quick access to queuing, recommendations and captioning. Amazon junkies who wanted a larger canvas than their Kindle Fire HD now can't get much larger.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Adds New Amazon Instant Video App to the Growing Streaming Lineup on Samsung Smart TVs
  Amazon Instant Video offers more than 140,000 movies and TV episodes to rent or purchase and more than 30,000 titles on Prime Instant Video available to Prime members at no additional cost
  RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a market leader and award-winning innovator in consumer electronics, is proud to announce that Amazon Instant Video now joins the rapidly growing library of streaming content featured on Samsung TVs.
  Available for immediate download via Samsung Apps to any 2012 Smart Samsung TV, Amazon Instant Video will deliver access to a huge library of over 140,000 movies and commercial-free TV shows – many in HD. In addition, Amazon Prime members can watch more than 30,000 titles on Prime Instant Video at no additional cost.
  The brand new app – launching for the first time on Samsung 2012 Smart TVs – has a completely redesigned user interface that is optimized for a living room experience. It also supports advance streaming technologies, and features including Your Watchlist, closed captions, and tailored content recommendations.
  Amazon Instant Video joins the impressive roster of streaming content available to view on Samsung Smart TVs – no set-top box required – including Hulu Plus, Netflix, Blockbuster, YouTube, Vudu, AOL On, Vimeo, BBC News and many others.
  "Streaming video content has emerged as the killer app for our Smart TV platform. In addition to our current line-up of big brands, Amazon Instant Video has been one of the most commonly requested services from our customers," said Eric Anderson, Vice President of Content and Product Solutions, Samsung Electronics America. "We are very proud to say that today we deliver on that request – along with a brand new UI available for the first time on Samsung TVs."
  "Our goal is to provide consumers with the best video content on a large amount of connected devices and we are very excited to offer our customers the ability to rent, purchase or subscribe to movies or TV episodes directly through their Samsung TV," said Anthony Bay, VP of Worldwide Digital Video for Amazon.com. "Amazon Instant Video looks fantastic on Samsung TVs, and this new version of the app makes it a delight to lean back and enjoy videos with ease."
  To access the Amazon Instant Video app on a Samsung 2012 TV, customers need to only download the app to Samsung Smart TV and register. Movies and TV episodes that already have been purchased or rented from Amazon.com will appear automatically in Your Video Library on the Amazon Instant Video app for Samsung Smart TV.
 
