
 Was that late April launch date for the Galaxy S 4 a little too vague for you? Well, fortunate British readers, you get something a little more specific. The UK's only LTE network, EE has stated that it will start selling Samsung's new Galaxy, both online and in its bricks and mortar establishments, starting April 26th. It's keeping quiet on the prices, matching those other UK carriers for the time being, but we're sure prices will appear ahead of any preorder page -- that's set to go live on March 28th.



  Show full PR text   Samsung Galaxy S 4 with superfast 4G – only on EE   15th March 2013. London. EE, the UK's most advanced digital communications company, today announced it will be the only UK network to launch the new Samsung Galaxy S 4 smartphone with superfast 4G.  The Samsung Galaxy S 4 will be available for consumers and business customers on EE's superfast 4G service, providing speeds approximately five times faster than 3G and unlimited calls and texts on all plans. Customers will be able to purchase the handset via the EE online shop, EE telesales and EE retail stores, and, with a 4GEE plan, they can watch live TV on the move without buffering, play live multiplayer games on the go and download large email attachments quicker than ever.  Paul Jevons, Director of Products and Devices, EE, said: "The interest we've received from consumers and businesses has almost reached fever-pitch levels, so we're delighted to be the only UK operator to offer the Samsung Galaxy S 4 enabled with 4G from launch.

   "When paired with our unique superfast 4G network, customers really will be able to make the most from the powerhouse performance the Samsung Galaxy S 4 provides – utilising its capabilities to the maximum."

   In addition to superfast speeds and EE services, customers with a Samsung Galaxy S 4 smartphone on a 4GEE price plan will also benefit from:  · EE Film – the only service in the UK which combines 2 for 1 cinema ticketing, listings, trailers and film downloads or streaming in one place  · A discount of £5 per month on EE superfast Fibre Broadband – so they can get blistering speeds at home and on the move  · Fast track customer service by dialing '33' from their handset  · Clone Phone Lite – giving people 500MB free storage to back up the content that matters most  · Choose an add-on – customers who take a 4GEE phone plan from £41 per month can also choose from a music, games or TV add-on to enjoy   4G from EE, the first and only 4G network in the UK, covers the homes and businesses of more than 45% of the UK population. Further to the 37 towns and cities 4GEE is already live in now, EE has also committed to switching on 35 more by June, bringing the total to 72 towns and cities by the summer.  The Samsung Galaxy S 4 will also be available on the UK's largest 3G network through Orange and T-Mobile.  EE will be offering an exclusive incentive to new and existing customers who pre-order the handset on EE, Orange or T-Mobile before launch, with further details to be announced in due course. EE pre-order will commence from the 28th March, with handset available online, through telesales, and in EE stores from 26th April.  For further information on the Samsung Galaxy S 4, including full details of EE's price plans when available, please register at http://www.ee.co.uk/galaxy

 
