
This is the ATIV Tab 3. A Windows 8 tablet that Mr. DJ Lee just briefly mentioned on stage. Thankfully, roughly 40 minutes later, the slate was trotted back out and detailed more fully. For one, the Tab 3 borrows heavily from its Android-powered cousins in the Galaxy family. But, unlike its sibling the Q, there isn't an option to quickly fire up Google's mobile OS. It does, however, share the same extremely thin body and design language while running Windows 8 proper (none of this crippled RT nonsense). While we can't actually confirm that its 8.2mm thick frame is, in fact, the thinnest in the world, it's got to be pretty close. That the manufacturer has crammed a Z2760 Atom inside along with 2GB of RAM is darn impressive. The entire thing weighs just 550g, or about 19 ounces. Despite its lithe body, Samsung claims it can last up to 8.5 hours on the battery inside, which is actually quite a bit better than we would have anticipated from an x86 tablet with a 10.1-inch, 1,366 x 768 display.


The Galaxy DNA goes beyond just appearances though, the ATIV Tab 3 also includes an S Pen and S Note software. Plus, you get a free copy of Office Home & Student. As for pricing and availability, expect to see it on shelves by August for $699, keyboard cover included.




Show full PR textSAMSUNG STRENGTHENS TABLET OFFERING WITH INNOVATIVE NEW ATIV MODELS New convertible ATIV Q, and the world's thinnest Windows Tablet ATIV Tab 3, offer versatility and productivity on the go

London, UK – June 20, 2013 – Samsung Electronics today unveiled two new tablets, the ATIV Q and ATIV Tab 3. Both powered by Windows 8, the ATIV Tab 3 is the world's thinnest tablet while the convertible ATIV Q is able to run Android apps.

"We're committed to offering our customers choice and convenience in personal computing, and the convertible nature of both these new tablets delivers the freedom and versatility our customers demand" said Simon Stanford, Vice President of IT & Mobile Division, Samsung Electronics UK & Ireland said. "These innovative devices have been designed with busy people in mind, and the adaptability they offer is better suited to busy lives than any tablet on the market." The ATIV Q is a convertible device with the ability to change modes and has both Windows and Android capabilities. Built with today's busy lifestyles in mind, it works as a notebook or tablet and gives you more flexibility and convenience than ever before.

Addressing a common desire among PC users to be able to access Android apps on a Windows-based PC, the ATIV Q allows you to now experience both Windows 8 and Android (Jellybean 4.2.2) on the same device. Not only will you get access to Android apps via Google Play, but you will also be able to transfer files seamlessly and share folders and files from Windows 8 to Android.

The ATIV Q sports a hinge design that allows you to transform it into four functional modes. You can lay the display flat over the keyboard for tablet mode; raise the display upright to type just as you would a laptop; float and adjust the display to a comfortable viewing angle; or flip the display to place in the stand mode to watch movies. The four-in-one design of the ATIV Q easily adjusts to give you every possible option in the one device. The ATIV Q is also extremely thin and lightweight, at 1.29kg and only 13.9mm, making it very Finally, the ATIV Q introduces the world's highest resolution, QHD+ (3200x1800) display. Its 13.3-inch touch screen offers 2.8 times higher pixel density (275ppi) than full HD displays, and the device is also designed to give you an optimised viewing experience regardless of where you are or the brightness of the environment you are in.

A tablet with the power of a PC, the ATIV Tab 3 makes personal computing easier than ever. As the world's thinnest Windows 8 tablet – as thin as many popular smartphones – it shares a similar design and premium look and feel of the Samsung Galaxy series. It is perfect for creativity and productivity as it features Samsung's S Pen functionality, high level pen display and S Pen compatibility with MS Office.

Incredibly thin and lightweight at only 8.2 millimetres thick and 550g in weight, the ATIV Tab 3 is the ideal device to take on the daily commute to work. With up to ten hours of battery life, it is also a great device for taking on most long distance flights.

The ATIV Tab 3 runs Windows 8, has the ability to run all Windows apps and programmes and comes preloaded with Office Home & Student.

SideSync is available with both the ATIV Q and ATIV Tab 3, enabling you to easily switch from working on a PC to an Android-based Samsung smartphone. The PC keyboard can be used to respond to a text on a mobile phone, view maps on a larger screen, display photos and videos on both devices to make editing files even easier, or use an ATIV PC to back up and charge mobile devices.

The ATIV Q and ATIV Tab 3 will all be available to buy in the UK from selected retailers later this year.

Be among the first to know when the ATIV tablet range is available, by visiting www.samsung.com/ uk/ATIVBookQ/ and www.samsung.com/uk/ATIVTab3/. Or go to www.samsungmobilepress.com for multimedia content and additional information.

-EndsNote to Editors:

ATIV Q Product Specifications

Category Details Specifications

Performance

128GB SSD

Battery Life Battery Life 9 hours

Dimensions

I/O Ports USB Ports 1xUSB3.0, 1xUSB2.0, HDMI,RJ45 (dongle), HP/Mic combo, micro SD Size 13.3"

Resolution 3200x1800, 275ppi

OS Windows8

Processor Intel Core i5

Graphics Intel HD Graphics 4400

Memory 4GB DDR3L

Hard Disk

Drive

Camera 720p HD

Dimensions 327.0x217.8x13.9mm

Weight 1.29kg

Colour Ash Black

ATIV Tab 3 Product Specifications

Category Details Specifications

Performance

Size 10.1

Resolution HD 1366x768

OS Windows8

Processor Intel ATOM Z2760

Graphics Shared

Memory 2GB LPDDR2

Hard Disk

Drive

Camera 720p HD

64GB eMMC

Battery Life Battery Life 10 hours

Dimensions

Dimensions 8.2mm

Weight 550g

Colour White

I/O Ports USB Ports 1x micro USB 2.0, micro HDMI, micro SD Samsung, ATIV, SideSync and ChatON are all trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Other company names, product names and marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners and may be trademarks or registered trademarks.

*All functionality, features, specifications, and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.

About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in technology, opening new possibilities for people everywhere. Through relentless innovation and discovery, we are transforming the worlds of televisions, smartphones, personal computers, printers, cameras, home appliances, LTE systems, medical devices, semiconductors and LED solutions. We employ 236,000 people across 79 countries with annual sales of US$187.8 billion. To discover more, please visit www.samsung.com.


