
 America's number four carrier just landed a launch date for Samsung's Froyo-based Galaxy Tab, and sure enough, it'll be trotting out into the spotlight a full 24 hours before Verizon Wireless and four whole days prior to Sprint. Trouble is, T-Mob's not being kind enough to dole out a price tag, so there's no reasonable way for you to compare its offering against the competition. But hey, being first out of the gate, they can't hold out on us too much longer, eh?

Update: T-Mobile USA's official Galaxy Tab portal just went live, and guess what? You'll be shelling out $399.99 for this bad boy... on a two-year data contract. You'll also be responsible for a $35 activation fee and a $200 early termination charge should you soon realize just what you've gotten yourself into. 
      

 

Show full PR textT-Mobile to Launch Samsung Galaxy Tab™ Nov. 10Galaxy Tab hits stores first at T-Mobile, delivers powerful Web and entertainment experiencesBELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--T-Mobile USA, Inc. and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the United States1, today announced that T-Mobile will be the first to launch the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ in the U.S. T-Mobile's first Android™-powered tablet, the Galaxy Tab delivers access to rich content on a seven-inch touch screen for a truly mobile entertainment experience. It is expected to be available at T-Mobile retail stores and online Nov. 10."Customers want richer, deeper interactions with entertainment and online content through connected, portable mobile broadband devices that are small enough to carry and big enough to share with friends and family"Adding fuel to the entertainment experience on the Galaxy Tab is T-Mobile's super-fast HSPA+ mobile broadband network, which delivers a speed boost allowing the 3G-enabled device to load Web pages and videos even faster than in areas of 3G coverage2. The brilliant enhanced TFT screen and sleek, compact form factor allow customers to bring the Galaxy Tab's multimedia capabilities to life for themselves or to share, combining all their entertainment and communication needs into one device."Customers want richer, deeper interactions with entertainment and online content through connected, portable mobile broadband devices that are small enough to carry and big enough to share with friends and family," said Jeremy Korst, director of broadband products and services, T-Mobile USA. "T-Mobile's unique offerings on the Galaxy Tab paired with the power of T-Mobile's new network allow us to bring a truly differentiated portable entertainment offering to market."The multimedia experience that makes the Galaxy Tab a powerful choice for entertainment enthusiasts includes the following:* Samsung Media HubSamsung Media Hub offers a vast lineup of critically acclaimed films and TV programs for rent or purchase from some of the biggest names in entertainment, including MTV Networks, NBC Universal, Paramount and Warner Brothers. Customers can share content on up to five Media Hub-enabled devices, watch movies in seconds with Progressive Download, and get access to new release movies – some the day they are released on DVD. Customers can also watch series premieres and their favorite TV shows the day after they air. Samsung worked closely with all of the content providers to ensure that each movie and TV show is optimized to deliver a premium entertainment experience.* Qik Video ChatUnlike other video-calling solutions that only work over Wi-Fi, Qik Video Chat on the Galaxy Tab from T-Mobile enables customers to connect with friends and family from wherever they may be through T-Mobile's network or Wi-Fi. With the Galaxy Tab's front-facing camera paired with Qik Video Chat, customers can hold video conversations with those who have a Galaxy Tab or other Qik compatible mobile device. Customers can even share what they are seeing using the rear-facing camera. Customers also have the option to leave Video Mail using Qik when someone is unavailable.* Kindle for Android™The Kindle for Android application lets customers shop for hundreds of thousands of books in the Kindle Store, including New York Times® Best Sellers and new releases from $9.99. Using Amazon's Whispersync technology, customers can automatically synchronize the last page read, bookmarks, annotations, and more across multiple devices.* Slacker RadioSlacker is a free, customizable internet radio application with over 130 DJ-programmed genre stations and the ability for customers to create their own. With millions of songs from thousands of artists, Slacker allows customers to discover new artists and hear their favorite music and provide feedback on what they like and don't like with the click of a button. Customers can also access detailed artist biographies, in-depth album reviews and album cover art.T-Mobile customers will enjoy a rich, brilliant viewing experience on the Galaxy Tab, which features a WSVGA enhanced TFT display combined with 3D-like graphics and full support for Adobe® Flash® Player 10.1 for accessing Flash-enabled websites, watching video and playing games. Running on Android 2.2 and with built-in support for T-Mobile's super-fast mobile broadband network and Wi-Fi, the Galaxy Tab's portable screen is ideal for watching the latest movies and entertainment or experiencing thousands of widgets, games and applications on Android Market™.Beyond entertainment, the Galaxy Tab also offers mobile broadband essentials such as easy access to personal and work e-mail, including support for Microsoft® Exchange e-mail, contacts and calendar. In addition, the Galaxy Tab can support up to 32 GB of expandable microSD memory. Customers purchasing the Galaxy Tab can take advantage of T-Mobile's monthly 5GB or 200MB webConnect mobile broadband plans or the newly launched prepaid mobile broadband offerings.AvailabilityThe Galaxy Tab will be available at T-Mobile on Nov. 10. Visit http://mobile-broadband.t-mobile.com/tablets to register for updates.1 Based upon reported shipment data for Q1 and Q2 2010, 2009 and 2008, Strategy Analytics' U.S. Market Share Handset Shipments Reports.2 HSPA+ operates at today's 4G speeds; not available everywhere.
 