
 
The Android 2.2 upgrade situation on the Galaxy S has been a veritable rollercoaster of emotions for owners recently, owing in no small part to the seemingly final firmwares that have been briefly posted and pulled from the company's servers in parts of the world over the past couple weeks. Nordic countries have already sample the goods, but Sammy says that a "new" firmware update will be available in early November in the UK and should hit "all operator versions" of the phone (presumably including the Vibrant, Captivate, Epic 4G, and Fascinate) by the end of November. YouMobile is reporting that existing regional updates have been pulled due to general not-awesomeness, so hopefully they'll have a chance to get it right over the next couple weeks before it starts hitting again. Follow the break for Samsung's press release.
      

 

Show full PR textNew Android 2.2 Upgrade Announced for Samsung Galaxy SLatest Platform upgrade provides enhanced experience on the goLONDON , UK – October 21, 2010 – Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., a leading mobile phone provider, today announces the Android™ 2.2 (Froyo) upgrade to the Samsung Galaxy S, giving users access to new features, enhanced navigation applications and improved, faster performance.The super-slim Galaxy S is an award winning ultra-lightweight large screen Android smartphone. The Galaxy S features an incredible 4-inch Super AMOLED screen and a super-fast 1 GHz application processor, for an intelligent, immersive and integrated mobile experience. The Samsung Galaxy S has led the Android smartphone market since its UK launch this summer.The Android 2.2 upgrade enhances the great experience of the Galaxy S, making even more of the processor speed, and the exclusive Super AMOLED screen.The key benefits include:Improved browser performance: enhances browsing, navigation and the 'pinch and zoom' featureEnhanced user interface adding vivid colours and features to the android menu structureGoogle Maps with Navigation: A GPS navigation system with voice guidance for a turn-by-turn navigationAdobe Flash Player 10.1: the latest Flash Player for viewing video contentEnhanced user experience including message editing and the ability to save applications to memory cardSearch in-browser: Google™, Translate, Wikipedia, DictionaryGetting the upgradeThe Android 2.2 upgrade, will be available via Kies, Samsung's in-house software upgrade programme. Samsung has developed a brand new version of Kies which will be issued to make the upgrade experience as smooth as possible. The new version of Kies will be downloadable from www.samsungmobile.co.ukSamsung will also be publishing video tutorials on how to upgrade, providing a step-by-step guide to the simple download process.The Android 2.2 software is being fully tested with UK operators and the upgrade will be available in the UK from early November. We expect all operator versions of the software to be fully tested and downloadable by the end of November.Simon Stanford, Managing Director, Mobile, Samsung UK and Ireland, comments; 'Samsung are committed to providing our customers with the best possible mobile experience, and this upgrade enhances the incredible features of the Galaxy S handset. We also want the upgrade process to be simple and hassle-free for customers, hence the new version of our Kies software and the step-by-step video guides.'
 