
  Wait no more. Google and Samsung have just made the long-awaited Galaxy Nexus (not longer the Nexus Prime, as we'd once heard) official here in Hong Kong, and the specifications are downright drool-worthy. Those with bantam hands need not apply, as this 4.65-inch behemoth is bound to bring back talk of Sidetalkin'. Naturally, Ice Cream Sandwich is onboard, with Google finally revealing the version number as 4.0. Other specs include an HD Super AMOLED display (1,280 x 720), a 1.2GHz dual-core processor, 5 megapixel rear camera (with LED flash), a 1.3 megapixel front-facing cam, 1080p video recording and playback, a newfangled panorama mode, a 3.5mm headphone jack and Bluetooth 3.0. You'll also find USB 2.0, 802.11a/b/g/n WiFi, an embedded NFC module, accelerometer, compass, gyro, proximity sensor and even a barometer -- yeah, a barometer. Finishing things out, there's 1GB of RAM, 16 or 32GB of internal storage space and a 1,750mAh battery. As for radios? There's an HSPA+ model on tap, while an LTE version will "be available depending on region." There's nary a mention of carrier in the press release we're holding, but based on earlier leaks, a 4G build for Verizon Wireless seems a lock.Focusing on Ice Cream Sandwich for a tick, Android 4.0 will bring "an entirely new look and feel to Android," boasting a redesigned user interface, bolstered multitasking / notifications, full-on NFC support and a new People app, which enables users to browse friends, family and coworkers' photos whilst peeking their status updates from Google+. ICS also introduces Face Unlock, which taps into facial recognition protocols in order to unlock your handset. And then there's Android Beam, an NFC-based technology that allows you to "quickly share webpages, apps and YouTube videos by simply tapping two phones together." According to Goog, the "lock screen, home screen, phone app and everything in between has been rethought and redesigned," and this is quite the beastly phone to launch with. Pics and a link to register for more info await you below, and PR per usual is after the break.





    Show full PR text  Samsung and Google introduce GALAXY Nexus  World's First Smartphone to feature Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and a HD Super AMOLED display  Hong Kong – October 19, 2011 – Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, a leading mobile device provider, and Google, today announced GALAXY Nexus™, the world's first smartphone running Android™ 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich, the latest release of the Android platform. GALAXY Nexus features a 4.65" HD Super AMOLED display technology at 720p resolution and a 1.2GHz dual core processor.  "Samsung and Google have closely collaborated to push the mobile experience forward. We are pleased to deliver the best Android smartphone experience for customers with GALAXY Nexus. We will continue to move forward with Android to provide the compelling consumer experience in mobile world," said JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications Business.  "Ice Cream Sandwich demonstrates the Android platform's continued innovation with one release that works on phones and tablets and everything in between. Features like Android Beam and Face Unlock show the innovative work our team is doing, and GALAXY Nexus showcases the power behind Ice Cream Sandwich," said Andy Rubin, Senior Vice President of Mobile for Google.  The first smartphone to feature Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich Ice Cream Sandwich brings an entirely new look and feel to Android. It has a redesigned user interface with improved multi-tasking, notifications, Wi-Fi hotspot, NFC support and a full web browsing experience. GALAXY Nexus features software navigation buttons, a first for Android smartphones. The lock screen, home screen, phone app, and everything in between has been rethought and redesigned to make Android simple, beautiful, and useful.  Ice Cream Sandwich also features a new People app, which lets you, browse friends, family, and coworkers, see their photos in high-resolution, and check their latest status updates from Google＋ and other social networks. GALAXY Nexus features a redesigned camera which introduces panorama mode, 1080p video capture, zero-shutter lag, and effects like silly faces and background replacement.  GALAXY Nexus is also connected to the cloud, keeping your email, contacts, and all other data synced across your devices. You have access to more than 300,000 apps and games from Android Market™, or, in certain countries, you can buy and read books, or rent movies and stream them instantly from your phone. In the U.S., you can also upload your music to the cloud with Music Beta by Google and listen anywhere, even when offline.  Ice Cream Sandwich introduces innovations such as Face Unlock which uses facial recognition to unlock your phone. Using NFC technology, Android Beam allows you to quickly share web pages, apps, and YouTube™ videos with your friends by simply tapping your phones together. You can even use fun effects while shooting video or video chatting with Google Talk™.  Google Experience GALAXY Nexus is designed to provide a "pure Google," experience, and with it, you will be the first to receive software upgrades and new applications as they become available.  It also features a number of Google Mobile services, including: Android Market, Gmail™, Google Maps™ 5.0 with 3D maps and turn-by-turn navigation, Google Earth™, Movie Studio, YouTube™, syncing with Google Calendar™, and a redesigned Google＋ app.  Best-in-class hardware meets the most advanced software GALAXY Nexus is the first smartphone to feature a 4.65'' display with a market-leading resolution of 720p (1280x720), ensuring you can enjoy GALAXY Nexus' immersive entertainment capabilities and fast web browsing in superior clarity.  Succeeding the original Contour Display of Nexus S, GALAXY Nexus comes with a rounded shape that fits perfectly within your palm or to your face for phone calling. Hyper-skin backing on the battery cover improves the ergonomic feel of the device and makes the phone slip-resistant. At just 8.94mm thick, with a minimal 4.29mm bezel, GALAXY Nexus provides superb portability alongside an expansive screen.  GALAXY Nexus also features an ultra-fast 1.2GHz dual core processor, providing superior power and speed, ensuring you can take full advantage of GALAXY Nexus' enhanced multitasking capabilities with ease, or enjoy the large, vivid display to its full capacity with high-definition gaming or video streaming. LTE or HSPA＋ connectivity combined with a dual core processor delivers high-speed web browsing which ensures you always have the web at your fingertips, wherever you are.  GALAXY Nexus will be available in the U.S., Europe, and Asia beginning in November and gradually rolled out to other global markets. For multimedia content and more detailed information, please visit www.samsungmobilepress.com/    Note to Editors: GALAXY Nexus Product Specifications Network HSPA＋ 21Mbps/HSUPA 5.76Mbps 850/900/1900/1700/2100 EDGE/GPRS 850/900/1800/1900 ＊LTE version will be available depending on the region. Processor 1.2 GHz Dual Core Processor Display 4.65" 1280X720 HD Super AMOLED OS Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich Camera Main(Rear) : 5 MP AF with LED Flash with zero shutter lag and fast shot2shot Sub (Front) : 1.3MP for Video Call Video Codec : MPEG4/H.263/H.264 Playback : 1080p@ 30fps Recording : 1080p Full HD Video@ 30fps Audio Codec : MP3/AAC/AAC＋/eAAC＋ 3.5mm Ear Jack Google™Mobile Services Android Market™, Gmail™, Google Earth™, YouTube™, Movie Studio Google Maps™ 5.0 with 3D maps and turn-by-turn navigation Syncing with Google Calendar™, Google＋ app Connectivity Bluetooth® technology v 3.0 USB 2.0 Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n (2.4GHz/ 5GHz) NFC Sensor Accelerometer, Compass, Gyro, Light, Proximity, Barometer Memory 1GB(RAM) ＋ 16GB/ 32GB Internal memory Size 135.5 x 67.94 x 8.94mm, 135g Battery Standard battery, Li-on 1,750 mAh ＊ Specifications above may differ on the LTE version. ＊ All functionality, features, specifications and other product information provided in this document including, but not limited to, the benefits, design, pricing, components, performance, availability, and capabilities of the product are subject to change without notice or obligation.
 