
 
 If diminutive USB-friendly storage is a hobby of yours, SanDisk is looking to add to your collection. The company has announced its USB 3.0-weilding Extreme flash drive and added a handful of new siblings to the Cruzer line. First, the Extreme accessory touts transfer speeds of up to 190MB/s while offering storage capacities ranging from 16GB on up to 64GB. This portable storage device is now shipping and will set you back somewhere between $65 and $160. If you're looking to carry a truckload of photos, videos, music or whatever else on a USB flash drive, the company has also unveiled the Cruzer Glide. While only 4GB to 64GB options are available now starting at $19.99, a 128GB model is slated to arrive in Q3 for $250. Not looking for super-sized capacity at your fingertips? Perhaps the Cruzer Facet or Pop will better suit your sensibilities -- both carry 8GB up to 32GB worth of storage with a price range of $32.99 to $84.99. For a few brief details on the four, hit that PR button below to read on.



  Show full PR text    SANDISK ANNOUNCES ITS FASTEST, THINNEST AND HIGHEST-CAPACITY  USB FLASH DRIVES   New USB 3.0 flash drive transfers files up to 10 times faster than USB 2.0 drives at up to 190MB/s1   SanDisk's highest-capacity USB flash drive features 128GB2 of storage   Stylish and ultra-thin drives now available for fashion fans and youths

   MILPITAS, Calif., June 19, 2012-SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ: SNDK), a global leader in flash memory storage solutions, today announced a suite of USB flash drives that includes SanDisk's fastest, thinnest and highest-capacity USB products ever. The drives offer consumers the storage they need to carry libraries of digital content with them wherever they go, transfer their files quickly and do so with style.

   "Whether consumers are seeking super-fast transfer speeds, maximum storage capacity or a stylish fashion statement, we offer a drive to meet their needs," said Bob O'Keefe, vice president, retail marketing, SanDisk. "SanDisk pioneered the USB drive and now offers one of the broadest lineups in the industry, with a wide range of form factors and reliability that consumers can count on to store their important files."

   SanDisk Extreme USB Flash Drive  The USB 3.0-enabled SanDisk Extreme® USB flash drive can transfer, store and share large files up to 10 times faster with speeds of up to 190MB/s. USB 3.0-enabled device shipments will surpass one billion in 2014, up from 70 million in 2011, according to NPD In-Stat*. The SanDisk Extreme USB flash drive provides the fast performance that these next-generation computing devices demand.   The drive dramatically reduces wait times for consumers. It can transfer smaller files almost instantaneously and larger files such as a 3GB file in 20 seconds or a 40GB file in four minutes3. The SanDisk Extreme USB flash drive is backed by a lifetime limited warranty4 and available worldwide now in 16GB to 64GB capacities carrying MSRPs of $64.99 to $159.99.

   Cruzer® Glide™ USB Flash Drive  The 128GB Cruzer® Glide™ USB flash drive is SanDisk's highest-capacity USB drive ever, and features reliable, secure and portable storage for photos, videos, music and other files. The drive is an ideal companion for anyone using ultra-thin notebooks, which are often limited to 128GB of storage. In such a configuration, the Cruzer Glide USB allows consumers to double their available storage with a convenient portable solution.   Backed by a two year limited warranty5, the Cruzer Glide USB flash drive is available worldwide now in 4GB to 64GB capacities with MSRPs starting at $19.99. The 128GB capacity will be available worldwide in Q3 2012 carrying an MSRP of $249.99.

   Cruzer® Facet™ USB Flash Drive  For users whose style is reflected in everything they do, the Cruzer® Facet™ USB flash drive is a durable drive with stainless-steel casing designed with a variety of rich vibrant colors and a faceted texture. The Cruzer Facet drive combines function and personality, making it a fashionable way to store digital files.

   It is available worldwide now in 8GB to 32GB capacities carrying MSRPs of $32.99 to $84.99.

   Cruzer® Pop™ USB Flash Drive  The Cruzer® Pop™ USB flash drive is designed for young urban users looking for unique designs that complement their personality. The fun custom USB flash drive features rich colors and patterns plus a unique design that opens with a "pop" and conceals and protects the connector when not in use.

   This new drive is SanDisk's thinnest and is available worldwide now in 8GB to 32GB capacities carrying MSRPs of $32.99 to $84.99.   Available Software  Virtually every SanDisk USB drive and all drives in the new suite include secure file encryption and password protection. SanDisk® SecureAccess™ software provides 128-bit AES file encryption and password protection6 for private files while leaving the rest of the drive available for worry-free sharing. For added protection and convenience, two GB of secure online storage7 is offered for easy file backup and access from any web browser.   SanDisk also offers downloadable Cloud Catcher software, which allows users to backup and organize personal data from some of their favorite social media and online sites, hassle free on a SanDisk USB drive.

 
