
 

Who hasn't needed to upgrade their personal workstation when running short on funds? We've definitely been there. As luck would have it, SanDisk offers all of us who are a bit strapped for cash an option for improving our aging PCs. The company announced today that its latest offerings, the Ultra SSDs, are heading out to retailers as we speak. Promising 280MB / sec reads coupled with 270MB / sec write speeds, the drives provide a welcome tune-up for, ahem, experienced machines. Random speeds on these disks clock in at up to 3Gb / sec with three sizes available: 60GB, 120GB, and 240GB, ranging from $130 to $450. So save up your extra lunch money, as this is certainly a nice way to breathe new life into your current set-up without going completely broke. Who knows, maybe you can use those dollars you'll save on some of this. As for the full rundown, scope out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  SANDISK ULTRA SOLID STATE DRIVE (SSD) SHIPS TO RETAILERS New SSD Extends the Life of Desktop and Notebook PCs-Faster and More Reliable Than a Hard Disk Drive 		SanDisk Ultra® solid state drive (SSD) MILPITAS, Calif., July 25, 2011 - SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ: SNDK), a global leader in flash memory storage solutions, today introduced the SanDisk Ultra® solid state drive (SSD) for the retail market. The new SSD can extend the life of desktop and notebook PCs, and offers greater performance, durability and power efficiency than a hard disk drive. 		The SanDisk Ultra SSD is a convenient drop-in solution for technology enthusiasts looking to upgrade their own PCs for an enhanced user experience. The new SSD features: 		* Fast performance: the drive's up to 280 megabyte per second (MB/sec)1 sequential read and 270 MB/sec sequential write speeds deliver fast data-transfer rates; up to 3 Gb/s random speeds surpass other SATA II SSDs and enable faster system boot and application launch times		* Power efficiency: the drive's low power consumption extends battery life, and with no moving parts, the SSD offers silent operation		* Long-term reliability: Mean Time Between Failure (MTBF)2 of up to 1,000,000 hours 		"Replacing a computer's hard disk drive with the SanDisk Ultra SSD is more cost effective than buying a new PC," said Kent Perry, director, product marketing, SanDisk. "Our new SSD delivers greater speed and reliability than a hard disk drive at an affordable price." 		The drive comes in 60 gigabyte (GB)3, 120GB and 240GB capacities carrying MSRPs of $129.99, $219.99 and $449.99, respectively. Consumers in the United States can order the drive now from online retailers such as www.newegg.com.
 