
 
Going jogging for more than a hundred consecutive hours? Then the old models of SanDisk's teensy-tiny Sansa Clip audio player won't satisfy you, but this week a new variant hits with a capacious 8GB of storage -- a plenty-fair amount for the $99 price, and downright triumphant for a clip-on. That kind of storage wouldn't make sense in a Shuffle-like device with no display for song browsing, of course, but it's welcome in the Clip 'cause it actually has such a screen (it's OLED, if you were wondering). Like the other Clip models, it's got 15 hours of battery life, though, so it still won't make it with you on your daily jog from Boston to Pittsburgh. Full PR after the break.

 

SANDISK ROLLS OUT NEW 8GB VERSION OF THE POPULAR AND TINY SANSA(R) CLIP MP3 PLAYERCapacity increase doubles available space on tiniest player in Sansa lineWHO/WHAT SanDisk Corporation, a leading seller of MP3 players in the United States, today announced a capacity increase for the Sansa(R) Clip MP3 Player. One of the most popular flash-based players in SanDisk's Sansa line of MP3 players, this tiny Sansa(R) Clip has a new capacity point of 8 gigabytes (GB).The new 8GB Sansa Clip can store up to 4,000 songs and runs for 15 hours on its rechargeable battery.WHENThe new, black 8GB Sansa Clip is expected to be in stores and online (www.sansa.com) in the U. S. the week of November 10th with an MSRP of $99.99.MOREThe matchbox-sized Sansa Clip can fit into the palm of the hand and clip onto clothing and a perfect holiday gift for people who love music on the go, including runners, walkers, or gym goers.The Sansa Clip stands above the leading wearable music player because of its bright OLED color screen – allowing users to select the music they hear, not just wait for songs to come around at random.The Sansa Clip boasts a long list of advanced features, including: Audio formats: support for MP3, WMA, WAV and Audible audio books. Music services: support for many music download and subscription services, including Rhapsody To Go(R), Napster, eMusic and others. Recording: built-in microphone for voice recording. FM radio: built-in FM tuner, with user option to create station presets. Accessories: earphones and USB cable. The featherweight Sansa Clip, weighing only 0.9 ounces, comes with a clip that makes it easy to attach the device to clothing, a backpack or purse. The clip is detachable, so the device can become even smaller when the clip isn't needed.Sansa Clip Family PricingThe Sansa Clip continues to be available in 1GB capacity with an MSRP of $39.99, 2GB capacity with an MSRP of $59.99 and 4GB with an MSRP of $79.99. The 1GB Sansa Clip is available in black; the 2GB Sansa Clipis available in black, red, pink and blue; the 4GB is available in silver and the 8GB is available in black.The Sansa Clip requires a computer running Windows XP or Windows Vista.
 