
 
Okay, so we were actually pretty stoked about SanDisk's 16GB Ultra microSDHC / M2 cards, but this is just laughable. In fact, we just had to pass it along for the image alone. For those who don't understand that any SD card will work in your Wii, the 2GB Rock Band 2 Secure Digital card will reportedly hold up to 75 downloadable songs -- or 2GB of anything, actually. For those in love with the logo (yes, we're talking to you), it'll ship this Spring for the low, low price of $12.99. Full release is after the break.
      

 

SANDISK EXTENDS GAMING EXPERIENCE WITH 2GB ROCK BAND 2 SD CARD  Compatible with Nintendo Wii Console, Affordable Card Boosts Storage  Capacity For Plenty of Downloadable Music and Extras     * 2GB SanDisk Rock Band®2 SD gaming card provides enough storage space for at least 75 downloadable songs1   * Works seamlessly in compatible digital cameras, allowing users to take hundreds of pictures and then post slideshows on the Wii's photography channel   * Conveniently stores saved game progress  CES 2009, South Hall, Booth # 30659, LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7, 2009 – SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK) today announced a 2-gigabyte (GB)2 Rock Band 2 SD™ gaming card, significantly increasing the storage capacity available to gamers using the Nintendo® Wii™ console. This memory boost enables users to conveniently store additional content without worrying about running out of space.   "We are launching the SanDisk Rock Band 2 SD card to enhance the playing experience on the Wii," said Christopher Moore, director of product marketing, consumer products division, SanDisk. "Video games like Rock Band 2 frequently offer downloadable extras, and gamers need to have an affordable and convenient means of storing this bonus content. The SanDisk 2GB Rock Band 2 SD gaming card meets that demand."   Rock Band 2 for Wii, developed by Pi Studios under the direction of Harmonix, is fully featured with online modes including World Tour and Battle of the Bands, an innovative character creator, weekly downloadable content and more! With more than 100 songs3 on the Rock Band 2 Wii soundtrack, Rock Band 2 Wii owners have access to the most impressive music catalogue for a music-based videogame on the console. In addition, fans can expect a future roll-out of new and current downloadable content until the entire back catalogue is available.    The SanDisk 2GB Rock Band 2 SD gaming card is the storage solution that Wii gamers have been looking for, allowing them to take advantage of Rock Band 2's memory-intensive features. Since a single song can require up to 24 megabytes (MB)4 of memory, quickly filling up the Wii's 512MB of onboard storage, the SanDisk Rock Band 2 SD gaming card provides enough storage space for at least 75 downloadable songs and enables gamers to take advantage of Rock Band 2's extra content.    Beyond storing bonus Rock Band 2 content, gamers can use the SanDisk 2GB Rock Band 2 SD gaming card in a variety of applications.      * Photographers can showcase their photos by filling the card with hundreds of images and then posting a slideshow on the Wii's photography channel.   * The Nintendo Wii's Virtual Console allows users to download classic video games from a variety of past console systems, further increasing the amount of storage required by gamers.   * The 2GB Rock Band 2 SD gaming card has enough capacity to store an entire library's worth of hard-fought saved game progress.   The SanDisk 2GB Rock Band 2 SD gaming card is expected to be available for U.S. retailers this Spring, and carries a manufacturer's suggested retail price of $12.99.   About SanDisk  SanDisk Corporation, the inventor and world's largest supplier of flash storage cards, is a global leader in flash memory – from research, manufacturing and product design to consumer branding and retail distribution. SanDisk's product portfolio includes flash memory cards for mobile phones, digital cameras and camcorders; digital audio/video players; USB flash drives for consumers and the enterprise; embedded memory for mobile devices; and solid state drives for computers. SanDisk is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 company, with more than half its sales outside the United States.

       

 