
Sure, the novelty may have worn off years ago when it comes to those miniature USB-powered accessories that reside on your desk and suck power from a PC, but this nifty lamp from Satechi has a bit more going for it. The simply named USB LED Bottle Lamp consumes just 1.2 watts of power, and while it won't likely have enough output to fill a room, it'll probably do a fair job of bringing some warmth to your workstation. The kit includes only a lampshade, LEDs (rated for 50,000 hours) and a USB cable -- that's right, it's BYOB (Bring Your Own Base). A heavy liquor bottle might be the best fit when it comes to support, but you can use a vase or any similar vessel to keep the lamp upright, too. The USB Bottle Lamp can be yours today for just 25 bucks. Hit the source link below to pick one up.




Show full PR textSatechi USB LED Bottle Lamp Converts Any Empty Bottle Into an Environmentally-Friendly Desk Lamp
SAN DIEGO – May 9, 2013 – The Satechi USB LED Bottle Lamp, available now, allows users to recycle their empty bottles and convert them into a unique desk lamp, adding a personalized touch to any room. The user-friendly lamp is placed into the opening of any bottle and plugged into any USB port to instantly transform a once obsolete product into a one-of-a-kind, functional decorative piece to fit the user's mood, new furniture or showcase a bottle saved from a special occasion. http://www.youtube.com/bottlelampFeaturing a frosted white shade, the USB LED Bottle Lamp produces a soft glow, creating a comfortable environment. Turning the lamp on and off simply requires touching the silver disc at the top of the lamp. Since the lamp is lightweight and remains cool to the touch, it can be easily moved to provide light where you need it most.The environmentally friendly USB LED Bottle Lamp contains no mercury and has a lifespan of up to 50,000 hours. The lamp consumes a mere 1.2 watts, considerably less power than incandescent and fluorescent lamps.The Satechi USB LED Bottle Lamp is available for an introductory price of $24.99 at Satechi.net and Amazon.com.For more on the USB LED Bottle Lamp and all of Satechi's award winning products, "like" us on Facebook.com/Satechi and follow @Satechi.About Satechi:Established in 2005, Satechi is fully committed to offering unique accessories that people can integrate with their electronics in their homes, cars, and on the go. Satechi offers a broad selection of accessories from FM transmitters, battery chargers and speaker systems to car mounts, stands and keyboards. For more information, please visit www.Satechi.net.


