
 
 Scalado's latest 99 cent app for iOS only does one little thing, but it does it well. Its singular mission is to let you share an image from your Camera Roll to any web-connected display in front of you, without having to navigate through a more sophisticated file-sharing platform or use extra hardware on the receiving device. That recipient can be anything -- a smart TV, tablet, PC, Mac, games console, whatever -- so long as it has a browser pointed at the Photobeamer homepage. That page displays a QR code, which provides all the clever linkage you need: you simply load up the app on your mobile, pick the image you want to share, and then point the rear camera at the QR code to beam the image across via the web.

 Having given it a quick test, we'd say it's definitely up to regular domestic challenges where you just want to display a few photos rather than perhaps videos or presentation slides, and where there's no need to print or store shared images. You can swipe left and right between different pictures in your gallery, and also choose whether you want those images to be fitted to the recipient display or resized to fill it. There's a video after the break to help you decide if that's worth a dollar, while the Photobeamer app itself waits patiently at the iTunes link below.



 

  Show full PR text   Scalado takes image viewing "out of the mobile"
    New application sets your images free for instant viewing on any screen

   Scalado, a world-leading provider of high-performance imaging technologies, applications and services for the mobile industry, have today announced it will continue releasing innovative applications for download on App Stores. After the success of the newly released Scalado Album on Google Play, Scalado releases Scalado PhotoBeamer for iOS.

   Scalado PhotoBeamer is a new innovative approach for instant viewing of photos, by pointing the iPhone on any screen previewing the Photobeamer site, without any needs for pre-configurations or pre-registrations. It's a simple to use photo viewer with a clean and smooth user interface, built on top of Scalado's latest innovative technologies for maximum performance and user experience.

   "End users will love this application and use it frequently with friends and families to make their photos available anytime, anywhere on any screen!", says Fadi Abbas, CMO, General Manager APAC and Co-founder of Scalado, -"The user experience is unique and satisfying."  This strategic move from Scalado was preceded by a successful release of the Scalado Camera Lover application for the Nokia Symbian devices on the OVI store, and the Scalado Album application for Android devices on the Google Play store.

   "We're really excited to release our first app for iOS and let Apple users use our innovative technologies", says Sami Niemi, CTO and Co-founder of Scalado, -"We are excited to get the users feedback on this."

  About Scalado
  Launched in 2000, Scalado is a world leader in the mobile imaging industry, thanks to a long history of developing innovative platform-independent imaging solutions. Based on Scalado's unique Random Access JPEG and more than 50 patent and patent pending technologies, these innovations are currently being used by the world's leading global telecom and platform players in over 1 billion devices to date, a figure that is growing with 500 million devices each year.
  For this reason, Scalado has become the centre of gravity of imaging. The company is at the heart of the imaging pipeline network of industries, and is committed to working with global leading industry players to bring the best imaging user experience to any device. Scalado is headquartered in Lund, Sweden, and has regional commercial and development facilities in USA, Korea, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan. For more information, please visit www.scalado.com
 
