
 
Yet another classic arrives in HD this fall when Universal releases the Scarface Special Limited Edition Blu-ray. It's getting a premium treatment too, with Steelbook packaging, 7.1 DTS-HD MA audio, art cards, and even the 1932 original version of Scarface on DVD. Universal's packed in the extras on the disc too, including a couple of U-control add-ons that keep track of both F-bombs dropped and bullets fired, plus picture-in-picture breakdowns with director Brian De Palma, Al Pacino, Screenwriter Oliver Stone and more. Check after the break for the press release with all the details -- except price, and it's not on Amazon yet either.
      

 

Show full PR textTHE POP CULTURE PHENOMENON THAT REDEFINED THE GANGSTER GENRE COMES TO BLU-RAY TMFOR THE FIRST TIME EVER SEPTEMBER 6, 2011 SCARFACESpecial Limited Edition Blu-Ray TM Kicks-Off with a National Fan Art Contest & Will Feature Collectible Packaging, New Bonus Content and Digital Copy Plus the Ultimate Fan Gift: A Limited-Run Scarface-Themed Humidor Specially Crafted by the Renowned Daniel MarshallUniversal City, California, March 24, 2011-With machine guns blazing, the explosive underworld epic Scarface arrives on Blu-ray TM Hi-Def September 6, 2011 from Universal Studios Home Entertainment.Considered one of the most influential gangster films ever made, Scarface's gritty depiction of Tony Montana's lethal ambition has made it a cultural touchstone that spans generations. Now, fans can experience the film's raw power in the newly restored, high-resolution, high-definition picture and explosive 7.1 audio for the first time ever. Exclusive new bonus content created especially for this release reveals the film's iconic legacy as one of the greatest crime sagas of all time. For a limited time only, Scarface Special Limited Edition Blu-rayTM comes with collectible SteelBookTM packaging, ten exclusive art cards, a digital copy of the film and a DVD of the original 1932 Scarface, making it a must-own addition to every film fan's library. And, for the ultimate collector and cigar enthusiast, an elegantly hand-crafted Scarface-themed humidor will be made available in an exclusive, never-before-available, limited edition. Created by the renowned Daniel Marshall, the humidor's exterior is hand painted and polished with the Marshall's trademark "1000 coat brilliant finish." The interior – made with untreated Spanish cedar – will properly condition and age approximately 100 cigars at optimal humidity levels. Limited to 1,000 worldwide, each individually numbered humidor comes embellished with custom medallions inspired by the iconic film and includes a certificate of authenticity. "Nearly 30 years after it first exploded onto the screen, Scarface stands as a cultural icon with a passionate and growing fan base that continues to exert an enduring influence on not just moviemakers but artists across the entire pop-culture landscape," said Craig Kornblau, President of Universal Studios Home Entertainment. "Now, for the first time ever, fans of this jewel in the Universal crown can enjoy Scarface with the spectacular picture and sound quality that only Blu-rayTM provides."A masterful collaboration between acclaimed director Brian de Palma (The Untouchables, Carlito's Way) and Academy Award®-winning screenwriter Oliver Stone (Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, Platoon), Scarface features extraordinary performances from a powerhouse cast that includes Academy Award® winner Al Pacino (The Godfather), Academy Award® nominee Michelle Pfeiffer (The Fabulous Baker Boys, Hairspray), Academy Award® nominee Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (The Color of Money, The Perfect Storm), Academy Award® nominee Robert Loggia (Jagged Edge) and Steven Bauer (Traffic). The film was nominated for three Golden Globe® Awards (including Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Original Score), and was named one of the Top 10 Gangster Films of All Time by the American Film Institute. NATIONAL FAN ART CONTESTTo celebrate the film's Blu-rayTM debut, fans will have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to design Scarface-inspired artwork using classic Tony Montana images from the film. Universal will select the Top 25 submissions based on creativity, originality, quality of composition/design and utilization of the Scarface theme. Fans will vote on their favorite 10 submissions which will then be featured as exclusive art cards in the Scarface Limited Edition Blu-rayTM. The designer who garners the highest number of fan votes will become the Grand Prize winner, and will have their art featured on both the art card and on a high-profile billboard in a major US city to promote the release. For more information on how to enter the fan art contest and to be among the first to hear future exciting, exclusive announcements about Scarface on Blu-rayTM, join over 3.6 million fans on Facebook and visit www.facebook.com/scarfacethemovie.BONUS FEATURES· The Scarface Phenomenon- This all-new documentary presents Scarface as a unique phenomenon in cinema history. It explores how a film plagued by controversy leading up to its release has become a Hollywood classic, influencing a whole new generation of filmmakers and leaving a lasting imprint on popular culture.· Deleted Scenes · The World of Tony Montana -Experience the world of the ultimate gangster and hear from experts on the real world violence, fear and paranoia that surrounds a drug lord.· The Rebirth -Director Brian De Palma, producer Martin Bregman, actor Al Pacino, and screenwriter Oliver Stone revisit the history of Scarface, from the inspiration of the original Howard Hawks classic to the evolution of the script.· The Acting - Join the filmmakers, Al Pacino and Steven Bauer to discover how each of the roles was cast and how Brian De Palma worked with his actors to get unforgettable performances.· The Creating - A fascinating, controversial and definitive journey through the making of the film, which began with the production being forced to leave its initial location in Florida. Discover how the chainsaw scene was filmed, learn about the production design, the photography, and the struggle to get the film an "R" rating.· Scarface: The TV Version-A revealing and hilarious montage of film clips comparing the theatrical version to the network television version of Scarface.· The Making of Scarface: The Video Game: Immerse yourself in the world of Scarface in this behind-the-scenes look at the creation of the video game.· U-CONTROL FEATURES ON THIS BLU-RAY DISC:· Scarface Scoreboard-Watch Scarface like never before. Keep track of the number of times the "F" word is used and monitor the bullets fired!· Picture in Picture-Access interview footage of Brian De Palma, Al Pacino, Screenwriter Oliver Stone, and others without interruption to the movie experience. Also featured is a scene comparison between the 1983 version of Scarface and Howard Hawks' original film.· BD-LIVE™-Access the BD-Live™ Center through your Internet-connected player to get even more content, watch the latest trailers and more.· pocket BLU™ app- USHE's groundbreaking pocket BLU™ app uses iPhone™, iPad™, iPod® touch, Smartphone, Android™, PC and Macintosh to work seamlessly with a network-connected Blu-ray™ player and offers advanced features such as:o Advanced Remote Control: A sleek, elegant new way to operate your Blu-ray™ player. Users can navigate through menus, playback and BD-Live™ functions with ease. o Video Timeline: Users can easily bring up the video timeline, allowing them to instantly access any point in the movie. o Mobile-To-Go: Users can unlock a selection of bonus content with their Blu-ray™ discs to save to mobile devices or to stream from anywhere there's a Wi-Fi network, enabling them to enjoy exclusive content on the go, anytime, anywhere.o Keyboard: Enter data into a Blu-ray™ player with your device's easy and intuitive keyboard to facilitate such Blu-ray™ features as chatting with friends and sending messages.SYNOPSISIn the spring of 1980, the Mariel boatlift brought thousands of Cuban refugees to the sun-washed avenues of Miami in search of the American dream. From acclaimed director Brian DePalma, Scarface is the rags-to-riches story of Tony Montana (Al Pacino), who finds wealth, power and passion beyond his wildest dreams...at a price he never imagined. Tony Montana's meteoric rise, lavish life and soul-destroying fall anchor an epic film that inspired a worldwide following. Pacino is at his most memorable as Montana, blasting his way to the top of Miami's drug underworld in a bravura performance.Technical InformationStreet Date: September 6, 2011Rating: R Running Time: 2 Hours 50 MinutesNumber of Layers: BD-50Aspect Ratio: 2.35:1Technical Info: English DTS-HD Master Audio 7.1/DTS Surround 2.0, French DTS Surround 2.0 Mono, Spanish DTS Surround 2.0 Mono Languages: English SDH, French and Spanish subtitlesGift Set SRP: $999.99NBCUniversal is one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information to a global audience. NBCUniversal owns and operates a valuable portfolio of news and entertainment television networks, a premier motion picture company, significant television production operations, a leading television stations group and world-renowned theme parks. Comcast Corporation owns a controlling 51% interest in NBCUniversal, with GE holding a 49% stake.
 