
 "Appcessories" is probably one of the more abrasive, yet devilishly descriptive, portmanteaus we've heard in recent years. But, if you're still not sure what it means, consider the Rhythm pulse monitor from Scosche a perfect example. The forearm-mounted device is a pulse / heart rate monitor with an iOS companion app. Working with some of your phone's inner smarts (like GPS), along with a dedicated accelerometer, the hardware / software combo logs vital data from your work out, which you can then share with the world, or enjoy broken down into detailed statistical analysis. If you've ever gone jogging with your iPhone, you'll know how fiddly it can be to change music tracks on the hop, so you'll be pleased to know the Rhythm covers that too. If this sounds like what your workout is missing, you can strap-up right away from any Apple or AT&T store (real or online) for $99, with other outlets, including Best-Buy stocking in time for Christmas.



 
  Show full PR text   Scosche Announces Availability of the RHYTHM Pulse Monitor and App for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch
   Comfortable RHYTHM eliminates need for bulky chest strap and provides convenient track and volume control

   OXNARD, Calif. – September 17, 2012 – Scosche Industries, award-winning innovator of consumer technology, is excited to announce the availability of RHYTHM, a pulse monitor and app for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. The comfortable arm-strap monitor provides users with a simple way to manage, track and analyze their workouts.

   RHYTHM combines two alternating LEDs with a photo sensor to accurately measure the user's pulse. A built-in accelerometer allows RHYTHM to adjust for movement during exercise, providing an extremely accurate measurement of calories burned, speed, pace, route and distance.

   After pairing RHYTHM with your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch via Bluetooth users are prompted to download the free accompanying app from the App Store. Once the app is downloaded RHYTHM is ready to go and users can begin tracking their workouts.

   Unlike conventional chest strap monitors, RHYTHM's comfortable neoprene arm-strap fits over the muscular portion of the user's forearm. Users can wirelessly control audio playback directly from the armband including play/pause, track and volume. A rechargeable lithium ion battery provides up to 6 hours of continuous workout monitoring.

   Workouts can be personalized by selecting their type of activity, target training zone and type of workout. A male or female voice prompt updates the user's progress in real time letting them know how close they are to accomplishing their goals or if they have moved outside their desired target heart rate zone.

   Workout data is stored in the cloud at http://fit.scosche.com/Login/. Users can access the RHYTHM Dashboard for an enhanced view of their workouts, track lifetime training stats and share their achievements on Facebook and Twitter. The dashboard makes it easy for users to switch between multiple devices and still have their workouts saved in one central location.

   The Scosche RHYTHM is available immediately at Apple Retails Stores and Apple.com, ATT.com and AT&T stores, and Scosche.com for $99.95, and will be available at Best Buy and other premium retailers in time for the holiday season.

 
