
 
We'll just keep it real simple for you: the object you're looking at above is the Revive II charger, but slimmer, and with a rechargeable battery pack thrown in rather than a wall / cigarette adapter. Got it? Good. The goBAT II contains a 5000mAh rechargeable lithium ion battery, and it offers a pair of USB ports for charging. One's a 10-watt (2.1 Amp) port capable of handling high-maintenance devices like Apple's iPad, while the other is a more conventional 5-watt (1 Amp) socket. Scosche is also throwing in a USB adapter for the Galaxy Tab, theoretically letting those with divided households charge both an iOS and Android tablet at the same time. Brain melting, we know. It also works with the company's Revive charging app, which indicates how long a device will take to charge on any of Scosche's chargers and can also be configured to send an email notification once a device has been fully charged. She's all yours down at the source link for $89.99.
      

 

Show full PR textScosche Announces Availability of goBAT II – Dual USB Portable Charger & Backup Battery2.1 AMP Port Perfect for iPad or Galaxy TabOxnard, CA, – February 17, 2011 – Scosche Industries, award-winning innovator of consumer technology, is excited to announce the availability of the Scosche goBAT II, dual USB battery backup and charger. The goBAT II pairs a 5000mAh rechargeable lithium ion battery with dual USB outputs including a 10 Watt (2.1 Amp) port to meet the larger power requirements of tablets as well as a standard 5 Watt (1Amp) port for virtually everything else. The goBAT II also ships with a USB adapter for the Galaxy Tab, maximizing tablet compatibility. It's 5 Watt (1 Amp) port allows users to simultaneously charge another USB powered device like an iPhone, Blackberry or Android device while powering up a tablet. The goBAT II also features a simple LED battery level indicator so users always know how much power is left. Also included is a micro USB cable for recharging the battery, which can also be used when charging any micro USB device from the goBAT II. The goBAT II also works with Scosche's free reVIVE charging app. The reVIVE app indicates how long a device will take to charge on any of Scosche's chargers and can also be configured to send an email notification once a device has been fully charged. "The vast majority of our customers that own a tablet, also own a mobile phone that can be charged via a USB connection," said Kas Alves, Executive Vice President of Scosche Industries. "It only made sense for us to design a battery backup that could meet the demands of both types of mobile devices, eliminating the need to carry two chargers or battery back-ups."The Scosche goBAT II is available now at Scosche.com for $89.99Follow Scosche at twitter.com/scosche or facebook.com/scosche for the latest news on the company's complete line of portable power solutions and all of Scosche's award-winning products.
 