
       
We all knew Seagate's FreeAgent line couldn't hang around forever, and tonight the storage mainstay has revealed the next logical step for the line. The GoFlex family is one of the more varied ranges out there from any hard drive maker, with the primary intent on the HDD side being to create drives (ranging from 320GB to 2TB) that are friendly with both Macs and PCs (simultaneously) while also giving users the ability to upgrade their connection or switch it out depending on what workstation they interface with. The new crew supports USB 2.0 out of the box, though upgrading to USB 3.0, FireWire 800 or eSATA can be accomplished via the new GoFlex cable system. Also launched today is the GoFlex TV HD media player, which essentially acts as a liaison between your tele and your media, regardless of whether it's stored locally, on the LAN or on the internet. Moving on, there's the GoFlex Net media sharing device, which transforms any USB mass storage device into one that's happy to pump out content via the 'net -- think Pogoplug, and you've pretty much got the idea. It looks as if the whole crew will be available for purchase starting this week, with the full list of details and prices just beyond the break. 





Show full PR textSEAGATE INTRODUCES NEW ERA OF EXTERNAL STORAGE: A FLEXIBLE HARD DRIVE SOLUTION WITH MULTIPLE INTERFACE AND CONTENT SHARING OPTIONSProtect. Store. Do More....With the Seagate® GoFlex™ Storage SystemSCOTTS VALLEY, Calif. - May 4, 2010 - Seagate (NASDAQ: STX), the worldwide leader in hard drives and storage solutions, today introduced the next evolution of the company's award-winning FreeAgent® external hard drives-its new GoFlex™ storage solutions. This new family of external drives and accessories introduces a new level of flexibility to traditional USB 2.0 storage that will change the way people store, access, enjoy and share their digital content. The FreeAgent® GoFlex™ storage family includes easy, plug-and-play portable and desktop drives, with an array of cables and desktop adapters that allow each drive to adapt to the interface or device being used. The GoFlex family of hard disk drives is also specially designed to provide interoperability between operating systems in order to work with both Microsoft® Windows® and Mac® OS X computers. "GoFlex™ interface cables are about providing the speed, performance and connectivity people need to support their interaction with their digital content. The explosive growth of video capture and multimedia collecting is expanding personal digital libraries to terabytes worth of content within the home," said Dave Mosley, executive vice president, Sales, Marketing and Product Line Management at Seagate. "These trends are driving demand for high-capacity, high-performance storage. The GoFlex™ family of storage products meets this need by delivering simple, USB 2.0 storage and backup devices, with the flexibility to adapt as interface technology advances by using the various GoFlex™ cables and accessories to access content stored on the same drive." Protect, store and access files through the interface of your choiceRecent survey results by the Yankee Group indicate that more than half of people planning to purchase a new hard drive consider the interface connection an important factor in their selection. GoFlex drives address this concern by providing a flexible, plug-and-play way to adapt to the most popular available interfaces or devices. The seamless GoFlex™ cable system enables the GoFlex™ and GoFlex™ Pro ultra-portable USB 2.0 drives to be upgraded to USB 3.0, eSATA or FireWire 800 connections simply by switching out the cable adapter. Additionally, specially-designed GoFlex upgrade cables provide even more applications of how each drive can be used. For example, the GoFlexTM Upgrade cable – Auto Backup transforms the drive into a continuous full-system backup, giving consumers the peace of mind that their files and system settings are backed up, while leaving the remaining capacity for basic drag-and-drop file transfer"As consumer's lives become increasingly connected, people will demand capabilities beyond the traditional hard drive," said Carl Howe, director, Anywhere Consumer Research, Yankee Group. "Consumers are looking not only for storage, but for new ways to use their digital content. Connecting, sharing, and repurposing content is part of the purchasing decision process for today's 'Anywhere Consumer'®." Do More with the GoFlex Storage SystemWithin the GoFlex family, Seagate has created a special ecosystem wherein people experience easy backup and enhanced protection of all their data-the same way they would expect a traditional hard drive to perform-only now their interaction with that content is not wholly dependent on the drive. In addition to several cable options, people can pair a GoFlex or GoFlex Pro ultra-portable drive with a GoFlex™ TV HD media player or the GoFlex™ Net media sharing device to enhance their experience of the drive's content.Using the GoFlex™ TV HD media player consumers can easily enjoy their personal digital media library on their television screen by inserting a GoFlex ultra-portable drive or GoFlex Pro ultra-portable drive directly into the media dock, or connecting a another storage device, digital or Flip camera to the two additional USB ports on the back of the device. Using the intuitive remote, owners of GoFlex TV HD media players can view movies, photos, and music from the comfort of their couch in 1080p high-definition and surround sound. Connect your GoFlex TV HD media player to the internet using the Ethernet or optional Wi-Fi adapter and stream digital content from a home network or popular online service providers such as Netflix, YouTube, MediaFly, Picasa and more.The GoFlex™ Net media sharing device transforms a GoFlex ultra-portable drive, GoFlex Pro ultra-portable drive, or any USB mass storage, into a media sharing device, allowing consumers to enjoy their digital content outside their home using a PC, iPad, iPod Touch, Android, iPhone, BlackBerry or any other internet-connected computer. The GoFlex Net media sharing device also integrates with social media websites, such as Facebook and Twitter, and publishes RSS feeds allowing people to keep friends and family updated GoFlex media sharing device owners can also stream content to other devices on a home network, including the GoFlex TV HD media player, to enjoy movies, photos and music on their TV.Bridging the Gap between PC and MacFor the first time, Seagate will include an NTFS driver for Mac® OS X on all GoFlex portable and desktop offerings, enabling storage and access of files from both Windows® and Mac computers. The NTFS driver is simply installed once on your Mac computer, and allows access and storage of files on a Windows formatted[1] drive. With capacities ranging from 320GB to 2TB, FreeAgent GoFlex ultra-portable and desktop drives group high-capacity, adaptability and ease-of-use with all the backup and protection people have come to expect from Seagate. Available immediately through Seagate.com and select online retailers, the GoFlex storage family includes:GoFlex Drives:o GoFlexTM ultra portable drive-The core of the GoFlexTM Storage System. Available in 14.5mm and 22mm versions and includes a USB 2.0 cable. MSRP $99.99 for 320GB [silver, black]; $129.99 for 500GB (silver, black, red, blue); $169.99 for 750GB [silver and black]; $199.99 for 1TB [silver, black].o GoFlexTM ultra portable drive, drive-only version. MSRP $89.99 for 320GB [silver, black]; $119.99 for 500GB [silver, black, red, blue]; $159.99 for 750GB [silver and black]; $189.99 for 1TB [silver, black].o GoFlexTM Pro ultra portable drive kit-A 7200RPM, 2.5" drive that delivers premium backup with encryption and includes a USB 2.0 cable. MSRP $139.99 for 500GB; $189.99 for 750GB [black].o GoFlexTM Pro ultra portable drive, drive-only version-MSRP $129.99 for 500GB; $179.99 for 750GB [black].o GoFlexTM Desk external drive kit-Delivers high-capacity storage and automatic, continuous backup with encryption for all your files and includes a USB 2.0 cable. MSRP $129.99 for 1TB [black]; $199.99 for 2TB [black].o GoFlexTM Desk external drive, drive-only version-MSRP $119.99 for 1TB [black]; $189.99 for 2TB [black].GoFlex Cables and Adapters:o GoFlexTM Cable – USB 2.0-The baseline interface for your GoFlexTM and GoFlexTM Pro ultra-portable drives. MSRP $19.99.o GoFlexTM Upgrade cable – USB 3.0-Equips your GoFlexTM and GoFlexTM Pro ultra-portable drives to deliver up to 10x faster transfer of files vs USB 2.0, while being backwards compatible. MSRP $29.99.o GoFlexTM Upgrade cable kit – USB 3.0-Includes ExpressCard adapter to update a laptop and GoFlexTM ultra-portable drives from USB 2.0 to USB 3.0 and deliver up to 10x faster transfer of files than USB 2.0, MSRP $79.99.o GoFlexTM Upgrade cable – FireWire® 800-Upgrades your GoFlexTM and GoFlexTM Pro ultra-portable drives to deliver 2x faster transfer speed over USB 2.0. MSRP $39.99.o GoFlexTM Upgrade cable kit – eSATA-Empowers your GoFlexTM and GoFlexTM Pro ultra-portable drives to deliver up to 6x faster performance over USB 2.0. MSRP $19.99.o GoFlexTM Upgrade cable – Auto Backup-Delivers continuous backup and protection of data giving consumers the peace of mind that their data is backed up, while leaving capacity for basic drag-and-drop file transfer. MSRP $29.99.o GoFlexTM Desk Desktop adapter-USB 3.0-Allows the GoFlexTM Desk to deliver up to 10x faster transfer speed over USB 2.0 for your desktop PC. MSRP $39.00.o GoFlexTM Desk Desktop adapter kit-USB 3.0-Includes PCI Express adapter to upgrade a desktop PC and GoFlexTM Desk external drive for USB 3.0 performance, MSRP $79.00.o GoFlexTM Desk Desktop adapter-FireWire® 800/USB 2.0-Upgrades your GoFlex™ Desk external drive to deliver 2x faster performance over USB 2.0 with FireWire® 800/USB 2.0 for your desktop PC. MSRP $49.99.GoFlex Storage System Devices:o GoFlexTM TV HD media player-Allows for enjoyment of digital content on a TV. MSRP $129.99 for media player only.o GoFlexTM Net media sharing device-Enables instant, easy access and sharing of content over a network. MSRP $99.99.o GoFlexTM Intelligent dock-Transforms the GoFlex ultra portable drive into the perfect desktop solution that delivers convenient file access and backup with an easy-to-view capacity gauge. MSRP $29.99.About SeagateSeagate is the worldwide leader in hard disk drives and storage solutions. Learn more at http://www.seagate.com.
 