
 With Christmas behind us, it's time to get back to the real world. For Seiko Epson, that means some serious downer news. The company announced today that it has finally opted to settle with Nokia over antitrust lawsuits filed in the US and UK. The company will pay the Finnish handset maker a cool $80 million over the lawsuit, which stems from issues with LCD supply. That sum that will result in an "extraordinary loss" for Q3, according to Epson, though the company has opted not to adjust full-year earnings forecasts. Check Epson's press release after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Settlement of Lawsuit and Announcement of Extraordinary Loss 			Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson," TSE: 6724) today announced that it has agreed to settle for US$80 million civil lawsuits filed against it in the United States and United Kingdom by Nokia Corporation of Finland and its subsidiaries ("Nokia") seeking damages stemming from purchases of liquid crystal displays.			1. Timeline 			In November 2009, Nokia filed lawsuits in the United States and United Kingdom against Epson and its subsidiary companies including Epson Imaging Devices Corporation alleging violations of antitrust and competition laws. Epson has denied liability and vigorously defended the lawsuits. Because of the ongoing impacts of the lawsuits on its business and the expense of continuing litigation, however, the company has determined that settlement of the litigation is in Epson's best interests.			2. Details of settlement 			Epson will pay Nokia the sum of US$80 million in full settlement of Nokia's claims, and Nokia will discontinue all related lawsuits filed against Epson and its global affiliates.			3. Impact on business results 			Epson will, because of this settlement, post an extraordinary loss in its business results for the third quarter of the fiscal year ending March 2012. However, after evaluating factors such as recent business trends and prospects for extraordinary profits and losses going forward, Epson has decided to stand by its full-year forecast announced on November 14. 
 