
Momentum, it's not only useful for keeping things going, it's the name of Sennheiser's consumer range of handsome headphones. So far, the cans in this line have been over-ear affairs, but that changes today. Now, the on-ear crew have a pair of Momentums to call their own. If things look familiar, but just a little bit smaller, that's because they are pretty much an exact replica of the originals, all the way down to the audio innards, too. What is different, however, is the choice of colors you get. Sennheiser has spent time researching what this year's big tonal trends are going to be, and the results are what you'll be able to choose from on launch: pistachio, cream, blue and pink. So, fancy some Momentum, without the over-ear bulk? You should be able to take your pick some time later this month. At what price? Expect about £169.99 in the UK (US price to come).



Show full PR textWhen Style and Sound CollideSennheiser launches first ever colour range upping the audio specialists' style credentialsLondon 9 July 2013: Today Sennheiser launches the latest addition to the MOMENTUM family in a range of on-trend colours in a new compact on-ear design.Injecting vibrant blue, pink, green and cream colours into Sennheiser's range of headphones, the new MOMENTUM On-Ear is crafted from the finest materials and inspired by a team of international design experts and trend scouts.The new compact MOMENTUM On-Ear headphones are stylish without compromising on sound quality. Incorporating a high performance transducer system which offers uncompromising rich and detailed sound performance with a slight bass emphasis, these headphones deliver a technically advanced audio experience you would expect from the Sennheiser brand.The new headphones feature a headband and earpads finished in high-tech Alcantara®, a specialised luxury material loved by yacht and automotive upholsterers for its unique combination of softness, durability, and breathable comfort, whilst giving the wearer a great listening experience on the move, even in noisy urban environments. Lightweight sliders of premium brushed stainless steel complete the high end look and a single sided detachable cable with in-line remote and mic for Apple iDevices means easy control for music, making and receiving calls.The MOMEMTUM On-Ears are priced at £169.99 and will be available from John Lewis or via Sennheiser's online store from mid-July


