
 
 Sennheiser is busting out a pair of personal audio products worth boasting about at this year's IFA. First up is the very fashionable Momentum, a pair of chrome and leather cans that take cues from the Amperior reference design, with a 3.5mm stereo lead and optional smart remote. However, if you're in the market for something a little less visible, the company's CX 890i earphones are coated in a "glass-like" finish that offers "outstanding" passive noise attenuation -- sparing you jacking up the volume to avoid your co-workers bickering. Both sets are available in the UK from September, with the Momentum costing £260 and the CX 890i (pictured after the break) a more modest £120.

 Update: The Momentum will be available in the US later this fall, setting you back $350.



 

  Show full PR text   Experience sound with all your senses - MOMENTUM, the new headphones from Sennheiser
   Perfect sound can be heard, felt and seen: the new MOMENTUM from Sennheiser's Style Selection combines an excellent sound experience with high-quality material and minimalist style. The new headphones are the perfect choice for anyone unwilling to compromise on sound quality and style.

   The MOMENTUM's minimalist design resolutely cuts out anything superfluous, making the headphones appear understated and stylish.

   The high-quality, predominantly natural materials emphasise the headphones' pure aesthetics. Design and luxurious textures combined to create headphones that are the ultimate in comfort and feel. The headband and earpads are worked from soft and supple leather of the finest quality from traditional English tannery Pittards and are complemented by a headband slider crafted of premium stainless steel.

   Pure sound experience

   The MOMENTUM's sound is like its design: pure and unadulterated. Sennheiser made use of established technologies from the high-end headphone sector to ensure a clear stereo sound with excellent detail.

   A 3.5mm stereo plug means the MOMENTUM can be connected to all current media players. For Apple products such as the iPad, iPhone and iPod there is an additional cable with integrated smart remote and microphone. Buttons set into the elegant metal casing allow you to adjust the volume, select music titles, take phone calls and activate voice control or personal assistant features. And the full size ear cups mean you can relax and enjoy your favourite sounds wherever and whenever you like.

   "Our passion for perfection is apparent not only in the outstanding technology used in the MOMENTUM but also in its modern, distinctive design and selected premium materials," says Dominic Feeney, product manager at Sennheiser UK. "With striking yet minimalistic design, it makes the MOMENTUM the perfect accessory for those keen to display a passion for quality audio with a discreet and stylish authority."

   The MOMENTUM can first be seen at this year's IFA. It will be available from selected Sennheiser sales partners including John Lewis and HMV from September at an RRP of £259.99.

   Perfect sound never looked so good - Introducing the new CX 890i from Sennheiser

   Sennheiser has announced the launch of a brand new premium headset, the CX 890i. Bringing together renowned Sennheiser technology, innovative materials and revolutionary design, the new CX 890i ear-canal headset features a glass-like finish with metal detailing to create a distinctive, minimalistic style.

   The headset comes in two colour variants – black and white – with a matching cable for each colour. To make sure that the headphones are ready for use at any time, they have been fitted with a 3.5mm stereo jack, and the nominal impedance has been reduced for optimum connection to mobile players.

   "The new Sennheiser CX 890i earphones are a perfect combination of top-quality sound and sophisticated design," explained Dominic Feeney Product Manager at Sennheiser UK. "They deliver sound to the renowned Sennheiser quality standards. High-performance dynamic transducers produce a true-to-nature sound with a highly detailed resolution.

   "The glassy material creates an unusually smooth surface and domed appearance. Ear adapters in various sizes and fitting colours are also provided with the headset."

   But it doesn't just stop with good looks. The CX 890i combines the signature Sennheiser sound with a frequency response between 17 and 23,000 hertz, plus an integrated smart remote control and microphone – especially for iPad, iPhone and iPod users. This can be used not only to adjust the volume and select tracks, but also to take phone calls and activate the voice control or personal assistant features. Simultaneously, outstanding passive noise attenuation guarantees undisturbed listening whatever your environment.

   The new CX 890i earphones are available from September through selected Sennheiser sales partners including Dixon and HMV at an RRP of £119.99.

 
