
 
 Taking the "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" approach, German audio equipment maker Sennheiser is reintroducing its Momentum headphones in black. Aside from its Batmanesque color scheme, these are the same sleek set of cans that we got up close and personal with at last year's IFA. A lightweight marriage of stainless steel and buttery smooth sheepskin leather, the Momentum Black features a flexible 3.5mm audio jack -- with sexy red accents on the cups, cable and headband stitching -- simple inline audio controls and a built-in microphone for taking phone calls. If you're into expensive toys and are working with Bruce Wayne's budget, these black beauties can be yours this month for $350.




  Show full PR text   Back to Black  Sennheiser launches sleek MOMENTUM Black headphones
   Las Vegas, 6 January 2013 – Sennheiser reimagines its acclaimed MOMENTUM headphones with the launch of the new MOMENTUM Black. Featuring a sleek look, MOMENTUM black combines pure design and uncompromising performance with the signature blacks of this season's fashion collections.

   The MOMENTUM black is the beautiful new addition to Sennheiser's Style Selection. Following close on the release of the successful MOMENTUM, MOMENTUM Black delivers a perfect fusion of style and substance; urban design that promises no compromise on sound.

   Minimal black designs are dominating the latest collections from the leading fashion houses. The look of right now is dark and sophisticated; with elegant silhouettes that emphasise purity and subtly accentuate textures and fine materials. This is the world of the MOMENTUM Black, which marries an elegant headband slider of premium stainless steel with earpads and a headband worked from soft and supple leather of the finest quality. A pure design, reimagined with black leather and coolly contrasting subtle red stitching that's very much of the moment.

   Beneath its stylish exterior, the MOMENTUM Black headphones refuse to compromise on sound quality. Sennheiser has taken technologies from its high-end headphone range to ensure a clear sound with excellent detail.

   "Combining form and function is key to the allure of the MOMENTUM. It's a formula that has proved successful with critics and discerning music lovers alike and its now coming in a black version, with a new look that takes the premium sound experience to the world of fashion", said Maurice Quarré, Director Product Lifecycle Management at Sennheiser Consumer Electronics.

   People love them for how they look and also for how they feel: high-quality, predominantly natural materials; ensure these headphones offer the ultimate in comfort for hours of listening. Other smart touches include the circumaural ear cups that insulate the listener from noisy urban environments, and an optional cable with a smart remote and microphone for taking and receiving calls and controlling the music on Apple devices. The MOMENTUM from Sennheiser is the perfect companion around town: Experience sound in style.

   The MOMENTUM Black can be seen first at CES. It will be available through selected Sennheiser sales partners from January. The MOMENTUM in brown is already available.

   The Sennheiser Group, with its headquarters in Wedemark near Hanover, Germany, is one of the world's leading manufacturers of microphones, headphones and wireless transmission systems. The family-owned company, which was established in 1945, recorded sales of around €531 million in 2011. Sennheiser employs more than 2,100 people worldwide, and has manufacturing plants in Germany, Ireland and the USA. The company is represented worldwide by subsidiaries in France, Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark (Nordic), Russia, Hong Kong, India, Singapore, Japan, China, Canada, Mexico and the USA, as well as by long-term trading partners in many other countries. Also part of the Sennheiser Group are Georg Neumann GmbH, Berlin (studio microphones and monitor loudspeakers), and the joint venture Sennheiser Communications A/S (headsets for PCs, offices and call centres).

   You can find all the latest information on Sennheiser by visiting www.sennheiser.com.

 
