
 
Sennheiser is well known in the slightly more budget-conscious wing of the audiophile community for selling great headsets at prices that won't drop your credit rating by more than a few points. Of late the company has been making waves in the gaming community as well by throwing microphones onto those cans, and now four new models are shaking the pool even more. First and biggest is the $299 PC 360, available overseas for a few months but finally hitting the US and building upon the success of the PC 350. It looks to borrow the open design of the company's well regarded HD555 headset, adding a mic on the left that mutes itself when you pivot it up and a volume dial on the right. The $239 PC 333D model offers a similar design but with more isolating closed cups, mixing in pseudo 7.1 Dolby Headphone, while the $169 PC 330 looks much the same minus the faux surround. Finally, and smallest of the bunch, is the $209 PC 163D, which again offers pretends at 7.1 but in a design that might be a little more... flattering for gamers with smallish heads. None is exactly affordable, but all should rock your world, and all are available now.





Show full PR textSennheiser launches an arsenal of innovative gaming headsetsNew flagship model and two surround-sound headsets for 3D gamingOLD LYME, Conn. – October 26, 2010: Audio specialist Sennheiser Communications introduces a new line of headsets designed for hardcore gamers. Heading up the line is the PC 360-the new flagship headset for pro gamers featuring Sennheiser's acclaimed Open-Aire™ acoustics and an innovative microphone mute control. For an even more intense gaming experience, the PC 163D and PC 333D are equipped with Dolby® Headphone technology for immersive 7.1 surround sound virtualization. Rounding out the line, the PC 330 G4ME delivers DJ-inspired performance and quality for enthusiasts who take LAN parties as seriously as the professionals.The Sennheiser PC 360 gaming headsetPC 360: Designed for pro gamers As the follow-up to the hugely successful PC 350, the Sennheiser PC 360 has a lot to live up to-and it doesn't disappoint. Sennheiser Open-Aire speaker technology and a top-notch noise-canceling microphone deliver outstanding hi-fi performance. Although the velvety-soft ear pads and large ear cups fully cover the ears, their open design prevents the artificial sound that can take the shine off even the most intense session. The natural sound also enhances music, movies and internet telephony. But it's the open acoustics and intuitive controls that will really get gamers' pulses racing. The open design creates a more lifelike soundscape by allowing sound waves to expand and contract as they would in nature, and ensures continuous airflow to keep users cool. A quick-access volume control is integrated onto the right ear cup, allowing gamers to make volume adjustments quickly without breaking their concentration. To mute the microphone, just raise the boom.The Sennheiser PC 163D gaming headset PC 163D: A new dimension in 3D gaming at homeSennheiser Communications' PC 163D headset thrusts players headfirst into an extraordinary home gaming experience. The combination of powerful Sennheiser sound and Dolby® Headphone technology enables gamers to distinguish aural cues from all directions- not just left and right. The virtual 7.1 channel, 360-degree coverage allows players to hear footsteps behind a wall or detect the opponent's position-allowing them to stay steps ahead of the competition. Sennheiser Communications brought in professional gaming team mTw to fine-tune every last detail of the PC 163D-and it shows. Professional gamer Christoffer Sunde explains the benefits of 7.1-channel surround virtualization: "Thanks to the fantastic multi-channel experience, we can now pinpoint the in-game competitor just by the sound." The PC 163D is equipped with a noise-canceling microphone, ensuring your voice comes across clearly. An adjustable boom offers more comfort and flexibility during the game. The design, too, makes the PC 163D comfortable to use. The open build keeps players aware of what's going on around them and guarantees continuous airflow to the ears. An integrated volume control allows gamers to adjust volume levels on the fly.The Sennheiser PC 333D gaming headset PC 333D: The new dimension in 3D tournament gamingThe PC 333D could be a game changer. For Sennheiser Communications, it's certainly a statement of intent: to take professional-standard gaming and 3D movies to a new level of realism using high-end multi-channel technology. The PC 333D aims to bring the virtual soundscape alive with 7.1-channel surround sound simulation powered by Dolby® Headphone technology. For FPS enthusiasts used to the basic sound orientation of two-channel headsets, it's a huge sensory jump. The ultra-realism of multi-channel audio is not only enhanced by the closed-acoustic design, but also the excellent quality of the PC 333D's speakers. The overall effect is a much more intense and immersive gaming experience. The PC 333D helps gamers register crucial sounds, and gain a better impression of where and how far away opponents are, and which way they are moving. Movie lovers will appreciate the extraordinary sound, which catapults them right into the action. It's no exaggeration to say that the PC 333D takes the gaming and movie experience to a whole new level. Sennheiser Communications' tie-in with the world-class gamers at mTw clearly had a big influence on the professional look and feel of the PC 333D. One ear cup is fitted with a clever "DJ Hinge" that users can single-handedly swivel up to talk to people around them. The microphone automatically mutes when the boom is raised. In-game communication with teammates is just as comfortable and intuitive. The volume control is located directly on one ear cup for easy access, and a professional standard noise-canceling microphone delivers Sennheiser-grade calls and chats, even at raucous LAN events.PC 330 G4ME: A high-performance headset designed for your G4METhe noise of mass gaming sessions is always a challenge, but Sennheiser Communications has designed a great solution: a clever ear-cup design that strikes the balance between immersion and communication. The PC 330 features closed acoustics, so gamers can completely shut out their surroundings for full-on action. To talk to neighbors directly, just flip up the right ear cup like DJs do in a club. Other convenient features include automatic microphone mute, which is triggered when the boom is raised, and a volume control built right into the right ear cup.Of course, the PC 330 features trademark Sennheiser stereo sound quality and a high-end noise-canceling microphone that makes it easy to chat uninterrupted online. Pricing and availability The PC 360 ($299.95), PC 163D ($209.95), PC 333D ($239.95) and PC 330 ($169.95) are available now. Visit www.sennheiserusa.com for stores.About Sennheiser CommunicationsSennheiser Communications is the result of a joint venture between the electro acoustics specialist Sennheiser Electronic GmbH & Co. KG and the hearing healthcare specialist William Demant Holding Group. Decades of experience in pro music and hearing healthcare has helped the seven-year-old company produce award-winning, innovative headsets.About SennheiserSennheiser is a world-leading manufacturer of microphones, headphones and wireless transmission systems. Established in 1945 in Wedemark, Germany, Sennheiser has grown into a global brand represented in over sixty countries through wholly owned subsidiaries and long-term distribution partners. Sennheiser is proud to be affiliated with Georg Neumann, purveyor of world-leading studio microphones, and joint venture Sennheiser Communications, which brings its award winning technology to headsets for gaming, mobile phones and PCs. Sennheiser's pioneering advancements in technology has rewarded the brand with numerous awards and accolades including an Emmy, a Grammy and the Scientific and Engineering Award of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. For more information, please visit www.sennheiserusa.com.
 