
 

Here at CES, Sennheiser's just unveiled its latest duo of headphones set to please audiophiles at home and on the go. First up is the company's HD 700, which at a glance, appears to be a suave hybrid of its esteemed HD 800 and 650 reference cans. If you've lusted after the HD 800, but couldn't stomach the $1,500 price, you'll be happy to know that the HD 700 can be yours for a cool (albeit still wallet-thinning) 1,000 smackers. Notably, these 150-Ohm, open-backed headphones are loaded with 40mm Duofol dynamic drivers, and are capable of an impressive 10Hz to 42kHz frequency response. Next up, its Amperior supra-aural headphones take the already portable HD 25 DJ 'phones, and spices 'em up with an iDevice-compatible inline remote / mic, updated specs and aluminum, closed-back earcups. While there's no word on pricing just yet for the We're told that the Amperior will sell for $350, and it'll hit shelves along with the HD700 this March. HiFi audio lovers will find a detailed rundown of each unit's ear-tingling specs in the press releases after the break.
 

  			Show full PR text  Excitement for your ears 			Sennheiser unveils its HD 700 high-end headphones 			Las Vegas, 10 January 2012 – Sennheiser's high-end world has plenty of excitement to offer. At this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the audio specialist is unveiling a set of new premium headphones, the HD 700. These fully open dynamic stereo headphones combine high-end sound with an innovative headphone design. 			"The HD 700 features a perfect combination of outstanding acoustic properties and sophisticated product design," said Maurice Quarré, Director Product Lifecycle Management Sennheiser Consumer Electronics. "Its styling and material selection have been thought through down to the finest detail in order to fully exploit the sound potential of the acoustic unit." 			The ear cups are designed in such a way that the sound waves are directed to the ears at a slight angle. This results in an impressively natural listening experience. The ear cups themselves have a completely open design. This not only ensures a highly transparent sound but also clearly displays the "heart" of these exciting headphones: the 40 mm Duofol transducer. Its powerful neodymium magnet systems guarantee detailed, lifelike audio reproduction from 10 to 42,000 Hz. 			Small details for a great sound 			"To ensure that the acoustic properties of the headphones are not impaired by any partial vibrations, the transducer is mounted in a high-precision gauze made of stainless steel, as is the case in the HD 800 reference headphones," explained Axel Grell, Senior Acoustic Engineer at Sennheiser. A new patent-pending feature is the special shape of the gauze, which continues the curved lines of the diaphragm. The resulting curvature reduces the volume of air beneath the diaphragm, thus guaranteeing even more precise control of the diaphragm motion and significantly lowering total harmonic distortion. 			The endeavour to fully exploit the sound potential of the premium headphones led to a further small but effective innovation: a ventilated magnet system. The idea is actually quite simple. "The up and down motion of the diaphragm produces an air flow in the magnet system housing that causes the diaphragm to wobble slightly," explained Axel Grell. "By positioning precisely defined holes in the housing directly under the magnets, we can cause the air to flow in a specific direction. This minimises the wobbling motion of the diaphragm." And the result is impressive: with total harmonic distortion of less than 0.03 percent (at 1 kHz and 105 dB sound pressure level), the HD 700 offers brilliant trebles, precise bass reproduction and a crystal-clear sound. Dips in the bass level are effectively suppressed by the patent-pending multilayer design of the headband. 			Designed to meet the highest demands 			A sleek shape and the black-and-silver finish give the high-end headphones not only a luxuriously elegant but also a high-tech appearance. The ear cushions made of high-quality microfibre fabric guarantee excellent wearing comfort. "The HD 700 fulfils all the wishes of the most demanding music lovers, both in its visual appearance and its outstanding sound quality," said Maurice Quarré. "Its warm, balanced and detailed sound turns classical music, jazz, rock or soul into a fascinating listening experience. High-end fans are bound to be delighted by these exciting new premium headphones." 			The new HD 700 will be available in shops from March and carries a street price of $999.95. 			Technical Data 			Transducer principle: dynamic, open 			Ear coupling: circumaural 			Frequency response: 10 – 42,000 Hz 			Nominal impedance: 150 ohms 			Sound pressure level (SPL): 105 dB (1 kHz, 1 V) 			Total harmonic distortion (THD): < 0.03 % (1 kHz, 1 V) 			Jack plug: straight ¼"(6.3 mm) stereo 			Weight without cable: approx. 273 g 			Cable length: 3 m   Legendary Sound. Urban Style. 			The new Amperior from Sennheiser 			Las Vegas, 10 January 2011 – Not prepared to make compromises? For all those who don't want to decide between perfect sound and cool design, Sennheiser is now taking their star headphones from the club scene onto the streets. Based on the legendary HD 25 DJ headphones, the audio specialist is launching the Amperior in an exciting aluminium finish. And to make sure that the headphones are ready for use at any time, they have been optimised for connection to an iPad, iPhone and iPod*, and are equipped with a microphone for easy telephoning. The unique combination offers the best of both worlds in terms of sound and design. 			"The Sennheiser HD 25 is already a legend on the DJ scene. It has been one of the most popular monitoring headphones for over 20 years, and has become an essential piece of equipment in the world's most famous clubs," said Maurice Quarré, Director Product Lifecycle Management Sennheiser Consumer Electronics. The success story is now being continued. "The Amperior lets even the most demanding music fans experience club sound wherever they go. And the luxurious aluminium finish proves that professional sound and elegant design can absolutely go together," Maurice Quarré continued. 			Inspired by DJs 			The rugged headphones can cope with an extremely high sound pressure level and offer professional-level sound. Powerful neodymium magnets provide natural, lifelike sound reproduction with a frequency response of 16 to 22,000 Hertz. The closed design reliably keeps out background noise, while the adjustable headband and low weight ensure a comfortable fit. The ear cups can be rotated for the classic DJ monitoring style: one-sided listening. 			Designed for the street 			Your browser may not support display of this image. The star of the club scene is now hitting the streets in its attractive new outfit. With its luxurious aluminium finish in silver or blue, it will become just as much a part of your life style as your music or your favourite shirt. The DJ headphones are equipped with a 3.5 millimetre stereo jack plug and the nominal impedance has been reduced to allow optimum connection to portable players. For those who want to control Apple products such as an iPad, iPhone or iPod directly, an additional cable with an integrated smart remote is included. This can be used not only to regulate the volume and select tracks but also to take phone calls and activate the voice control feature. "The Amperior offers everything you need for a unique sound experience when you're out and about. It's the perfect combination of sound, style and functionality – without compromises," Maurice Quarré explained. 			The new Amperior will be available in shops beginning in March, pricing information to follow. 			Technical Data: 			Transducer principle Dynamic, closed 			Ear coupling Supra-aural 			Frequency response: 16 – 22,000 Hz 			Impedance: 18 ohms 			Max. sound pressure level: 120 dB (1kHz) 			Total harmonic distortion (THD): <0.3% (1kHz / 100dB) 			Weight (without cable): 190 g 			Cable length: 1.2 m headphone cable and 0.9 m additional detachable cable with integrated remote control 
 