
       
After a trial period, Sezmi is finally available to those looking for a way out from under overloaded and overpriced cable and satellite TV packages. $299 fetches the Sezmi System, with 1TB HD Media Recorder, OTA antenna and remote, then choose either a $5/month Select Service plan limited to whatever broadcast networks you can pull in plus IPTV sources and VOD (YouTube, CinemaNow, etc.) or the Sezmi Select Plus package at $19.99 which adds familiar premium networks including USA, CNN, MTV, Syfy and more, also delivered over antenna. In case you like what you're hearing, all that traditional TV and internet content gets blended together in the company's unique UI (check out our CES 2010 hands-on for a preview) that can be personalized for each person in the house. Of course the revolution isn't without its downsides, it's currently only available in the L.A. area (Select Service goes nationwide this spring, with Plus expansions planned for the summer) while a lack of ESPN and no HD on any of the premium channels will serve to kill its appeal for some. Don't plan on grabbing one at the Burbank Buy More either since it's a Best Buy exclusive for now, but if your zip code and TV watching needs fit the description then check out the introduction video and press release embedded after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textSezmi Personal TV Service Now Available in Los Angeles Best Buy StoresFirst-Ever All-in-One Service Integrates Live TV, On-Demand Movies and Programs, and Web Video; Breakthrough Pricing Starting at Less Than $5 a MonthBELMONT, Calif. --(Business Wire)-- Feb 18, 2010 Sezmi today announced an introductory release of its all-in-one television service, available in the greater Los Angeles area exclusively through Best Buy (NYSE: BBY). The first-of-its-kind personal TV service seamlessly integrates live television, on-demand movies and television shows, and web videos in an easily self-installed system that automatically records, recommends and organizes the favorite shows of each individual member of the family.People throughout Los Angeles and parts of Orange, San Bernardino and Riverside Counties can purchase the system and sign up for a Sezmi service plan at one of many Best Buy store locations or online through www.bestbuy.com. Los Angeles area residents can determine if their home is within Sezmi's service coverage area at www.sezmi.com.Buno Pati, co-founder and chief executive officer of Sezmi, said, "Consumers have been clamoring for a better way to view their favorite shows, movies and web videos in a seamless way, and at an affordable price. Today, Sezmi is making that a reality with the first self-installed, all-in-one home television service that delivers leading cable networks live and on-demand with the easiest access to broadcast, on-demand and online entertainment.""The Sezmi personalized experience makes our rapidly expanding collection of content uniquely accessible and easily discoverable on the primary television screen. Our ability to automatically organize and display content for each individual in the household is a real game changer," said Phil Wiser, co-founder and president of Sezmi.The Sezmi System can be purchased for $299 and includes an HD Media Recorder that automatically organizes live, recorded, on-demand and online content and can store up to 1,400 hours of programming. It also includes an advanced indoor television reception system for receiving local HD broadcast channels and Sezmi's programming lineup of cable channels. Finally the system includes a remote control featuring personal "mi" buttons for each member of the family to quickly discover and enjoy the programming they care about most.Flexible Value Pricing for a Next-Generation ServiceSezmi offers two service plans – Select and Select Plus – that deliver a premium, next-generation entertainment experience on a subscription basis and provide access to a large volume of pay-as-you-go movies and TV shows and a large collection of free on-demand content. The difference between the plans is the amount of live and on-demand cable network programming included.Sezmi Select customers receive local broadcast channels through the Sezmi advanced reception system, including the major broadcast networks such as ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, MyNetwork, PBS, Azteca, Telefutura, Telemundo and Univision. Sezmi Select also provides convenient access to a wide selection of local programming, which varies by market but may include sports, weather, ethnic and even children's programming.Additionally, Sezmi Select includes the rich on-demand store that features thousands of free and pay-as-you-go movies and shows from top studios, including popular television programs, documentaries and blockbuster films, many of which Sezmi features on the same day as the DVD release.Combined with access to rich Internet content such as YouTube and video podcasts, Sezmi Select is a highly attractive service that meets the needs of a large percentage of the U.S. population at a monthly subscription cost of only $4.99. The Sezmi Select customers also will receive ongoing guide updates, web video additions, and enhancements to the HD Media Recorder.Sezmi Select Plus Includes Favorite Cable ChannelsSezmi Select Plus provides all of the content and features of Sezmi Select and adds live and on-demand programming from leading cable and broadcast networks for a total monthly subscription price of only $19.99. The cable content lineup features popular cable channels and shows including many choices viewers cannot find in typical television services, resulting from Sezmi's unique ability to seamlessly integrate traditional live programming with emerging broadband digital offerings. As a result, the Sezmi platform gives content providers a new way to offer their entire range of content.Market Expansion to Begin in Late SpringThe Los Angeles launch marks the first phase of Sezmi's rollout across the U.S. Sezmi plans to make the Select Service available nationwide in the spring of this year. Sezmi is also adding more cable entertainment content to its Select Plus lineup and plans to offer it in additional markets beyond Los Angeles beginning this summer.
 