
 
We hadn't heard much from Sezmi since its February launch, but in "response to consumer demand" it is expanding the availability of its box and $5 / month Sezmi Select package to Boston; Detroit; Houston; Kansas City, Mo.; Phoenix; Portland, Ore.; Miami, Orlando and Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; and San Francisco. That means users can make use of the combo broadcast TV / over the top video box and its various IPTV services, plus whatever OTA channels are available, but at least for the moment, you'll still need a Los Angeles address to pull in the Plus-only premium channels. It's also touting a software update that added "Entertainment Zones," pulling content from various sources together in one spot, but without any access to premium channels it would seem like the market for a $299 set-top box would be limited. The $20 Sezmi Select Plus lineup is still slated for an expansion "later this year," we'll wait for some sales numbers to indicate great its initial success really is.
      

 

Show full PR textSezmi Responds to Consumer Demand with Expanded Market AvailabilityBELMONT, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sezmi, an all-in-one personalized television service, today announced plans for expanded market availability of the Sezmi Select product – giving consumers in many U.S. markets access to the first ever complete alternative to cable and satellite TV."We have experienced an ongoing stream of requests for the product in other markets and are thrilled to start meeting this increasing demand now in more cities across the country."This market expansion builds on the successful service introduction in Los Angeles and a recent major service upgrade for Sezmi subscribers. The new upgrade includes new Entertainment Zones, online browsing of the Sezmi on-demand catalog and many other new features and performance enhancements.In response to strong consumer demand across the U.S., Sezmi is launching its entry-level Sezmi Select offering this week in Boston; Detroit; Houston; Kansas City, Mo.; Phoenix; Portland, Ore.; Miami, Orlando and Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; and San Francisco. Customers can order their Sezmi system and subscribe for the service online at www.sezmi.com."We have seen great initial success in Los Angeles. We have strong consumer interest and outstanding subscriber satisfaction," said Sezmi Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Buno Pati. "We have experienced an ongoing stream of requests for the product in other markets and are thrilled to start meeting this increasing demand now in more cities across the country."The Sezmi Select offering delivers a breakthrough experience for digital broadcast TV consumers. This entry-level offering combines the Sezmi industry-leading digital TV receiver with a smart, personalized DVR. The product seamlessly combines the broadcast content with a large collection of movies from top Hollywood studios, on-demand TV from leading broadcast and cable providers, and video from YouTube and other online content providers.The market expansion builds on the recently updated Sezmi service that is now available to Los Angeles subscribers. One of the key benefits of this latest service update is the addition of Entertainment Zones. Entertainment Zones aggregate live, recorded and on-demand programs, movies, web videos and podcasts, plus upcoming TV listings into one easy-to-navigate interface. In particular, Entertainment Zones enable broadcasters, TV stations and other entertainment providers to deliver a branded interactive entertainment experience that is always just one click away on the television screen.Sezmi Select and the Sezmi Select Plus package, which includes a rich selection of top cable channels, are currently available in the Greater Los Angeles Area, including parts of Orange, San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, at many Best Buy store locations or online through www.bestbuy.com. Sezmi also plans market expansion of Sezmi Select Plus later this year.Additional ResourcesFollow us on Twitter: www.twitter.com/sezmiFind us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/sezmi#!/pages/Sezmi/164405566900?ref=tsWatch us on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/mysezmiAbout SezmiSezmi Corporation is redefining the television viewing experience by combining traditional TV content, movies and internet video, in a single easy‐to‐use product and service. Designed from the ground up with next-generation TV functionality, Sezmi puts consumers in total control with a personalized on‐demand viewing experience. Sezmi is working with broadcast and broadband partners, content providers and advertising industries to create a new TV choice for consumers. For more information, visit www.sezmi.com. 
 