
 
 You know what they say: bigger is always better. With that in mind, Sharp's taken the wraps off of its flagship 90-inch AQUOS LED TV, and in the process dubs it the world's largest (sorry, 80-incher). At first glance, this enormous smart television is everything you'd imagine and more, led, naturally, in large part by that gorgeous 90-inch (diagonally) LED screen. Sharp's new AQUOS measures in at 4 feet in height, 5-inches in thickness and weighs in at a mere 141 pounds (without the stand). The company's also done a nice job of stuffing a good amount of software inside the 1080p-capable AQUOS, including apps such as Netflix, Hulu and Vudu. Additionally, Sharp is throwing in a pair of three-dee glasses, which should come in handy during your precious movie night with the family. Best of all, it's up for grabs now, but prepare your wallet to take a major hit, as you'll have to shell out $11,000 to get one of these in your living room. While you think that over, there's a glorious picture gallery for everyone's viewing pleasure down below, and the official presser right past the break. 



 
  Show full PR text   SHARP INTRODUCES THE LARGEST TV ON THE PLANET
   The Incredible 90" Class Sharp AQUOS® LED TV is Available Now

   MAHWAH, NJ (June 19, 2012) - Imagine yourself standing at the precipice of the Grand Canyon. It's 3,000 feet straight down. The wind howls in your ears. Your heart races as you leap forward and plummet toward the bottom. Just before you plunge into the river below...you spill the popcorn all over the living room couch. That's the experience you'll get when watching the breathtaking 90" (diagonal) AQUOS LED TV (model LC-90LE745U), introduced today by Sharp.  Standing majestically at nearly 4 feet tall and spanning 6 feet and 8 inches wide, the 90" AQUOS is the world's largest LED TV. Its picture quality is as stunning as its size, displaying crisp and clear content at the highest HD resolution available of 1080p. Sit as close as you like, and see colors pop and never before seen details become visible. Sports and action sequences are as big as life.  Despite its size, the TV is thin and light. Weighing only 141 lbs (without stand) and at less than 5 inches deep, it's easy to mount on a wall. And with LED technology it's so energy efficient; it uses less energy than two 75-watt light bulbs and averages only $28 per year to operate.  The 90" class AQUOS features Sharp's proprietary SmartCentral, offering direct access to the most popular apps and video on demand from services like Netflix®, YouTube, CinemaNow®, Hulu Plus and VUDUTM. It also has web browsing and Skype* capability and built-in Wi-Fi.**  "Our 90" class LED smart TV offers size, picture quality and smart functionality unlike anything consumers have experienced with LED TVs to-date," said John Herrington, president, Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America. "You can now experience Sharp AQUOS like never before."  Sharp's new 90" class LED TV is a full HD active 3DTV and two 3D glasses are included. It is also equipped with AquoMotion 240, to make fast-action motions seamless, without blurring - a great feature when watching action movies or sports which feature lots of quick camera movements.  Like all new Wi-Fi enabled Sharp TVs, the LC-90LE745U features AQUOS Advantage LIVESM - a free service for owners which connects them directly over the Internet to trained customer support representatives. These advisors can remotely assist with set-up and settings management directly over the Internet and phone, offering an "in- home" technician to help problem solve any question or issue.  The LC-90LE745U is available now at select retailers for a suggested retail price of $10,999.99 (US).  For more information on AQUOS TVs and Sharp's full line of consumer products visit sharpusa.com, contact Sharp Electronics Corporation, 1 Sharp Plaza, Mahwah, NJ, 07495-1163, or call 800-BE-SHARP.

 
