
 
 Sharp announced a 32-inch AQUOS Ultra HD set at CES complementing the other TV launches for this year. Set to debut sometime mid year, the 240Hz 4K panel will feature a 4K upscaler, active 3D with Bluetooth 3D glasses, built in WiFi and a subwoofer to boot. No word on pricing but we'll get back with that as soon as we're able.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text    Sharp Introduces Ultra High-Resolution Displays with the Industry's Thinnest¹ Design

   New Series includes two 32" class models – one of which provides 10-point multi-touch functionality  2013 International CES  Booth 10916

   LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--This week at CES in Las Vegas, Sharp Imaging and Information Company of America, a division of Sharp Electronics Corporation, is presenting its new 32" class professional LCD monitor series, which features Sharp's ground-breaking IGZO™ technology and touts 3840 x 2160 pixel resolution.

   "As we introduce Sharp's proprietary IGZO technology into the first series of professional display products, we continue to drive innovation with game-changing functionality"

   According to industry research, demand for Ultra High-Definition displays, commonly referred to as "4K2K", is forecast to grow across numerous industries and verticals, including graphics and video editing and production, financial-services operations that require intensive use of graphs and small text, and computer aided design (CAD) professions that create detailed digital drawings or blueprints. The IGZO professional display series from Sharp delivers ultra high resolution (3,840 × 2,160 pixels), which is four times the pixel resolution of full 1080p high definition.

   "As we introduce Sharp's proprietary IGZO technology into the first series of professional display products, we continue to drive innovation with game-changing functionality," said Doug Albregts, president, Sharp Imaging and Information Company of America. "We are not only excited about the initial application of this new technology, but foresee broad usage throughout complementary industries where high definition viewing is demanded."

   Featuring much smaller thin-film transistors (TFTs) as compared to conventional displays, IGZO technology also significantly increases the amount of light transmitted per pixel. As a result, these advanced displays portray vibrant and crisp content with the ability to zoom in to examine the detail of a picture or text, or pan out to view content from a wider angle. This can help boost operational efficiency and reduce eyestrain by sparing users the need to scroll frequently.

   Combining Sharp's IGZO technology with a brilliant white, edge lit LED backlight system, these state-of-the-art monitors measure only 35 millimeters at their thickest point (that's less than an inch and a half), making them the industry's thinnest design in their class.(1)

   Additionally, the series is outfitted with two HDMI® ports and one DisplayPort interface which are both capable of using a single connector cable in order to transmit an ultra high resolution signal, helping to simplify cable management and reduce desktop clutter. Backed by Sharp's 3-year limited warranty, both models support landscape and portrait orientation and are designed for 24/7 operation.

   The series consists of two 32" class models that are differentiated by touch capability. One of the two models features 10-point multi-touch capability utilizing advanced projected capacitive technology. Its intuitive design is easy to use with either your fingers or the included stylus that enables precision, accuracy and smooth handwriting. The non-touch model will be available in February 2013 and the 10-point multi-touch model will be available shortly thereafter through Sharp's network of Pro AV dealers, distributors and integrators.

   ¹As of December 21, 2012 for 30-inch or larger 4K2K (3,840 × 2,160 pixels) monitors (based on Sharp research).

   For more information, please contact Sharp Electronics Corporation, Professional Display Division, Sharp Plaza, Mahwah, N.J. 07495-1163, call 866-4-VISUAL (866-484-7825) or e-mail ProLCD@SharpUSA.com.

   For more information on Sharp's CES announcements, please visit www.SharpUSANews.com. For online product information, visit Sharp's Web site at www.SharpUSA.com/monitors. Find us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and watch us on YouTube.

   About Sharp Electronics Corporation

   Sharp is the #1 brand in 60"+ Large Format Commercial Displays through B2B sales channels, according to NPD DisplaySearch Monthly Large Format Commercial Displays Report, October 2012. Sharp's professional and commercial displays are specially engineered for business applications and are offered in a wide range of sizes. From high-impact displays for digital signage, to our award-winning ultra-thin bezel video walls, to the innovative AQUOS BOARD™ interactive display systems, Sharp products help you communicate, collaborate, and disseminate information brilliantly.

   Sharp Electronics Corporation is the U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sharp Corporation, a worldwide developer of one-of-a-kind home entertainment products, appliances, networked multifunctional office solutions, solar energy solutions, LED lighting, and mobile communication and information tools.

   Sharp, IGZO and the IGZO logo, and related trademarks are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sharp Corporation and/or its affiliated companies. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

 
