
Sharp has just revealed the Aquos Ultra at CE Week, a 70-inch Ultra HDTV the company says is the only THX-certified 4K model on the market. Calling it the company's "best designed TV ever," Sharp said that it put the model through "four hundred rigorous performance tests" to gain the THX nod, which is meant to assure that content is reproduced as closely as possible. On top of the 3,840 x 2,160 pixel count, the model features advanced HD upscaling tech via a dual-core signal processor, pre-calibrated THX Movie viewing modes, a dual subwoofer system with 35 watts of sound output, Sharp's SmartCentral Smart TV platform and a flash-enabled web browser. You'll also be able to change channels or send video directly from your smartphone via the Beam app, and watch 3D films at 4K with the set's active shutter technology (two Bluetooth 3D glasses are included). If you're not dissuaded by the $8,000 price tag, it'll be up for grabs in mid-August -- check the PR and video after the break for more.




Show full PR textSHARP® UNVEILS AQUOS® ULTRA HD LED TV
The only THX® 4K Certified Ultra HD TV makes anything you watch, more crisp, more detailed, more stunning

MAHWAH, NJ, June 26, 2013 – Sharp Electronics Corporation today unveiled the new 70" class (69.5" diagonal) AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV (LC-70UD1U), the company's first Ultra High Definition (UHD) TV for the U.S. market. With four times the pixel resolution of high definition, the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV makes anything you watch, more crisp, more detailed, more stunning.The only television to receive the coveted THX® 4K certification, the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV enhances anything you watch today with impeccable detail and clarity.

"Sharp has a rich history of leading the electronics industry in innovation. Today we continue that tradition with the introduction of the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV," said John Herrington, President, Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America. "With four times the pixel resolution of HD, the 70 inch class AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV is our finest television ever."

Transform ordinary content into extraordinaryUltra HD TVs, sometimes referred to as 4K TVs, have more than eight million pixels (3840x2160). That's four times higher than today's high definition televisions, which have approximately two million pixels (1920x1080). To create the extra detail that Ultra HD enables, the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV utilizes an advanced upscaling technology that enhances anything you watch today with incredible detail and clarity.First, a dual-core processor fine-tunes the original signal for optimal picture quality. Next, the upscaler analyzes and interpolates the content to create a 4K (3840×2160) image. As a result, the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV produces a higher quality image that makes anything you watch more crisp, more detailed, more stunning. Movies, TV shows, video games, even YouTube videos are analyzed and digitally enriched, unlocking scores of hidden details.

Certified AmazingTo make it the best of the best, picture quality experts at Sharp and THX put the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV through four hundred rigorous performance tests; the AQUOS Ultra HD passed them all to achieve the industry's highest performance levels. All of this means that the Sharp AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV is the world's only TV with THX 4K certification. It's certified amazing.Created by experts in Hollywood, the coveted THX 4K certification sets the industry standard for image quality and consistency. THX 4K Certified displays contain pre-calibrated THX Movie viewing modes designed to deliver the picture quality of professional post production studios. THX also evaluates HD to 4K upconverting technology to ensure that the Ultra HD image maintains accuracy true to the original HD source, so you experience content the way it was intended. It's image clarity never before seen in a 4K (3840x2160) display.

For the story behind the AQUOS Ultra HD and THX 4K certification, a video is available on Sharp's YouTube page.

Intelligent and Elegant DesignThe AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV is the only Ultra HD TV available in the 70 inch (69.5" Diagonal) screen size class, the most popular 65"+ screen size. It's perfectly proportioned to make the most of virtually every space. Plus, its sleek frame with metallic black finish and modern open-base stand features an ingenious speakers in-front design that delivers a narrower footprint than its closest 65" competitor-even with five additional inches of screen size.Crafted to please the ears as well as the eyes, the six-speaker sound system – including separate mid-range and tweeters – along with Sharp's proprietary DuoBass dual subwoofer system, delivers a powerful 35 watts with clear voices, broad dynamic range, and deep bass.

Turn it off, and the TV still looks beautiful. Sharp's exclusive Wallpaper Mode turns the AQUOS Ultra HD LED into an elegant frame for photos or artwork with museum-like appearance and Ultra HD detail.

Surf. Watch. Interact. Ultra HD meets Smart TVThe AQUOS Ultra HD lets you connect to your favorite content instantly using Sharp's intuitive SmartCentral™ Smart TV Platform. Working through built-in Wi-Fi, SmartCentral™ streams movies and shows from Netflix, Hulu Plus and Vudu, videos from YouTube, and music through Pandora and Rhapsody. Plus, built-in social apps like Facebook and even Skype™* enable you to connect with friends on your large screen AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV for amazingly realistic interactions.Surf the web with Sharp's built-in Flash-enabled web browser. Or watch TV and browse the web at the same time with SmartCentral's exclusive split-screen experience.

With Sharp's smart Remote Control and Beam apps, the power to control your TV is always in your hands. Use your smart devices to change channels and adjust settings. Or send photos, movies and videos from your phone or tablet right to the big screen.

Connected to the FutureRounding out the impressive specs of the AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV is a comprehensive set of features befitting a flagship model. It features four HDMI inputs that accept native 4K (3840×2160) signals so your 4K experience expands along with tomorrow's 4K sources. 4K Photo Playback via a built-in SD-card reader and two USB ports means that for the first time, you can see the full resolution and detail captured in your 8MP photos. And Sharp's 4K 3D technology brings you twice the detail of passive 3D, so every scene comes alive for an intensely immersive experience. Two Bluetooth 3D glasses are included in the box.

Prices and AvailabilityThe AQUOS Ultra HD LED TV will ship to retailers nationwide in mid-August with a suggested retail price of $7,999.99

Find us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and watch us on YouTube.

About Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America (SEMCA)SEMCA is the U.S. consumer electronics sales and marketing arm of Sharp Corporation, a worldwide developer of one-of-a-kind home entertainment products, appliances, networked multifunctional office solutions, solar energy solutions, LED lighting and mobile communication and information tools. Leading products include AQUOS® LED TVs, Insight® Microwave Drawer® ovens, and Plasmacluster® air purifiers.


