
 

At its "Spectacularge" press conference today Sharp announced its new 70-inch LC-70LE732U is the largest LCD HDTV on the market . It sports Quattron four color pixels, full LED backlighting, Netflix, CinemaNow, Vudu Apps and DLNA access among its list of features, but no 3D. That will be remedied by one of the three additional models of 70-inch LCDs Sharp says it will ship this summer but in the meantime we're just enjoying a throwback to the heady days of 2006 when consumer LCDs were last found in this size range. Interested parties with enough green to cover the $3,799 MSRP should be able to order these at their local retailers, while the rest can gawk at the specs in the press release and hands-on shots. Oh, and as for those adjectives you'll see just past the break -- a preview of Sharp's marketing campaign, whose target customer has an "emotional" connection to the word big -- well, somewhere Freud is having a field day. 


 


Show full PR textSharp® Begins Shipping Its 70-Inch Class LC-70LE732U LED LCD TV; Largest LCD TV on the MarketCompany Announces It Will Ship 3 More 70" Class Models This SummerNEW YORK, NY--(Marketwire - April 13, 2011) - Sharp AQUOS® Quattron™ 70-inch screen size class (69 ½" diagonal) LC-70LE732U delivers 62% more screen area than 55-inch class TVsQuattron Quad Pixel Technology creates brighter images and reproduces more colors than any other LCD panel on the marketProvides built-in WiFi and a suite of network features and apps including CinemaNow™, Netflix®, VUDU™ and VUDU™ Apps, DLNA® video streaming and AQUOS Advantage Live(SM) customer serviceSharp Electronics Corporation today announces it is shipping its incredible 70-inch class (69 ½" diagonal) AQUOS Quattron LED LCD TV, model LC-70LE732U, the largest LCD television on the market with sixty-two percent more viewing area than a 55-inch model (the current top selling 50"+ screen size class). The LC-70LE732U is available at major electronics retailers nationwide for an MSRP of $3,799.99. The company also announced its plans to ship 3 more 70" class (69 ½" diagonal) LCD televisions this summer.With full HD 1080p resolution, full-array LED backlighting and Quattron Quad Pixel Technology, Sharp's enormous 70" class (69 ½" diagonal) LED LCD TV creates a viewing experience that cannot be matched. Built-in WiFi delivers convenient network functionality such as video streaming from the Internet and throughout the home, as well as Sharp's acclaimed AQUOS Advantage Live(SM) customer service."With our amazing 70-inch class (69 ½" diagonal) LED LCD television, we are redefining the term 'big screen TV' and delivering sixty-two percent more viewing area than a 55-inch model. There's nothing like it on the market today," said John Herrington, president, Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America. "Our production capabilities, which include the industry's only 10th Generation LCD factory, and proprietary technologies give us a tremendous advantage in supplying the market with superior large screen TVs, particularly those of 60-inch class plus screen sizes. It's one of the reasons why we are a leader in the large screen LCD market."Bigger Made BetterSharp's proprietary Quad Pixel Technology adds the color Y (yellow) to the three colors of R (red), G (green), and B (blue) of the traditional television pixel structure. This technology enables the reproduction of colors that have been impossible to portray using conventional LCD displays, such as the brass color of musical instruments. The addition of the yellow sub-pixel also allows more light to pass through to the panel. Sharp's advanced pixel control technology minimizes light leakage while offering a wider aperture to let more light through. The combination of these factors results in brighter, more vibrant images. Sharp's Quad Pixel Plus technology enables the processing of images with higher resolution and less jags in diagonal lines.The LC-70LE732U offers built-in WiFi and access to on-demand movies through Netflix®, VUDU and CinemaNow and to the best apps like Facebook®, Pandora®, Twitter™, and Flickr® through VUDU Apps, as well as AQUOS Advantage Live remote online customer service.Four HDMI™ inputs enable simple single cord connections to multiple HD components, such as Blu-ray Disc™ and DVD players, set top boxes and video game consoles. The LC-70LE732U includes IP Control which enables a PC or Control Panel to control basic TV functions, video and audio equipment, and lighting via the Ethernet terminal or wireless LAN connection using its built-in WiFi.The LC-70LE732U boasts extremely low power consumption and is ENERGY STAR® qualified, meeting the industry's highest energy efficiency specification.Just the BeginningSharp will extend its line of 70-inch class (69 ½" diagonal) AQUOS Quattron LED LCD TVs this summer with the LC-70LE735U (3D), LC-70LE734U and LC-70LE733U models. Each will offer full HD 1080p image resolution and employ Quattron Quad Pixel Technology, and they will feature built-in WiFi and access to the best internet content services. All three models will begin shipping this summer.Big is Too Small a WordIn support of its AQUOS Quattron 70-inch TV, Sharp is launching a marketing campaign with the tag line "'Big' is too small a word," which refers to the size and viewing experience the new model delivers. The campaign cleverly and humorously mashes up two superlative "big" words to create original words such as "JUMBOWHELMING" and "SPECTACULARGE" that will appear as part of the television, print and online commercials and ads over the coming months.The eye-catching visuals in the ads feature the consumer as the star. Each depicts a man with a facial expression of joy and amazement from their Sharp 70-inch class (69 ½" diagonal) TV viewing experience. The head of the model on the TV screen illustrates the bond between the viewer and the TV. The true-scale proportion of the TV to the model drives home the large size of the TV.For more information on Sharp's large screen AQUOS LCD TV lineup, visit www.sharpusa.com/Aquos. Become a fan of Sharp at www.facebook.com/SharpUSA, follow us on Twitter @Sharp_USA. and view us on YouTube www.youtube.com/sharpelectronicsusa.Sharp Electronics Corporation is the U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sharp Corporation, a worldwide developer of one-of-a-kind home entertainment products, appliances, networked multifunctional office solutions, solar energy solutions, LED lighting and mobile communication and information tools. Leading brands include AQUOS® Quattron™ LCD televisions and 3DTVs, SharpVision® projectors, Insight® Microwave Drawer® ovens, Notevision® multimedia projectors and Plasmacluster® air purifiers. For more information visit Sharp Electronics Corporation at www.sharpusa.com. Find us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and watch us on YouTube. Sharp, AQUOS and all related trademarks are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sharp Corporation and/or its affiliated entities.ENERGY STAR® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.HDMI, the HDMI logo and High-Definition Multimedia Interface are trademarks or registered trademarks of HDMI Licensing LLC in the United States and other countries.Netflix is a registered trademark of Netflix, Inc.VUDU is a trademark of VUDU, Inc.BEST BUY and CINEMANOW are registered trademarks of BBY Solutions, Inc.DLNA is a registered trademark of the Digital Living Network Alliance.Facebook is a registered trademark of Facebook Inc.Pandora is a registered trademark of Pandora Media, Inc.The Twitter name is a registered trademark of Twitter Inc.Flickr is a registered trademark of Yahoo! Inc.Blu-Ray Disc™, Blu-ray™ and Blu-ray 3D™ are the logos and trademarks of the Blu-Ray Disc Association.Dana Wollman contributed to this report
 