
 


	Just a few days after unveiling the waterproof IS13SH, Sharp has come out with yet another beastly submersible, known as the Aquos Phone 102SH. Juiced by a 1GHz TI OMAP 4430 CPU, this Gingerbread-coated handset boasts a 4.5-inch glasses-free 3D display with 720 x 1280 resolution, along with 1GB of RAM and a 32GB microSDHC card. The device also packs a 12 megapixel CMOS sensor and supports DLNA, infrared connections, e-wallet functionality and your standard 802.11 b/g/n and Bluetooth 3.0 capabilities. No word yet on price, but Japanese carrier SoftBank will begin selling the 102SH in early December. Scurry past the break for more information in the full and translated PR.

Update: Oops, it looks we got the resolution terminologies mixed up. It's definitely 720p HD, not qHD. Apologies for the confusion.
 

 		Show full PR text  AQUOS PHONE SoftBank 102SH (by Sharp) Overview 		1. Main features (planned) 		Display beautifully detailed, with a 4.5-inch LCD high-definition large-screen HD		The display, with a 4.5 inches HD LCD high-definition big screen. Color gradients or licking a resolution of 1,280 × 720 dots (color display 16.77 million) in the corresponding pictures and videos, and vivid the detail and character, to read comfortably and small characters in the website the more information possible. Also, to realize to adjust the contrast display for easy viewing even outdoors in bright places such as "outdoor view" and the effect of preventing prying eyes up "color veil view", and ability to view 3D. Furthermore, 9.7mm thinness about forma yet slim body, IPX5/IPX7 an equivalent waterproof performance and Ip5X 2 dustproof performance has been considerable. 		Up to 21Mbps downstream 3 The "ULTRA SPEED" corresponds to a dual-core CPU with To achieve maximum 21Mbps downstream "ULTRA SPEED" in response to high-speed communication is possible. In addition, dual-core CPU with a faster performance "OMAP4430 (1GHz)" by built-in, a large amount of web browsing and watching streaming video information, including operations such as running multiple applications at the same time, a variety of actions comfortably done without stress. 		Battery consumption is simply smart technology "eco" function		Power saving and backlight control and image processing technology to keep the image quality is always high, power consumption by automatically controlling the unconscious more than one application at startup, you can extend your battery has. "Eco Tech" feature allows up to approximately 50% of power consumed by the backlight 4 reduction, approximately 40% more power consumption during standby (mode waza-ari) five energy savings may be reduced. 		With 12.10 megapixel camera that supports the optical Image Stabilizer, the main camera is equipped with a megapixel camera effective pixel count of approximately 1,210. Because it uses an optical anti-shake that can be taken easily prone to camera shake scene, you can take in situations such as for taking beautiful photography and zoom in at night. In addition, the Full HD (1,920 × 1,080 pixels) and can also shoot video, it is possible to record the scenes footage of powerful memories. 		Note:		1 IPX5 and uses a 6.3mm diameter water injection nozzles, jets from any direction can rely on the condition that a minimum of irrigation water for 3 minutes 12.5 minutes liters / about 3m away about the functions of a phone means that you have.		IPX7 and the tap water at room temperature, the phone gently sunk away and still water depth of 1m, which means having a function as a phone when taken out after about 30 minutes left.		2 IP5X and refers to the degree of protection, less than 75μm in diameter dust (dust) were stirred for 8 hours to put the device containing the phone has a function of the phone when taken to maintain safe means. Dust the performance of this unit is warranted to protect the substantial degree IP5X, do not guarantee against such usage is not placed directly on the beach.		3 available in some areas, the maximum transmission rate is different. Also, for a best effort, due to line congestion and communication environment, communication slows down, or may be unable to communicate.		4 provisional value. Numbers will be different depending on the model.		5 Numeric Eco Tech "normal" mode "with skill" is by comparison with the preliminary mode. Your environment by energy savings may vary.  		Release Date 		Since early December, 2011
 