
 
If you've seen the BD-HP21H Blu-ray player, you've seen the BD-HP21U. Sharp is presumably getting official with the US version of said player here at CEDIA, and while the price tag is comparatively nice, the specifications are so last year. We're talking Profile 1.1, AQUOS LINK, a Quick Start feature to get flicks rolling in under ten seconds and an HDMI 1.3 output. Granted, the glossy black player is mighty thin, but it's still overpriced at $349.99 in our opinion. Full release after the jump.
      

 

 SHARP" STRENGTHENS ITS AQUOS" BLU-RAY DISC PLAYER LINE WITH SECOND-GENERATION OFFERING  New Blu-ray disc player touts one-of-a-kind convenience features with Profile 1.1 support   DENVER, September 3, 2008 – Sharp today bolsters its position in the Blu-ray market with the introduction of its new slim-profile AQUOS BD player, model BD-HP21U. By combining full digital 1080p video output with an AQUOS High-Definition (HD) Liquid Crystal Television, consumers can view the latest HD films in breathtaking high-definition quality. As the successor to the BD-HP20U, the BD-HP21U now supports BD-ROM Profile 1.1, allowing users access to additional content from Blu-ray titles, including movie trailers, special subtitles/audio and games.  "Not only does the BD-HP21U allow users access to more interactive features than before, it also offers several features that contribute to a seamless movie-watching experience," said Bruce Tripido, associate vice president and group manager, Entertainment Products Division, Sharp Electronics Corporation. "With convenient functions such as AQUOS LINK' and Quick Start, users can truly immerse themselves in a cinematic experience without having to shuffle between remotes or wait for a disc to load." AQUOS LINK' enables integrated and seamless operation between the Blu-ray disc player and AQUOS LCD TV. With a single remote, users can control HDMI-connected products in conjunction with their AQUOS TV, eliminating the clutter from extra remotes. The remote also provides simultaneous Power On/Off of both the AQUOS LCD TV and AQUOS Blu-ray player. The BD-HP21U employs Sharp's proprietary Quick Start feature, allowing consumers to begin enjoying stunning high-definition video in less than 10 seconds*. JPEG digital images from a CD-RW/R can be viewed on the screen of an accompanying HDTV as a slide show. The BD-HP21U has an extensive array of connectivity options. The player comes with state-of-the-art HDMI" 1.3 digital output that allows users to send the highest resolution video and audio signals possible to an AQUOS TV via a single cable, allowing Blu-ray discs to be viewed in complete digital 1080p/24Hz high-definition. Through HDMI 1.3, the player supports x.v.Color, providing a wider color spectrum leading to more vivid imagery. Additionally, the player has multi-channel audio output via HDMI by decoding Dolby® TrueHD and DTS HD. Dolby TrueHD lossless audio technology delivers sound that is identical to the studio master, for a true high-definition experience on next-generation discs. It also decodes Dolby® Digital Plus, providing optimum surround sound to an appropriately equipped receiver. In addition, via HDMI, the player outputs 7.1 Channel digital audio via True HD Dolby that is the equivalent of a master recording. Providing outstanding versatility, the BD-HP21U is compatible with a wide variety of formats including BD-ROM/RE/R, DVD Video, DVD-RW/R, DVD+RW/R, and Audio CDs. The BD-HP21U is also compatible with standard DVDs and is capable of upscaling them via HDMI to 1080p, improving the picture performance of an existing DVD library. Key components of the BD-HP21U, including the Blu-ray laser pick-up assembly and drive unit, were built by Sharp, reflecting the company's goal of creating exceptional products from high-performance devices. The BD-HP21U will be available in a glossy piano black finish with one of the slimmest designs in the industry, complementing a high-definition AQUOS HDTV.   Pricing and Availability The BD-HP21U is available now for a Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) of $349.99   For more information on Sharp's full line of home theater products, contact Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sharp Plaza, Mahwah, N.J. 07495-1163, or call 800-BE-SHARP. For online product information, visit Sharp's Web site at sharpusa.com. 
 