
 

Mobile waistbands are about to get tighter. Sharp's taking that whole thin is in thing to the extreme with its just outed 12.1 megapixel, 1/3.2-inch CMOS camera module. Measuring in at 5.47 millimeters thick, this component's set to ship out to manufacturers for ¥12,000 apiece (about $154) starting tomorrow and is, apparently, the result of overwhelming demand for anorexic handsets -- we're looking at you, dear readers. Okay, not really. The company actually claims its "proprietary high-density packaging technology" (jargon, much?) is responsible for this slimmed-down image sensor that's capable of full 1080p HD capture. So, does this coming wave of starved form factors mean we can expect less bloatware? Let's all hard wink at the carriers together.

Update: It turns out that the Sharp AQUOS SH-01D already utilizes this awesome sensor, and you can see its optical image stabilization in action after the break -- it's super impressive!
      

 

     		Show full PR text  Sharp to Introduce Industry's Thinnest*1 CMOS Camera Module with Optical Image Stabilization for Smartphones  		Sharp Corporation has developed a 12.1-Megapixel, 1/3.2-inch CMOS camera module with optical image stabilization that features the industry's thinnest profile (5.47 mm in height). The new RJ63YC100 is intended for use in mobile devices such as smartphones. Sample shipments will begin from December 2, 2011. 		The new module's thin profile has been developed in response to the demand for portable mobile devices with ever more slender designs. The module also addresses the need for embedded cameras in these devices to deliver superior image quality and camera functionality, including connectivity to AV equipment and personal computers. 		The optical image stabilizer in this camera module uses a lens-shift system to control the lens inside the module. Sharp's proprietary high-density packaging technology has made it possible to achieve the industry's thinnest profile in this type of camera module, which is expected to help reduce the thickness of mobile devices such as smartphones. 		High-quality images can be captured in a wide variety of situations that are typically prone to blurring caused by camera shake, such as shooting under dim light conditions or shooting moving subjects. The module also supports full HD (1080p) video capture, which enables smartphone owners to take high-definition video with reduced blurring and transfer the video to an LCD TV for viewing on a large screen.
 