




	Not content with brandishing a medley of LTE-packed smartphones this season, Japanese carrier NTT DoCoMo has confirmed a December release for Sharp's AQUOS SH-01D. While it lacks any 4G chops, the Android phone is cocooned in waterproof protection and packs a 12.1 megapixel camera on the back. An OMAP 4430 1GHz dual-core processor runs Gingerbread on the 3D-capable 1280 x 720 ASV display -- all crammed inside a waifish 9.7mm frame. Despite a recent visit to the FCC, there's no word on whether the water-defiant device will brave the Pacific ocean to arrive on these shores. However, any ex-patriots gasping for the SH-10D's potent screen will be able to grab one on December 2 and can unravel more specification mysteries in the Google-translated press release below.




 		Show full PR text  "Docomo with series AQUOS PHONE SH-01D" released  NTT DoCoMo (DoCoMo below), by 4.5 in. LCD HD, waterproof smartphone powerful and vivid images that represent a large "docomo with series AQUOS PHONE SH-01D", and December 2, 2011 (Friday) will be released in. 		Key Features 		4.5 in. LCD HD "Eco Tech" function. Working smart and comfortable waterproof 		The overwhelming power of realism! 4.5 in. LCD HD combines a sense of intensity and resolution HD large screen high-resolution 4.5 in. (720 × 1280 pixels) liquid crystal display with stunning visual clarity, such as photo and video content. You can also display small text clearly displays a wider range of Web browsers, can be easily viewed. 		LCD technology developed in the AQUOS, high-quality engines, dedicated quality advanced processing technology. Also, compatible with the view to prevent prying eyes veil color and brightness sensor that adjusts the backlight and brightness of the image to fit the surroundings. 		By adopting the parallax barrier system, capable of displaying immersive 3D experience that I like being there without special glasses Caution 1 . Video, expands the ways to enjoy entertainment and games. Fun to touch, dual-core CPU for achieving speedy operation Application startup, do quickly, such as dual-core CPU running. Efficiently handles multi-tasking, allowing a comfortable and stress-free operation. Furthermore, the faster thumbnail pictures and full HD video, including high-resolution shot saved, you can quickly locate and find photos. 		Taking advantage of superior performance, enjoy smooth, clear images of large video content. Also, run smoothly and display of information-intensive Web sites. With freedom to enjoy your favorite applications and content. 		With high-performance batteries will also feel is proprietary energy saving AQUOS PHONE "Eco Tech" support function. Eco-Tech is equipped with a set that can be set to control functions and easy operation of the LCD backlight power wisely. 		Various functions, including the coordination and AQUOS 12.1 million pixel camera supports optical Image Stabilizer ProPix image processing engine with 12.1 million pixel camera and can easily shoot videos / beautiful photos. The optical image stabilizer, photography with reduced blurring is available in a more natural picture. In addition, Full HD movie recording corresponds to enjoy 4.5-inch large screen high-definition video shot on your own. 		AQUOS LCD TV and AQUOS Blu-ray and Wi-Link Smart family home networking features are available and easily connect with Fi ® Caution 3 corresponds to. AQUOS or watch videos and photos in, and watch recorded TV in sleeping rooms AQUOS Blu-ray, the AV is more enjoyable life. 		Can be customized to personalize your UI and download the font type you like colorful characters also supports handwriting "font manager" available to Caution 4 . 3.5Φ pins, etc. Versatile headset and enjoy music PleyReady ® also incorporates a variety of features useful with smartphones. 
 