

We are well past mid-August, which is when Sharp initially estimated its new 70-inch Aquos 4K Ultra HD LED TV would begin hitting shelves. Despite the late arrival, however, something tells us folks will still be glad to have yet another choice when shopping for their next 4K television set. To make things better, Sharp's super high-res, THX-certified Smart TV is set to be carrying a $7,499.99 MSRP here in the States, making it about $500 cheaper than when it was originally announced. Those of you interested shouldn't have trouble finding one, as Sharp says it'll be available at many regional and major retailers across the country.



Show full PR textThe Sharp AQUOS® 4K Ultra HD LED TV Now Available
The World's First THX® 4K Certified TV & Only 70" Class Ultra HD TV* for $7,499.99

MAHWAH, N.J., Sept. 18, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Sharp Electronics Corporation today announced the national availability of the 70" class (69.5" diagonal) AQUOS 4K Ultra HD TV (LC-70UD1U), the first 4K Ultra HD television to receive the coveted THX® 4K certification for picture quality and the only 70" class 4K Ultra HD TV*. The AQUOS 4K Ultra HD TV is now available at national specialty retailers, at major regional retailers and on Amazon.com for a suggested retail price of $7,499.99.

With four times the pixel resolution of high definition and Sharp's proprietary Revelation™ 4K Upscaler, everything you watch on the AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV appears sharper, more realistic, more stunning. The 70" class (69.5" diagonal) AQUOS 4K not only offers a more vivid image, it also offers 16% more screen size than leading competitors' 65" Class TVs."For the past several years the focus with high-end television panels was on delivering a more exciting experience through size. With the introduction of our AQUOS 4K TV, we now offer consumers an even more life-like TV experience coupling size with resolution and clarity," said John Herrington, President, Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America.Transform ordinary content into extraordinary

Everything you watch on the AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV, regardless of whether or not it is native 4K (3840 x 2160) content, can be seen in 4K detail.

Sharp's built-in Revelation™ 4K Upscaler converts all content into 4K resolution. First, a dual-core processor fine-tunes the original signal for optimal picture quality. Next, Sharp's proprietary Revelation™ 4K Upscaler instantly analyzes and intelligently enhances the content to create a 4K image. Movies, TV shows and video games are sharper and more vivid.

This reliable and precise two-step upscaling process along with superb screen uniformity, color performance and motion processing, earned Sharp the esteemed THX 4K certification, which sets the industry standard for image quality and consistency.

Certified Amazing

Created by experts in Hollywood, THX 4K certification sets the industry standard for image quality and consistency. The experts at THX put the AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV through 400 rigorous performance tests; the AQUOS 4K Ultra HD was the first TV to pass them all and carry the THX 4K certification.

THX also evaluates HD to 4K upconverting technology to ensure that the Ultra HD image maintains accuracy true to the original HD source, so you experience content the way it was intended.

16% More Amazing Than the 65" Class

The AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV is the only Ultra HD TV available in an eye-popping 70 inch (69.5" Diagonal) class size, the most popular 65"+ screen size. The 70" class offers 16% more screen area than leading competitors' 65" class LED TVs.*

A Higher Standard of Design

It has a sleek frame with a metallic black finish and modern open-base stand.Turn it off, and the TV still looks beautiful. With Sharp's exclusive Wallpaper Mode, the AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV can be turned into an elegant frame for your 4K photos or pre-installed artwork with a museum-like appearance and Ultra HD detail when the TV is powered off.The six-speaker sound system, along with Sharp's proprietary DuoBass dual subwoofer system, boasts a powerful 35 watts of sound with clear voices, broad dynamic range and deep bass.

SmartCentral – Surf. Watch. Interact. Ultra HD meets Smart TV

Working through built-in Wi-Fi, SmartCentral™ platform lets viewers easily and intuitively stream movies and shows from providers including Netflix, Hulu + and Vudu, videos from YouTube, and music through Pandora and Rhapsody.** You can connect with friends through built-in social apps such as Facebook, Twitter and even Skype™*** for amazingly realistic interactions. SmartCentral's exclusive split-screen experience allows viewers to watch TV and surf the Web simultaneously.

Remote control operation is available via iOS or Android apps and the Sharp Beam app enables users to send content from an iOS or Android smartphone or tablet to the big screen with a flick.Sharp AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV Features

The AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV features the AQUOS 4K display with advanced pixel structure for stunning Ultra HD images and a 10M:1 Dynamic Contrast Ratio, 120Hz refresh rate with AquoMotion 240. There are four HDMI® inputs that accept native 4K signals.4K Photo Playback via a built-in SD-card reader and two USB ports means that for the first time, you can see the full resolution and detail captured in your 8MP photos.

Price and Availability

The AQUOS 4K Ultra HD LED TV is now available nationwide, with a suggested retail price of $7,499.99.

About Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America (SEMCA)

SEMCA is the U.S. consumer electronics sales and marketing arm of Sharp Electronics Corporation, the U.S. sales subsidiary of Sharp Corporation, a worldwide developer of one-of-a-kind home entertainment products, appliances, networked multifunctional office solutions, solar energy solutions, LED lighting and mobile communication and information tools. Leading products include AQUOS® LED TVs, Insight® Microwave Drawer® ovens, and Plasmacluster® air purifiers.


