
  Well, a week (or two) is a long time in the technology industry, and despite that joint venture with Sony heading south, it's not all bad news for Sharp. According to a press release from the panel maker, it has begun production of the world's first screens based on IGZO (indium gallium zinc oxide) technology. These screens are said to promise twice the detail as existing panels of similar transparency, which also translates into a hefty 90 percent reduction in power consumption, reports PC World. Sharp did kindly share some sample specifications, such as a 7-inch tablet display touting a 1280 x 800 resolution equaling 217 ppi, and a 32-inch 3840 x 2160 screen at 140 ppi, to give you an idea of what we can expect. There's no indication yet as to any devices where we might see them showing up, but as the firm claims it's ramping up production "to meet market demand" we guess we'll find out soon enough...
      

 

  Show full PR text  Sharp Begins Production of World's First LCD Panels Incorporating IGZO Oxide Semiconductors  In March 2012 at Kameyama Plant No. 2, Sharp began producing the world's first high-performance LCD panels incorporating IGZO oxide semiconductors. Sharp is expanding production scale through April to meet market demand.  Kameyama Plant No. 2 first started operations in August 2006, manufacturing highly advanced LCD panels for TVs. Production systems have subsequently been reorganized to focus on producing small- and medium-sized LCD panels for the world's rapidly growing smartphone and tablet terminal markets.  Employing advanced IGZO oxide semiconductors enables Sharp to produce LCDs with smaller thin-film transistors and increased pixel transparency, thus allowing for lower energy consumption. In addition, proprietary UV2A*3 photo-alignment technology employed in Sharp's AQUOS LCD TVs enables these displays to achieve high image quality.  Sharp will encourage the application of its new high-resolution LCD panels to high-definition notebook PCs and LCD monitors-which are both expected to grow in demand-as well as to mobile devices. Sharp will also contribute to creating markets for attractive new products. Sample Specifications of LCD Panels Incorporating IGZO  For LCD Monitors Display size 32 inches No. of pixels 3,840 x 2,160 Pixel density 140 ppi  For High-Definition Notebook PCs Display size 10 inches No. of pixels 2,560 x 1,600 Pixel density 300 ppi  For Tablet Terminals Display size 7 inches No. of pixels 800 x 1,280 Pixel density 217 ppi
 