
 While its high pixel density mobile displays stole much of the attention at CEATEC 2012, Sharp also has tech destined for bigger screens like this "Moth Eye Panel" that Engadget Japanese took a look at during the show. Thanks to nanoscale irregularities on its surface similar to the eye of a moth it claims to give bright colors and high contrast while cutting down glare as seen above (moth eye panel on the left) The technology isn't in use yet, but Sharp says the film has been produced in 60-, 70- and 80-inch sizes already, so if you thought the company's extra large and Elite HDTVs couldn't get any better, next year's model will probably have at least one way to prove you wrong.



  Show full PR text    Sharp at CEATEC Japan 2012

   New Products and Technologies that Transform People's Lifestyles to be Exhibited  Under the Concept "Future Smart Living Revolves Around Solar"

   Sharp Corporation will take part in CEATEC JAPAN 2012, the annual comprehensive exhibition showcasing the latest in IT and electronics from October 2 to 6, 2012 at the Makuhari Messe convention center in Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture. Under the concept "Future Smart Living Revolves Around Solar," Sharp will display new products and technologies that will transform people's lifestyles.  Exhibit Highlights  1. Solar Solutions

   Visitors will get a glimpse into the home of the future in a Sharp smart house composed of proprietary see-through solar modules set up as a symbolic structure of the booth. Sharp's residential energy solutions feature greater overall power generation thanks to panel configurations geared to roof shape and a power conditioner, as well as a lithium-ion storage battery that allows load levelling in which inexpensive night-time electricity is stored for use during the daytime. Commercial energy solutions, meanwhile, include solar panels that are built right into the construction materials.  2. ICC-LED TV*1 (Reference Exhibit)

   Visitors can experience the super-high-quality images achieved by Sharp's ICC-LED TV. An integration of ICC (Integrated Cognitive Creation) technology, developed by I3 (I-cubed) Research Center, and Sharp large-screen panel technology that gives a resolution four times that of conventional full HD LCD panels, the ICC-LED TV reproduces the cognitive process by which the human brain interprets light stimuli, resulting in on-screen images that approach true-to-life quality.  3. LCD TV AQUOS Incorporating New Technology "Moth Eye® Panel*2" (Reference Exhibit)

   Sharp introduces an AQUOS LCD TV incorporating a "Moth Eye® Panel," which gives vividly colored images and high contrast while at the same time keeping screen reflections to a minimum.  4. IGZO LCD Display (Reference Exhibit)

   Sharp LCD panels with IGZO technology offer higher resolution, lower power consumption, and higher performance touch screens.  5. COCOROBO Robotic Appliance (for Japanese market)

   COCOROBO robotic appliance has advanced functions like artificial intelligence, voice recognition, sensors, and smartphone linking, thus offering users comfort, and a safe, secure home.

 
