
 
Sharp just announced its first 3D projector, the XV-Z17000, at CEDIA. Due early next year, the company is holding back pricing information until CES but wasn't shy about mentioning mentioning it works with active shutter glasses using either DLP Link or IR syncing technology by bouncing an IR signal off the screen the picture is projected onto. It packs two HDMI 1.4a inputs and specs include a measured 30,000:1 contrast ratio and 1,600 ANSI lumens brightness. Check the press release after the break for the rest of the details currently available, we'll be taking another careful look at this one in January.
      

 

Show full PR textSHARP® UNVEILS ITS FIRST 3D READY HIGH-DEFINITIONDLP® HOME THEATER PROJECTOR• 3D projection compatible with "IR Link" and "DLP Link" • Full-HD panel (1920 x 1080 pixels) delivers 30000:1 high contrast ratio• Two Pair of 3D Glasses Included• Exceptional image brightness (1600 lumens in High Brightness mode)• Full digital projection with DLP system and two HDMI terminalsATLANTA, GA., September 23, 2010 – Sharp today introduces its first 3D ready high-definition DLP theater projector for the consumer market. Delivering outstanding 3D visual experiences, the XV-Z17000 has a full-HD panel (1920 x 1080 pixels) with a 30000:1 contrast ratio and exceptional image brightness (1600 Lumens brightness in High Brightness mode). The model is 3D projection compatible via "IR Link" and "DLP Link," and is sold with two pairs of 3D active shutter glasses for added value and convenience."The XV-Z17000 offers the consumer a formidable and flexible platform for projecting 3D movies, sporting events, Internet video or any compatible programming," said Bruce Tripido, associate vice president, Entertainment Products Division, Sharp Electronics Corporation. "It can also be used to dramatically deliver all manner of 2D content, for day-to-day watching or special events. The included glasses, which can be adjusted to view content in either 3D or 2D, allow consumers to begin enjoying this projector immediately."The XV-Z17000 features DLP technology for superior color accuracy, creating truer, more vibrant colors. The XV-Z17000 offers extensive connectivity with two HDMI® inputs (HDMI 1.4 3D over HDMI), as well as computer/component (mini D-sub 15 pin), component (3 RCA), S-Video and video (RCA) inputs. Low fan noise of 23dB (Eco+Quiet: on), reduces distraction while watching movies, sporting events and programming of any kind.The XV-Z17000 features vertical and horizontal Keystone Correction, which corrects spherical and trapezoidal distortion of an image on a flat screen. Image Shift Function vertically shifts images projected in a 16 x 9 format to maintain superior images without distortion in limited spaces.The XV-Z17000 integrates Consumer Electronic Control (CEC) functionality for One Touch Play, System Standby and other convenience features. An RS-232C port enables the projector to be operated via universal control systems. This model also offers several features for energy savings, including low standby power consumption and expanded lamp life when operated in eco mode.The life of the 250-watt projection lamp is projected at 3,000 hours (Eco+Quiet: on) at a rated voltage of AC 100 ~ 240V, which may vary based on usage condition. A flexible design with sliding cover protects the projector lens. The XV-Z17000's anti-theft features include a Kensington security standard connector and security bar. The projector incurs lower maintenance costs due to its sealed DLP chip and filter-free design.Availability and PricingThe XV-Z17000 will be available in Q1 2011 at a Manufacturer's Suggested List Price (MSLP) TBD. For more information on Sharp's on this projector and Sharp's full line of consumer products, contact Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sharp Plaza, Mahwah, N.J., 07495-1163, or call 800-BE-SHARP. For online product information, visit Sharp's Web site at sharpusa.com. Become a fan of Sharp AQUOS at www.facebook.com/SharpAQUOS and follow us on Twitter @Sharp_USA.# # #Sharp Electronics Corporation is the U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Sharp Corporation, a worldwide developer of one-of-a-kind home entertainment products, appliances, networked multifunctional office solutions, solar energy solutions and mobile communication and information tools. Leading brands include AQUOS® Liquid Crystal Televisions, 1-Bit™ digital audio products, SharpVision® projection products, Notevision® multimedia projectors, Insight® Microwave Drawer appliances, SuperSteam™ ovens, Plasmacluster® air purifiers and the OnEnergy™ solar system. For more information visit Sharp Electronics Corporation at www.sharpusa.comSharp and AQUOS are registered trademarks of Sharp CorporationHDMI, the HDMI logo and High Definition Multimedia Interface are registered trademarks of HDMI Licensing, LLCDLP® is a registered trademark of Texas InstrumentsAll other trademarks are property of their respective ownersSpecifications subject to change
 