
       
Sharp made US 3D fans very happy today by announcing the immediate availability of its new 52 and 60-inch AQUOS Quattron 3D TVs at CEDIA. The LED backlight side-mount scanning LE925 series starts at $4199 with the bigger brother going for $5299, feature two pairs of 3D glasses bundled in, a dynamic contrast ratio of 8,000,000:1 and IP control plus RS-232 for home automation fans. The Ethernet port or optional WiFi adapter can also be used to stream Netflix, VUDU or a variety of other over the top video services. What's interesting is that Sharp is claiming its 4th color (yellow) Quattron technology offers a brighter image which can overcome the dimming, that 3D glasses are known for. Also, a first is that the 3D glasses can convert the 3D signal to 2D for that one 3D hatter in your party (not to be confused with the TV's ability to convert 2D material to 3D). The full release with many more details after the jump.





Show full PR textINTRODUCING AQUOS® QUATTRON™ 3D FROM SHARP®AQUOS Quattron 3D system offers brightest 3D image resolution on the market Significantly reduced 3D "crosstalk" and a dynamic contrast ratio of 8,000,000:1Two sets of advanced 3D glasses are included with each model; Glasses' unique 3D-2D conversion mode allows one person to watch in 2D while others are watching in 3DThree "Spacious Sound 3D" modes optimize enjoyment of concerts, movies and all other 3D programmingWiFi connectivity and many additional features for accessing Apps and Net services, streaming video, USB content playback and universal device operation via IP ControlATLANTA, GA, September 23, 2010 – Sharp Electronics Corporation today introduces its first 3D LED LCD televisions for the U.S. market, the AQUOS Quattron 3D LE925 series. Available in 60- and 52-inch screen size classes (LC-60LE925UN and LC-52LE925UN, respectively), the new AQUOS Quattron 3D TVs employ Sharp's breakthrough quad pixel technology and additional proprietary technologies, including the X-Gen LCD panel, Frame Rate Enhanced Driving and LED backlight side-mount scanning, to deliver a superior 3D experience with the brightest image reproduction on the market (with glasses) and extremely low crosstalk. In addition, three "Spacious Sound 3D" modes complete the immersive experience when viewing concerts, movies, or other 3D programming."Quattron 3D overcomes the dark and blurry images associated with traditional 3D televisions so the consumer can realize the full potential of this compelling new format," said Bob Scaglione, senior vice president and group manager, Sharp Electronics Corporation. "Quattron, which combines quad pixel technology and the X-Gen LCD panel, provides a foundation for 3D that other manufacturers simply cannot match. Adding Frame Rate Enhanced Driving technology and other unique features allows us to deliver a 3D experience that's second to none."Quattron 3D – A Superior 3D Experience Quattron quad pixel technology adds the color Y (yellow) to the three colors of R (red), G (green), and B (blue) of the traditional television pixel structure. The technology also enables the display to reproduce colors that have been difficult to portray using conventional LCD displays, such as the brass color of musical instruments. The addition of the yellow sub-pixel allows light to more readily pass through to the panel, and Sharp's X-Gen panel features advanced pixel control to minimize light leakage while offering a wider aperture to let more light through. The combination of these technologies results in the brightest 3D images, addressing a common problem of traditional 3D TV's of dark images. Quattron 3D also utilizes Sharp's proprietary Frame Rate Enhanced Driving technology, which uses single-source wiring in the AquoMotion 240 driving circuit, enabling wider aperture and thus very bright 3D images to be reproduced with exceptionally low power consumption. Further clarifying the image is the newly developed LED backlight scanning technology, which helps to eliminate crosstalk.Enabling users to start experiencing and sharing the 3D experience immediately, each model in the 925 Series includes two pairs of advanced 3D glasses. These are the only glasses on the market that give viewers the option of watching the same content in 3D or 2D simultaneously, which can be adjusted using the 3D-2D conversion button on the glasses. Additional glasses are available for purchase (model# AN-3DG10-S). Spacious Sound 3D offers three audio options that can be adjusted to users' tastes for watching movies, concerts and other 3D content.Enhanced Technology for a Stunning Picture – in 2D and 3DThe AQUOS Quattron LE925 series employs Sharp's AquoMotion 240 technology to offer outstanding performance for fast-action imagery without blur and artifacts. Quad Pixel Plus produces smoother lines by enabling the individual control of each of the 8 million sub-pixels on the screen. A newly developed Active Contrast algorithm helps to create even brighter, more vivid images than ever before. For gamers, Sharp's proprietary Vyper Drive game mode eliminates perceptible lag between game console and display on the TV. Interactive FeaturesThe 925 Series integrates Sharp's AQUOS Net service, a free Web-based service that gives Sharp AQUOS customers access to personalized information. It also comes equipped with premium services including Netflix® and Vudu™ streaming video. Through AQUOS Advantage Live, the industry's leading online support system, LE925 owners can have dedicated AQUOS Advantage advisors connect remotely to their TV to assist in adjusting the TV's settings and optimizing picture quality for the best viewing experience.The LE925 series also includes IP Control technology. Similar to the conventional RS-232C usage, the IP control feature enables a PC or Control Panel to control basic TV functions, video and audio equipment and lighting via the Ethernet terminal. The IP Control technology is Control4® Certified and has been rigorously tested in Control4® Labs for interoperability with the Control4® platform.Both models are sold with a USB WiFi adapter to facilitate quick access to streaming and other Web-based applications. A built-in USB media player and dual USB inputs enable immediate enjoyment of digital video, music and photos. In addition to conventional RS-232C connectivity, both models offer IP control, which enables a PC or universal control device to control basic TV functions via Ethernet terminals with both wired and wireless connection using a wireless LAN USB adapter. The LE925 Series sports a contemporary design that complements the elegance of modern home theaters with 1.6-inch thin depth and full-front glass that extends to meet the borders. These models also boast extremely low power consumption, compliant with Energy Star® Version 5.1 (2012) standard, and equipped with Sharp's OPC function, automatically adjusting the unit's brightness based on the lighting of the room. Advanced ConnectivityFour ® with Instaport® quick switching to avoid delay when switching between sources1080p component video inputRS-232C input for custom installations PC input so the TV serves a dual purpose as a PC monitorEthernet jack for high-speed Internet and IP controlTwo USB inputs for music/photos/video and WiFi connectivityAvailabilityThe LC-60LE925UN is currently available for an MSRP of $5,299.99The LC-52LE925UN is currently available for an MSRP of $4,199.99
 