
 If you've finally caught up to the curve with the latest tablet but are still hopelessly behind on the latest tunes or TV programs, Shazam now has a slate-friendly flavor of its media-discovery software for iPad and Android. The update includes new touches like a refreshed home page, improved tag result layout, a new way to browse your friends' tagging and interactive mapping that shows users' taste in cities around the world, as shown above. The outfit says the interface is enhanced for the slate environment and that it just passed 300 million users worldwide, giving you plenty of sources to find the latest thing. It'll arrive for free at the App Store and Google Play in a few weeks, according to Shazam -- hit the PR after the break for more.



  Show full PR text   Shazam Surpasses 300 Million Users Worldwide and Unveils New Version for iPad and Android Tablets Designed for Deeper Engagement and Exploration
   Shazam unveils new design at Mobile World Congress with plans to release updates to its app for iPad and Android tablets in the coming weeks  Mobile World Congress 2013

  BARCELONA, Spain--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Shazam®, the world's leading media engagement company, today unveiled its exciting new user experience for iPad and Android tablet fans, including a completely redesigned home screen, an improved layout for Shazam tag results for both TV and music, and a new way to browse what your friends have been tagging. The updated app gives tablet fans new streams of activity to explore what songs people are tagging and, in the US, what TV shows people are currently watching, as well as a fascinating new interactive mapping feature enabling music fans to explore what people are discovering in any city around the world. Shazam is also bringing to its free, unlimited-usage tablet experience two popular features – lightning-fast tagging that enables recognition in as little as one second and full-screen LyricPlay™ lyrics.

   "Our new app gives our fans a significantly improved and streamlined way to engage more with the media they enjoy in the fastest way possible."

   "The number of Shazam users and their level of engagement continue to grow rapidly. We now have over 300 million Shazamers globally with an increasing proportion of whom use our app on their iPad or Android tablet devices to interact with television. This new version of Shazam optimizes discovery, engagement, transactions and exploration in a tablet environment," said Andrew Fisher, Shazam CEO. "It's the most efficient way to experience more of the media around you whether you are in your home or in any other environment throughout the world."

   When Shazam fans download the new update available in the coming weeks, they can experience the following great features that encourage and enable discovery and exploration:

   An exciting new design featuring an innovative home screen that invites exploration to see what TV shows* and music people are currently tagging, as well as find out what's most popular in the Shazam Tag Charts.  An interactive mapping feature, enabling fans to zoom in to any city in the world to discover, buy and share the most popular music people are listening to in that location – starting at the continent level, then drilling down into the country, state/region, city and even to the town level, in some cases;  An improved Shazam Friends feature, providing people with one of the best ways to discover new music and media from their friends as well as giving them quick access to preview and comment on their friends' tags;  Lightning-fast tagging, so that people can identify what they're watching or listening to in as little as one second;  Sharing that's easier than ever, including a streamlined way to tell your friends about your finds via Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and email; and,  Automatic resubmission. If people are in a poor network reception area, they no longer have to manually resubmit their tags when they get to a better reception area. Resubmission will happen automatically, and the user will be notified.

   Over the past months, Shazam has been seeing triple-digit growth in the number of downloads of the iPad version of its app, particularly for use as a second-screen companion device while watching television.

   "According to Canalys, tablet sales are set to surpass laptop sales this year, and those of all PCs by 2016, demonstrating that people love the elegance and simplicity of using wireless technology to enhance their work and home lives. Additionally, tablets are an ideal way to experience more on the second screen as people watch television on the first screen, giving people more space to engage in additional content," continued Andrew Fisher, Shazam CEO. "Our new app gives our fans a significantly improved and streamlined way to engage more with the media they enjoy in the fastest way possible."

   The new version of Shazam for iOS is a universal app, so it works with iPad, iPhone and iPod touch devices. The Shazam App has already updated its UI for iPhone and iPod touch, and will include the new interactive mapping feature with this upcoming release.

   All versions of Shazam for iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch and Android devices come with unlimited tagging, giving fans more opportunities to engage with music and television content. For people who don't yet have the Shazam App, it can be downloaded for free from the App Store and on Google Play™.

   The new design and features are expected to launch on iOS and Android devices in the coming weeks.

   * Second-screen immersive experiences for television programming are available currently in the United States and on a selective basis in the UK. Shazam for TV advertising is available for brands to use globally, with over 200 television advertising campaigns for over 140 brands already delivered in over a dozen countries in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.

   About Shazam

   Shazam is the world's leading media engagement company with more than 300 million people in 200 countries and adding another 2 million new users each week. With the industry's unlimited fastest tagging in the Free and premium Encore Apps on iOS and Android devices, Shazam is the best way for people to discover, explore, buy, and share more music, TV shows and branded content they love.

   Shazam makes it easy for people to share their discoveries with their friends on Facebook using the Shazam Friends feature, as well as on Twitter and Google+. For people who don't yet have the Shazam application on their smartphone, it is available for FREE on every major platform and can be found on iTunes App Store, Google play, Amazon App Store, AT&T's AppCenter, Verizon VCast app store, Nokia Store, Windows Phone Marketplace, BlackBerry App World, and GetJar..

   For further information about Shazam Entertainment visit www.shazam.com and @ShazamNews. You can also follow us on Facebook or Google+. For daily music updates follow the Shazam Blog and @Shazam.

 
