
 Some Shazam users run the app to discover new music; for us, it's an all-too-frequent admission that we're out of touch with the kids' music these days. We can at least take comfort in the 5.5 update for iOS giving us a friendlier interface for catching up on our culture. Along with a new listening screen that reacts to the tunes, there's bigger album artwork as well as automatic resubmissions if the connection gets sketchy. Those of us unafraid to reveal our tastes in music can also share to Google+, and listeners with visual impairments now just have to double-tap to start sampling tracks whenever VoiceOver is turned on. We have yet to see a matching Android update, but any iPhone or iPod touch owner who can live with a little musical humility can hit the source for the new release.



  Show full PR text   Shazam Launches Exciting New User Interface and Innovative Features for iPhone and iPod touch
  With update, fans also have improved experience including expanded sharing, a better submission and improved service for the visually impaired
  London – 11 December 2012 - Shazam®, the world's leading media engagement company, today announces the launch of Shazam 5.5, the latest update to the Shazam Free, Encore and (RED) Apps on iPhone and iPod touch devices. With this new update now available for downloading, fans will have an exciting new UI experience, including an updated listening screen as well as larger album artwork. Other new features include automatic resubmission, My Tag search, sharing on Google+ and an improved experience for the visually impaired.
  When Shazam fans update their phone to iOS 6.0, then download the Shazam update, they get access to the following great features:
  * An exciting new UI featuring an updated listening screen. Shazam has replaced the "sweep" action with an updated blue Shazam dial that responds to music;  * Larger album artwork. Now, when looking at new tag results for music or TV ads or shows, the artwork is larger and more engaging, improving the rich media results as well as providing users with easy-to-access buttons to listen to a sample and purchase from iTunes;  * Automatic resubmission. If people are in a poor reception area, they no longer have to manually resubmit their tags when they get to a better reception area, and a notification will be shown in iOS Notification Center  * My Tag Search. The new search function makes it easy to find specific tags with a search by name, title, tag date or location;  * Sharing on Google+. Shazam's users have been clamoring for more sharing options, so now they can share to Facebook, Twitter and Google+.  * Magic Tap. People who are visually impaired now can start tagging immediately by simply doing a two-finger double-tap from anywhere in the Shazam App, when VoiceOver is enabled  * All versions of Shazam for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch come with unlimited tagging, giving fans more opportunities to engage with music and television content.
  For people who don't yet have the Shazam App, it can be downloaded for free from the App Store.
 
