
 


	Perfection is an undeniably lofty goal, but that's exactly what Shogun Bros. is striving for, with a freshly announced update to its Chameleon X-1 gaming mouse. Available in three different colors, the company's "Perfect Version" of its gamepad / mouse boasts an enhanced rubberized coating for better grip, a new layout for remote control operation and, perhaps best of all, extended battery life. Other than that, it's essentially the same device we saw way back in December, with a 5-stage adjustable 1600dpi optical sensor, a full slate of 16 buttons and force feedback support. Shogun Bros. won't be releasing this perfected peripheral until October 1st, but you can pre-order one now at Amazon, for $60. Hit up the source link to make the purchase, or slice past the break for a very succinct press release.
 

 		Show full PR text  The Mouse is Re-invented 		Features - 		ONE DEVICE - THREE Transformations (Just press ONE button) *No Driver		Needed. (Norway Nordic Chip System) 		1. Wireless Gaming Grade Mouse 		2. Wireless Gaming Grade GamePad - Force Feedback + 16 Buttons + 2 Analog		Stick 		3. Wireless Remote Control and Presentation Unit (One hand operation for		your Home Theater PC or Powerpoint Presentation) - Media startup, play,		stop, Pause, volume up and down, next track / previous track, powerpoint		show in one hand with cursor control, Sleep and Shutdown 		Design - 		1. Norway Nordic Chips System for best reliability and sensitivity 		2. Rumble Supported Gamepad 		3. One Hand Cursor and Mouse Click Control Without Surface (Remote		Control Mode) 		4. Vacuum Electroplating Ring for High Graded Appearance 		5. Silky Soft Rubberize Surface for Best Comfort and Grip 		6. Only Need 1AA Battery to Operate 		7. Nano Transceiver with Magnetic Storage Compartment inside the X-1 		8. Play Music, Volume Control, Shutdown and Sleep PC Anywhere without		Surface 		Enhancement on Perfect Version - 		1. New Marking for Remote Control Operation 		2. Power Optimization for Much Longer Battery Life. 		3. Enhanced Surface Coating for Better Grip and Endurance. 		4. Further Refinement of Button Control and Response 		Pricing and Availability - 		Worldwide Available on Amazon.com and Suggested Retail Price is		$59.99(U.S.). 3 Colors are Available 		System - 		Windows 95/98/2000/NT/ME/XP/Vista/Win 7/Mac OS X 10.5
 