
 

Adding to Verizon FiOS TV's impressive lineup of streaming services bundled with its premium TV service, Showtime Anytime can now be access by FiOS TV subscribers. This deal also ensures subscribers will continue to able to add Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix to their lineup through 2017. We took a quick look at the Showtime Anytime iPad app, originally launched in October, and found it very polished and easy to navigate. 






 		Show full PR text   Verizon's FiOS TV Online to Launch SHOWTIME ANYTIME 			FiOS TV Customers Gain Access to ShowtimeAnytime.com, Featuring SHOWTIME Series, Movie, Sports and Specials – Any Time, Any Place 			Verizon and SHOWTIME Announce Deal Extension Into 2017 			NEW YORK – Verizon's FiOS TV customers are gaining more online and mobile video content, as they are among the first to receive unlimited access to SHOWTIME ANYTIME®, featuring more than 400 hours of critically acclaimed, award-winning SHOWTIME original programming, hit movies and sports offerings, available for viewing on any computer or iPad. SHOWTIME ANYTIME launched Tuesday (Jan. 10) free of charge for FiOS TV customers who subscribe to SHOWTIME®. 			Additionally, Verizon and Showtime Networks have extended their existing carriage agreement into 2017. The comprehensive, five-year agreement includes SHOWTIME, THE MOVIE CHANNEL™ and FLIX®, the networks' multiplex and on-demand channels, as well as Smithsonian Channel™, a joint venture between Showtime Networks Inc. and the Smithsonian Institution. 			"We are very pleased to have reached a long-term agreement with Verizon, as we continue to offer our award-winning programming to their subscriber base across multiple platforms – on our networks, On Demand, and now online and on mobile with SHOWTIME ANYTIME," said Tom Christie, executive vice president, affiliate sales, Showtime Networks Inc. 			FiOS customers can access SHOWTIME ANYTIME at www.verizon.com/fiostvonline or www.showtimeanytime.com or by downloading the Showtime Anytime iPad app from the iTunes App Store (http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/id484232467), and use their Verizon FiOS login credentials to instantly watch their favorite SHOWTIME programs from anywhere in the U.S.			"Once again, Verizon's FiOS subscribers are among the first to enjoy the latest in online and mobile video content, this time from SHOWTIME," said Terry Denson, vice president of content strategy and acquisition for Verizon. "The addition of SHOWTIME ANYTIME to our FiOS offering further enhances our customers' experience, offering a convenient way for subscribers to access SHOWTIME's programming in more ways and more places." 			SHOWTIME ANYTIME offers subscribers access to the network's critically acclaimed hit series including Dexter®," "Weeds," "Homeland," "Californication," "Shameless," "Nurse Jackie," "The Big C," "Episodes" and the "Borgias," and the upcoming comedy series "House of Lies" and "Inside Comedy." FiOS subscribers will also have access to the network's hit movies, including Academy Award winner "The King's Speech," "Blue Valentine," "The Hurt Locker," "Inglorious Basterds," "I Am Number Four," "The Twilight Saga: New Moon" and "Eclipse," among many others. Additionally, a diverse mix of comedy specials, provocative documentaries and hard-hitting sports programming -- including "Showtime Championship Boxing®," "Inside NASCAR," "ShoBox: The New Generation" and "Strikeforce" mixed martial arts -- will be offered on SHOWTIME ANYTIME. 			With SHOWTIME ANYTIME, FiOS TV customers who subscribe to SHOWTIME can instantly watch their favorite programs from any location. In addition, the service offers a "My List" feature that enables subscribers to customize their viewing experience by creating a personalized list of programs to watch. Users can restrict content with easy-to-use parental controls.			SHOWTIME ANYTIME joins Verizon FiOS TV's extensive overall offering from Showtime Networks. This includes 24 standard- and high-definition channels as well as SHOWTIME Sports Interactive, which enables FiOS TV customers to access fighter stats, records, bios and quotes; vote in interactive polls; test their knowledge in a trivia game; and check out a fight calendar – all on their TV screen while watching boxing and MMA events on SHOWTIME.			SHOWTIME ANYTIME is part of Verizon's extensive FiOS offering, which includes a broad collection of programming on TV, with more than 530 all-digital channels including more than 130 HD channels, and 35,000 monthly video-on-demand titles. 			Verizon continues to break boundaries with a variety of pioneering innovations. In addition to FiOS TV Online, FiOS provides countless next-generation interactive services, including Flex View, which extends FiOS TV Video on Demand beyond the home to the Internet and a range of mobile devices; an advanced interactive media guide; free interactive applications like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and others; Media Manager, which allows customers to access on their TVs personal photos, music and videos from their computers; and In-Home Agent, which assists customers in diagnosing and resolving a range of service issues. 			In addition, the company recently introduced the MY FiOS app, an easy-to-use mobile application that gives customers access to everything from movies, TV shows and personal content; to remote DVR access and control; to home and energy monitoring; to billing, account management and customer service tools. 			For the latest news, updates and information about FiOS TV, visit www.verizon.com/newscenter and http://www.verizon.com/athomeblog. 
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

