
 
It'd be too easy to describe this as "one for the purists," but it really rather is. The Sigma SD1 eschews any pretenses of being a video camera and gets right on with the business of taking gorgeous stills instead. Employing a 24mm x 16mm X3 CMOS sensor -- you know, the one with three stacked layers, one each for absorbing red, green and blue light -- dual TRUE II image processors, and an 11-point autofocusing system, the SD1 is eager to sweep up enthusiast photographers into its magnesium alloy embrace. 98 percent viewfinder coverage, a 3-inch, 460k-dot LCD and CompactFlash compatibility fill out the spec sheet, while price is indicated as somewhere in the neighborhood of the Canon EOS 7D. Without any live view or video options, Sigma had better have some truly spectacular image quality to show us when this thing ships in February of next year.

Update: Our hopes and dreams of caressing this rugged beast were dashed upon learning that the only SD1 at Photokina was held behind a glass box of emotion, but that didn't stop us from pointing our own camera at it and firing off a few shots. Trust us, it looks just as beastly in person as it does in the press shots. Have a gander below, won't you? 






Show full PR textFlagship digital SLR with 48.1 megapixel Foveon X3 sensor46 megapixel 24×16mm APS-C sensorLightweight yet solid magnesium alloy bodyWeather-resistant O-ring sealing connectionsDual 'TRUE II' image processing engines11 Point Twin Cross AF SensorThe Sigma Corporation is pleased to announce the new SIGMA SD1 Digital SLR Camera, incorporating a 46 megapixel 24×16mm APS-C X3 direct image sensor. The SIGMA SD1 is Sigma's flagship digital SLR model, adopting a lightweight yet solid magnesium alloy for its body and O-ring sealing connections to make a weather-resistant design throughout for use in harsh conditions.The SIGMA SD1 incorporates a 24×16mm APS-C X3 direct image sensor and dual "TRUE (Three-layer Responsive Ultimate Engine) II" image processing engines. The combination of the 46 megapixel sensor and dual TRUE II processing engines ensure the high resolution images are processed quickly with high definition and smooth and subtle graduation of colour. The SD1 is SIGMA's latest digital SLR camera which meets high requirements of professional and enthusiast photographers for all types of photography.SD1 Special site: www.SIGMA-SD.com/sd1Product Summary46 megapixel 24×16mm APS-C X3 Full-colour image sensorThe 46 megapixel (4,800×3,200×3 layers) 24×16mm APS-C X3 direct image sensor featured in the Sigma SD1 captures all primary RGB colours at each and every pixel location, ensuring the capture of full and complete colour. Using three silicon-embedded layers of photo detectors, stacked vertically to take advantage of silicon's ability to absorb red, green and blue light at different respective depths, it efficiently reproduces colour more accurately, and offers sharper resolution, pixel for pixel, than any conventional image sensor. Since colour moiré is not generated, the use of a low-pass filter is not required, meaning light and colour, generated by the 46 megapixel APS-C X3 direct image sensor, is captured with a three-dimensional feel.Dual TRUE II image processing engineThe SD1 incorporates a dual "TRUE (Three-layer Responsive Ultimate Engine) II" image processing engine which improves the processing speed and overall quality of the final image. The unique image-processing algorithm provides high resolution power and reproduces high definition images with richly graduated tones. CF cardThe SD1 adopts the TYPE I CF Card. This camera is compatible with UDMA Mode6, enabling fast processing of large amounts of data. * It is not possible to use Microdrives and TYPE II CF cards.11 point twin cross sensorThe autofocus system features an 11 point twin cross sensor. The shifted twin cross type sensor improves AF accuracy.Magnesium bodyThe Sigma SD1 adopts a lightweight yet solid magnesium alloy body designed to withstand rough use and shocks in harsh conditions.Weather-resistant designButtons and connections benefit from O-ring sealings to prevent dust and water getting inside the camera body.Large, highly visible 3.0" TFT colour LCD MonitorThe SD1 camera features a 3.0 inch TFT colour monitor. This 460,000 pixel resolution LCD monitor benefits from a wide viewing angle, making it easy to check focusing and composition.Optional lensesThe SD1 can be used with over 40 Sigma lenses such as ultra-wide, ultra-telephoto, macro and fisheyes which adopt the latest technology such as FLD and SLD glass, Aspherical lenses, Sigma's unique Optical Stabiliser function, Hyper Sonic Motor and Sigma's Super Multi Layer Coating. They meet the various and demanding requirements of all types of photographers.
 