
 
Here's an idea: start a headphone company, and then consult any 'ole musician for sponsorship. It's bound to work out well for you. HP has locked arms with Dr. Dre (and The Biebs!), Sleek Audio has done likewise with 50 Cent, Harman AKG has teamed with Quincy Jones, and now, Signeo is looking to Ludacris for a boost in the marketing department. Here at CES, the aforesaid outfit has just launched the cans you see above, aptly titled Soul by Ludacris. As you'd expect, they look mildly similar to the Beats headphone range that has seemingly taken the world by storm, and according to the release after the break, Luda was tightly involved in the construction of them. The Soul brand is debuting with five models in the line: the SL300 noise-cancelling headphones, on-ear SL150 / SL100 models and the SE99 / SE48 earbuds. The whole crew is tweaked to emit fairly intense bass ("without sacrificing the clarity of mids and highs," mind you), and while no pricing details are being shared just yet, we are told that you can find your own Soul when they hit shelves in "early 2011." One more look and the full release are after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textSigneo USA Officially Unveils SOUL by Ludacris®Company to Launch Full Suite of High Performance Audio Line with World Renowned Artist Ludacris at the 2011 Consumer Electronics ShowJanuary 5, 2011 – Signeo USA, a global leader in pro and consumer audio manufacturing, announces the worldwide launch of a superior new line of personal audio products - SOUL by Ludacris®. In a highly collaborative effort with the Grammy winning and globally renowned artist Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, the SOUL® brand kicks off with an initial 5-model line-up of high definition headphones that offer the elite sound caliber of a professional headphone with a distinct flair for self expression and style. Driven by his famously artistic vision, and supported by an award-winning design team with resume credits spanning from luxury automotive to world-class electronics, the line dons a sleek form factor and presents an array of eye-catching colors and uniquely designed styles. "It was important to our team to create a collection of audio concepts that not only delivers a powerful and precise listening experience, but also embodies the kind of style people look for in a nice pair of sunglasses or even a sports car", said Bob Bonefant, Executive Director of Signeo USA. "Ludacris is a perfect partner for us as he is the consummate individualist and has such a talent for infusing a distinct style into everything he does."The SOUL by Ludacris line debuts with the High Definition Professional SL300 Powered Noise Cancelling headphone, High Definition On-Ear models SL150 and SL100, and the SE99 and SE49 High Definition In-Ear headphones. The entire line contains professionally voiced sound technology with advanced circuitry and drivers designed by a team of engineers who have developed some of the most notable acoustic breakthroughs in the audio industry. Elements such as world-class noise cancellation technology and ultra precise audio mix balancing deliver deep bass without sacrificing clarity of mids and highs to provide a listening experience fit for a wide audience that reaches the business traveler or casual music lover to the pro musician or audiophile. Signeo USA Executive Director Len Davi commented," Delivering an impactful sound experience is an art form. Music is a passionate expression, and when you hear a great performance it's a very powerful thing. The SOUL name and concept is founded on the idea that you should be able to experience that feeling with each listen." The SOUL by Ludacris® product line will be exclusively distributed by Ingram Micro, Inc. (NYSE: IM) through its Consumer Electronics Division. The new line is scheduled to hit retail shelves nationwide in early 2011. For More Information, please visit www.SOULbyLudacris.com About SOUL by Ludacris®Expression, Passion and Superior Sound are at the core of the SOUL by Ludacris ®experience. Here to prove that style and sound quality can coexist, the SOUL line offers an array of personal audio products that masterfully balance elements such as world-class noise cancellation technology with superior sound quality, allowing you experience the full range of your music. Pair that with an award winning design team and the expressive vision of world renowned artist Ludacris, and you get the first headphone that effectively merges style with professional acoustics.
 