
 Good news for Honda fans: the automobile manufacturer has just revealed which of its 2013 vehicles will receive support for Apple's hands-free extension of Siri, known as Eyes Free. Namely, the feature will be available as a dealer-installed option for the Honda Accord, along with the RDX and ILX from Acura. Mum's currently the word on software integration, but it's worth pointing out that the HondaLink infotainment system was previously revealed to debut on the 2013 Accord, and both the RDX and ILX feature AcuraLink -- so, you do the math. Honda's yet to reveal pricing for the kit, but hey, it's something to haggle about.



  Show full PR text   Honda and Acura to offer Convenience of Apple's SiriTM Eyes Free on Select 2013 Vehicles
   TORRANCE, Calif., Jan. 30, 2013 – American Honda today announced it will integrate support for Siri, the intelligent assistant that helps you get things done just by asking, into its 2013 Honda Accord and Acura RDX and ILX models as a dealer installed option. Later this year, owners with a compatible iPhone* running iOS 6 can direct Siri to perform a number of specific tasks while they safely keep their eyes on the road and their hands on the wheel. Using Eyes Free mode, Siri takes hands-free functionality even further and minimizes distractions even more by keeping your iOS device's screen from lighting up.

   "iPhone has become so integral to people's lives that they continue to use them in their vehicles, " said Vicki Poponi, assistant vice president of automobile product planning, American Honda. "Offering Honda and Acura owners Siri and its Eyes Free mode via Bluetooth is an incredible opportunity to provide next-generation connectivity and meet our customer's ever-changing needs."

   Honda recognizes the power of Siri and Eyes Free mode as an in-vehicle tool that will help meet the connectivity and convenience needs of its customers in a responsible manner. Honda has reengineered its software to seamlessly integrate Siri Eyes Free mode into its Bluetooth® HandsFreeLink® via the onboard microphone and speakers.

   * Siri is available in Beta only on iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPad (3rd and 4th generations), iPad mini and iPod touch (5th generation), and requires Internet access. Siri may not be available in all languages or in all areas, and features may vary by area. Cellular data charges may apply.

 
