
 
 It's finally here! SiriusXM On Demand has launched, ushering the satellite radio service into the 21st century. The company's promised library of 200 shows and 2,000 hours of programming are online and available for subscribers to stream at their leisure. Access is free for existing subscribers, and available through the web or the SiriusXM apps on iOS. App users can even download shows for offline playback (which we believe makes them podcasts). Now you'll never need to miss another allegedly hilarious episode of Opie & Anthony again. Though, you might be a better person if you did. Check out the PR after the break for a few more details.



  Show full PR text   SiriusXM Launches "SiriusXM On Demand," Giving Subscribers Access to Exclusive SiriusXM Content Whenever They Want It
   NEW YORK, Aug. 7, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Sirius XM Radio (NASDAQ: SIRI) today announced the launch of SiriusXM On Demand, giving SiriusXM Internet Radio subscribers listening via its online media player and on Apple iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, the ability to choose their favorite episodes from a catalog of more than 200 shows and over 2,000 hours of content to listen whenever they want.

   "On Demand access to SiriusXM programming broadens the availability of our exclusive content, allowing subscribers to enjoy their favorite shows and try new shows on their own time so they never miss a minute of the programming they love," said Bob Law, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Streaming Services and Products, SiriusXM. "SiriusXM produces great original content, and we are thrilled we can now make so much of it available on our listeners' schedules through SiriusXM On Demand."

   SiriusXM On Demand will give subscribers at no extra charge:

   Recent Shows: Access to more than 200 shows from exclusive talk and entertainment, commercial-free music, comedy, and sports.  Selections from The Vaults: For the first time, SiriusXM is curating and making selections from its vast audio archives-spanning many years of exclusive shows, specials and series-accessible to listeners.  Updated content: SiriusXM's On Demand offerings will be updated daily with great selections from its audio entertainment catalog, and the available catalog will be expanded on a regular basis.  Featured Content: Regularly updated "Featured" section allows subscribers to discover more content, including timely interviews, brand new shows, "pop-up" channels, and seasonal series.  Easy Navigation: Using a mouse or finger, listeners can scan what's playing or easily find a specific point on many shows.  SiriusXM listeners will have On Demand access to over 2,000 hours of SiriusXM content, including more than 200 shows from sports, comedy, exclusive talk and entertainment, and commercial-free music from many genres such as The Howard Stern Show, Bob Dylan's Theme Time Radio Hour, Tom Petty's Buried Treasure, select Jimmy Buffett concerts, The Opie & Anthony Show, The Jamie Foxx Show, Ask Martha featuring Martha Stewart, Dr. Laura, The Bob Edwards Show, Mad Dog Unleashed featuring Christopher "Mad Dog" Russo, Ripken Baseball, Rotten Tomatoes™ Radio and many more.

   SiriusXM listeners will also have access to curated selections from deep within the SiriusXM archives, including SiriusXM's exclusive Artist Confidential series and Town Hall specials with Bruce Springsteen, Roger Waters, Tom Petty, Usher, Ringo Starr, Coldplay, Nirvana, Cardinal Timothy Dolan, Coach K, and many others. In addition, listeners will get access to exclusive subscriber events, music specials, interviews from across SiriusXM's sports channels, and much more.

   On Demand programming will be presented with minimal commercials on select shows. Music programming will have no commercials.

   SiriusXM Internet Radio subscribers listening on Apple iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch will also be able to store select On Demand shows for a period of time on their devices and listen to content when not connected to the Internet. This allows offline listening while traveling on planes or anywhere at anytime without a wireless connection. Subscribers will also get automatic notifications when favorite programs become available for On Demand listening on Apple mobile devices.

   SiriusXM On Demand will also soon be available on compatible Android devices.

   Listeners can register for a complimentary 7-day trial to listen to SiriusXM Internet Radio online and on Apple smartphones and other connected devices. For more information on SiriusXM Internet Radio, please visit www.siriusxm.com/internetradio.

   About Sirius XM Radio

   Sirius XM Radio Inc. is the world's largest radio broadcaster measured by revenue and has more than 22 million subscribers. SiriusXM creates and broadcasts commercial-free music; premier sports talk and live events; comedy; news; exclusive talk and entertainment; and the most comprehensive Latin music, sports and talk programming in radio. SiriusXM is available in vehicles from every major car company in the U.S., from retailers nationwide, and online at siriusxm.com. SiriusXM programming is also available through the SiriusXM Internet Radio App for Android, Apple, and BlackBerry smartphones and other connected devices. SiriusXM also holds a minority interest in SiriusXM Canada which has more than 2 million subscribers.

 
