
 
Using your Android phone as a remote is hardly new, but using it to actually send content to a TV-connected set-top box? Now that's a novel concept. Skifta for Android has just become the first piece of software to be certified by the Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) under its new Software Certification program, enabling any Android-based smartphone or tablet to stream onboard media to any DLNA source, including TVs, stereos, PCs and Sony's PS3. It's hard to say what kind of phone (and what kind of bandwidth) will be needed for this to actually be an enjoyable experience, but those curious to find out can download the app for free in the Android Marketplace... provided you're using a device with Android 2.2 (Froyo) or higher, of course. Head on past the break for a explanatory video.
      

 

Show full PR textSkifta Becomes First Software Application to Receive DLNA Certification- Application-based Service Turns Smartphones and Tablets into Global Remote Controls for Streaming Media and Furthers DLNA Vision for Connected Digital Home -SAN DIEGO, Feb. 2, 2011 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Skifta™ for Android, a product of Qualcomm Services Labs Inc., has become the first application to be certified by the Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) under its new Software Certification program. Skifta is an application-based media shifting service that allows consumers to access and play their digital media from virtually any source, whether it's accessed on the phone, from the cloud, or remotely from home. Consumers can then stream this media to DLNA Certified® consumer electronics such as TVs, IP-connected stereos, Windows 7 PCs, PlayStation3 game consoles and many other consumer electronics products via their Android smartphones and tablets.As a DLNA Certified software application, Skifta now gives Android users the added assurance that digital music, photos and videos from the phone and around the connected home can be streamed easily to DLNA Certified products at home or on the go. Through DLNA Certification, Skifta helps meet digital media consumers' demand for a reliable, interoperable platform for accessing and streaming media within the connected home, or accessing it remotely via smartphone."We are proud that the Skifta Android application has become the first DLNA Certified software application," said Bruce Jackson, vice president of technology at Qualcomm Services Labs. "The Skifta application demonstrates our commitment to DLNA and to making the smartphone central to the connected home and lifestyle. The Skifta application creates the potential for tens of millions of smartphones and tablets to run DLNA Certified software and stream multimedia content reliably to devices around the home."Analysts estimate that there will be nearly two billion DLNA Certified devices in homes worldwide by 2014, and some expect that DLNA software certification will propel adoption and usage of DLNA devices on consumers' home networks. The Skifta application takes advantage of the rapid adoption of DLNA-enabled devices, the growing desire for on-demand streaming media, and the rapid proliferation of smartphones to deliver an easy-to-use service for taking your digital media with you, without actually having to take it with you."DLNA Certified software such as Skifta will help bring content such as photos, videos and music, stored on DLNA Certified devices, to an even larger selection of consumer electronics, mobile and PC products," said Nidhish Parikh, chairman and president of DLNA. "Qualcomm has been an active DLNA member for some time and as the first Certified software application, Skifta complements the DLNA standards and vision."AvailabilityThe Skifta application beta is currently available as a free download in the Android Marketplace for smartphones running Android version 2.2 and higher.
 