

It's not uncommon for the Sky Sports iPad application to receive features tailored for fans of the world's beautiful game, soccer (or football, if you want to get technical). To that end, Sky today released version 5.4 of the app ahead of Saturday's UEFA Champions League final. Viewers will now be able to choose from up to 20 camera angles when watching game highlights, which should go hand-in-hand with the recent inclusion of that second screen experience. The update also brings the ability to view selected clips in slow-mo -- and, hey, the way Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund are currently playing, we're definitely going to need to take things down a notch.



Show full PR textENJOY THE BEST MOMENTS FROM THE UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE FINAL FROM ANY ANGLE WITH SKY SPORTS FOR iPADWant to relive the match-winning goal from behind the net? Review the controversial decision that changed the course of the game? See if the ball really did cross the line? Decide for yourself with Sky Sports 360 - a new multi-camera highlights feature available in the award-winning Sky Sports for iPad app.Launching just in time for the upcoming Champions League final clash between Borussia Dortmund and FC Bayern Munich at Wembley Stadium this Saturday 25 May, Sky Sports 360 means that for the first time ever, Sky Sports viewers can turn their armchair into the director's chair.Found within the Champions League Events Centre of the Sky Sports for iPad app, Sky Sports 360 lets you select and replay all the most exciting saves, tackles, and near-misses during the game from over 20 different camera angles.Live multi-camera technology from EVS makes feeds from around the pitch available during the game, allowing fans to quickly and easily pick their choice of highlights and a camera angle to enjoy all the very best game-defining moments – with the option of slow-motion too.The Champions League Event Centre is just one of a host of second screen experiences available to Sky Sports subscribers as part of the award-winning Sky Sports for iPad app. Others currently available include F1® Race Control and the Premier League Match centre, with many more available when a sport is live, for example The Masters offering live coverage, up-to-date aggregated twitter feed and match statistics. The app also covers the biggest sports stories of the day together with information on the latest fixtures, results and standings, access to all 6 Sky Sports channels live, Sky Sports News radio.David Gibbs, Director of Sky Sports Digital Media, commented: "This is great news for the Sky Sports for iPad app, which keeps getting better and better. This is about putting the technology into the hands of the viewer and allowing them to recapture the big moments in the final. It's the first time we've offered this through our app and it's another example of our investment in the Sky Sports viewer's experience."Sky Sports for iPad is available at no extra cost to all Sky customers who take Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2. Sky Sports for iPad is available for free from the App Store on iPad or at www.itunes.com/appstore.The Sky Sports for iPad App is also available to non-Sky customers on a standalone basis for £4.99 per month through In-App Purchase (excludes access to Sky Sports 1-4 and Sky Sports F1®).The UEFA Champions League final between Borussia Dortmund and FC Bayern Munich at Wembley Stadium on 25 May is live on Sky Sports 1 HD. Sky Sports 360 will be available for the final this weekend and for the forthcoming 13-14 season.-ENDS-For more information & images:

Amy Holland 020 7032 1498 | Consumer PRAlison Hackney 020 7032 1451 | Sky SportsAbout Sky Sports for iPad appThe award-winning Sky Sports for iPad app covers the biggest sports stories of the day together with information on the latest fixtures, results and standings. Key features include live streaming of Sky Sports 1, 2, 3 and 4, Sky Sports News and the Sky Sports F1® channel, Sky Sports News radio, homepages for football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, golf, tennis, F1® and boxing, as well as team news pages for football and cricket teams which can also be used to personalised a users' homepageAbout SkySky entertains and excites more than 10.3 million homes through the most comprehensive multichannel, multi-platform television service in the UK and Ireland. Sky continues to break new ground with its own portfolio of channels: Sky 1 combines its commitment to UK production with the best of the US; Sky Living pushes ahead with fresh and innovative entertainment formats; Sky Arts is the UK's only dedicated arts channel brand; Sky Atlantic is the home to HBO and other iconic drama and comedy, Sky Sports is still raising the bar in sports broadcasting; Sky News remains a pioneer in television news; and Sky Movies is leading the way in High Definition and on-demand.Sky also works with dozens of other broadcasters on the satellite platform, as well as online and on mobile through the ground-breaking Sky Go service. Sky has also led the UK into the age of high definition television, launched Europe's first 3DTV channel, Sky 3D, and offers customer even more flexibility and choice through Sky On Demand its internet-delivered video on demand service. Since launching Sky Broadband and Sky Talk in 2006, the company has also been the UK's fastest-growing home communications provider.Sky believes in making a wider contribution to the communities in which it operates, not least by increasing participation in, and access to, the arts, supporting grassroots sports, and taking positive action on the environment.About EVSEVS provides its customers with reliable and innovative technology to enable the production of live, enriched video programming, allowing them to work more efficiently and boost their revenue streams. Its industry-leading broadcast and media production systems are used by broadcasters, production companies, post-production facilities, film studios, content owners and archive libraries around the globe. It spans four key markets – Sports, Entertainment, News and Media.Founded in 1994, its innovative Live Slow Motion system revolutionised live broadcasting. Its reliable and integrated tapeless solutions, based around its market-leading XT server range, are now widely used to deliver live productions worldwide. Today, it continues to develop practical innovations, such as its C-Cast second-screen delivery platform, to help customers maximise the value of their media content.The company is headquartered in Belgium and has offices in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and North America. Approximately 465 EVS professionals from 20 offices are selling its branded products in over 100 countries, and provide customer support globally. EVS is a public company traded on Euronext Brussels: EVS, ISIN: BE0003820371. For more information, please visit www.evs.com

Information in this email including any attachments may be privileged, confidential and is intended exclusively for the addressee. The views expressed may not be official policy, but the personal views of the originator. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender by return e-mail and delete it from your system. You should not reproduce, distribute, store, retransmit, use or disclose its contents to anyone. Please note we reserve the right to monitor all e-mail communication through our internal and external networks. SKY and the SKY marks are trade marks of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and are used under licence. British Sky Broadcasting Limited (Registration No. 2906991), Sky Interactive Limited (Registration No. 3554332), Sky-In-Home Service Limited (Registration No. 2067075) and Sky Subscribers Services Limited (Registration No. 2340150) are direct or indirect subsidiaries of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc (Registration No. 2247735). All of the companies mentioned in this paragraph are incorporated in England and Wales and share the same registered office at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD.


