
 
 BSkyB has been busy pushing updates to several of its apps, starting with the Sky Go player. On both iOS and Android, the big new addition is access to Anytime+ video on demand from the Movies and Entertainment category, covering Sky1, Sky Living, Sky Atlantic and Sky Arts 1. On Android, v2.0 of Sky Go brings the ability to manage ones account directly via the app, move the app to the SD card and other bug fixes. What it does not do, yet, is expand the (short) list of compatible devices, although the listing promises Ice Cream Sandwich support later this month. Meanwhile, the Sky Sports app for iPad has a new update too, adding a guide, split screen view for F1 races and the ability to remotely set recordings and reminders from the tablet. All the updates are available at their respective app stores, the links can be found below.

 Update (7/5): Sky has pushed out a press release for the Android update, and other than confirming the ICS compatibility update by the end of July, it also mentions support for more devices. The only two mentioned specifically are the Samsung Galaxy Note and Galaxy Nexus, you can see the release for yourself after the break.



   Show full PR text   On-Demand Content Comes to Sky Go on Android
   LONDON, July 5, 2012 /PRNewswire/ --

   Content from Sky Movies and Sky Entertainment channels now available live and on-demand on selected Android devices

   Sky customers with compatible Android devices can now enjoy their favourite content from Sky on-demand through Sky Go. A selection of catch-up content from Sky Movies, Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living and Sky Arts 1 is now available through Sky Go on all compatible Android devices*.

   As part of the latest update to the Android app, new features include:

   Hundreds of VOD Movies

   Sky Movies content will for the first time be available on-demand through all compatible Android devices, in line with customer subscriptions, with hundreds of popular movies.  Popular Sky Entertainment channels

   Content from Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living and Sky Arts 1 will be available on-demand through all compatible mobile devices for the first time  Additional control of Sky account within Sky Go

   Customers can now view their Sky package and bill from within Sky Go by a direct link to the customer service pages  By the end of July an additional update to Sky Go will support the Android operating system Ice Cream Sandwich on compatible devices, as well as new devices including the Samsung Galaxy Note and Galaxy Nexus.

   Holly Knill, Product Director of Sky Go, comments:

   "With the huge and ever-growing popularity of Android devices in the UK it's fantastic to make on-demand content from Sky Movies and Sky Entertainment available to Sky customers for the first time.

   "This update means customers can enjoy some of the most popular shows such as Sky Atlantic's Mad Men, Veep and hundreds of the latest Hollywood blockbusters, whenever suits them. We hope this update to the service offers extra flexibility to Android users and the new option of on-demand viewing makes a richer experience for all Sky customers across all platforms."

   The Sky Go Android app, which launched in February on a selection of Android smartphones, offers eight sports channels including Eurosport in time for the huge summer of sport, with highlights including the Olympics, the continuing Formula 1™ season and the start of 2012 - 2013 Barclays Premier League. Sky Movies customers can enjoy eleven Sky Movies channels, as well as hundreds of movies on-demand including Rio and X-Men: First Class. Beyond Android mobile devices, on-demand content from a range of channels is also available on Sky Go for PC, laptops, Xbox and iOS devices.

   More information on the latest Sky Go app and VOD is available from sky.com/skygo.

   NOTES TO EDITORS

   About Sky Go

   Sky Go brings together online and mobile TV in a simple service for Sky TV customers at no extra cost. Available on PC, Mac, iPad, iPhone, iPod touch, selected Android smartphones and Xbox 360, Sky Go allows Sky customers to watch content in line with their subscription while on the move in the UK and Ireland through a 3G or WiFi connection. Each Sky home is entitled to register up to two devices, through which they can enjoy access to live channels and, selected on-demand content.

   On computers customers can access up to 40 live TV channels, , including all six Sky Sports channels, Sky Movies, Sky News, Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Arts, MTV, Disney, G.O.LD, Nickelodeon, NatGeo, History, Eden and ESPN, supported by an extensive library of on-demand content. Sky Go is also available to non-Sky TV customers, with monthly subscriptions priced from £15-£40.

   Compatible iOs mobile devices: iPhone 3GS and above, iPad 1 & 2 and iPod touch 4th generation.

   Compatible Android handsets:

   • HTC Desire  • HTC Desire S  • HTC Desire HD  • HTC Incredible S  • HTC Sensation  • HTC Sensation XE  • Samsung Galaxy S  • Samsung Galaxy S2  About Sky

   Sky entertains and excites more than 10.5 million homes through the most comprehensive multichannel, multi-platform television service in the UK and Ireland. Sky continues to break new ground with its own portfolio of channels: Sky 1 combines its commitment to UK production with the best of the US; Sky Living pushes ahead with fresh and innovative entertainment formats; Sky Arts is the UK's only dedicated arts channel brand; Sky Atlantic is the home to HBO and other iconic drama and comedy, Sky Sports is still raising the bar in sports broadcasting; Sky News remains a pioneer in television news; and Sky Movies is leading the way in High Definition and on-demand.

   Sky also works with dozens of other broadcasters on the satellite platform, as well as online and on mobile through the ground-breaking Sky Go service. Sky has also led the UK into the age of high definition television, launched Europe's first 3DTV channel, Sky 3D, and offers customer even more flexibility and choice through Sky Anytime+, its internet-delivered video on demand service. Since launching Sky Broadband and Sky Talk in 2006, the company has also been the UK's fastest-growing home communications provider.

   Sky believes in making a wider contribution to the communities in which it operates, not least by increasing participation in, and access to, the arts, supporting grassroots sports, and taking positive action on the environment.

   SOURCE BSkyB

 
