
  It's taken about eight months, but Sky Go is finally available on select Android handsets (HTC Desire, HTC Desire S, HTC Desire HD, HTC Incredible, HTC Sensation, Samsung Galaxy S, Samsung Galaxy S II) after launching on iOS last year. Beyond the limited hardware support, there's a few other caveats to be aware of -- the app is only supported on Android 2.2 and 2.3, so when Ice Cream Sandwich hits some of those phones soon, users will be forced to choose between upgrading or keeping Sky Go working. Another drawback is that due to DRM, the app is blocked from working on rooted devices. Once users have jumped through those hoops though, there will also be even more content available for viewing on all platforms including Sky Atlantic, Sky 1, Sky Living and Sky Arts 1, before F1 coverage launches in March. Speaking of F1 -- Sky also announced its new channel will bring 5.1 surround sound to UK and Ireland broadcasts for the first time this season.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Sky Go now live on Android Sky Go app available in the Android Market from today Sky Entertainment channels (Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living and Sky Arts 1) now available across a selection of Android smartphones  Sky Go, the TV service available at no extra cost to Sky customers is now available to download from the Android Market to a selection of the most popular handsets including HTC Desire S and Samsung Galaxy S2, covering the majority of Android users. Sky TV customers using these smartphones can now access all five Sky Sports channels, ESPN, Sky News and 11 Sky Movies channels via the Sky Go app in line with their subscription.  In addition, Sky TV customers can now watch their favourite Sky Entertainment channels on the move with Sky Go. Following the launch of Sky Atlantic in January, Sky 1, Sky Living and Sky Arts 1* are now also available on all compatible mobile devices, significantly expanding the choice of TV on offer on the move. The Sky Sports F1™ channel will also be introduced across all Sky Go platforms in March.  Holly Knill, Head of Sky Go, comments: "We're extremely happy to announce the roll out of Sky Go on selected Android handsets today and the arrival of the Sky Entertainment channels to mobile devices. We are always working to ensure that Sky customers have more ways to watch content they love, whether it's the big Premiership game, Emmy and Golden Globe winner Modern Family or Ruth Jones' Stella, and this is exactly what this enhanced version of Sky Go delivers."  More information on the latest Sky Go news is available from sky.com/skygo.
 