
 

The 2011 Formula 1 racing season just wrapped up in Brazil, but Sky is already breaking down what it will bring to the series as it takes over UK coverage next year. Launching in March, Sky Sports F1 HD will be a channel dedicated to round the clock coverage of the world's most technologically advanced racing series including every race, practice, and qualifying session. Sky customers with the Sports and HD packages will see the HD channel appear at number 408 on the dial, although there's no word yet whether or not it will be available on BT Vision or Virgin Media. Other tidbits include a promise of Sky Go access, and that despite the broadcaster's big 3D push, there's no such coverage planned for 2012. Seeing how long it took for true HD broadcasts from F1 we're thinking that could take a while, but here in the US we'd simply settle for a promise of no more tape delayed broadcasts on Fox (and some competent challengers for the Red Bull team while we're asking) for next season. Until then, check out this brief video trailer, plus a press release with all the details after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Sky Sports F1 TM HD – The Ultimate Formula 1 TM Experience		SKY SPORTS will launch a dedicated channel for its new in-depth Formula 1TM coverage, taking viewers under the skin of the sport		Starting in March 2012, Sky Sports F1TM HD will get Sky customers closer than ever, with more action, analysis and information - on their TV, online and mobile devices - throughout the season.		This new home of Formula 1TM will be the only place to enjoy live coverage of the whole Grand PrixTM season, including all practice and qualifying sessions and every race in the calendar.		From launch, Sky Sports F1TM HD will give viewers:		* EVERY RACE LIVE: From March to November, every moment of each race will be live in HD, without the interruption of adverts.		* LIVE PRACTICE & QUALIFYING: Every practice and qualifying session for each Grand Prix TM will be shown live on one channel, Sky Sports F1TM HD.		* THE FULL SEASON IN-DEPTH: Over nine full months, viewers will have a wealth of programmes with in-depth interviews, archive action and weekly magazine shows.		* EXTRA LIVE CONTENT: Through Sky's interactive service, fans can follow the action through		on-board cameras, go behind the scenes with the teams in the pits, and follow race data, to		take them further inside the sport.		The dedicated channel will be provided at no extra charge to all Sky TV customers who take		both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 or the HD pack of channels. It will be found at 408 in Sky's		on-screen guide, after a scheduled move of the Sky Sports channels. Sky Sports viewers		without the Sky+HD pack will receive a standard definition version.		Sky Sports F1TM HD viewers can also follow the action wherever they are with all live coverage on Sky Go, through online, mobile or tablet devices, at no extra charge.		Announcing the new channel, Barney Francis, Managing Director of Sky Sports, said: "Formula 1TM followers are hungry for more and we want to give them the ultimate experience. Its not just every minute of every race but a channel devoted to Formula 1TM.		He continued: "We can now tell the whole story of the season, from every Grand PrixTM, from start to finish. Formula 1TM will get the full Sky Sports treatment. We have big plans for live shows and a rich line-up of Formula 1TM programmes; getting to the drivers, exploring the technology and lapping up the drama.		"With a dedicated channel for Formula 1TM we can also give all sports fans the depth and breadth of sports they demand every weekend, right through the year."		Jeremy Darroch, Sky's Chief Executive, added: "This brand new channel again proves Sky's commitment to investing in the best content for customers. It will give even more value to Sky customers and create another reason for others to consider pay TV.		"This is another example of the value we are creating for customers through our content leadership. It follows the recent launch of other high-quality new channels like Sky Atlantic and Sky 3D as well as our growing commitment to UK original content in areas such as drama, comedy and the arts.		More information on Sky Sports F1TM HD can be found at www.sky.com/f1
 