
 
The Sky 3D channel has so far been officially available only in 1,500 or so UK pubs, but now its residential launch for all Sky+HD customers is slated for October 1. The 2010 Ryder Cup will serve as a launch event with three days of live coverage from Celtic Manor as the US and European teams do battle; the first ever in 3D, but the third such event it's covered in high definition. Golf fans won't be the only ones catered to, Premier League football will be returning once the season starts and today's announcement coincided with a SkyArts 3D filming arranged by the English National Ballet. Hollywood's major studios have already agreed to provide 3D movies including Bolt, Monsters vs. Aliens, Harry Potter & The Half Blood Prince and more, while Sky has commissioned its own original 3D flick, Flying Monsters presented by Sir David Attenborough. Not quite ready for the 3D revolution? Feel free to put that on the backburner -- at least until the 2012 London Olympics -- as the network is also adding content from HBO, a large slate of new comedies, Anytime+ VOD, and a Sky Mobile TV iPad app. With an HD channel count of 43 and plans to reach 50 by year-end, there should be a little something there for everyone to enjoy.
      

 

Show full PR textSky to enter 3D future on October 1stSky today confirmed it will launch Sky 3D, Europe's first 3D channel, to millions of Sky homes on Friday 1st October 2010. The announcement coincided with the filming of a spectacular dance routine at St Pancras station, where Bollywood dancers performed in front of 3D cameras as part of a new SkyArts 3D production in partnership with English National Ballet.Sky's ground-breaking service will launch with an exciting line-up of movies and live sport . It will be available to any Sky+HD home that has invested in a 3D-ready TV. The launch weekend highlights will include:* This year's Ryder Cup, with three days of live coverage from Celtic Manor, as Europe take on the US in the most eagerly awaited golf event of the year.* Two of the biggest grossing 3D films to date - Bolt and Monster vs. Aliens - will make their 3DTV debutsThe Sky 3D channel line-up will then continue to expand in the run-up to Christmas with a number of movie titles including: Alice in Wonderland; Ice Age – Dawn of the Dinosaurs; Coraline; Fly Me To The Moon, Harry Potter & The Half Blood Prince and My Bloody Valentine. Sky has agreed with Disney, Fox, Universal, Warner Brothers, Paramount and DreamWorks to showcase the very best of Hollywood in 3D.Sky will also offer a range of live sport, including Premier League football, from launch. Further shows spanning entertainment and the arts will be announced closer to the service's launch.All Sky+HD viewers with a 3D TV will be able to receive Sky 3D, as no set-top box upgrade is required. At no extra charge, customers who subscribe to Sky's top channel and HD pack will receive access to a wide range of 3D movies, entertainment and sports.Jeremy Darroch, Sky's Chief Executive, said: "As with High Definition, 3D is set to transform the way TV is enjoyed in homes nationwide. Following hot on the heels of the success of 3D cinema, Sky customers will now be the first anywhere in Europe to experience 3D TV from the comfort of their living rooms. They can look forward to a fantastic mix of live sport, blockbuster movies, and innovative entertainment and arts shows."Today's announcement builds on the successful launch of the world's first commercially available 3D channel in April 2010. Sky 3D is now available in more than 1,500 pubs and clubs across the UK and Ireland. Over a million sports fans have already marvelled at a range of sports broadcast live in 3D since the channel's launch. Sports covered to date include football, rugby union, cricket, rugby league and darts.Sky 3D is compatible with all of the 3D TVs being introduced by Sony, Samsung, LG and Panasonic, and works with both 'active' and 'passive' 3D formats.To register for the latest information on Sky 3D visit: www.sky.com/3D- ends -The Ryder Cup in 3D!Last updated: 29th July 2010 Sky Sports will screen the 2010 Ryder Cup live in 3D.The broadcast will be the first event to be shown on Sky 3D, Europe's first residential 3D TV channel, which will launch on October 1, 2010.The Ryder Cup will form the cornerstone of Sky 3D's launch weekend's schedule, with key holes from Twenty Ten Course at Celtic Manor broadcast in 3D, providing a unique and never-before-seen perspective of golf's biggest team event.Today's announcement builds on the successful launch in April of the world's first commercially available 3D channel. Sky 3D is now available in more than 1,500 pubs and clubs across the UK and Ireland and over one million sports fans have already marvelled at a range of sports broadcast live in 3D since the channel's launch. Sports covered to date include football, cricket, rugby union, rugby league and darts.The residential launch of Sky 3D will mean that any Sky+HD customer with a 3D Ready TV will be able to enjoy the spectacle of live sport in 3D in the comfort of their living room. Viewers who have yet to buy a 3D TV can still enjoy the action by visiting www.sky.com/3dpubs to find their nearest Sky 3D pub.Sky Sports will also show live coverage of the 2010 Ryder Cup in High Definition (HD), and this will be the third Ryder Cup to be shown by Sky Sports in HD. Our on-screen team for the 2010 Ryder Cup will include presenter David Livingstone and commentators Ewen Murray and Butch Harmon.Speaking about the announcement, Ewen Murray said: "Watching golf in 3D gives you the sense that you're standing right beside the golfer as he takes his shot."3D highlights every change of elevation on the golf course making it possible for the viewer to get an accurate read of each slope on the fairways and greens."Richard Hills, the Ryder Cup director, said: "Following the success of Sky's High Definition coverage we have followed the evolution of Sky's 3D broadcasts with keen interest. We have been very impressed with Sky's efforts to further enhance its coverage and are delighted that the Ryder Cup will be a part of TV history with the launch of Europe's first 3DTV channel."Sky started testing 3D technology two years ago and created history on January 31, 2010 with the world's first live sports 3D TV broadcast - Arsenal v Manchester United.Following this it has shown 3D live coverage of Test and One Day International cricket, a semi-final and final from rugby union's Guinness Premiership, Wigan v Warrington from rugby league's engage Super League XV, and the semi-finals and final from the Stan James World Matchplay darts championship.The new residential channel Sky 3D will also offer a range of must-see movies, sport, documentaries, entertainment and arts content.
 