
 When you're rooting for your team, one screen is never enough. Sky Sports knows this, and knows it quite well it seems. Hence why the UK Satellite giant is rolling out more of it via its iPad app. Now, as promised, the UEFA Champions League and 2012 Ryder Cup get in on the action. As you would imagine, the update lets users dive into a bunch of stats, game info, live tweets and even allows watching multiple games split-screen stylee. The updated app is available now, in plenty of time for the build up, leaving you free to stock up on snacks and refreshments.



  Show full PR text   SKY SPORTS FOR IPAD INTRODUCES NEW UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE AND RYDER CUP SECOND SCREEN EXPERIENCES
   The latest update to Sky Sports for iPad has launched in Apple's app store, including second screen experiences for both the UEFA Champions League and The 2012 Ryder Cup. Sky Sports for iPad ensures that football and golf fans alike can access the latest news and team updates while watching live sports at home and on the go.

   The new second screen offerings build on the success of F1™ "Race Control" and the Barclays Premier League "Match Centre" sections of the app that have proven a hit with fans already. The UEFA Champions League Event Centre has also been a popular fixture on www.skysports.com throughout the 2011/12 season. The update lets Sky customers access in-depth information, and statistics about matches, and watch multiple games through split-screen technology, providing an even richer experience around Sky Sports' coverage of the 2012-13 UEFA Champions League season, and The 2012 Ryder Cup which starts on Friday 28th September at 12.30pm on Sky Sports 1 HD.

   Key features of the UEFA Champions League Event Centre include:

   A selection of matches to choose from, with a customisable split screen allowing users to watch any two at the same time, from a maximum of eight available  Goal alerts with video highlights for every goal in every live Sky Sports' match  A live feed of the latest tweets

   Key Features of The 2012 Ryder Cup Match Centre include:

   Multiple live streams from the Medinah course that can be viewed using split screen technology  Highlights from around the course  A live score-board  A live feed of the latest tweets

   The Sky Sports for iPad app also covers the biggest sports stories of the day in incredible depth, together with information on the latest fixtures, results and standings. Key features include live streaming of Sky Sports 1, 2, 3 and 4, Sky Sports News and the Sky Sports F1™ channel, Sky Sports News radio, homepages for football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, golf, tennis, F1™ and boxing, as well as team news pages for Football and Cricket teams which can also be used to personalised a users' homepage

   David Gibbs, Director of Sky Sports Digital Media, commented:

   "We hope that the launch of the UEFA Champions League Event Centre on iPad will help fans enjoy the very best of our coverage with the ability to match-hop on their second screen without interrupting their main TV viewing. This update to the app follows the successful launch of the online Event Centre on www.skysports.com last season as well as the F1™ and Barclays Premier League second screen offerings on the iPad earlier this year and we have seen a real appetite from fans to follow live sport on other devices in this way, at the same time as watching on their main screen.

   "The Ryder Cup Match Centre will also provide a selection of live video streams for users to choose from, to get the very best from Sky Sports' coverage of this fantastic event. With both these Second Screen experiences including the customisable split screen feature, - used in conjunction with Sky Sport' HD or even 3D coverage - it's a great way to enjoy a truly immersive experience as a sports fan."

   Located within Sky Sports for iPad, the updated Second Screen experience is accessible at no extra cost to all Sky customers who take Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2. Sky Sports for iPad is available for free from the App Store on iPad or at www.itunes.com/appstore. The Sky Sports for iPad App is also available to non-Sky customers on a standalone basis for £4.99 per month through In-App Purchase (excludes access to Sky Sports 1-4 and Sky Sports F1™).

 
