
 

Lounging around in the sun is great and all, but what to do on a rainy day? One option is to get some TV time in, and Sky's got a few updates to share that might tempt you in front of a screen on dreary afternoons. At some point this summer, shows from Fox, Universal and SyFy will be available on Sky's On Demand service, as well as content from Disney if you're signed up for the Entertainment Extra package. Mobile apps will be getting a makeover, with "enhanced navigation" and a new design including bigger thumbnails when cruising through the VOD library. The Sky Go Xbox 360 app will also be updated to bring it in line with Microsoft's UI style. Furthermore, Sky Multiroom subscribers will get access to Sky Go Extra, which allows you to download content in addition to streaming, at no extra cost in early July. Vitamin D's overrated anyways.


 
Show full PR textWatching on demand and on the go with Sky to get bigger and better this summerSky TV is getting bigger and better this summer, with the launch of four new Catch Up TV channels, a new look for Sky Go and new bonus access to Sky Go Extra for Sky Multiroom customers, giving them the option to download shows to watch on offline at no extra cost.

The UK's biggest Catch Up service gets even biggerFrom later this summer, the UK's biggest Catch Up TV service is set to get even bigger with catch up TV from Fox, Universal and SyFy launching on Sky on demand. Sky TV households taking the Entertainment Extra pack will be able to also enjoy Disney on demand at no extra cost. The new channels means that Sky now offers access to over 20 catch up channels, providing thousands of hours of great TV to enjoy whenever customers choose. On demand viewing continues to increase in popularity with over 2 million connected Sky customers enjoying both Catch Up and TV Box Sets. In the second week of June, the season finale of Games of Thrones saw 41,000 downloads in both SD and HD.Sky Go gets a brand new lookAlso coming later this summer, people watching on phones and tablets via Sky Go will get a new look app. The refreshed design includes enhanced navigation to make it even easier to find and watch more of your favourite shows, and bigger thumbnail images when you are browsing the On Demand library. The app will also be updated for Xbox users to give it the latest Microsoft user interface. Sky TV customers be able to use the new look app to access up to 39 channels on mobile and tablets, 14 of which were added in the last 12 months including Channel 4, More4, Disney, Cartoon Network, SyFy and Universal.Sky Go Extra available to all Sky Multiroom customersFrom early July, Sky Multiroom customers will enjoy even more flexibility over their TV viewing with bonus access to Sky Go Extra. Sky Multiroom customers currently get access to their Sky TV channels in other rooms of their house. Now for no additional monthly cost, customers with Sky Multiroom will be able to download big American dramas, home-grown TV shows and major sporting events to laptops, phones and tablets to watch offline whenever and wherever they want – in or out of their home*. To add Sky Go Extra to their subscription Sky Multiroom customers will simply need to update their account online at sky.com.Luke Bradley-Jones, Director of TV Products, Sky comments: "This summer we're adding even more channels into what is already the UK's biggest catch up TV service. We're also making it easier to find something great to watch when out and about and at the same time giving our customers even more choice about different screens to watch on. It's all part of our commitment to offer the best TV and the best ways to watch, giving our customers even more choice and flexibility from their Sky TV."To watch Sky on demand customers need to connect their Sky+ HD box to an internet connection.


