
 Being able to watch Sky TV on the go using, erm, Sky Go, is great, but streaming video away from your home router can often be costly, especially if you're on EE's basic LTE plan. Thankfully, the broadcaster is looking to launch Sky Go Extra, which, if The Telegraph is to believed, will allow up to four users to download anything from the Murdoch library straight to their mobile device. Adding such functionality to your family's viewing habits will set you back £5 a month (after a two month free trial) but that also includes unlimited access to the company's first-window movie catalog, a jewel it's paid heavily to keep out of the hands of rivals such as Netflix Lovefilm.

 Update: And it's official! PR's after the break.



  Show full PR text   Sky Unveils a New Subscription Service - Sky Go Extra
   Sky is launching a brand new subscription service, Sky Go Extra, which lets customers download the latest blockbuster films from Sky Movies and great content from channels such as Sky 1 and Sky Atlantic to watch when and where they want, without the need for a WiFi or 3G/4G connection. The service also lets Sky Go Extra customers register for Sky Go on up to four, rather than two, internet-connected devices.

   Launching today and available to all Sky TV customers for just £5 per month, the new service delivers even more flexibility to Sky customers by letting them download movies and TV shows depending on their Sky TV subscription to their smartphone, tablet, laptop or MacBook via WiFi to watch offline later. So whether in a car, on a flight or on the train or Tube, Sky customers will be able to enjoy a wide range of content anywhere, not just where they can find a reliable WiFi or high-speed mobile connection.

   The launch of the new service builds on the success of Sky Go, which offers Sky customers access to live and on demand programmes and films from up to 43 channels on a wide range of internet-connected devices including laptops, smartphones, tablets and games consoles. Sky Go now attracts more than 3 million unique users each quarter.

   In addition to being able to download content, Sky Go Extra customers are also able to register for Sky Go on up to four, rather than two, internet-connected devices, giving Sky households even more flexibility over when and where they enjoy the service.

   Sky Go Extra is the first mobile TV subscription service in the UK and Ireland to offer Hollywood movies to download and watch offline. With a choice of hundreds of titles exclusive to Sky Movies available to download at any one time, Sky Go Extra customers who subscribe to the Sky Movies pack will be able to download blockbuster releases around six months after they have ended their run in cinemas. Once downloaded, customers can store the films on their portable devices for up to 30 days.

   Blockbusters such as Avengers Assemble, Sherlock Holmes: Game of Shadows and Pirates In An Adventure with Scientists will all be available for download through the service, alongside the entire James Bond film catalogue, containing all twenty-two official Bond films. All titles are available exclusively to Sky Movies subscribers and will not be available on any other online movies subscription service for a least a year after they first appear on Sky Movies.

   Sky Go Extra customers will also be able to download the latest shows from channels including Sky Atlantic, Sky 1, Sky Living and Sky Arts, as well as partner channels such as Nickelodeon and Disney. This includes the best of the US, including Girls and The Following (Sky Atlantic), as well as Sky's own home-grown hits such as Stella, An Idiot Abroad and Trollied (Sky 1). Customers with a 64 GB iPad will be able to store in excess of 400 half-hour shows and more than 80 movies.

   Stephen van Rooyen, Managing Director of Sales & Marketing at Sky, comments: "Building on the ever-growing popularity of Sky Go, Sky Go Extra lets Sky customers download great movies and TV shows to take with them to watch offline whenever and wherever suits them, as well as access to Sky Go on up to four internet-connected devices. Together with our comprehensive On Demand service and our range of award-winning apps, we continue to deliver helpful and innovative ways for Sky customers to enjoy even more flexibility over when, where and how they enjoy Sky."

   During 2012, millions of Sky customers have used Sky Go to watch movies on demand, with Bad Teacher, Transformers: Dark of the Moon and Captain America: The First Avenger the three most popular movies on Sky Go last year. Entertainment series on demand have also proven popular on Sky Go, with more than 2.5 million views of the second series of An Idiot Abroad and 1.1 million views of the latest season of Game of Thrones.

   Sky Go Extra is the latest in a series of recent developments from Sky that help customers take full control of their TV viewing. This includes Sky's comprehensive TV On Demand service through the Sky+HD box, which now delivers hundreds of hours of catch-up TV from the BBC, ITV, Channel 5 and Sky channels alongside on demand access to shows from a number of other leading channels including UKTV, MTV and Discovery. Sky also offers its customers a wide range of award-winning apps at no extra cost, including the popular Sky+ app, which can even be used as a remote control for the Sky+HD box.

   To sign up to Sky Go Extra, all customers need to do is visit sky.com/shop/offers/sky-go-extra. Once they've done this, the next time they enter the Sky Go app they will be able to download programmes and register two more devices. To provide even more flexibility, Sky Go customers can cancel the service at any time, subject to giving 31 days' notice. Sky Go customers will also be able to sign up for a two month free trial of Sky Go Extra until the end of March.

 
