
 With the grand total of supported phones and tablets sitting at 25, Sky's Go is hardly the most widely supported streaming video platform. But the British broadcaster isn't just resting on its laurels. With today's update the number of officially supported devices more than doubled adding 14 slates and handsets to its existing list of 11. The company also added Jelly Bean (both 4.1 and 4.2) to its repertoire, almost five months after finally arriving on Ice Cream Sandwich. The Nexus 4 and 7 were both granted access (though not the 10) as was HTC's vaunted One line. For a complete list of devices on which you can watch the entire James Bond collection, check out the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Sky Go Launches on More Android Devices   - Sky Go now available on 14 more Android devices – taking the total to 25 -  - Jellybean operating system 4.1 and 4.2 also now supported –   11th December: Sky Go, the award-winning online and mobile TV service, can now be downloaded from Google Play for an even wider selection of popular Android handsets. In addition, Sky Go will now be supported on compatible devices running the Jellybean operating system.   Through Sky Go, Sky TV customers can enjoy up to 43 live channels including Sky Sports, Sky Movies, and award-winning shows from our most popular channels plus an exciting line-up of kids' entertainment. With thousands of hours of On Demand content also available on any Sky Go device there is always something to enjoy.   New devices that Sky Go is now available on:  HTC: Desire X, One X, One XL, One S and One V  Google: Nexus 4 and Nexus 7  Samsung: Galaxy S3 LTE, Galaxy S3 Mini, Galaxy Ace 2 and Galaxy Note 2  Sony: Sony Xperia S, Sony Xperia T  LG: LG 4X HD   This is in addition to the phones already supported:  HTC: HTC Desire, HTC Desire S, HTC Desire HD, HTC Incredible S, HTC Sensation, HTC Sensation XE  Samsung: Samsung Galaxy S, Samsung Galaxy S2, Samsung Galaxy S3, Samsung Galaxy Nexus, Samsung Galaxy Note   Following its launch last summer, millions of Sky TV customers have watched their favourite shows, sports and movies from Sky TV on the move with Sky Go, with 2.8 million unique users of the service in the last quarter. Entertainment and movies have proven popular to enjoy on demand, with more than 2.2 million people viewing the second series of An Idiot Abroad and 1.1 million enjoying the latest season of Game of Thrones. Sky Go has also won a number of industry awards, including 'Digital Media Service of the Year' at the T3 Awards in October.   Holly Knill, Head of Sky Go, said: "As more and more smartphones and tablets come to market, the demand for Sky Go continues to increase at a phenomenal rate. We look forward to continuing to develop for as many devices as possible while at the same time innovating for the service so that it continues to raise the bar in terms of choice, flexibility and quality."   More information on Sky's apps can be found here.

 
