
 Skyhook Wireless seems to have located itself yet another major partner in its continued quest to pinpoint every single cellphone owner in the world. Sure, we're exaggerating a bit just to get you riled up, but there's no arguing the fact that the company fulfills "hundreds of millions of location requests every day across over 100 million handsets, netbooks and cameras." Or so it says, anyway. The latest company to buy into Skyhook's geo-locating promise -- which uses a mysterious combination of GPS, cellular and WiFi data to get a darn good lock on your current position in most any environment -- is Samsung, with the Bada-equipped Wave (S8500) first to tout it. As time goes on, even more Sammy phones will utilize Skyhook's technology, though we're left to wonder what exactly those models will be. Anyone up for educated guessing?
      

 

Show full PR textSkyhook Wireless Partners with Samsung Electronics for Leading Location SystemConsumers and developers to enjoy superior location performance on Samsung mobile devicesBOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Skyhook Wireless, provider of the Core Location Platform, today announced that Samsung will deploy Skyhook's technology across multiple Samsung mobile devices. The first handset to launch with Skyhook embedded will be the Samsung Wave (Model: S8500). The Wave is the initial handset to be released with Samsung's new, open mobile platform, Samsung bada, and is the cornerstone of the company's commitment to provide a smartphone for every lifestyle. With the addition of Skyhook, Samsung devices, such as the Wave, will better enable all location-aware applications by providing the most precise, reliable, and fastest location information available."Precise location is central to the mobile experience, and Skyhook's Core Location will provide Samsung mobile devices with market-leading location capabilities."Geo-location is at the center of mobile innovation and is fundamental to many emerging mobile services. Today, there are thousands of mobile applications that incorporate location as a part of their user experience. Precise location enables consumers to check-in with friends, find nearby concerts and exhibits, or get directions to the destinations of their choice. For some experiences, such as turn-by-turn navigation or local search, location is the central feature, but increasingly applications such as Twitter, Shazam and OpenTable incorporate location to simplify user experience and to personalize content delivery."Samsung is committed to delivering the maximum benefits of smartphones for our customers and developer partners," said Hyungmoon Noh, Vice President of R&D Planning Team at Samsung Electronics at Samsung. "Precise location is central to the mobile experience, and Skyhook's Core Location will provide Samsung mobile devices with market-leading location capabilities."Skyhook is the recognized leader in geo-location technology and fulfills hundreds of millions of location requests every day across over 100 million handsets, netbooks and cameras. Skyhook's ground-breaking Core Location system uses a combination of Wi-Fi, cellular and GPS readings to produce a single, accurate location quickly and in all environments."Samsung creates innovative mobile platforms and user experiences," said Michael Shean, Founder & SVP, Business Development, Skyhook Wireless. "Skyhook is thrilled to further enhance the Samsung smartphone experience with superior location accuracy and availability on Samsung bada and other platforms."
 