
 
 After launching it on the PC, Mac, Android and iOS, Sky's adding another big platform to its Now TV service: Xbox. Gamers in the UK can now stream content at 720i, including the service's 11 movie channels. Those with a Kinect lying around can also use the peripheral to navigate around the offering. Interested parties can take advantage of a 30-day trial for free, after which they'll have to plunk down £15 a month for access to Sky Movies Pass titles from studios like Disney, Fox, Paramount, Sony, Warner Bros. and Universal. The service has promised more content in coming months, including the launch of Sky Sports. For more info on the offering, check out the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text    NOW TV comes to Xbox
  NOW TV, powered by Sky, is now live on Xbox. The instant-access movies service which has launched in the last month across PC, Mac, iPhone, iPad, selected Android smartphones and YouView, offers easy and flexible access to Sky Movies – the UK's most popular subscription movies service – with no contract, set-up costs or installation. New customers can also take advantage of a free 30 day trial of the service.
  Customers who have already registered for NOW TV will be able to access the service on the additional platform at no extra cost. This will allow them to stream their favourite movies to their main TV as well as continuing to access them on the move through their smartphone, tablet or laptop. All NOW TV customers can register up to two devices through which to access the service.
  The Xbox experience will include high quality streaming at 720i resolution and access to all 11 Sky Movies live channels for those taking up the Sky Movies Pass. From today, Xbox users will be able to find the App on the homepage for instant access to the service. Kinect for Xbox 360 owners will also be able to navigate using voice and gesture controls.
  NOW TV gives you two ways to watch great movies. The monthly Sky Movies Pass gives instant and unlimited access to the entire Sky Movies collection, for £15 after a 30 day free trial. At any time, customers with a Sky Movies Pass can choose from over 600 movies, including recent blockbusters and classics from major Hollywood studios such as Disney, Fox, Paramount, Sony, Warner Bros., and Universal. Top titles which customers can enjoy in the next few weeks include Harry Potter and The Deathly Hallows, Rise of The Planet of The Apes, One Day and The Hangover Part 2
  Customers can also 'pay & play' for instant access to an extensive range of over 1,000 movies through Sky Store including the very latest 'now on DVD' releases and much-loved classics. 'Pay & play' movies on NOW TV range from 99p for classic titles to £3.49 for the latest blockbusters.
  More great Sky content will also be added in the coming months, with Sky Sports due to launch on NOW TV before the end of the year. This will enable NOW TV customers to enjoy live action from the Barclays Premier League, UEFA Champions League, England Test cricket, Heineken Cup rugby, ATP tennis, the Masters from Augusta and much more. The introduction of Sky Sports will be followed on NOW TV by must-see shows from Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Arts and Sky Living, including home-grown drama, original comedy and US shows.
  NOW TV is currently available to anyone in the UK with a broadband or 3G connection across a wide range of connected devices including PC, Mac, selected Android smartphones iOS devices, and YouView. NOW TV is developing for other platforms and devices, including Sony Playstation® 3 and the Roku streaming player.
  
