
 If you were a fan of Slacker's old-school black and gold aesthetic, you can mourn its passing today. The internet radio service has just undergone a rebirth, with a brand new white and burnt orange logo and a completely revamped design -- on web, mobile and Xbox -- in an effort to reintroduce itself to the mainstream and stave off competition from the likes of Pandora, Spotify and Rdio. The new look is decidedly simpler and more approachable, with a prominent search box and a distinct blue and white theme that carries its way throughout all interfaces. Indeed, the smartphone apps are explicitly designed to mirror the site, not just style-wise but functionally as well. For example, it'll cue up the next song on a station or a playlist when you switch devices.

 The pricing structure remains the same -- there's a free ad-supported version, a Radio Plus $3.99 a month option and a $9.99 per month Premium plan. The new iOS and Android apps should be available today, with Windows Phone 8 and BlackBerry 10 versions to come. For more on the relaunch and a few thoughts from Slacker's execs, join us after the break.



 
 As soon as you load the new site, you'll notice three buckets: Slacker Stations, Music Guide and My Music. The first has long been a mainstay in Slacker's arsenal; it lists a slew of stations the company says are "expertly curated" along with sports, talk and comedy options. As of the relaunch, you can fine tune the list even further by choosing related artists, favorite tunes, or just how popular or new you want the song selections to be. Music Guide, on the other hand, capitalizes on the "lean forward" aspect of the service that is designed to go head-to-head against services like Spotify and Rdio where you already know what sorts of songs you like. The Guide offers editorial takes on the latest industry news plus recommendations based on listening habits and the social network behavior of your friends -- in fact, it can populate the "What songs your friends are listening to" list from competing services. As for the My Music section, that's where you can compile your favorite songs, playlists and custom-built stations. 
 
 We had a chance to sit down with Slacker CEO Jim Cady and CMO Craig Rechenmacher who gave us some insight into the philosophy behind the site's relaunch. As they tell us, Slacker was originally designed for the early adopter crowd as an alternative to satellite radio. The market has changed remarkably since then, and so they adapted. "This is a new product across all devices," Cady said. "It's a product redesign, a brand redesign." He goes on to say that after months of focus groups and testing, "if you give people 30 to 60 minutes, we win [compared to competing services]. But that isn't good enough -- it needs to be 30 to 60 seconds."

 
 For Rechenmacher, the combination of over 13 million songs, 200 "expertly programmed" stations, offline listening for paid subscribers and enhanced customization makes them "the most complete music service on the market," and he hopes the redesign helps get that idea across. We can't attest to that of course, but at first glance, it does seem like Slacker's making a step in the right direction here. To get an idea of how the new redesign looks, have a peek at the gallery, check out the video or just head to the source to see the brand new site for yourself.



