
 
It's official. The cans we saw teased earlier in the week have just been made official by Sleek Audio and Curtis Jackson (otherwise known to the world as 50 Cent), with the rapper himself dishing out cash and input to make it happen. We're told that they were designed by 50 and engineered by Sleek, and are the first headphones ever to offer 'Wireless Hybrid' technology with military-grade metals. More specifically, the Sleek by 50 Cent Platinum headphones utilize Kleer lossless wireless technology, with a 60 foot range and a micro-USB rechargeable battery. If you run out of juice, there's a detachable mic cable that can be jacked in for continued listening. The cans themselves house a pair of 50mm dynamic drivers, a customized internal amplifier and a call-out to Dr. Dre. Just kidding. Maybe. We're still waiting on a price and release date, but we'd expect 'em to ship soon for just a touch more than HP's Beats -- you know, given the wireless and all.
      

 

Show full PR textSleek Audio and Curtis "50 Cent" Jackson Come Together to Create the Next Step in Mobile Audio Performance; Sleek by 50 CentWireless Hybrid, carbon fiber pro-tuned headphones Palmetto, Fl. 2010 – Sleek Audio, the leader in Wireless Hybrid and tunable audio products, has announced a new venture with entertainment powerhouse Curtis "50 Cent" Jackson to create a new benchmark for the mobile music experience. The Sleek by 50 Cent line offers headphones designed by 50 Cent and engineered by the award-winning acoustic experts at Sleek. They are the first headphones to offer Wireless Hybrid technology using military-grade metals and the latest in fit and performance. 50 Cent, widely recognized as one of the most talented and prolific music artists, has become a force to be reckoned with in the business industry having encompassed an arsenal of successful endeavors in fashion and lifestyle, fragrance, publishing, video games and film among others. As a musician, 50 Cent realized the need for a U.S.-made audio device that offered powerful, accurate sound reproduction without the limitation of cables. This idea led to the partnership with Sleek Audio and as a result, in a deal structured by his business manager Greg Collins and Financial Advisor Brad Feinstein, 50 has become an equity partner in the company. "I know music and I've tried everything on the market as far as headphones go, but I wanted something different, something better, that really pushed the envelope and gave all music fans a new way to listen to their favorite artists," said 50. "I was fortunate to find Sleek, the technology they employ and their knowledge of how we hear music truly blew me away. It was a perfect match, I didn't want to create another pair of loud headphones, I wanted to create headphones that offer top-level performance, style and new technology," added 50 Cent.Sleek's CEO, Mark Krywko, was excited at the opportunity to work with the world's most toured artist. "The key to creating this relationship was bringing 50 into the Sleek family. He's not just slapping his name on the side of a product, he's part owner of the company and an integral part of what we're doing. By combining our knowledge of acoustics and hearing aid science with 50's experience as a recording artist we've created something that music lovers of all genres are really going to love." Getting to the heart of why we use headphones to listen to music... to escape.Music listeners don't use earphones and headphones to enjoy music to be part of a group, they use them to escape. Music can take you places you've never been before, it can ease your mind during a trying time, or allow you to escape the physical pain during a long run. Until now, nearly every headphone on the market limited its users by tethering them to their media player. The Sleek by 50 Cent Platinum headphones don't make consumers choose between build quality, sound quality, or even whether or not they'd like to go wireless. By utilizing Kleer lossless wireless technology, Sleek Platinum headphones offer true, uncompressed wireless sound. Music lovers can enjoy over 60 feet of range, wireless track and volume control, and even sync up to four headphones to one audio source. If the micro-usb rechargeable battery runs out, the detachable mic cable can simply be plugged in for continued listening. Form enhances function through advanced design technology. Beyond the wireless technology, critical points of the Sleek Platinum headphones construction incorporate military-grade carbon fiber and metal accents strategically placed for both form and function. These materials are used to house two pro-tuned 50mm. dynamic drivers, powered by a customized internal amplifier for unparalleled audio performance. Tested by some of the industry's most critical producers, recording artists and audiophiles, the Sleek Platinum headphones are the world's most comprehensive mobile audio product. About 50 CentWhat began as music chart dominance for the rap music phenomenon 50 Cent, has quickly transformed to success in corporate America as a multi-tiered business mogul to be reckoned with. Recognized as one of the most talented and prolific music artists of his time, 50 Cent has managed to leverage his star power into record breaking brand extensions encompassing a broad spectrum of businesses including music ownership, artist management, film production, footwear and apparel, video games, publishing, health drinks and supplements. With annual sales quickly approaching $300 million from a variety of business interests along with numerous business endeavors on the horizon, 50 Cent has cemented his position in the industry as both a business and entertainment mogul. About Sleek by 50 Cent"Because you deserve more. Sleek by 50 Cent is about moving forward, pushing limitation, and setting new standards for mobile audio." 50 Cent has joined forces with the innovative minds of Sleek Audio to create a new benchmark for the mobile music experience. The concept was to create the next step, a new system, which frees the listener to enjoy true professional level audio wherever, and whenever they desire. Developers of the first ever pro-tuned Wireless Hybrid headphones, Sleek by 50 Cent speaks to the heart of why we enjoy music through headphones and allows you to escape into your music like never before. Hear the subtle nuances of each track, feel the bass pulse through your body, all without any physical connection to your music source. www.sleekby50.com
 