
 

You may remember our brief run-in with 50 Cent back at CES, where he announced a partnership with Sleek Audio for Sleek by 50, a pair of "wireless hybrid" headphones with built-in Kleer technology. Today the company revealed that it has terminated its agreement with G-Unit Brands, 50's licensing company, and that it will be "re-evaluating our Wireless Hybrid over-the-ear headphones at a later date." There's no word on why the collboration went awry, and the company only indicates that it has decided to focus on its in-ear offerings instead. Of course, we've got way more than 21 questions about what made the relationship go sour, but hate it or love it, Sleek by 50 is no more. Disheartening PR after the break.

Update: Looks like it was 50 Cent who terminated the deal, after all. According to XXL, our man told the magazine that he has "established a new company that is developing a complete line of audio accessories, including wireless headphones." Well, too bad for Sleek Audio. Thanks Matt!
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Sleek Audio and G-Unit Brands, Inc, 50 Cent's Licensing Company, Cancel Plans to Develop Products Under the "Sleek by 50" Brand 		Palmetto, Fl. May 6th, 2011 – Sleek Audio today announced the termination of the Brand License Agreement between Sleek Audio LLC ("Sleek") and G-Unit Brands, Inc. ("G-Unit"), 50 Cent's licensing company. In addition, the Brand License Agreement, including video production, between TV Goods, Inc, Sleek and G-Unit has also been terminated. 		"We will be re-evaluating our Wireless Hybrid over-the-ear headphones at a later date. Currently we are working to bring our new, U.S.-made in-ear products to the market," said Mark Krywko, CEO of Sleek Audio. 		Sleek Audio is in production of the highly anticipated, U.S.-made SA6-R Wireless Hybrid earphone and award-winning SA7 earphone, which earned the Best of Innovations title in the headphone category at CES 2011. Sleek is also producing its acclaimed PRO Series comprised of hand-made, Wireless Hybrid custom earphones including the CT6 and all-new CT7. 		About Sleek Audio 		Sleek Audio is a personal audio company dedicated to creating "music in tune with you.™" Sleek Audio, creators of the first ever acoustically customizable earphones, is driven from decades of experience in the custom hearing aid and audio industry. Sleek Audio products are designed for high-performance use with all MP3 players including iPod® and Zune®. For more information, visit the company website at www.sleekaudio.com www.facebook.com/sleekaudio
 