
 
We knew we'd be hearing more about all those third party VoiceOver-compatible headphones today, and sure enough, the flood has begun. In an admittedly cute attempt to be first out of the gate, Klipsch has pushed out a woefully underwhelming release that simply assures consumers that it is currently working up a set of earbuds for Apple's latest iPod shuffle, and that said 'buds will be available to purchase sometime this summer for $99.99. In other, more tangible news, Scosche has announced (full release is after the break) actual products that'll play nice with the aforementioned DAP: the IDR350M, IDR450M and IDR650M noise isolating earphones. All three of these also include a built-in microphone for recording voice memos, and if all goes well, they'll be shipping this Spring for $49.99 to $99.99.
      

 

Scosche Industries Announces Earphones With Increased Dynamic Range Designed For New iPod shuffleOxnard, CA., – March 12, 2009 – Scosche Industries (www.scosche.com), an award-winning innovator of mobile electronics and iPod accessories, today announced that it is developing breakthrough earphones with integrated controls for the new third generation iPod shuffle with Apple's new VoiceOver feature. The new IDR (Increased Dynamic Range) noise isolating earphones will give users the ability to play, pause, adjust volume, skip tracks, navigate playlists and hear the name of the song and artist with the press of a button."We are delighted to support the exciting new VoiceOver technology in the 4GB iPod shuffle," said Kas Alves, executive vice president of Scosche Industries. "Scosche's focus on innovation means we're ideally placed to develop new and exciting products like the IDR earphones"Scosche is currently developing three earphone models- IDR350M, IDR450M and IDR650M noise isolating earphones that feature an integrated control surface. Users can control play, pause, adjust volume, skip tracks, navigate playlists and hear the name of the song and artist with the third generation iPod shuffle.  A miniature microphone built into the back of the control surface allows users to record voice memos on the latest iPod touch, iPod nano and iPod classic 120GB. The IDR (Increased Dynamic Range) series earphones are designed to give users an enhanced listening experience with brilliant highs, silky smooth mids and powerful bass. The headphones are expected to be available this Spring and range in price from $49.99 to $99.99. Scosche is also developing an inline control adapter kit that allows consumers to use any standard set of headphones and enjoy all of the advanced features of the third generation iPod shuffle. The inline control also allows users to plug their shuffle into any vehicles auxiliary input and maintain full control of the iPod.The new third generation iPod shuffle with the VoiceOver feature can speak song titles, artists and playlist names. When you want to know the name of the song or artist playing, simply press a button on the conveniently located headphone controls and iPod shuffle tells you the song and artist name. iPod shuffle can even announce status information, such as battery life.About Scosche IndustriesScosche Industries, founded in 1980 by Roger and Scotia Alves, is a leading manufacturer of high quality car audio installation accessories and products. Scosche's diverse product line includes mobile electronic accessories, iPod integration, iPod accessories, and universal navigation products. The publisher of the Auto Sound Encyclopedia, Scosche Industries manufactures and markets four distinct lines of product. These brands include Scosche®, REALM®, EFX®, and Accumat® . With a dealer network of over 2,000, numerous O.E.M. products, and 58 patents, Scosche Industries is a proven leader in the automotive aftermarket and home accessory business. For more information visit our website at www.scosche.com

       

 