
 

Direct sunlight and Amazon's Kindle have always gone hand in hand -- you simply can't read E-Ink without a strong light source. So, it would make sense to pair that lighting requirement with a solar panel, pack it into a convenient case, toss in a reading lamp and give readers the gift of effortlessly extended battery life -- which is exactly what SolarFocus intends to do. Scheduled to be shown off at this week's CES, the company's SolarKindle adds three months of unplugged use, in addition to 50 hours for its included LED lamp. And unlike most innovations that take their sweet time getting to market, this cover's slated for a January 15th bow, priced at $80. Take that paperbacks.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  SOLARFOCUS ANNOUNCES "SOLARKINDLE" AT CES 2012		FIRST PRACTICAL SOLAR GADGET 		WINS CES INNOVATIONS 2012 ECO-DESIGN & SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES AWARD HONOREE 		SolarKindle Guarantees 3 Months Unplugged Kindle Reading Time & 50 Hours of Reading Lamp Use -- Employs Clean, Green, Renewable Energy of the Sun 		Las Vegas, NV, January 7, 2012 – SolarFocus Technology Company Ltd. www.solarmio.com, winner of the CES 2012 Innovation Award, will introduce at CES the first practical solar gadget -- SolarKindle, the world's first solar powered e-reader cover. The first product in SolarFocus' innovative new solar gadget line, SolarKindle features a unique eco-friendly design with a flexible, lightweight high performance solar panel built right into the cover and a dual-charging (USB/solar) reserve battery that greatly extend reading time -- with a guarantee of three-months of unplugged Kindle use under normal sunlight environment. In addition, the built-in LED reading lamp can be powered continuously for up to 50 hours without using the Kindle's main battery for the best illumination and coverage, allowing you to use your Kindle comfortably as long as you wish -- day or night, indoors or outdoors. 		First in Line of Solar Gadgets - Solar Patented Technology Wins CES Award 		Based on years of solar research resulting in numerous patents and winning a 2012 International CES Innovations Design & Engineering Awards Honoree, SolarKindle will be introduced at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), held in Las Vegas, January 10-13, 2012, at the SolarKindle Booth #70402, Venetian and will be on display at CES Unveiled: the Official Press Event of CES on Sunday, January 8 from 4-7 p.m in the Venetian Ballroom, Venetian Hotel, Las Vegas.  		Makes Unplugged E-Reading Come True 		The first practical solar gadget that makes unplugged e-reading come true, SolarKindle is designed with the utmost attention to detail with premium leather offering protection and functionality. SolarKindle's renewable solar energy panel and integrated reserve battery provide superior lighting and extended reading time, especially useful when conventional power sources are not available, such as while traveling, camping, or away from home or office -- the perfect solution for readers on the go. SolarKindle's custom-designed solar panel and integrated solar charging circuitry deliver high charging efficiency, making the best use of the clean, green, and renewable energy of the sun. 		SolarKindle Features:		· Solar powered e-reader cover with flexible, lightweight solar panel built into the cover.		· Dual-charging (USB/solar) reserve battery greatly extends reading time.		· 3-month guarantee for unplugged Kindle use under normal sunlight environment.		· LED reading lamp turns on with one touch release.		· Integrated reserve battery runs the LED lamp for up to 50 hours continuously without using the Kindle's main battery.		· Integrated reserve battery can also transfer energy to the Kindle's main battery to extend reading time.		· Integrated solar panel collects and converts solar energy "on the go" -- one hour under direct sunlight can provide up to 3 days reading time.		· Premium leather cover. 		"For the past six years, SolarFocus has been dedicated to developing the most technologically advanced portable solar powered solutions for consumers," said Dick Lu, Executive Vice President at SolarFocus. "From starting the company in a brand new and undeveloped market, to establishing the SolarFocus brand of outdoor solar powered products, we are very happy to see our SolarKindle Lighted Cover receive such honorable recognition from the International CES Innovations 2012 Design and Engineering Awards. We will continuously improve the price/performance ratio of our solar powered solutions on even more consumer electronic products to reduce carbon emissions." 		SolarKindle Lighted Cover will be available Jan. 15, 2012, priced at $79.99 from www.solarmio.com and other retailers. For more information, see www.solarmio.com.
 