

We recently took a trip on Song Airlines, who last year made some waves when they fitted their planes with a
Linux-based distributed in-flight multimedia system. It's kind of nice to know that such a trimmed-down airline spared
no expense on a system that, judging by its use, was obviously top-grade. And what a fine thing it is to have when you
don't have a laptop or book with you. Man, even if you do have a laptop or book, it's a pretty enticing
distraction.


 We dug up some information on the system for you, and we were even lucky enough to grab some shots of the system while
the flight attendant staff were looking the other direction. But since we weren't about to get tackled like terrorists
to get 'em, forgive us if they're not the best quality.



More about the system

 Song Airlines outfitted their fleet of 36 Boeing 757 jets with Matsushita Avionics Systems (MAS) Corp.?s eFXsystems, a pretty advanced all-digital networked mulitmedia/data distribution system. It apparently has a whole host offeatures, though some of which were not yet available on the flight we took. Those features included:

   iXplor, enhanced GPS tracking with display accuracy of one square meter, moving map program with zoom  capabilities and point of interest information

   Network features, such as in-seat Internet connectivity, SMS/email messaging, in-flight shopping and purchase  capabilities

   Streamed MP3 audio via passenger-created playlists from in-flight library

   Connecting gate information displayed directly (and presumably contextually) on the in-seat video monitors.

   But it did have some good stuff:

   24 channels of live, all-digital, DISH Network TV for free

   Locally broadcast/streamed MP3 audio programming

   Interactive networked trivia game

   Ready for the shots?   We got a few of these shots, but this one came out the best. On the panel are the following unlabeled connections: twoUSB ports, contrast up/down buttons, and what appeared to be two 1/8th-inch stereo headphone jacks. Here?s whateverything actually says:   On screenTopSong Main Menu [unreadable]  Center (content area) Two yes/no buttons ?System ready for your selection?  Right panel Maint Back Help Seat Reset [very tempting!] Audio

 Ethernet port Gigabit ethernet port Maint only J9577

 Red switch on the right IFE master power on/off S9501 [IFE stands for in-flight entertainment]

  Those of you who use Linux may recognize that pointer.

  Listing of channels.

  Shot of the music trivia game intro screen; sorry no in-game shots, was too busy aquiring the 3rd highest score of alltime! Boo-ya! Seat 5A foreva!

  Not the best in-flight GPS system (Virgin Atlantic?s is pretty hype) but pretty decent; can?t wait to see iXplor.

  In case you wanted to know what happens when DISH goes out in the middle of the night due to weather conditions.

  Unfortunately the streaming MP3 radio didn?t display song information, but we?re hoping they?ll hook that up soonerthan later.

 Safe travels!


