
 
Sonos owners, like most nerds, have been patiently waiting for three things: jetpacks and flying cars to go mainstream and the Spotify music service to play on their beloved whole home wireless audio system. Of these, only one is being announced today. At this very moment, in this very time, upstart media darlings Spotify and Sonos have announced plans to wed... in Europe. Sorry Yanks. When the free 3.3 Sonos software update finally arrives at the end of September, new and existing Spotify Premium (£9.99 per month) customers living in Finland, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the UK will be able to stream millions of Spotify music tracks throughout their Sonos home network. The deal not only brings Spotify its first global hardware partner, it also brings European Sonos owners up to par with US netizens who've long enjoyed streaming subscription services from the likes of Rhapsody and Napster -- the latter limited to just the UK and Germany in Europe. Click through the break for a demo and the full press release.






Show full PR textSpotify and Sonos Bring Music to Every Room in the HomeMusic fans will be able to enjoy any song, in any room, wirelessly.IFA Berlin / London, 2 September 2010: Spotify and Sonos today announced that Spotify is coming to every room in the home, wirelessly, via the award-winning Sonos Multi-Room Music System. With a free Sonos software update, available later this month, all Sonos customers in Finland, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the UK will have instant access to more than eight million songs and all of their playlists on Spotify. To learn more about Spotify on Sonos, please visit: www.sonos.com/spotify."It's great that people will be able to listen to Spotify whenever they want, wherever they want in their home," said Daniel Ek, Founder and CEO Spotify. "We're excited to partner with Sonos to deliver the unique Spotify experience in the home, with the same quality and ease of use that our users already love.""Spotify on Sonos has been the number one request from our European customers and we're thrilled to deliver it," said John MacFarlane, Founder and CEO Sonos, Inc. "Our mission at Sonos is to play all the music on the planet, all over the house. By partnering with a leading music streaming service like Spotify, we can now offer more of our customers the ultimate jukebox experience at home."To enjoy Spotify on Sonos, all you'll need is a Sonos ZonePlayer such as the Sonos S5 all-in-one wireless music system, a Sonos Controller such as the free Sonos Controller for iPhone and a Spotify Premium account. Now you can play any track you like, anytime you like, in any room you like. And control it all anywhere you like, right from your iPhone. Search for any artist, album or track from Spotify's eight-million song library. Browse and play all your playlists – including your starred tracks, collaborative and subscribed-to lists. Play your music in every room and experience superior, room-filling sound with the high-performance S5 and Spotify Premium's high quality streams.Spotify on Sonos will be available via a free Sonos Software 3.3 update scheduled for the end of September. A Spotify Premium subscription (£9.99 per month) will be required to enjoy Spotify on Sonos. For more information about Spotify on Sonos or to be one of the first to learn when it's available, please visit www.sonos.com/spotify. 
 