
   Remember those revamped Sonos apps the company teased last week? Now they can be yours whenever you choose to update the software on your OS X or Windows computer. As well as a refreshed user interface, you'll get unified search, drag-and-drop functionality and one-touch party mode -- although it turns out, that last one doesn't suddenly make a party appear in your house. Shame, that.
 

  Show full PR text  SONOS TAKES CONTROL WITH NEW APPS FOR MAC AND PC New Sonos Apps Make Finding and Playing Music at Home Easier than Ever  Hilversum, The Netherlands - Tuesday, March 20, 2012 - Sonos, the leading manufacturer of wireless music systems, today announced Sonos System Software 3.7, an update that includes brand new controller apps for the Mac and PC to radically enhance the music experience in the home. This free software is available to all Sonos customers via a one-button update to their system.  "We're focused on providing our customers with the simplest and fastest way to experience music throughout their homes," said John MacFarlane, founder and CEO, Sonos, Inc. "The new apps for Mac and PC make discovering and playing music easier and more enjoyable than ever."  The completely redesigned Sonos Controller apps for Mac and PC include a host of new features for Sonos customers to enjoy, including:  A Mini Controller lets you control the music while you're working in other apps A single search box lets you quickly find artists, albums, songs and stations across all your music sources-music library, Internet radio and music services Simple drag & drop interface now lets you add one or multiple songs to your queue, room or group of rooms for instant music gratification One touch Party Mode volume control lets you easily raise or lower the volume in all your grouped rooms simultaneously New design and functionality provide greater consistency with other Sonos Controller apps  Other features of Sonos 3.7 software include: New language support - We've added Brazilian Portuguese to the list so now you can control Sonos in 12 languages: Brazilian Portuguese, Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Simplified Chinese, Spanish, and Swedish Android devices on SonosNet - Android smartphones and tablets can now use SonosNet, Sonos' wireless network, to connect directly to Sonos and the Internet  Full details of Sonos 3.7 software can be found here: http://www.sonos.com/support/software_updates/.  To enjoy the new Sonos Controller apps for Mac and PC, as well as other features of Sonos 3.7 software, Sonos customers must have Mac OS X 10.6 or higher or Windows XP SP3 or higher (including Vista or Windows 7) installed on their computer prior to upgrade.  The Sonos Wireless HiFi System makes it extremely simple to bring a world of music to any room of any home. Stuff magazine recently awarded the PLAY:3 'Audio Gadget of the Year' and said it could "pump out room-filling sound of the highest quality". Pocket-lint said that "the Sonos PLAY:3 sounds great, [and] is easy to set up".
 