
 
The $399 black Sonos S5 is just like the original... only now it's a little bit older and a lot darker. Just like a former teenage popstar. Either is available to purchase now.






Show full PR textPick a color. Pick a room. Pick a song. The Award-Winning Sonos ZonePlayer S5. Now In Black.ALL-IN-ONE WIRELESS MUSIC SYSTEM CONTROLLED WITH AN IPHONE PRAISED AS "GADGET OF THE YEAR"SANTA BARBARA, Calif. – June 2, 2010 – Sonos®, Inc., the leading developer of wireless multi-room music systems for the home, today introduced the latest addition to its suite of products – the Sonos ZonePlayer S5 in black. Applauded by experts as one of the Gadgets of the Year, the Sonos S5 is an all-in-one wireless music system that can be controlled with an iPhone™, iPod® touch or any Sonos Controller. The Sonos S5 (in both black and white) has a suggested retail price of $399 and can be purchased at any authorized Sonos retailer or at Sonos.com. To view an introduction video about the Sonos S5, visit www.sonos.com/S5demo. The key features of the Sonos S5 include:• Room-filling sound: 5 integrated speakers and 5 dedicated digital amplifiers provide crystal-clear audio that fills any room with music.• Unlimited music from iTunes and the Internet: Play way more than what fits on your iPod, including all your iTunes, free Internet radio and millions of songs and stations from the Internet, including iheartradio, Last.fm, Napster®, Pandora®, Rhapsody®, SIRIUS® Internet Radio, and more.• Control with an iPhone or iPod touch: Download the free Sonos Controller for iPhone app and search for songs, choose the music and control the volume in any room from anywhere. Don't have an iPhone? Use any wireless handheld Sonos Controller or the Sonos Controller for Mac or PC. • Wireless expandability: Add more S5s wirelessly and fill your whole house with music. Then, play the same song in every room or different songs in different rooms."We're thrilled to expand our product portfolio to include the S5 in black," said Phil Abram, President, Sonos, Inc. "We felt it was important to offer our customers a choice when designing their perfect Sonos setup for different rooms of their home."To learn more about Sonos, locate an authorized Sonos retailer or make a purchase, please visit www.sonos.com or call 877.80.SONOS.
 