
 Is this really happening, again? Why, yes, it is. Following up on its massive MDR-X10 bass-pumping headphones from last year, Sony and Simon Cowell have introduced the MDR-X05. As you might take from the name, the cans are basically a smaller addition to the series, packing 40MM drivers (down from 50) and a few more color options (red/black, red/red, white/silver, red/silver and black/silver) -- some of which do the headphones more justice than the silver/red colorway we got our mitts on previously. As far as we can tell, by the way, these are very likely a re-badge of the MDR-X400 headphones for the American market. As you'd expect, the cans fold flat for storage and feature an iDevice-compatible inline remote and mic. 




  Show full PR text   THURSDAY 28TH February
  SONY ANNOUNCES NEW ADDITION TO X HEADPHONE LINE
  More Compact Option; Available in Variety of Colors
  NEW YORK (February 28, 2013) – Sony announced today its newest addition to the X
  Headphone line, the on-ear MDR-X05. These new headphones deliver music lovers a premium
  Sony audio experience in a more compact and lightweight design. Together in collaboration with
  one of the world's leading record producers, Simon Cowell and Sony Music Entertainment, the
  new X05 delivers killer sound reproduction in an aggressive, stylish design.
  "When Sony teamed up with Simon Cowell, our goal was to create the best sounding
  headphones in the world for today's most popular music– allowing listeners to experience
  the full spectrum of audio that artists and producers hear in recording studios," said Andrew
  Sivori, vice president of the Personal Audio group at Sony Electronics. "With the newest X
  Headphones, now we're delivering that experience in a more compact and portable design."
  Legendary Sony Audio Engineering
  Sony set out to achieve unmatched high performance sound in a smaller and lightweight
  design with the new X Headphones. Engineered with an efficient acoustic design, the new
  X Headphones feature precision 40mm drivers for a crisp, full-range audio experience that
  optimally reproduces today's bass-heavy music.
  With their pressure-relieving memory foam ear pads, the X Headphones conform to each
  user's unique ear shape, providing a highly effective acoustic seal and preventing sound leakage.
  In addition to reinforcing the headphones' powerful sub-bass reproduction capability, the ear
  pads deliver a supportive, cushy feel, ideal for maximum long-term comfort.
  Stylish Design
  The X Headphones look as great as they perform with their color-accented headbands,
  swivel mechanisms and end caps. Their dual folding style allows the user to swivel the noise
  isolating ear pads for listening flexibility, as well as conveniently fold the headphones into an
  included sleek carrying case for hassle-free portability.
  Featuring grooved serrations on its surface, the X Headphones' high-quality cord
  provides an innovative design that eliminates friction between cable surfaces, reducing the
  incidence of frustrating tangles.
  The X Headphones are designed to provide maximum performance when used with all
  of today's portable music devices. For iPod®, iPhone® and iPad® users, the X Headphones
  include a convenient Apple® 3-button control with a microphone, track, and volume control
  functionality, allowing users to access their music and answer phone calls. The remote also
  provides basic control of most AndroidTM devices as well.
  Hearing is Believing
  The new X Headphones will be available in five new color variations (red on silver, black
  on silver, white on silver, black on red, and red on black) for pre-sale today at www.sony.com/
  X5 and beginning March 22 through the Sony Store online (http://store.sony.com), in Sony
  retail stores, and at other authorized retailers nationwide for about $199. Special demonstration
  stations at Sony Stores and at select retailers will give consumers the opportunity to experience
  the headphones for themselves. For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/news.
  Please visit www.sony.com/XHeadphones or Follow #SonyX on Twitter for the latest
  X Headphones news. Also, stay tuned to the Sony Blog for upcoming opportunities to win your
  own X Headphones.
 
