
 

Android update junkies are in for a treat from Sony Ericsson. The handset maker's serving up the freshest batch of Gingerbread to its Xperia line of smartphones starting this October. Bundled in to this 2.3.4 rollout are a bunch of OEM enhancements, bringing along deeper Facebook integration that'll let you like and share your app discoveries with friends, and "3D sweep panorama technology," so you can snap those self-portraits for 3DTV viewing. SE's also thrown in a native screen capture function and, of course, there's Google Talk with Video Chat. The Neo V will be the first phone out of the launch gate with these baked-in tweaks, but if you've got a beefier Xperia device, it's probably better just to wait.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		25 August 2011 Sony Ericsson boosts 2011 Xperia™ family with new experiences and new software 		2011 Xperia™ range to be upgraded to Android Gingerbread platform version 2.3.4		Enhanced Facebook inside Xperia™ functionality		Introducing Xperia™ neo V Android smartphone with the best of entertainment technologies from Sony and Google 		25 August 2011, London, UK – Sony Ericsson today announced new functionality and features to its 2011 Xperia™ smartphone range with a comprehensive software upgrade from October 2011. Consumers with 2011 Xperia™ smartphones will benefit from improvements to Sony Ericsson's unique Facebook inside Xperia™ offering and 3D camera functionality from Sony. The upgrade also allows consumers to enjoy the full benefits of the Android Gingerbread platform including Google Talk with Video Chat. 		Sony Ericsson's unique social experience provided by Facebook inside Xperia™ has been super-charged enabling Xperia users to like, share and discover on Facebook in a faster, easier and more intuitive way. The new functionality aims to make entertainment more social by giving users the ability to share and discover apps and games with friends through Facebook. 		The latest camera enhancements from Sony introduce 3D sweep panorama technology so that images can be captured and then viewed in 3D by connecting the phone to a 3D TV using the HDMI output. 		"With this software upgrade, we are bringing a wealth of new and really entertaining experiences to all our 2011 Xperia™ smartphones, including those already in consumers' hands today,"said Nikolaus Scheurer, Head of Product Marketing at Sony Ericsson. "Our users will get to enjoy new features from Google, an even richer Facebook integration, and enhanced camera functionality from Sony." 		Xperia™ neo V is one of the first new products to launch with the new software and will include all the features like Google Talk with Video Chat, 3D sweep panorama and enhanced Facebook inside Xperia™ functionality. Building on the success of the original Xperia™ neo launched earlier this year, Xperia™ neo V takes the latest Android software for smartphones and the best of Sony entertainment experiences, including Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine, to even more markets. Sony Ericsson Xperia™ neo V will be available globally in select markets from Q4 2011. 		The software upgrade will be available in select markets through a phased roll out starting from October 2011. Xperia™ owners will receive a notification instructing them to instantaneously download the software over the air via 3G or WiFi. Alternatively, they will have the option to connect to a computer and download it via PC companion. 		Upgrade at a glance: 		Xperia™ smartphones to be upgraded to the 2.3.4 version of the Gingerbread platform with new features including Google Talk with Video Chat for smartphones with front-facing cameras		Updated Facebook inside Xperia™ functionality for enhanced like, share and discover abilities		Xperia™ smartphones introducing world's first 3D sweep panorama functionality powered by Sony.		The software upgrade enables consumers to turn their Xperia smartphone into a mini-mobile PC by connecting USB peripherals (mouse, keyboard or game controller) to Sony Ericsson LiveDock™ multimedia station. Connect the smartphone to a TV via HDMI to get a big screen experience.		Swipe text input - text input by swiping the finger from one letter to the next		Screen capture - allows the user to share a screen grab from anywhere in the phone 		For full details all products news, please visit the press room and the product blog:		http://www.sonyericsson.com/cws/corporate/press/pressreleases/latestnews		http://blogs.sonyericsson.com/products/ 		Sony Ericsson Xperia™ neo V at a glance.		*Please note that all services mentioned below may not be available in every market.		Colours 		White		Blue Gradient		Silver 		Facts 		Size: 116 x 57 x 13mm		Weight: 126g		Operating system: Google™ Android 2.3 (Gingerbread version 2.3.4)		Processor: 1 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon MSM8255 		Camera 		3D sweep panorama		5 megapixel camera		16x digital zoom		Auto focus		Face detection		Flash/LED		Front facing camera (VGA)		Geo tagging		HD video recording (720p)		Image stabiliser		Red-eye reduction		Scene detection		Self-timer		Send to web		Smile detection		Sweep panorama		Touch capture		Touch focus		Video light		Video recording		Video stabiliser 		Music 		Album art		Bluetooth™ stereo (A2DP)		Media player		Music tones (MP3/AAC)		PlayNow™ service		Sony Ericsson Music player		TrackID™ music recognition		xLOUD™ 		Internet 		Android Market™		Bookmarks		Google™ search		Google Voice™ Search		Pan & zoom		Web browser (WebKit) 		Communication 		Call list		Conference calls		Facebook™ application		Facebook inside Xperia™ V2		Google Talk™ video chat*		Noise Shield		Polyphonic ringtones		Sony Ericsson Timescape™		Speakerphone		Twitter™ (Timescape™ integration)		Vibrating alert		Video chat ready 		Messaging 		Conversations		Email		Google Mail™		Instant messaging		Multimedia messaging (MMS)		Predictive text input		Sound recorder		Text messaging (SMS) 		Design 		Auto rotation		Keyboard (on-screen, QWERTY)		Live wallpaper		Picture wallpaper		Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine		Swipe to write		Touch screen 		Entertainment 		3D games		Media browser		Motion gaming		Radio (FM radio with RDS)		Video streaming		YouTube™ 		Organiser 		Alarm clock		Calculator		Calendar		Document readers		E-Manual		Flight mode		Google Calendar™		Google Gallery 3D		Infinite button		Phonebook		Setup guide		Widget manager 		Connectivity 		All services mentioned in this leaflet may not be available in every market. 		3.5 mm audio jack		aGPS		Bluetooth™ technology		DLNA Certified™		Google Latitude™		Google Maps™ for Mobile		Google Maps™ with Street View		HDMI™ support		Media Transfer Protocol support		Micro USB support		Modem		Native USB tethering		Synchronisation via Facebook™		Synchronisation via Google Sync™		Synchronisation via Sony Ericsson Sync		Synchronisation via Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync®		TV Out		USB mass storage		USB High speed 2.0 support		Wi-Fi®		Wi-Fi® Hotspot functionality		Wisepilot™ turn-by-turn navigation 		Display 		Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine		16,777,216 colour TFT		Capacitive touchscreen (multi-touch)		3.7 inches		480 x 854 pixels (FWVGA)		Scratch-resistant 		Memory 		Phone memory: Up to 320MB		Memory card support: microSD™, up to 32GB		Memory card included: 2GB microSD™ 		Battery life 		Talk time GSM/GPRS: Up to 6 hrs 55 min*		Standby time GSM/GPRS: Up to 430 hrs* 		Talk time UMTS: Up to 7 hrs*		Standby time UMTS: Up to 400 hrs* 		Music listening time: Up to 31 hrs*		Video playback time: Up to 7 hrs 25 min* 		*According to GSM Association Battery Life Measurement Technique. Battery performance may vary depending on network conditions and configurations, and phone usage. 		Networks 		UMTS HSPA 900, 2100		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 		UMTS HSPA 850, 1900, 2100		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 		In the kit 		Xperia™ neo V		1500 mAh battery		Stereo portable handsfree		2GB microSD™ memory card		Charger		Micro USB cable for charging		Synchronisation and file transfer		User documentation 		Legal		1) Facts and features may vary depending on local variant. 2) Operational times are affected by network preferences, type of SIM card, connected accessories and various activities e.g. playing games. Kit contents and colour options may differ from market to market. The full range of accessories may not be available in every market. 		© Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, 2011
 