



	While we've been bamboozled by both a Sony and Sony Ericsson-branded Xperia S, the soon-to-be-divorced company still has a few handsets left to belt out of its once happy home. Alongside its new HD flagship and the LTE-powered Xperia Ion, Japan is getting treated to its own two slabs of smartphone magic. The Xperia acro HD will match Japan-centric features like mobile wallet and TV tuner found in the original, but present it all with the same 720p Reality Display we admired on the Xperia S. It'll arrive in four guises: aqua, black, sakura (that'll be pink, then) and ceramic (read; off-white). It's joined over in Nihon by the Xperia NX, which is apparently a Japanese-flavored Xperia S and keeps with the monochromatic flavors we've seen at CES. Sadly, we'll have to admire from a distance -- these Japanese market customization jobs are very unlikely to arrive elsewhere. Get the full Xperia 2012 story in the English press release after the break, or decipher the Google-translated source below for the full nitty-gritty.




 		Show full PR text   Introducing four new Xperia smartphones at CES 2012		10 January 2012 		Xperia S - the first smartphone in the Xperia NXT series - next generation smartphones from Sony.		Xperia ion - the first LTE smartphone from Sony, exclusive with AT&T in the US		Xperia NX and Xperia acro HD – two smartphones for the Japanese market 		9 January, 2012, Las Vegas, Nev. – Sony Ericsson is showing visitors to the 2012 International CES Show a fully connected entertainment world with the first Xperia™ smartphones from Sony®*, including Xperia S, the first smartphone from the Xperia NXT series – next generation smartphones from Sony, and new Xperia smartphones made specifically for the US and Japanese markets, all with access to premium entertainment services and easy connectivity to other screens within the world of Sony. 		The new Xperia smartphones announced are: 		Xperia ion, first LTE Xperia smartphone from Sony available exclusively with AT&T in the US (above right).		Xperia S, the first smartphone in the Xperia NXT series – next generation smartphones from Sony, with Sony HD for stunning viewing experiences (above left).		Two new smartphones for the Japanese market:		Xperia acro HD, the follow-up to Xperia acro with popular Japan-specific features including infrared port data exchange, mobile wallet and mobile TV.		Xperia NX, a variant of Xperia S for the Japanese market. 		Bert Nordberg, CEO for Sony Ericsson commented, "CES marks an important milestone for both Sony Ericsson and Sony with the introduction of the first smartphones from Sony. As the market continues to evolve into a world where we consume content and entertainment across multiple screens, the Xperia portfolio will deliver a mobile experience that is an important cornerstone of Sony's strategy to provide seamless connectivity and networked entertainment across smartphones, TV, laptops and tablets." 		Sony Ericsson also unveiled a number of Android accessories that enhance the smartphone experience: 		Xperia Smart Tags, small NFC enabled tokens that are used to launch pre-configured and personalised settings when you swipe an NFC Android smartphone against them.		Smart Wireless Headset pro, Bluetooth™ stereo headset that also works as a standalone MP3 player and radio when detached from the phone.		SmartWatch, micro display for Android to wirelessly access calls, messages and applications.		SmartDock for Xperia ion, an HDMI dock that turns Xperia ion into a mini-PC by connecting it to a USB keyboard, mouse and big screen TV. 		Availability		Xperia S will be available to consumers globally from the first quarter 2012. Xperia ion will be available exclusively in the U.S. from AT&T in the second quarter 2012. Xperia NX and Xperia acro HD will be available in Japan from this spring.		For full details on all products news, please visit the press room www.sonyericsson.com/press and the product blog blogs.sonyericsson.com/products/ 		*For illustrative purposes only. Not for commercial use or re-sale. Use of "Sony" brand subject to regulatory approval. 		Legal		1) Facts and features may vary depending on local variant. 2) Operational times are affected by network preferences, type of SIM card, connected accessories and various activities e.g. playing games. Kit contents and colour options may differ from market to market. The full range of accessories may not be available in every market. 		© Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, 2011 		The Liquid Identity logo is trademark or registered trademark of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB. Sony, Walkman and Zappin are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sony Corporation. Ericsson is the trademark or registered trademark of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson. Additional information regarding trademarks may be located on our website at: www.sonyericsson.com/cws/common/legal/disclaimer. 		Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved. All terms are subject to change without prior notice.		Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, SE-221 88 Lund, Sweden.		Printed in January 2010, R1A
 