
 
 Finally escaping its plate glass prison at CES, Sony's unveiled its first Ultrabook, the VAIO T13 and T11. It's set for release next month and currently packing a Sandy Bridge Intel Core i3-2367M processor (no third-generation processor just yet), within a 323mm-thick frame that weighs in at around 1.6kg for the 13-inch version. Storage is a hybrid of a 320GB HDD and 32GB SSD, which promise to juggle fast start-up times with capacity, while a HD web cam beams out from above the 13.3-inch (1366 x 768) display; no word on the res of the 11-incher. There's 4GB of DDR3 memory with Intel's own HD Graphics 3000 on the side and Sony reckons you'll be able eke out up to nine hours from its SSD model. Other connectivity options include Bluetooth 4.0, HDMI output, and USB 3.0 and 2.0 ports. Interested? Then hit up the full gallery of Sony's new Ultrabook below, with a press release thrown in after the break for good measure. 




  Show full PR text   Ultra-elegant and responsive with full interfaces: Sony debuts first Ultrabook VAIO T Series  02 May 2012
  Thin, light VAIO T11/T13 goes everywhere with you
   Thin, light and uncompromised robustness, with chassis made in aluminium and magnesium  Ready for action in seconds with Rapid Wake + Eco  Work for longer with up to 9 hrs battery life (SSD models)  Clear, bright LED screen (11" or 13") with rich colours  Access your data quickly with SSD or hybrid HDD/SSD  Generous interfaces for easy connectivity  Enjoy your sounds with xLOUD and Clear Phase

   VAIO T Series  So thin, light and portable, the responsive new VAIO T Series is always ready for action – from campus and coffee shop to that crucial meeting.

   Smartly styled in tough magnesium and aluminium, go-anywhere VAIO T Series is tailor-made to handle daily trips to the office or lecture theatre. Blending durability and performance, it's the first Ultrabook™ to proudly carry the VAIO name. Loaded with the latest technologies from Sony and Intel, VAIO T Series is crafted to help you get more done – and have more fun.

   Available in 29.4cm (11.6") or 33.7cm (13.3") screen sizes, VAIO T Series slips effortlessly into your bag for easy carrying between home and work.

   You're always ready for action: just open the Ultrabook lid and Rapid Wake + Eco gets you up and running in moments. When you need to take a break, close the lid and VAIO goes into an energy-efficient deep sleep, keeping your data stored safely for up to 90 days1 without running out of power.

   There's plenty of battery power to last the working day. With up to 9 hours2 (SSD models) between charges, you've got the energy to attend meetings and lectures, work on documents and catch up with friends online.

   Super stamina is matched with impressive productivity. You'll speed through coursework, presentations and more thanks to latest-generation Ultra Low Voltage Intel® Core™ processors. Models configured with an ultra-fast SSD flash drive give you ultra-speed access to files around ten times faster than a standard hard disk drive. 'Hybrid' models offer the best of both worlds, using new Intel® Smart Response Technology (iSRT) that teams fast SSD cache memory with a high-capacity HDD drive for fast boot times plus greater storage space.

   Web pages, presentations and photos all look great with rich colours on the clear, bright VAIO Display. Browsing documents and your media collection is a pleasure, too. The large, button-free touchpad offers plenty of surface area for intuitive scroll, flick, pinch zoom and pivot gestures.

   VAIO T Series is made for business with a generous complement of interfaces including HDMI, VGA and RJ45 network ports plus an SD/MMC media slot. You'll appreciate quick, easy hook-ups with monitors, projectors and more without the need to pack fiddly dongles or adaptors.

   Video chats are more rewarding with the built-in 'Exmor for PC' HD web camera. Friends and family will enjoy a clearer picture of you, even at night under the dim lights of your bedroom.

   VAIO T Series also delivers a richer, more entertaining audio experience that belies its slim, light looks. xLOUDTM and Clear PhaseTM technologies boost volume levels without distortion for crisp, clear web chats, video clips and games.

   There's no need to worry if your phone's short of juice while you're on the move: VAIO T Series makes a handy 'any time' charger for your smartphone if there's no AC socket nearby. Just plug in your phone via USB for a top-up - even when the computer is switched off or in sleep mode.

   Editing, sharing and enjoying your media collection is even more of a pleasure with VAIO T Series. PlayMemories Home by Sony lets you add effortless polish to those HD video clips. Bundled at no extra charge, T Series also includes a fully-functioning version of Adobe® Acrobat® X Standard for easy creation and sharing of PDF documents.

   Don't panic if your VAIO gets lost or stolen. It's protected by a 90-day trial of Intel® Anti-Theft Service3 to make sure your personal data is safe from unauthorised usage. Built into the hardware of your VAIO, this smart security feature can detect potential theft and lock down your laptop to prevent access to your personal data.

   There's a choice of style-matched accessories including carry case, soft travel pouch and wireless mini mouse to personalise and enhance VAIO T Series while you're on the move.

   The VAIO T Series Ultrabook from Sony is available from this month in 29.4cm (11.6") or 33.7cm (13.3") screen sizes.

   1 Battery life in Sleep mode varies depending on configuration and operating conditions, such as installed system memory size, remaining battery capacity and USB charging settings.

   2 Actual battery life will vary depending on your specific hardware and software configurations. Benchmark: MobileMark 2007.

   3 No system can provide absolute security under all conditions. Requires an enabled chipset, BIOS, firmware, and software, and a subscription with a capable service provider. Consult your system manufacturer and service provider for availability and functionality. Intel assumes no liability for lost or stolen data and/or systems or any other damages resulting thereof. For more information, visit intel.com/go/anti-theft.

   Notes to editors

   Model

   VAIO SVT1311M1E

   Processor

   Intel® Core™ i3-2367M Processor

   OS

   Genuine Windows® 7 Home Premium 64bit with Service Pack 1

   Memory

   4GB DDR3 1333MHz SDRAM

   Drive

   320GB HDD 5400rpm

   Screen

   33.7cm (13.3") VAIO Display (1366x768) with wide (16:9) aspect ratio

   Graphics

   Intel® HD Graphics 3000

   Optical drive

   -

   Others

   WLAN 802.11b/g/n; Bluetooth® Ver. 4.0 + HS; USB 2.0 (x1), USB 3.0 with USB charge (x1); HDMI out; stereo speakers; HD Web Camera powered by 'Exmor for PC' (1.31 megapixels); Web, VAIO and Assist buttons; keyboard and touchpad with gesture support

   Dimensions (DxHxW)

   Approx. 226 x 17.8 x 323 mm

   Weight

   Approx. 1.6kg (with standard supplied battery)

 
