
We knew a novel VAIO form factor was bound to be announced at IFA when Sony dropped a origami-inspired teaser video last week. And look what we have here: in Berlin, the PC maker unveiled a new line of VAIO Flip PCs.


Like the Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga, this Ultrabook can be used in a variety of modes; the machine works as a standard clamshell laptop, but the display can also be collapsed down over the keyboard for use as a tablet. Finally, you can reverse the screen so it's facing outward, away from the keyboard, in "viewer mode." The Flip will be sold in 13-,14- and 15-inch flavors, compared to the 11- and 13-inch sizes for the Yoga. Does Sony have a strong contender on its hands? Read on for specs and impressions.






Sony's made no secret about it: now more than ever, it's looking to make itself quite competitive with its PC offerings. To that end, the company has tricked out its base-configuration features across all new VAIO products -- and the Flip's spec list especially benefits from this generosity. All models sport an aluminum lid and palm rest, along with a backlit keyboard, a 1,920 x 1,080 IPS display and a variety of Haswell processor options. Only the 13-incher comes standard with an SSD, but all models can be configured with one. The 15-incher can be ordered with a dazzling 2,880 x 1,620 resolution display (paired with a 2GB NVIDIA GPU) -- and honestly, why would you ever settle for anything less?

Naturally, Sony's also gunning for the "lightest Ultrabook distinction," as the 13-inch Flip's 2.5-pound weight undercuts the MacBook Air. There's also built-in active digitizer support, letting users get to work with Sony's N-trig-powered pen -- a pen that supports Adobe Photoshop CC / Illustrator CC, no less. Port-wise, the 14- and 15-inch models both offer a USB 3.0 connection along with an Ethernet port, while the 13-incher sports two USB 3.0 connections and a mini-HDMI port (incidentally, this form factor is the only of the three to offer a rear-facing camera as well).Those perks are matched by an attractive package, with a diamond-cut VAIO logo and tasteful brushed aluminum on the Ultrabook's palm rest and lid. The spacious, backlit island-style keyboard also seems quite promising, as keys offer a satisfying amount of travel.

The real appeal here, though, is the Flip's ability to, you know, flip -- and Sony's come up with a clever switch system to do just that. Slide the nub from "unlock" to "release" position, and the screen will pop up and out to extend over the keyboard. Magnets on the inside of the Flip's lid help guide the screen back into laptop position when you push the panel back up. Moving the display into viewer mode works pretty much the same way; you just push the screen away, rather than toward, you. Unlike on the IdeaPad Yoga, the VAIO Flip PC's keyboard isn't exposed when it's in viewer mode (that was one of our main complaints about Lenovo's machine). There's a learning curve inherent with any unconventional notebook like this, but the flipping mechanism feels reassuringly sturdy -- in other words, you won't break it while figuring out how to operate this guy.

Sony is only sharing European pricing initially (stay tuned for that), but we expect availability for the US market to follow soon. For now, check out our hands-on gallery. 




