
Sony didn't mention this during its IFA press event, but it just unveiled a big treat for home theater fans: meet the S990A, the world's first curved-screen LED TV. The introductory 65-inch, 1080p model uses the same color-rich Triluminos display technology that we've seen in Sony's recent TVs, just in a more immersive (or at least, more impressive-looking) form factor. Its built-in sound quality reportedly gets a boost, too. Since the eight built-in speakers are angled at different directions, Sony can simulate surround sound more convincingly than it could with a flat-panel set. As you'd expect, the TV also includes mobile-friendly features like Smart Connect media sharing, One-touch NFC remote pairing and second screen interaction through SideView. The S990A won't ship to the US until late October, but Sony is taking pre-orders today -- and at a $4,000 asking price, the curved LED set is much more affordable than its OLED counterparts.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!

Show full PR textSONY INTRODUCES WORLD'S FIRST CURVED SCREEN LED TELEVISION
65-inch Curved LED TV Provides Immersive, Cinematic Experience for the Home,
With Brilliant TRILUMINOS Display
Multi-angle Live Speaker Delivers Revolutionary Surround Sound from Front-Facing Speakers
NEW YORK, Sept. 4, 2013 – Today Sony introduced the world's first curved screen LED television, model KDL-65S990A. Available in October at Sony Stores and select electronics retailers nationwide for $3,999.99, the KDL-65S990A provides an all-in-one cinematic experience for the home, combining a subtly curved visual panel with Sony's acclaimed TRILUMINOS® Display color system for accurate, deep, vibrant colors, and a powerful angled surround sound speaker system to complete the home theater like never before.
"Sony has a storied history of innovation, particularly in the television category," said Mike Lucas, senior vice president of Sony Electronics Home Entertainment & Sound division. "The gentle curve of this television borrows from the screen technology found in movie theaters, and provides an immersive experience that makes viewers feel as if they are truly part of the action and in the moment of the scene they are watching."
A new cinematic experience evolves in the living room
The unique curved screen of the Sony KDL-65S990A creates a new way for viewers to experience their favorite movies, sporting events, television programming and video games. The edge-to-edge curved construction is engineered to provide a greater sense of the picture's depth of feel, and allows for a wider viewing angle so there is not a bad seat in the house.
Color has never been so real
The KDL-65S990A features TRILUMINOS® Display, a color technology unique to Sony, and creates incredibly true, natural shades of colors – just the way directors, cinematographers and producers want viewers to see them. Hard-to-reproduce reds, greens and blues are displayed beautifully, so landscapes and seascapes look more vivid, richer and more intense. Faces look better, too, with satisfyingly natural skin tones. It's all thanks to a new-generation TV panel that makes colors pure and more distinct; giving images a heightened texture and a true, life-like feel to everything you watch.
Color, clarity and detail at their best
Sony's X-Reality™ PRO picture engine allows the KDL-65S990A to present stunning picture quality with a wide range of detail, whether viewers are watching movies on Blu-ray Disc, regular cable or satellite TV broadcasts, web videos or low-resolution smartphone clips. Sony's latest-generation processing engine analyzes, cleans and refines images, restoring beautiful results from any source with more natural detail, richer colors and high contrast. The latest Sony innovations in its Reality Creation database and Super Resolution processing optimize images for incredible detail and sharpness, in both 2D and 3D.
Precisely-angled surround sound powerfully rich and immersive
The KDL-65S990A contains Sony's powerful signal processing technologies which transform any audio source into surround sound. Additionally, the S990A features a 4-channel Multi-angle Live Speaker configuration that provides sound you might expect from a dedicated surround sound system, enhancing your viewing experience. A total of eight front facing speakers (six front and two surround) are angled in multiple directions for a surround sound experience that is superior to a conventional slim, "flat panel" TV.
The inward facing speakers are precisely angled to deliver specific sounds, such as voice dialogue, directly towards viewers while the outwards angled speakers push sound outwards to fill the room and wrap audiences with clear, full-range surround sound, powered by Sony's power signal processing S-Force Front Surround technology. This Multi-angle Live speaker construction also features dedicated tweeters to create smooth, rich, satisfying audio with little distortion.
New ways to use your TV with Smart Connect
The KDL-65S990A also incorporates Smart Connect, Sony's solution for enhancing cross-device connectivity between BRAVIA® televisions and smartphones or tablets (Android™/iOS). With consumers increasingly using smartphones to take pictures and tablet devices to surf the web, Sony has developed new features such as One-Touch Mirroring and the TV SideView™ app to allow users to enjoy sharing and browsing experiences on their large screen TVs.
By briefly touching an NFC-capable phone to the One Touch remote control, users can instantly establish a simple wireless connection with the TV allowing them to view the content on their smartphone's screen on their BRAVIA® television.
TV SideView is an app allowing individuals to use their smartphone or tablet (Android/iOS) and Sony VAIO® (Windows8) as a second screen to increase their enjoyment while watching TV. The application will allow viewers to explore a variety of content from social networks like Facebook and effortlessly control BRAVIA television, as well as learn more about the movies and shows being watched.
Pre-orders are being accepted now at: www.sony.com/KDL-65S990A.

