

More Info

Sony Xperia T unveiled
Sony Xperia TX hands-on
Sony Xperia T appears with AT&T branding


Sony's Xperia T goes by a few names. Depending on which country you're in, you might pick it up as the Xperia GX, or possibly even the TX. The final review sample that's been passed our desk, however, is the Xperia T, the European HSPA version, headed to O2's UK stores in the coming weeks, at which point it will be free on £36 per-month contracts and likely replace the Xperia S as Sony's Android flagship. In comparison to Sony's spring smartphone, there's a similar 720p display, now stretched out to 4.6 inches, a different 13-megapixel camera, a new 1.5GHz Snapdragon S4 processor and Android ICS -- with the promise of Jelly Bean soon after it hits store. The Xperia T also revives a familiar hardware curve and has picked up onscreen Android buttons on its design journey. Design twists and promises of the latest OS aside, has Sony finally built a top-tier phone capable of going toe-to-toe with the smartphone heavyweights? Have a look after the break.




Hardware
Sony has continued to skip the glossy finish, and our fingertips couldn't be happier

When we were first introduced to it, the Xperia T was shaping up to be a quite the looker, but when we pulled it out of its box, we found it a little bit... underwhelming. It weighs in at 139 grams (about 4.9 ounces), it feels a bit chunky in-hand, and while Sony has perfected the art of the press shot, in real life the hardware doesn't quite cut it. The screen connects to a glossy plastic frame, while the back (and the majority of the sides) have a matte finish. Yep, Sony has continued to skip the glossy finish, and our fingertips couldn't be happier. Due to that Xperia Arc-inspired curvature, the phone is easier to grasp than you might expect from a device packing a 4.6-inch display. The way the screen portion of the side curves back inwards makes it easier to grasp than the smaller Xperia S. While it's been a matter of months since the company's last flagship arrived, button locations and access panels have changed, correcting some criticisms we've had with several of Sony's phones so far this year.


First up, those flimsy port covers are gone, with HDMI support now assigned to MHL within the micro-USB socket -- which is also open to the elements. Even on the Xperia S, we never understood why Sony would cover up a port that could be used daily. The buttons have also been transplanted -- all are now located along the right edge. Below the single flush cover for the micro-SIM and microSD cards, there's the power button, volume rocker and two-stage camera button -- all solidly constructed. The camera button requires a gentle touch to focus, while a hard-press will launch the camera app from standby. There's no removable cover, making the phone feel solid in our hands, although perhaps lacking the premium materials of other high-priced rivals.

There's a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, while the front-facing sensor captures 1.3 megapixels, capable of 720p recording. With Sony's Exmor R Sensor, the primary shooter can record up to 1080p video and is accompanied by an LED flash and mono speaker that's inconveniently placed where your fingers are likely to grip the phone. Otherwise, the speaker itself is sufficiently loud, with some distortion at top volume. The Xperia T's NFC credentials mean it can also relinquish audio responsibilities to Sony's recently announced speaker range.



