
Sony has released camcorders and cameras for a variety niches here at IFA, including a new HD action cam, the HDR-AS30V. It's immediately noticeable that the second-gen model is 25 percent smaller and 35 percent lighter than the original, making it even less cumbersome when clipped onto a helmet -- especially compared to a GoPro. As far as the layout goes, not much has changed; you'll find USB, line-in and HDMI ports at the bottom, with the power and record buttons still on back. The rear panel also opens up to give you access to a microSD card slot and the battery compartment. The side features the same basic info LCD with two selection buttons, so you'll still make need to make use of its onboard WiFi and a smartphone -- or the new Live-View Remote (details in a bit) if you need a viewfinder.


You'll find stereo mics and a fixed Carl Zeiss lens at the front with a 170-degree viewing angle, though you'll only get a 120-degree field of view with SteadyShot enabled. Lastly, there's the obligatory tripod mount at its underside. The new bits are essentially a backlit Exmor R CMOS censor, GPS and NFC. Full HD videos can now be captured at 1080/60p (last year's model topped out at 30p), while 720/120p and 720/60p settings are available for slow-mo videos. As a bonus, it can also take 11.9MP images and shoot at interval timing. Using Sony's PlayMemories Home app, you'll be able to sync up video from two of the new Action Cams, rotate the orientation of your clips, and add overlays based on GPS data.




To go alongside the recorder, Sony's introducing an optional wearable Live-View Remote for $150. The waterproof accessory attaches to your wrist and lets you control the camera and monitor your shots. New mounts will also be available, including a Universal Head Mount Kit (BLT-UHM1), Chest Mount Harness (AKA-CMH1) and a Roll Bar Mount (VCT-RBM1). As you'd expect, the Action Cam comes with a variety of adhesive mounts, along with a waterproof enclosure. Expect to hit the trails with this shooter by the end of the month for $300, while last years WiFi-equipped version gets a price drop to $200. We'll be sure to follow up once we have more details.




