
 
 Sony's rolling out the new products thick and fast at its press conference at IFA, the latest beauty on display, this stunning 84-inch 4K Bravia TV. The new 3,840 x 2,160 LCD telly comes loaded with X-Reality Pro Engine to take care of the rendering, and a "10 Unit Live Speaker" system. If two dimensions aren't enough, then the KD-84X9005 also supports upscaling for greater-than-HD passive 3D. No information on price at this time (Update: We've been informed we should hear about pricing next week at CEDIA, so stay tuned), but it should be available from the end of this year. 




  Show full PR text   High-resolution large screen picture and high-quality powerful sound deliver an immersive experience, offering new ways for customers to enjoy television
   Sony Corporation ("Sony") today announced that it will begin the phased launch of its latest BRAVIA LCD television, the KD-84X9005, in all global regions from the end of the year. The new BRAVIA boasts a 4K (3840 x 2160) LCD panel, in the industry's largest 84-inch class(*1) and incorporates Sony's '4K X-Reality PRO' super-resolution high picture quality engine. This formidable combination seamlessly delivers a high-resolution large-screen picture with high-quality powerful sound to provide viewers with immersive experiences, unlike anything offered by existing televisions.  (*1: as of August 29, 2012.)

   4K TV KD-84X9005

   This new 4K TV comes equipped with a 4K LCD panel comprising approximately 8.29 megapixels which is 4 times the resolution of Full HD standard, and incorporates '4K X-Reality PRO', Sony's super-resolution high picture quality engine optimized for 4K LCD TV. This engine is capable of reproducing a variety of content with different resolutions, such as HD digital broadcasts or Blu-ray discs content, into stunningly crisp, high-quality images with 4K resolution. Viewers will not be bothered by the pixels and notice images are breathtakingly realistic and beautifully clear with the 60-degree viewing angle, even if they sit as much as half the distance (*2) to the screen, as compared to when viewing Full HD (for which distance equal to 3 times the screen height is recommended).  (*2 Appropriate distance for comfortable viewing depends on the content, viewing environment as well as the physical conditions of viewers. We recommend viewing from a suitable distance while taking breaks at regular intervals.)

   In addition, the combination of '10 Unit Live Speaker' side speaker system, which is optimised for this large-size screen, with Sony's unique high-quality sound signal-processing technology achieves powerful three-dimensional sound that envelops the viewer in position-orienting tones, from deep bass to high notes.

   With its beautiful, large high-resolution screen and high-quality powerful sound, viewers can enjoy immersive experiences unlike anything offered by existing televisions, as if they were at a live entertainment venue or in a movie theater.

   Viewers can also enjoy high resolution digital photographs on the large screen, by blowing up scenic pictures into large poster sizes, or enlarging photos of children into life-sized pictures for the whole family to see. Furthermore, special 'PlayMemories Studio' (*3), a special 'PlayStation®3 software, enables users to organize and playpack high resolution photographs with ease and comfort on the 4K television. Going forward, Sony aims to offer new television viewing styles by continuing to provide these kinds of new consumer experiences.(*3 available during current fiscal year ending March 2013)

   Sony has been involved in building the 4K content viewing and creating environment in the professional field, from rolling out its 4K digital cinema projectors to movie theaters throughout the world, to preparing a range of production equipment, including the flagship CineAlta 'F65' camera capable of shooting 4K content. In the consumer electronic field, Sony has released the 'VPL-VW1000ES' home theater projector for family use which has been very favorably received.

   Sony will strive to strengthen its 'BRAVIA products with the release of the kind of high-resolution, large-screen 4K TV, which maximizes its technical prowess in the field of 4K, and offers new ways to enjoy television.

 
