
 
 If you were underwhelmed by the middling specs of Sony's past toughphones, you might want to take a look at the latest pair to join the 2012 Xperia family. First up, the Xperia go houses a 3.5-inch 480 x 320 display with a dual-core 1GHz processor, powering the (unfortunately still) Gingerbread interface. Sony has reiterated that Android 4.0 will find its way to both new devices. The Xperia go also throws in a 5-megapixel camera and the same wet finger tracking seen on the Xperia Active, which will mean the phone can be steered during underwater adventures. You be able to pick from white, black and yellow color options when the phone arrives in Q3 this year.

 The Xperia acro S bumps the screen resolution up to 720p, slathered across a 4.3-inch surface, alongside a 12-megapixel camera and dedicated shutter button. It appears to be the global version of the Japan-only Xperia acro HD and arrives PlayStation-certified. Like the Xperia go, it totes IP55 and IP57 ratings for dust and water resistance, plus NFC capability of Sony's SmartTags. The Xperia acro S will land in black, white and pink color options -- but we're still waiting to hear more precise availability details. Video tours for both handsets are right after the break.

 Update: We've been told that the Xperia go will launch as the Xperia advance in the US -- but dates and prices remain a mystery.



  Show full PR text   Introducing Xperia go - the new stylish, durable
  and water resistant smartphone from Sony
   •A smart, sleek and durable smartphone made to resist life's

   challenges without compromising on design or functionality

   •Easy connectivity and premium entertainment from Sony

   Entertainment Network anywhere, anytime

   •

   Reality Display for razor sharp clarity and fast capture

   camera to go from sleep to snap in just over a second

   30 May, London, United Kingdom – Sony Mobile Communication ("Sony

   Mobile") today announced the new Xperia™ smartphone for consumers looking

   for premium specifications and beautiful design with extra durability and water

   resistance. Xperia go has a scratch resistant mineral glass display and meets

   industry standard IP ratings* (International Protection) for protection against

   dust and water immersion.

   Xperia go enables easy connectivity to share and enjoy

   content on TV, smartphone, laptop or tablet. They also

   come preloaded with Music Unlimited and Video Unlimited

   from Sony Entertainment Network giving access to

   Hollywood blockbusters, TV series and millions and

   millions of music tracks. Xperia go will be available in the

   UK from the third quarter of 2012.

   Xperia go

   Key features for Xperia go

   With Xperia go consumers can watch the latest movies and TV shows in razor

   sharp quality and with super fast performance. Its sleek and stylish design

   means durable and water resistant smartphones no longer have to look bulky

   and ruggedized:

   •3.5" Reality Display powered by Mobile BRAVIA Engine gives razor sharp

   clarity

   •5MP fast capture camera goes from sleep to snap in just over a second

   •Scratch resistant mineral glass display with wet finger tracking

   •Highest level of dust and water resistance in a smartphone – IP67

   Rating

   •1Ghz dual core processor gives consumers super fast performance

   •Launching on Android 2.3 (Gingerbread), upgradeable to Android 4.0

   (Ice Cream Sandwich)

   •Available in black, white and yellow colours

  

 

