
 
Just in case you missed out on the 3D broadcast of this year's World Cup or if you simply want to relive the experience, Sony has followed through on its promise of a Blu-ray 3D release, scheduled for November 16. If there's any disappointment (other than remembering the United States team's exit against Ghana) it's that despite a $39.95 MSRP ($27.99 on Amazon currently) it has a running time of a mere 64 minutes and no extras are listed yet. Of course, if you're looking for something to hold you over until 2014, we guess this will have to do, but even if you don't purchase we're sure this is a demo disc that will be playing in Sony Style stores for quite a while.
      

 

Show full PR textRelive the Edge-of-Your-Seat Action in High Definition 3DTHE OFFICIAL 2010 FIFA WORLD CUP™ FILM IN 3DFilmed for the First Time Ever in 3D and Available on Blu-ray 3D™ November 16thCulver City, Calif. (Oct. 18, 2010) – On Nov. 16, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment presents a documentary on the world's greatest sporting spectacle, the The Official 2010 FIFA World Cup™ Film in 3D on Blu-ray 3D™ for the SRP of $39.95. The 2010 FIFA World Cup tournament attracted hundreds of millions of wide-eyed fans around the globe, decked out in colorful jerseys and painted in national colors to support their teams. Fans still wrought with World Cup fever don't have to wait until the 2014 games with SPHE's immersive, mind-blowing 3D experience that brings the 2010 FIFA World Cup games home. The Official 2010 FIFA World Cup Film in 3D is presented in high definition 3D, optimized for the latest 3D playback devices and eyewear.2010 FIFA World Cup SynopsisExperience the journey of the most-watched sporting event in the world as it was meant to be seen: in dynamic and vibrant 3D on Blu-ray™. Relive the action and intensity of the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa™ as though you were actually in the stadium witnessing all the drama and athletic skill. The greatest players in the world-supported by the most passionate fans-met up on the biggest stage in sports and made history as the 2010 FIFA World Cup enthralled South Africa and the world. The 2010 FIFA World Cup™ South Africa on Blu-ray 3D™ - there's no event quite like it!2010 FIFA World Cup has a running time of 64 minutes. The picture is not rated. Artwork is available for download at www.sphepublicity.com. Visit Sony Home Entertainment on the Web at www.SonyPictures.com.SONY PICTURES HOME ENTERTAINMENTSony Pictures Home Entertainment is a Sony Pictures Entertainment (SPE) company. SPE is a subsidiary of Sony Corporation of America, a subsidiary of Tokyo-based Sony Corporation. SPE's global operations encompass motion picture production and distribution; television production and distribution; home entertainment acquisition and distribution; a global channel network; digital content creation and distribution; operation of studio facilities; development of new entertainment products, services and technologies; and distribution of entertainment in more than 140 countries. Sony Pictures Entertainment can be found on the World Wide Web at http://www.sonypictures.com
 