
 
Well, we did have some strong evidence to suggest that Sony was planning a design update to its VAIO P Series, but there happens to be a lot more than fresh aesthetics going on with the new 8-inch lappie. Sure, it gets a new matte lid that's available in five different shades, but Sony has also updated the 1.3-pound P Series with an optical touchpad and accelerometer. The former is built into the LCD bezel and, as the picture above shows, is all about navigating the desktop by just holding the screen – the pad is on the right bezel while the right / left mouse buttons are on the left. The accelerometer is probably the most interesting addition – you can flip the device vertically to read documents, but also tilt it to the left or right to move forward or backward while surfing the web. Pretty cool stuff, and there's even more: it's been given a faster Intel Atom Z560 processor option, though the entry-level unit has a slightly-slower Z530 CPU. Still waiting for US pricing to see if Sony can tempt us with its notoriously expensive VAIO P when it begins shipping in June. We'll have a piping hot review of the new VAIO P coming up later this morning. So, will you hit the break for the official PR, or just wait for the review? Decisions, decisions.

Update: The U.S. has finally released its PR. The VAIO P will start at $799 stateside, though that includes the 1.6GHz Atom Z530 processor, and not the newer Z560 upgrade. That's an $100 price drop, but still too much if you ask us. 






Show full PR textMEDIA ALERT: NEW SONY VAIO P SERIES LIFESTYLE PC DAZZLES WITH VIBRANT COLORS AND ONE-TOUCH BUTTONSSubject: Media Alert: VAIO P Series to Boast Bold Colors and New Touch FeaturesWHO: The new Sony VAIO® P Series features an array of built-in one-touch buttons that enable you to instantly access the web, adjust screen resolution and even tune-up your PC. A convenient trackpad built directly into the LCD bezel and a mobile nav grip have also been added making it easier than ever to access content on-the-go. Taking fashion to the next level, the P-Series is now available in five vibrant new colors – electric orange, neon green, hot pink, icy white and classic black.WHAT: Measuring about the size of a business envelope and roughly as thin as a cell phone the P Series weighs in at just 1.4 pounds. It integrates full PC features so users can edit documents, watch online videos, and organize photos all with an ultraportable design.◦ The new PC features one-touch buttons providing convenient shortcuts with just a click.• Press the WEB button, and this Instant mode option launches directly into your browser. You can even press it when the PC is turned off and it will launch you into your web browser without a full boot through the Windows® operating system.• The ASSIST button launches Sony's own VAIO Care ™ software, an easy-to-use program that lets you tune-up, maintain, update and troubleshoot the PC.• A resolution button lets you increase or decrease screen resolution for optimal viewing.◦ The P Series also boasts a unique mobile nav grip to surf the web without a mouse or keyboard. A trackpad and left- and right-click buttons are built right into the LCD bezel, providing a creative solution to navigate the web and a new way to interact with a PC.◦ It features a high-resolution, 1600 x 768, LED backlit 8-inch ultra-wide display (diagonal), making it easy to view everything from entire spreadsheets to full web pages. Plus, for a more convenient way to read long web pages without all the scrolling, turn the P Series on its side to change the viewing orientation from landscape mode to portrait mode. A new array of stylish carrying cases and wireless mice are now available.WHEN: Available now for pre-sale at www.sony.com/pr/pseries and at select retailers around the country for about $800. To find the closest Sony Style store, please visit www.sonystyle.com.Sony delivers a smarter on-the-move computing experience: Ultra-portable, easy to carry new VAIO P Series· Colourful ultra-portable PC weighs just over 600g· New design for two-handed operation while standing or walking· GPS and Digital Compass· Accelerometer sensor· Built-in Everywair 3G· Clear, bright, widescreen VAIO Display Plus· Easy to use with Quick Web AccessIt's smaller than a notebook and smarter than a smartphone: the colourful VAIO P Series from Sony is your perfect partner for on-the-move computing.Weighing just over 600g and slipping effortlessly into a bag or jacket pocket, new VAIO P Series gives you all the power of a fully-featured Windows® computing experience... and so much more.Ideal for busy people who can't sit still, it's the first VAIO designed for simple operation if you're standing or walking. The central trackball is complemented by an additional touchpad and mouse buttons. Duplicating the main controls, they're located at either edge of the screen for comfortable operation with both thumbs while you're holding the computer in two hands.VAIO P Series is the first notebook computer from Sony with built-in GPS and a new Digital Compass. Perfect for telling you where you are and what's happening around you, they can help you find your hotel or a nearby restaurant if you're standing on the street corner in an unfamiliar city1.A brand-new VAIO Location Search software offers a real-time map view without tying up your web browser. Your map position and orientation are displayed along with nearby Points of Interest and even local weather conditions.The ultra-light notebook's 'on-the-go' credentials for travellers are boosted with Everywair 3G on-board, giving high-speed connectivity to mobile networks (where available).New VAIO P is the first notebook from Sony with a built-in accelerometer that responds to physical movements. Just give VAIO a gentle shake to 'flick' through pictures or the pages of a PDF document, or navigate back and forth through your web browsing history.The sensor also recognises when VAIO P Series is turned on its side, automatically 'flipping' the screen for easy reading of documents or web pages in portrait mode. The notebook's additional mouse buttons are perfectly placed for comfortable page-turning when you're reading in portrait position – just like a paperback book or magazine.New VAIO P Series is beautifully designed for easy operation, with a comfortable full-pitch keyboard for easy typing, plus a bright, extra-wide VAIO Display Plus that's ideally proportioned for viewing movies or two web pages side-by-side. There's also an ambient light sensor that dims screen illumination for comfortable viewing while saving power.For extra convenience, dedicated buttons are provided for Quick Web Access and one-touch access to VAIO Care. There's also a handy new Change Resolution button: instantly select a larger font size for easy on-screen reading, or choose maximum detail for HD movie viewing.Available in five vibrant colours (black, white, pink, green and orange), the new VAIO P Series is complemented by a choice of stylish accessories that includes a distinctively perforated silicone slip case and carry strap.The new VAIO P Series ultra-portable notebook computer is available from June 2010.
 