
Here at IFA, Sony thinks it has just the thing to help struggling musical artists become breakout successes. Say hello to the $300 HDR-MV1 Music Video Recorder. Set to take on the likes of the Zoom Q2 HD, this stereo field recorder / HD camcorder might just be the best ticket to getting high quality music videos on the web painlessly. The POV-style shooter features 120-degree stereo microphones that record in AAC or uncompressed linear PCM (CD quality), and there's also an input for external mics. Better yet, you can manually set levels and check them using the onboard 2.7-inch screen and speaker -- a four-way toggle switch lets you change settings.


The back houses a replaceable battery and a Micro SD card slot, and the rear gives you access to HDMI, line in, headphone and USB ports. Video gets captured at 1080/30p by a wide 120-degree Carl Zeiss lens and a back-illuminated Exmor R CMOS sensor that's ready to handle low light situations. Recording is simply enabled by hitting a red record buttons at the top of the unit. To keep things extra worry-free, the recorder also features automatic Audio Lip Syncing. Lastly, on-board WiFi lets you share your clips with Sony's PlayMemories Mobile app, while NFC allows for tap-to-pair with Android devices. Aspiring video rock stars can get their hands on the Music Video Recorder this December. For now, get a closer look in the embedded galleries. 






Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!Show full PR textSONY MAKES RISING TO STARDOM A LITTLE EASIER WITH THE ALL NEW MUSIC VIDEO RECORDER
Premium Video Camera Allows Music Artists to Record and InstantlyShare Full HD Videos with Pro-Quality Sound
SAN DIEGO, September 4, 2013 – Sony has announced a new camcorder concept designed and engineered specifically for musicians – the HDR-MV1 Music Video Recorder. From stage to web, the video camera lets artists shoot and share every performance with superb Full HD image quality and dynamic studio-quality sound.
"Marrying Sony's industry-leading audio and digital imaging technology, HDR-MV1 is the perfect video capture solution when audio is key," said Hidenori Toyoda, director of the camcorder business at Sony Electronics. "With the web being a major hub for established and budding music talent, the camcorder's ability to easily upload high quality content sets it apart from other devices."
UNPARALLELED AUDIOIdeal for band rehearsals, practice sessions and live gigs, Sony's new camcorder records CD-quality audio in uncompressed Linear PCM or internet-ready AAC. The slim, portable MV1 music video recorder captures every detail of musical performances - from soloists and groups, to orchestras and bands - in rich audio with its 120-degree X-Y stereo microphone that can be tuned for clear, undistorted recordings. Adding versatility, external microphones or instruments can be directly connected to the device and there's also a convenient speaker on-board so users can check their recordings instantly.
FIRST CLASS VIDEOTo complement its superior audio capabilities, the Music Video Recorder offers Full 1920x1080/30p HD video. Its back-illuminated Exmor R® CMOS sensor allows for a sharp picture even in dimly-lit clubs or recording studios. And the wide-angle 120-degree Carl Zeiss lens takes in the whole scene so no one in the band gets left out of the action, perfect for cramped rehearsal spaces as well as expansive stages.
The HDR-MV1 camcorder features Audio Lip Sync to ensure that music stays precisely matched to the video playback, with no lag, and a vibrant 2.7" color LCD to allow frame checking or adjusting. The camera also offers manual or auto audio level control with an on-screen meter to monitor the input levels and modify for diverse environments.
CONNECT & SHAREBuilt-in Wi-Fi® works with Sony's free PlayMemories Mobile™ application that allows users to instantly share their Music Video Recorder content to a smartphone or tablet for easy upload. The Wi-Fi connection also allows control of the camera with any compatible device, for start/stop recording as well as to select movie/audio modes. And with NFC support, it's even easier to make a one-touch connection to Xperia® phones, tablets and other compatible Android devices.
AVAILABILITYThe new HDR-MV1 Music Video Recorder from Sony will be available in December for a suggested retail price of $299.99. The camcorder and its accessories will be sold at http://store.sony.com, Sony retail stores and other authorized retailers nationwide. For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/news. Find out more through http://blog.sony.com and make sure to catch what people are saying about #MusicRecorder online.# # #

