


Smartphones are getting bigger with every generation, every new model. Even Apple, champion of the small screen, has finally caved to the trend. Over the past few years, however, some of the major smartphone players have taken to creating "mini" versions of their top handsets to satisfy those who still crave a smaller device. While these petite imitations benefit from shared design and branding, their hardware specifications are usually no match for the flagships they mimic. Sony does things a little differently, though, shunning the "mini" moniker and preserving as many high-end features as possible in its smaller devices. Case in point: the new Xperia Z3 Compact, which crams the best of the 5.2-inch Z3 into a 4.6-inch body, and is basically everything you could want in a smaller smartphone.





Hardware
The Xperia Z line hasn't changed much since Sony revealed the original flagship Z handset nearly two years ago. In fact, the vast majority of Sony devices in recent history have followed the same, strict design language. Thus, the Z3 Compact is essentially a rectangular block with pillowed perimeters, like most of its brethren. In this respect, the Z3C won't be everyone's cup of tea, with its hard, serious lines being a far cry from the sexy curves of HTC's One series, to name just one example. If you're a fan of Sony's blocky styling, however, then the Z3C is certainly a well-executed model of that.

The Z3C doesn't have any one, standout design feature, but as always, the devil is in the details. The matching tempered-glass panels covering the front and back, the aluminum power key, the metal detailing around the main camera lens and headphone jack -- all reminders you're handling a premium, albeit understated device. Even the branding strewn across the back is pleasingly arranged, with silver Sony and gray Xperia/NFC logos stacked neatly along its length. A small note of the main camera specs also sits between the relatively large lens and small, circular LED flash.


There's slightly less going on up front. A small, silver Sony logo sits just above the 4.6-inch display; oblong stereo speakers live near the top and bottom; and the front-facing camera is tucked away in the upper-right corner, with a multicolor notification LED on the opposite side. The only buttons, physical or otherwise, are located along the right-hand edge; you've got a two-stage camera key, volume rocker and power button, all of which are one kind of metal or another. The latter two aren't in what I'd call a standard layout, both being close to the middle. However, the size of the device actually makes the positioning of the power and volume keys rather convenient: right where your thumb instinctively rests when holding it, assuming you're clutching it with your right hand.

Along the top edge, you'll find the headphone jack and secondary mic; the primary mic is on the bottom edge, naturally, alongside a strap hole for attaching charms to the thing, or whatever the kids do to their phones these days. The left border is by far the busiest, with two sealed cavities hiding the micro-USB port/microSD slot and nano-SIM tray, respectively. These flank Sony's magnetic charging dock connector, because every phone the company makes apparently must be compatible with these niche accessories. It's definitely the ugliest feature of the handset; it breaks up the "flow" of the pillowed border, but it's not so offensive as to spoil the overall look.


As I've hinted at before, not every facet of the Xperia Z3 has made the leap to its smaller counterpart. You can spot they're related from a mile off, but where the Z3 is wrapped in a metal frame, the Z3C is bound in a hard, translucent plastic, with the same nylon corner caps adding extra durability to these higher-risk impact zones. Sony calls the transparent effect "liquid reflection," probably because it's an easier sell than "see-through plastic." Some might not like the fact that the premium, metal rim has been omitted from the Compact, but I actually prefer the plastic's added sense of depth, just because it's a little... different.

What the Z3C lacks in metal accents, it more than makes up for in build quality. The thing is solid as a rock, and everything is put together with absolute precision -- it kind of has to be to qualify for its IP65/68 waterproof and dustproof rating (that's higher than you'll ever realistically need unless you plan on freediving while on the phone to mom and dad). The serious-looking black model with dark-gray wrapping I've been using complements the tight build nicely, but you can expect the same robustness from the white, minty-green and copper-orange options too.


At a glance, the Z3C might not look like the most comfortable device to hold. For starters, there's a thin, sharp rim around the two glass panels on either side of the curved border, and the corners of the device are only slightly off-square. Furthermore, the back panel offers minimal grip, it being slick glass and all. These initial observations are moot, however, because the phone is small enough, at 127 x 64.9 x 8.6mm (5 x 2.56 x 0.34 inches), that you don't need to apply a ton of pressure to these potential problem areas to keep it safely in-hand. The Z3C is slighter heavier than I expected for a phone of this size, at 129g (4.55 ounces), but its weight has no negative impact on usability. It's as easy to hold and operate one-handed as it is to forget about when stuffed in a jean pocket.

This basic facet of the everyday user experience is something smartphone manufacturers seem to be ignoring en masse. It's been refreshing to use a smaller device as my daily driver, not because I have tiny hands, but because I believe an emphasis on portability has been lost somewhere in the race for the biggest display. There's obviously a huge demand for big-screen devices, but with the Z1 Compact and newer Z3 Compact, Sony's continuing to cater to those who want a smaller handset without giving up high-end specs. Personally, I prefer having something that's painless to use and carry around in lieu of "enhanced content consumption," or whatever tagline marketers want to use to promote the newest 6-inch monster.

    Sony Xperia Z3 Sony Xperia Z3 Compact     Dimensions 146 x 72 x 7.3mm  127 x 64.9 x 8.6mm    Weight 152g 129g   Screen size 5.2 inches 4.6 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080 1,280 x 720   Screen type Triluminos LCD with 16.7 million colors Triluminos LCD with 16.7 million colors   Battery 3,100mAh Li-ion (non-removable) 2,600mAh Li-ion (non-removable)   Ruggedness IP65 and IP68 waterproof and dustproof IP65 and IP68 waterproof and dustproof   Internal storage 16GB (12GB free)/32GB (D6616 model) 16GB (12GB free)   External storage MicroSDXC (128GB) MicroSDXC (128GB)   Rear camera 20.7MP (1/2.3-inch sensor, 25mm-equiv. focal length) 20.7MP (1/2.3-inch sensor, 25mm-equiv. focal length)   Front-facing cam 2.2MP stills, 1080p video 2.2MP stills, 1080p video   Video capture 1080p, 4K 1080p, 4K   NFC Yes Yes   Radios  HSPA+ (850/900/1700/1900/2100); GSM GPRS/EDGE (850/900/1800/1900); LTE (Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 17, 20)

   HSPA+ (850/900/1700/1900/2100); GSM GPRS/EDGE (850/900/1800/1900); LTE (Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 17, 20)

    Bluetooth v4.0, aptX, A2DP v4.0, aptX, A2DP   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 (MSM8974AC) Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 (MSM8974AC)   CPU 2.5GHz quad-core Krait 400 2.5GHz quad-core Krait 400   GPU Adreno 330 Adreno 330   RAM 3GB 2GB   Entertainment MHL, USB OTG, WiFi Direct, DLNA, Miracast, FM radio MHL, USB OTG, WiFi Direct, DLNA, Miracast, FM radio   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n/ac Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n/ac   Wireless Charging No No   Operating system Android 4.4.4 (Sony-specific UI) Android 4.4.4 (Sony-specific UI)  Display
You've probably already clocked by now that the Z3C sports a smaller-than-average 4.6-inch display. While the bigger Z3 has stuck with a 1080p panel instead of opting to join the QHD clan, the Z3C has a miserly 1,280 x 720 screen, which translates to a pixel density of 319 ppi. I'm kidding: A 720p display is more than adequate for the Compact's size, and you'd struggle to find any meaningful difference if compared with a 1080p screen of the same dimensions (well, maybe a decline in battery life, but that's about it). The panel at play here is an IPS LCD affair, with Sony's Triluminos and X-Reality technologies that promise richer, more natural colors and enhanced contrast. The Z3C (and its bigger brother) are also said to pack a new "intuitive contrast-enhancement technology" that kicks in when the handset detects an external source of bright light, but I didn't notice it having any effect in my investigations.

The white balance of the panel is spot on as far as I can tell (you can always tweak the default setting in the display menu if you find otherwise). Colors are bold and bright too. However, blacks aren't quite as deep as they could be, but this is common to LCD technology, and it's something OLED screens are inherently better at producing. Viewing angles are decent, even if you do start to lose color saturation past a certain tilt point. All things considered, the Z3C's display is a high-quality one, but it does falter slightly when it comes to sunlight readability. Don't get me wrong: It kicks out enough power to not be an issue in most cases. Still, the glare from the glass covering it isn't entirely eradicated, so I doubt you'll want to dive into YouTube on a lazy afternoon in the park.


In other miscellany, the tempered glass covering the display (and the rear of the device) is notably adept at repelling fingerprint oil and grime. It's not completely immune to smudges, of course, but it never gets to that overloaded, slightly sticky point I've experienced on a few handsets (including Sony's own Xperia SP). It took me a while to figure out the nuances of the auto-brightness setting. While it reacts appropriately to changing conditions, it's always anchored to the manual slider setting, meaning it will only adjust within a range of that preset. From a user-experience point of view, I must admit that moving from a 5.2-inch device to the 4.6-inch Z3C brought about a remarkable decline in my touchscreen typing accuracy. But after getting used to a more condensed keyboard layout, I was more or less back to full speed within a few days.

Software
The Xperia Z3 Compact is running the latest consumer-ready version of Android (4.4.4 KitKat) beneath Sony's proprietary user interface. Thankfully, it's a fairly light skin that doesn't differ all that much from stock Android, which I prefer to some of the heavier manufacturer customizations (*cough* TouchWiz *cough*). But, that also means there's nothing particularly special about Sony's UI. From my point of view, though, it's intuitive and, well, it just works. Anyone vaguely familiar with Android will be able to dive right in, no tutorial required. That said, there are a few gems baked in here, like the easy-access screen-recording feature we told you about in our recent Xperia Z3 review.

Overall though, just like the design of Sony's hardware, its software hasn't evolved much over the years either. Thus, the UI does feel a little dated in comparison to, say, the most recent iterations of HTC's Sense skin. The icons for Sony's own apps are drawn in the same 3D style they have been for some time, and are perhaps a bit too cartoony given the Z3C's all-business design. It's a minor quibble, though, and shouldn't be enough to drive anyone away from what's otherwise a superb little handset.


Out of the box, every panel on the Z3C's home screen carousel is absolutely sodden in widgets and shortcuts promoting Sony's apps and services, so you'll have to spend a little time organizing this to your liking. The app drawer is just as noisy, but that's kind of expected when Sony creates so much of its software in house. Some of this is what I consider straight-up bloatware, like the preinstalled Kobo, OfficeSuite, AVG antivirus and Garmin navigation apps. Fortunately, you can uninstall these if you have no use for them, but services like Video Unlimited, the Xperia Lounge Sony-centric news app and Lifelog activity tracker are on there for good. You can always just ignore them if they're of no use to you, however.

All of Google's services are present, of course, but Sony has its own versions of several key programs. This means there are duplicate music players, video players and photo album apps. No big deal, but coupled with some of the new camera tricks having their own icons now, too, the app drawer is messy to begin with, let alone when you start loading whatever you want onto the device.

Additionally, the entire Z3 range (Z3, Z3 Compact and Z3 Tablet Compact) are the first Sony phones to support PS4 Remote Play, a feature previously found only on the PS Vita handheld console. Unfortunately, the app that enables this isn't available until November. I'm disappointed I haven't had the chance to try it out, but honestly, I can't see myself playing the next Call of Duty title in bed on a 4.6-inch screen too often.

Camera
Since the Xperia Z1, Sony's used the same 20.7-megapixel, 1/2.3-inch Exmor RS sensor across its flagship Z line. The Z3 and Z3 Compact are similarly equipped, with the addition of a new, wider 25mm, f/2.0 G Lens. The pair also share the same 2.2-megapixel front-facing camera, too, which isn't exactly a selfie addict's dream, but perfectly adequate for the odd video call. Before I get on to how the primary shooter performs, a quick walkthrough of Sony's camera app. From the viewfinder, you can quickly adjust settings like scene selection, flash mode, exposure and white balance. One icon opens up a deeper menu that allows you to change everything from image resolution and ISO setting to smile detection and image storage location.




