
 
We're aware, the "exclusive" green and orange neon color of Sony's VAIO CB and CA laptops can make your eyes bleed, but Sony's pretty excited about the aesthetic and the way it radiates light around the edges of the laptop. Oh, and don't forget how the touchpad "emits a beautiful glow." It's true, the rigs do have an interesting glow stick-like look to them -- at least, we thought so when we saw them last month -- however, we found their innards and features to be more enlightening. Starting at $800, the 14-inch CA10 and 15.5-inch CB10 will both be available with Intel Sandy Bridge Core i5 processors, AMD Radeon HD 6630 graphics, and Blu-ray drives. Select models will also pack Intel's WiDi 2.0, which lets you stream 1080p video to your TV. And remember Sony's Remote Keyboard, which lets you navigate your PS3 or Bravia TV with the laptop? Yep, the CA and CB both have that functionality baked in as well. What's that? You'd be interested if they didn't blind you? What if we also told you they will come in black and white? We thought that might change your mind, and according to the official press release below there will indeed be alternative color versions. You'll be able to pre-order them both on March 13th, but until then you can always see if the neon grows on you with the photos below. 





Show full PR textNEW SONY VAIO C SERIES LAPTOPS RADIATE LIGHT AND STAND OUT WITH PERFORMANCE, ENTERTAINMENT AND DESIGNSAN DIEGO, Feb. 22, 2011 – With a continued commitment to portability, performance and multimedia entertainment wrapped in a premium design, Sony Electronics today announced the VAIO® C Series – an exclusive line of laptops. A second generation Intel® Core™ i5 processor, Blu-ray Disc™ drive (select models), and AMD Radeon™ 1GB Hybrid Graphics card (select models) give you visibly smart performance and amazing picture quality all in a unique design."The new VAIO C Series delivers an extraordinary design with new, vivid materials," said Mike Lucas, senior vice president of the Networked Technologies and Services Division at Sony Electronics. "Combined with premium performance and features, as well as enhanced with Sony Imagination Studio, C Series users can be entertained and show off their creative side."Let There Be LightThe exclusive one-of-a-kind design of the all new VAIO C Series in lively Neon Orange and Neon Green collects and radiates light around the edges of the laptop, through the VAIO logo, and even around the touchpad emitting a beautiful glow. Also available in Lightning White and Bolt Black, the C Series has a distinctive, appealing pattern that hints at the sophistication and powerful technology on the inside.Available exclusively through select retailers in two screen sizes, the CA10 features a 14-inch LED backlit LCD widescreen display and the CB10 features a 15.5-inch LED backlit LCD widescreen display for improved power efficiency and greater contrast, with the option of a Full HD 1080p screen.Ultimate PerformancePerformance is top priority with the second generation Intel Core i5 processor that delivers even more performance automatically when you need it with a better visual PC experience built-in. With Intel Turbo Boost Technology 2.0, the second generation Intel Core i5 processor increases speed automatically for whatever you're doing on your PC and provides a rich set of new features for a stunning and seamless visual PC experience.AMD Radeon HD 6630 1GB Hybrid Graphics card (select models) gives a performance boost to your day-to-day processor functions for a faster, more optimized overall computing experience while lowering power consumption.The C Series laptop comes with one-touch VAIO, ASSIST and WEB buttons, for launching Media Gallery™ software, VAIO Care™ software and access to the web without full boot-up into Windows, all with a touch of a button.All models incorporate backlit keyboards, illuminating the lettering for typing in dark situations. The built-in HD web camera powered by an "Exmor" sensor also allows for great low-light performance. And with the built-in microphone you can video message with family, friends and coworkers. Face tracking technology allows the camera to automatically adjust focus and follow you as you move around while video chatting.Pack a Multimedia PunchSony knows entertainment is always at the forefront and the VAIO C Series delivers. Whether you're watching a stunning Blu-ray Disc movie (select models) or enjoying video captured from your compatible camcorder. The versatile Blu-ray Disc drive on the VAIO C Series laptop (select models) combines the power of HD video playback with the convenience and utility of DVD and CD read/write functionalities. Providing the best picture and the best sound with stunning clarity, Blu-ray Disc technology is the ultimate way to enjoy your entertainment.With Intel® Wireless Display 2.0 in select models, you can sit back and experience your favorite videos, photos and music on your TV. Stop crowding around a laptop screen and view and share content from your hard drive, home network or the internet wirelessly on your HDTV utilizing the adapter (sold separately).Your creativity is made boundless with the included Sony Imagination Studio™ Suite 2 VAIO Edition, which combines five powerful Sony applications so you can enhance and share your music, photos, and movies like never before. Turn your video shoots into Hollywood-style movies with Vegas™ Movie Studio HD Platinum. Make your own original music or create remixes and mash-ups of your favorite songs using Acid™ Music Studio. Author your project to DVD or burn it to Blu-ray Disc™ media (select models) and share your digital life with family and friends. This software plus Adobe Acrobat Standard is included at a $558 value.Remote Keyboard takes your VAIO PC one step further by helping you navigate menus and options within your PS3™ system, connected BRAVIA® television or Blu-ray Disc player. Remote Keyboard bridges the technology gap and allows you to wirelessly pair your VAIO PC's keyboard and touchpad with a bevy of Sony connected devices and use them to quickly and easily navigate menus, browse the internet and enter text.Pricing and AvailabilityThe VAIO C Series laptops will be available for pre-sale on March 13 at www.sonystyle.com/cseries for a starting price of about $880. Also available this spring exclusively through select retailers include ABT Electronics, B&H Photo, Fry's Electronics, J&R Electronics, MicroCenter, Nebraska Furniture Mart and Sony Style®.
 