

 The Walkman F800 is Sony's latest PMP; a 3.5-inch Android media player that replaces the company's middling Z series. Perhaps the most intriguing point is that the new media player will arrive with Android 4.0 from the start, alongside the usual raft of WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity options. Storage choices range from 8GB, through to 16GB and 32GB, with 4.5 hours of video playback apparently possible on the handhelds. It's the new flagship media player for Sony, and will launch in Europe priced at around £210 ($279).

 The noise-cancelling E series (and an even-more-bare-bones version) has also been refreshed. The hardware hasn't changed that much, aside from a larger 2-inch LCD screen, but there's a whole raft of new patterns and colors. The petit slabs will arrive alongside a new dock that will run off the PMP's own battery, augmenting the existing built-in speaker. If you liked the E series, but need something a little more wireless, then the just-announced Bluetooth-toting Walkman S770BT may hit the spot. Aside from that addition, the device otherwise lists the same specifications as the E series. Sony tells us that all three Walkman families will be available in Europe starting today -- and we managed to handle both the new noise-cancelling E474 (£80, or around $80) and the F800 last week. Unfortunately, we were only able feel around the device, as unfortunately neither were powered up. The F series feels a lot like a solidly-built smart phone, with a matte black finish -- the device arrives in just the single color option. Meanwhile, the E series attacks the rainbow, with a range of patterns. These feel predictably lighter, and should slip into pockets very easily. Take a closer look at the PMP pair in the galleries below.




  Show full PR text  
  Latest Walkman® MP3 players from Sony with Android™, Bluetooth® and digital noise cancelling
   Walkman® F800 Series: Web-enabled with Android™, 8.9cm/3.5" multi-touch LCD and S-Master MX Digital Amplifier  Walkman® S770BT Series: Wireless listening with bundled Bluetooth® headphones  Walkman® E570 Series: Brilliantly clear sound with digital noise cancelling  Walkman® E470 Series: Vibrant colours and 36 hours battery life1

   Walkman NWZ-E470

   Experience your perfect summer soundtrack, with the new range of Walkman® MP3 audio and video players from Sony.

   Whatever your tastes, you'll be satisfied by legendary Walkman® sound quality. Clear Audio technologies by Sony assure richly-detailed sound, with deep, powerful bass, crystalline highs and reduced leakage between stereo channels. Walkman® even restores those subtle high frequency details that get lost when you're listening to heavily-compressed digital music files.

   This summer's line-up of MP3 audio and video players by Sony includes the sleekest, slimmest Walkman® models ever. Just 7mm thin, the new S770BT and E570/470 Series take up little space when they're slipped into a pocket or bag. With up to 36 hours play time1 from a single charge, there's plenty of stamina to keep you entertained on long journeys. And if you're looking for a supreme listening experience, Walkman® F800 Series brings you an exciting world of ultra-detailed hi-fi sound, Wi-Fi connectivity and apps.

   All new Walkman® models are compatible with Music Unlimited from Sony Entertainment Network, allowing easy access to the millions of music tracks on offer2. As part of a simple monthly subscription, Music Unlimited lets you transfer your favourite personalised playlists and ad-free radio channels to Walkman®, so you can enjoy a world of music discovery even when offline.

   It's easy to load up your existing media collection, too. Walkman® supports drag-and-drop transfer of music, photos, videos, podcasts and playlists from iTunes (non-DRM content only) or Windows® Explorer.

   Walkman® F800 Series  Walkman F series  Treat yourself to an extreme on-the-go entertainment experience. Powered by AndroidTM 4.0 ("Ice Cream Sandwich"), the web-enabled Walkman® F800 Series lets you enjoy a generous range of pre-installed apps, from email to maps and media gallery. Connect wirelessly via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth® and download more from an ever-growing choice on Google PlayTM. Interacting with your media collection, apps and games is a pleasure, thanks to the large, highly-responsive 8.9cm/3.5" multi-touch screen, plus plenty of processing power for smooth, speedy responses.

   You'll enjoy crisp highs and full, thumping bass powered by S-Master MX Digital Amplifier and five Clear Audio technologies. You can even share your sounds out loud via the built-in xLOUD® speaker system that cuts distortion and unpleasant clipping for clearer listening.

   Walkman® S770BT Series  S 770  Supplied with colour-matched in-ear Bluetooth® headphones, Walkman® S770BT Series lets you enjoy your favourite sounds without a tangle of wires. Even when your Walkman® is in a pocket or bag, it's easy to make fumble-free volume adjustments or skip tracks with handy controls on the headphone cord - while Walkman® stays safely hidden.

   At home or on the move, Walkman® S770BT Series can also stream high-quality sound to other Bluetooth® compatible devices3, like speaker docks, home audio systems or your car audio system.

   Walkman® E570 Series  Walkman NWZ-E570  Immerse yourself in a world of pure, uninterrupted music when you're commuting into college or just relaxing at home. Walkman® E570 Series can reduce background sound levels by 98%4, thanks to its unique combination of built-in digital noise cancelling technology, and the high-quality noise cancelling headphones that come supplied.

   Walkman® E470 Series

   Walkman NWZ-E470

   Enjoy a perfect introduction to the world of crisp Walkman® sound and powerful bass with slim, colourful Walkman® E470 Series. It's packed with fun features like Karaoke mode and synchronised lyrics display to help you get the party started. New to Walkman®, there's even a choice of entertaining games to enjoy on the bright, detailed 5.1cm/2" LCD screen while you listen.

   Also available, Walkman® E473K includes a portable speaker dock with eye-grabbing new styling that's great for sharing your sounds out loud, whether you're indoors or relaxing in the garden with friends. Powered by the MP3 player's internal battery, the dock delivers punchy sound with rich bass while being small and light enough to carry with you anywhere.

   Walkman NWZ-E473K

   The new Walkman® range of MP3 audio and video players from Sony is available in Europe from 18th July 2012.

 
