
We assure you, the camera pictured above is not the NEX-5R. Announced today alongside three new E-mount lenses and the A3000, it's actually Sony's new NEX-5T. This shooter's unique feature is the addition of NFC for tap-to-device transfers of videos and photos -- a nice complement to the WiFi connectivity. Aside from that, it's pretty similar to its predecessor. Internally, you'll find the same 16.1-megapixel APS-C sensor with a maximum ISO sensitivity of 25,600 and hybrid phase-/contrast-detect autofocus for still images. The outside houses the familiar 921k-dot 3-inch touchscreen (with 180 degrees of rotation), a rear-set navigation dial and a function button (both programmable) adjacent to the shutter button. Photographers and videographers alike should be pleased with 1080/60p video capture and continuously focused 10-frames-per-second burst shooting. This NEX can also handle Sony's various Play Memories Camera Apps for extended versatility.

The NEX-5T is set to launch this September in white, black and silver for $700 with a 16-50mm pancake powered-zoom lens, and $550 for just the body. For now, grab a better glimpse by checking out the embedded galleries. Full press release after the break. 






Show full PR textSony Introduces Ultra-Portable NEX-5T Compact System Camera with Wi-Fi®, NFC and Fast Hybrid AF
SAN DIEGO, August 27, 2013 – The versatile new Sony α NEX-5T compact system camera combines a stylish, ultra-compact design and the creative capabilities of interchangeable lenses with large-sensor image quality, speedy Auto Focus (AF) and the convenience of NFC (Near Field Communication) one-touch for easier Wi-Fi connectivity.
Inside the new camera is a large, high-resolution 16.1 effective megapixel Exmor™ APS HD CMOS sensor - identical in size to the sensors found in traditional DSLR cameras. The large sensor takes in more light during image capture, allowing for richly detailed DSLR-quality still images and full HD videos.
The new NEX-5T camera will come in a kit with the sharp, compact SELP1650 motorized zoom lens, which measures only about 1.2 inches thick when fully retracted. The lens contains built-in Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization for clearer handheld images and has a smooth power zoom dial that is particularly useful during video shooting.
"This new camera carries on the NEX-5 series' strong tradition of compactness and high performance," said Mike Kahn, director of the interchangeable lens camera business group at Sony. "Available in a convenient, travel-friendly package with the compact SELP1650 power zoom kit lens, it's the ideal choice for step-up point-and-shoot users, smartphone photographers who want higher quality images and even photo enthusiasts who are looking for a more portable alternative to replace their DSLR."
NFC and Wi-Fi ConvenienceThe new α NEX-5T camera is the first Sony interchangeable lens camera to feature NFC, giving the extra convenience of one-touch wireless connectivity with compatible Android smartphones and tablets1. A connection is activated automatically as soon as the mobile device touches the camera, allowing for immediate image and video2 sharing between devices. Content is then safely stored on the connected device and can be shared via social media and other common applications.
For devices without NFC one-touch capabilities, users can wirelessly transfer images and videos between compatible devices through use of Wi-Fi™ and Sony's PlayMemories Mobile application, available for both the iOS and Android platforms.Additionally, a "Smart Remote Control" feature on t
he NEX-5T utilizes Wi-Fi to send a live image preview to a wirelessly connected camera or tablet, allowing it to act as a remote viewfinder, adjust common photographic settings and release the shutter button. It's a unique, fun feature that can be used for framing and shooting group portraits that include the photographer, and can be activated using either NFC one-touch or Wi-Fi connectivity.
Fast Hybrid AFIn line with last year's NEX-5R model, the new NEX-5T camera also features Fast Hybrid AF auto focus technology, which combines phase-detection and contrast-detection methods to ensure speedy, accurate autofocus in any shooting situation. The intuitive focusing system uses 99 phase-detection AF points arrayed on the image sensor to detect a subject's distance and quickly lock focus. Then, contrast-detection AF confirms extremely fine, precise details.
In Speed Priority mode, the camera will switch automatically to phase detection tracking AF to track fast-moving action accurately in each frame up to 10 frames per second3.
Expanding PlayMemories™ Camera Apps PlatformThe growing range of downloadable PlayMemories Camera Apps4 add more fun and exciting features to the NEX-5T camera. Shooters can pick from a range of free and nominal cost apps to broaden creative options and experiment with new photography effects.
There are 15 apps currently available, including "Direct Upload," which allows photos to be uploaded directly to Facebook™ and now Flickr as well, with support for additional services scheduled for the future. Other fun applications include "Motion-shot," which can combine several different shots from an action-series into one creative photo, "Time-Lapse," which takes several photos over a series of time and stitches them together to create time-lapse photography, and several other creative and teaching tools.
Design and ControlThe new NEX-5T camera features a fully programmable control dial and Fn (function) button - a versatile combination for photographers accustomed to the flexibility and direct control of a DSLR camera. The camera's intuitive touch-screen LCD can flip downwards for high-angle shots over crowds, or upwards up to 180 degrees for easy arm's length self-portraits. It also has a touch-shutter function for added convenience.
New Sony α AccessoriesA range of optional accessories offers stylish protection for the camera. Designed in a range of colors to fit the NEX-5T and NEX-5R cameras including black, pink, orange and green, the LCJ-EBA case is a thin, light body jacket that allows full use of the new camera's NFC function.The new LCS-EMJ is a soft carrying case with an expandable structure that accommodates any E-mount camera and lens ranging from pancake prime lenses to longer telezoom models.For convenient power supply, the new versatile BC-QM1 battery charger doubles as a handy power source for smartphones and cameras. This compact battery charger is ideal for travel with a retracting plug and universal voltage AC10-240V (50/60Hz).
Pricing and AvailabilityThe NEX-5T compact system camera will be offered in silver, black and white for about $700 in a kit with a compact, versatile 16-50mm motorized zoom lens (model SELP1650). It will be available for purchase in early September.
The new camera is compatible with Sony's ever-growing assortment of E-mount interchangeable lenses. In total, 16 different lenses are now available including several premium models from Carl Zeiss ™ and G™ Lenses.
The new LCS-EBA body jacket, LCS-EMJ carrying case and BC-QM1 battery charger will be available this September for about $25, $40 and $60, respectively.
The new camera and all compatible accessories will be available at Sony retail stores (www.store.sony.com) and other authorized dealers nationwide.
Please visit www.blog.sony.com for a full video preview of the new NEX-5T compact system camera and follow #SonyNEX on twitter for the latest α NEX camera news.

