
 

The successor to Sony's underappreciated Netbox was introduced at IFA recently, and now the company has revealed pricing for the SMP-N200 in the United States. It'll be on sale for $99 in October, and updates the old box with support for 3D, live streaming content and other unspecified new features. The original featured then-impressive support for local media playback and streaming, but does the Blu-ray-less wonder does it have what it takes in 2011? If it has a UI refresh and access to comparable sources thanks to Sony's now streamlined Video Unlimited / Music Unlimited media approach then this could play well as a one-two punch with a connected PC, phone or tablet. We'll find out next month, check out the details after the break or our hands on pics from CEDIA here.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		SONY TRANSFORMS ANY TV INTO A SMART TV WITH SMP-N200 STREAMING PLAYER		The First 3D Streaming Set-Top-Box Also Delivers Live Content with Greater Control 		SAN DIEGO, Sept. 14, 2011 – Sony Electronics today announced availability for the next generation, SMP-N200 Streaming Player to market. Adding 3D*, live content streaming, and other features that were previously unavailable on the original Streaming Player. The versatile set-top box delivers a robust line-up of connected services through a variety of connection options, including composite, component, HDMI and WiFi; which gives consumers the ability to upgrade ANY television to a connected television in just seconds. Originally announced recently last month at IFA, in Berlin, and named among the top 10 new products at the show, the SMP-N200 begins hitting store shelves in the U.S. in October for around $99.99.		"The Streaming Player is ideal for consumers who want to upgrade to a connected television, but are happy with the TV they currently have," said Charles Speidel, vice president of Sony's Home Audio and Video Group. "Whether using it in the family room or on a secondary television in the house this new set-top-box offers access to the full complement of streaming content available from Sony, without committing to the cost of a new Bravia."		Compact and stylish to complement any decor, the second-generation Streaming Player uses Sony technology to boost the quality of streaming content for the TV screen. View movies, TV shows, videos and photos on the big screen instead of a PC monitor or listen to music on-demand through a home speaker system with just some clicks of the remote control. With a robust line-up of online movies in HD and 3D, internet radio options and the full array of Sony Entertainment Network (including the Sony 3D Experience), the Streaming Player brings the best of connected television to any screen.		The SMP-N200 also has DLNA capability which allows users to connect and control a network of devices and enjoy music and videos stored on other devices, including a PC or tablet. In addition to the remote control that is included, a free download of the Sony Media Remote app is available for iOS and Android devices, and gives users the option of using a smartphone to control their SMP-N200 Streaming Player. 		*Requires a 3D TV
 