

The hackers that stole sensitive data from Sony Pictures have sent out an email to the company's employees, threatening them and their families, according to Variety. "We thought the worst was over," a Sony source told Deadline. After all, the perpetrators calling themselves the Guardians of Peace have already released their social security numbers, along with the company's passwords and upcoming flicks. But, as it turns out, the group isn't done yet. "Please sign your name to object the false of the company at the email address below if you don't want to suffer damage," the person claiming to be GOP's leader wrote in broken English. "If you don't, not only you but your family will be in danger."



In the same email, the person also vowed that Sony Pictures will collapse and insinuated (again) that the group is working with people inside the company. Folks who've received the email were reportedly instructed to switch their phones off, perhaps to prevent further security breach. It's unclear what the company's doing to ensure the safety of its employees, but the FBI has released a statement confirming that authorities are aware of this new email and that they're continuing to investigate who's behind the attacks. "Recent events underscore the persistence and maliciousness of harmful cyber criminals," the agency's statement said, "and the FBI will continue to identify and apprehend those who pose a threat in cyberspace."

I am the head of GOP who made you worry.

Removing Sony Pictures on earth is a very tiny work for our group which is a worldwide organization. And what we have done so far is only a small part of our further plan. It's your false if you if you think this crisis will be over after some time. All hope will leave you and Sony Pictures will collapse. This situation is only due to Sony Pictures. Sony Pictures is responsible for whatever the result is. Sony Pictures clings to what is good to nobody from the beginning. It's silly to expect in Sony Pictures to take off us. Sony Pictures makes only useless efforts. One beside you can be our member.

Many things beyond imagination will happen at many places of the world. Our agents find themselves act in necessary places. Please sign your name to object the false of the company at the email address below if you don't want to suffer damage. If you don't, not only you but your family will be in danger.

Nobody can prevent us, but the only way is to follow our demand. If you want to prevent us, make your company behave wisely.

[Image credit: xsix/Flickr]


