
 

Sony Ericsson has finally come clean about the Urushi or, as it's now known, the Xperia ray (SE spits in the face of your capitalization conventions). As we already heard, it's packing a 1GHz processor, an 854 x 480, 3.3-inch Reality Display, an 8.1-megapixel rear-facing camera, and Android 2.3, all while coming in at a svelte 9.3-mm thin. The company also unveiled another uppercase eschewing handset, the Xperia active -- a phone for those who spend as much time running or snow boarding as they do texting. The dust proof and water resistant phone also pushes Gingerbread with a 1GHz CPU, but scales the screen back to three inches and a 320 x 480 resolution, while going with a lesser 5-megapixel rear shooter. More importantly, it boasts both a barometer and an ANT+ wireless radio to compliment the usual GPS and compass for tracking your workouts. You'll find full specs for each in the PR after the break, though how much they'll cost when they land in Q3 is still a mystery.
      

 

   		Show full PR text  Sony Ericsson stuns with Xperia™ ray 		Sleek, beautiful smartphone with stylish aluminium frame		Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine with 8.1mp camera and Exmor R™ for mobile		Latest Android platform for smartphones (Gingerbread 2.3) with Facebook inside Xperia™ 		22nd June 2011, Singapore – Sony Ericsson today announced Xperia™ ray – a stunning new smartphone alongside CommunicAsia 2011 in Singapore. With a 3.3" screen and running the latest Android platform for smartphones (Gingerbread 2.3), the phone packs in a powerful 1Ghz processor, Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine, a 8.1mp camera with Exmor R™ for mobile and HD video functionality. At only 9.4mm thin, Xperia™ ray incorporates market leading design for which Sony Ericsson has become known. 		Your browser may not support display of this image. To add to a full set of specifications, the phone incorporates a front facing camera and a scratch resistant screen with excellent resolution and brightness and integrated touch keys. Sony Ericsson's unique integration of Facebook inside Xperia™ delivers a unique consumer experience for greater social interaction. In combination with the Google services, as well as access to over 200,000 Apps via the Android Market™, it provides a solid and entertaining smartphone foundation. 		Daniel Sandblom, Global Product Marketing Manager, Sony Ericsson said: "We expect Xperia™ ray to appeal to consumers who are looking for a combination of beautiful design and a rich feature set. We are able to uniquely deliver this with a combination of premium materials and multimedia features provided by Sony." 		Sony Ericsson Xperia™ ray will be available globally in selected markets, including Japan, from Q3 2011. 		Sony Ericsson Xperia™ ray at a glance. 		*Please note that all services mentioned below may not be available in every market.		Sony Ericsson Xperia™ ray		Colours:		Black		Gold		White		Pink 		Facts:		Operating system: Google™ Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)		Size: 111 x 53 x 9.4mm		Weight: 100 grams 		Camera:		8.1mp camera		16x digital zoom		Aperture f/2.4		Auto focus		Face detection		Face recognition		Photo light		Front-facing camera (VGA)		Geo tagging		HD video recording (720p)		Image stabiliser		Scene detection		Self-timer		Send to web		Smile detection		Sony Exmor R™ CMOS sensor		Touch capture		Touch focus		Video light		Video recording		Video stabiliser 		Music:		Album art		Bluetooth™ stereo (A2DP)		Music tones (MP3/AAC)		PlayNow™ service		SensMe™		Sony Ericsson Music Player		TrackID™ music recognition application		xLOUD™ Experience 		Internet:		Android Market™		Bookmarks		Google™ search		Google Voice Search		NeoReader™ barcode scanner		Pan & zoom		Web browser (WebKit) 		Communication:		Call list		Conference calls		Facebook™ application		Google Talk™		Noise Shield		Polyphonic ringtones		Sony Ericsson Timescape™		Speakerphone		Twitter™ (Timescape™ integration)		Vibrating alert		Video chat ready 		Messaging:		Conversations		Email		Google Mail™		Instant messaging		Picture messaging (MMS)		Predictive text input		Text messaging (SMS) 		Design:		Auto rotate		Keyboard (on-screen, 12 key)		Keyboard (on-screen, QWERTY)		Picture wallpaper		Reality display with Sony Mobile		BRAVIA® Engine		Touch screen		Wallpaper animation 		Entertainment:		3D games		Media browser		Motion gaming		Radio (FM radio with RDS)		Video streaming		YouTube™ 		Organiser:		Alarm clock		Calculator		Calendar		Document editors		Document readers		E-Manual		Flight mode		Google Calendar™		Google Gallery 3D™		Infinite button		Phone book		Setup Wizard		Widget manager 		Connectivity:		3.5 mm audio jack		aGPS		Bluetooth™ technology		DLNA Certified™		Google Latitude™		Google Maps™ with Street View		Media Transfer Protocol support		Micro USB support		Modem		Native USB tethering		Synchronisation via Facebook™		Synchronisation via Google™ Sync		Synchronisation via Sony Ericsson Sync		Synchronisation with computer		Synchronisation via Exchange ActiveSync®		USB High speed 2.0 support		USB mass storage		Wi-Fi®		Wi-Fi® Hotspot functionality		Wisepilot™ turn-by-turn navigation 		Display:		Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine		16,777,216 colour TFT		Capacitive touchscreen (multi-touch)		3.3 inches		854 x 480 pixels		Scratch-resistant mineral glass 		Memory:		Phone memory (user-free): Up to 300MB		Memory card support: microSD™, up to 32GB		Memory card included: 4GB microSD™ 		Battery life:		Talk time GSM/GPRS: Up to 6 hrs 50 min*		Standby time GSM/GPRS: Up to 430 hrs*		Talk time UMTS: Up to 7 hrs*		Standby time UMTS: Up to 440 hrs*		Music listening time: Up to 36 hrs		Video playback time: Up to 6 hrs 45 min 		*According to GSM Association Battery Life Measurement Technique. Battery performance may vary depending on network conditions and configurations, and phone usage. 		Networks:		UMTS HSPA 900, 2100		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900		UMTS HSPA 850, 1900, 2100		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 		In the kit:		1500mAh battery,		Stereo portable handsfree		4GB microSD™ memory card		Charger		Micro USB cable for charging		Synchronisation and file transfer		User documentation		(LiveSound™ in selected markets) 		Smart Extras™ appropriate for Xperia™ ray: 		LiveSound™: Available as part of the package with Xperia™ ray in selected markets, this provides consumers with the best possible audio experience combined with a stylish, tangle-free design. The headphones also allow consumers to remotely access applications from the phone through LiveKey™ control, which gives consumers direct access to their applications with a simple push of a button.		LiveDock™ gives consumers the ability to seamlessly integrate their Sony Ericsson smartphone into their home. By simply connecting their smartphone to the docking station, consumers will be able to easily launch applications from the Android Market™ and charge their phones at the same time. 		Show full PR text  		Get fit with Sony Ericsson Xperia™ active 		Dust proof and water resistant smartphone powered by Android™		Scratch resistant multi touch screen with wet finger tracking		All the applications for your active life, including on-screen heart rate monitoring through ANT+ 		Your browser may not support display of this image. 22 June 2011, Singapore – Sony Ericsson today announced Xperia™ active, a compact smartphone targeting consumers with an active lifestyle, in conjunction with CommunicAsia 2011 in Singapore. With a 3" screen and running the latest Android platform for smartphones (Gingerbread 2.3), the phone packs Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine, a 5mp camera with HD video functionality, and a powerful 1Ghz processor. Xperia™ active is dust proof and water resistant* and uniquely incorporates wet finger tracking, to ensure the phone works perfectly when either the screen or a user's fingers are wet. 		The phone comes pre-loaded with sports apps that enable consumers to easily track their fitness levels. Users can set their ideal training route using the built-in GPS, Barometer and Compass. On-screen heart rate and pulse can be monitored in realtime (enabled by ANT+ wireless networking technology), while the iMapMyFitness app can monitor day to day performance. Additionally, Facebook inside Xperia™ allows consumers to share their progress and experiences with friends. 		Fredrik Månsson, Global Product Marketing Manager, Sony Ericsson said: "Xperia™ active is the ultimate smartphone for an active life. Not only is it packed with all the features and applications consumers need for a worry free mobile life, it also comes with a set of accessories that make it fun and easy for them to take it everywhere, whatever their daily plans are." 		Maria Sharapova, a three time grand slam winning tennis player added: "I love this smartphone because it perfectly fits both my professional and personal needs. It keeps me in touch with my friends as I travel the world on the pro tour and tracks my fitness both on and off the court." 		Extras included in the box to further build the consumer experience: 		One extra exchangeable soft touch back cover		Detachable ear hooks for the portable handsfree active headset		Wrist strap to keep the phone close at all times		An arm case for use during a workout		2GB memory card to save all your special moments		Micro USB cable for charging and computer data transfer 		*Water resistant – the phone can be kept under 1m of water for 30 mins. 		Sony Ericsson Xperia™ active will be available globally in selected markets from Q3 2011. 		Sony Ericsson Xperia active at a glance. 		*Please note that all services mentioned below may not be available in every market.		Sony Ericsson Xperia active  		Colours:		Orange band with black back cover – white extra cover in the kit		White band with black back cover – white extra cover in the kit 		Facts:		Operating system: Google™ Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)		Size: 55 x 92 x 16.5mm		Weight: 110.8 grams 		Camera:		5 megapixel camera		8x digital zoom		Auto focus		Aperture f/2.6		Face detection		Face recognition		Flash/Photo light		Flash/LED		Geo tagging		HD video recording (720p)		Image stabiliser		Red-eye reduction		Scene detection		Self-timer		Send to web		Smile detection		Touch capture		Touch focus		Video light		Video recording 		Music:		Album art		Bluetooth™ stereo (A2DP)		Media player		Music tones (MP3/AAC)		PlayNow™ service*		Sony Ericsson Music Player		TrackID™ music recognition*		xLOUD™ 		Internet:		Android Market™*		Bookmarks		Google™ search		Google Voice Search*		NeoReader™ barcode scanner		Pan & zoom		Web browser (WebKit) 		Communication:		Call list		Conference calls		Facebook™ application*		Google Talk™		Noise Shield		Polyphonic ringtones		Skype™**		Sony Ericsson Timescape™		Speakerphone		Twitter™ (Timescape™ integration)*		Vibrating alert 		Messaging:		Conversations		Email		Google Mail™*		Instant messaging		Multimedia messaging (MMS)		Predictive text input		Sound recorder		Text messaging (SMS) 		Design:		Auto rotation		Four-corner Home screen		Keyboard (on-screen, 12 key)		Picture wallpaper		Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine		Touch screen		Live wallpaper		Dust and water resistant		Wet finger tracking 		Entertainment:		3D games		Health mate		Media browser		Motion gaming		Radio (FM radio with RDS)		Radio (FM)		Video streaming		Video viewing		Walk Mate		YouTube™* 		Organiser:		Alarm clock		Calculator		Calendar		Document readers		eCompass™		E-Manual		Flight mode		Google Calendar™		Google Gallery 3D™*		Infinite button		iMapMyFitness		Phonebook		Setup guide		Stopwatch**		Tasks**		Timer**		Torch functionality		Widget manager 		Connectivity:		3.5 mm audio jack		aGPS*		Bluetooth™ technology		DLNA™ Certified		Google Latitude™*		Google Maps™ for Mobile		Google Maps™ with Street View*		Media Transfer Protocol support		Micro USB support		Modem		Native USB tethering		Pressure sensor***		Synchronisation via Facebook™*		Synchronisation via Google Sync™*		Synchronisation via Sony Ericsson Sync		Synchronisation with computer		Synchronisation via Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync®		USB mass storage		USB High speed 2.0 support		USB support		Wi-Fi®		Wi-Fi® Hotspot functionality		Wisepilot™ turn-by-turn navigation* 		Display:		Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine		16,777,216 colour TFT		Capacitive touchscreen (multi-touch) with wet finger tracking		3 inches		320 x 480 pixels		Scratch-resistant mineral glass 		Memory:		Phone memory (user-free): Up to 320MB		Memory card support: microSD™, up to 32GB		Memory card included: 2GB microSD™ 		Battery life:		Talk time GSM/GPRS: Up to 4 hrs 53 min*		Standby time GSM/GPRS: Up to 351 hrs*		Talk time UMTS: Up to 5 hrs 31 min*		Standby time UMTS: Up to 335 hrs*		Music listening time: Up to 25 hrs		Video playback time: Up to 8 hrs 30 min		*According to GSM Association Battery Life Measurement Technique. Battery performance may vary depending on network conditions and configurations, and phone usage. 		Networks:		UMTS HSPA 900, 2100		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900		UMTS HSPA 800, 1900, 2100		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 		In the kit :		Xperia™ active		1200mah removable battery		Sport stereo headset		Arm case		Wrist strap		2GB microsd™ memory card		Exchangeable cover		Charger		Micro USB cable for charging		Synchronisation and file transfer, and user documentation
 