
 
Oh yes, it's a laptop processor war here at CES with AMD's new Fusion APUs and Intel's fresh Sandybridge CPUs gunning for core territory, but Sony's not pickin' sides when it comes to its new seriously mobile VAIOs. Kicking it off on the lower end is the 11.6-inch, 3.2-pound VAIO YB Series, which is being refreshed with AMD's Brazos E350 APU. Sony doesn't consider the YB to be a netbook -- in fact, it doesn't plan to continue with its netbook line after this quarter -- but like most of these other Fusion systems (see: HP dm1 and Acer AO 522) the Y promises long battery life along with really solid graphics. Actually, according to the product manager, the platform has been out performing Intel's Pentium processors. The system will be available with Windows 7 Home Premium, 320GB or 500GB hard drives, and 4GB of RAM -- as you would expect, the $549 base configuration only gets 2GB of RAM and 320GB of storage. The Intel-powered YA Series will still be available with a Core i5 processor option for close to $750. (Note: We got some hands-on time with the YB Series before it was released, check out the hands-on here.) So, what does Sony have in store on the more powerful ultraportable end? The 13.3-inch VAIO S series is a four-pound Core i3-powered ultraportable clad in a durable magnesium casing. It doesn't seem to be configurable with discrete graphics, but it will have WiDi. That enough for ya? Hit the break for the press releases if you're looking for more. 






Show full PR textMEDIA ALERT: NEW SONY PC PROVIDES THE BEST IN ENTERTAINMENT WITH EASY PORTABILITYSubject: Media Alert: VAIO S Series Laptop is Perfectly Portable and Exceptionally Entertaining WHO: The new Sony VAIO® S Series laptop offers easy portability and long battery life, perfect for the tech-savvy student or mobile professional. The S Series laptop features a 13.3-inch LED backlit widescreen display and a durable magnesium casing making it a breeze to carry at just 4.4 lbs. Plus, this powerful PC is enabled with Intel® Wireless Display for easy, wireless streaming of content to an HDTV. WHAT: Lightweight and easy to handle with a thin 1-inch profile, the S Series laptop is crafted for mobility and durability. New G-Sensor™ Shock Protection technology helps protect it against the bumps and knocks common to frequent travel or life on-the-go. An energy-efficient LED backlit display delivers high brightness levels and vibrant colors while helping to provide up to 5 hours of standard battery life, and up to 7.5 hours with a large capacity battery (sold separately).Whether you're streaming your favorite TV shows or sharing photos and home videos, the S Series lets you view content on your compatible HDTV at an incredibly high level of resolution. An HDMI™ output delivers both video and audio to compatible TVs and displays via a single cable (sold separately), providing the optimal digital connection. Stereo Bluetooth® technology enables you to stream CD-quality music and audio from your laptop to other compatible devices, like mice, headphones and speakers.Plus, just push the button and you'll launch directly into Sony's own VAIO Care™ software, an easy-to-use PC tune up and maintenance tool. WHEN: Available on January 5, 2011 for pre-sale at www.sony.com/pr/lseries and at select retailers around the country for about $900. To find the closest Sony Style store, please visit www.sonystyle.com.Show full PR textMEDIA ALERT: NEW SONY Laptop PAIRS superior portability with strong performanceSubject: Media Alert: VAIO Y Series Laptop is Built to Go with Plenty of Power in the Perfect Size WHO: The new Sony VAIO® Y Series laptop features a thin profile and compact 11.6-inch size (diagonal) making it easy to tote or slip in and out of carrying cases. Backed by the new AMD® E Series processor and up to 4GB of RAM, this PC is powerful enough for the demands of daily basic computing yet portable enough for the frequent traveler.WHAT: Equipped with an energy-efficient LED backlit display, the Y model offers incredibly long battery life with its standard battery life (an optional large capacity battery is sold separately). Its LED backlit widescreen display not only offers lower power consumption but provides incredibly high brightness levels amplifying colors and delivering crisp, clear picture quality bringing movies and pictures to life. The unit lets you view content on your compatible HDTV at an incredibly high level of resolution. An HDMI™ output delivers both video and audio to compatible TVs and displays via a single cable (sold separately) so you can watch your favorite television shows on the big screen. Stereo Bluetooth® technology lets you stream CD-quality music and audio from your PC to other compatible devices, like mice, headphones and speakers. The Y Series features an integrated camera and microphone so you can chat face to face with friends and family anywhere you have internet access. The PC also comes with an ASSIST button conveniently placed on the keyboard panel. Just push the button and launch directly into Sony's own VAIO Care™ software, an easy-to-use PC tune up and maintenance tool. WHEN: Available next month at www.sony.com/pr/yseries and at select retailers around the country for about $550. To find the closest Sony Style store, please visit www.sonystyle.com.
 