
 
 Sony's newest NEX and DSLR have already graced these pages -- albeit in decidedly unofficial fashion -- but the time has come for this duo of shooters to be revealed to the world with the blessing of their maker. In case you didn't catch the earlier leaks, the NEX-F3 is the replacement for the much-beloved NEX-C3 as the entry-level ILC from Sony, while the A37 slots in the same place in the company's Alpha DSLR lineup. Sony's also rolling out fresh glass for each this July, in the form of an E-mount 18-200mm, F3.5-6.3 zoom lens for $850, and an 18-135mm F3.5-5.6 A-mount telephoto unit that'll set you back $500. Both the NEX-F3 and A37 will come with kit 18-55mm lenses and cost $600 when they go on sale in June, which makes them quite competitively priced as compared to their competition. An enviable pricing position, to be sure, but can they deliver the imaging goods? Well, we spent time with each on a tour of San Francisco recently, so join us after the break for our impressions and some sample photos.




 
 As we said above, the NEX-F3 is replacing the C3 at the low end of the NEX lineup, which means it has some pretty big shoes to fill. The new model differs from the old in a few important ways. First off, it comes in three colors (black, white and silver) and the F3's grip has hit the gym, and now looks and feels like a cross between the grip found on the NEX-5 and NEX-7. That means the shutter button is on the downward sloping portion on top of the grip, as opposed to the top of the camera, and we found the new design to be a distinct improvement from its predecessor. It was easier to maintain a solid hold on the F3 than on our own C3, plus the two-stage shutter button was in a more finger-friendly position, making it a joy to use. The power switch has stayed on top, separate from the shutter, and sports a new design that we didn't like as much as the toggle on our C3 -- the switch is oriented 90 degrees down from the C3's, which made it a bit awkward for us to operate with our thumb.



