
 As promised, Sony's delivering its web accessible Sony Entertainment Network store before the end of January, today lighting up the store for North Americans and Brazilians. Beyond just games, you can snag any content available on SEN and snag it later for full download and install on your PlayStation 3, Vita, PSP, and Xperia devices. Sadly, it's not anywhere near as convenient as its Xbox 360 equivalent -- after queuing up downloads, users have to dig around in the My Downloads section of their XMB and manually select which content to pull down. Still, a step in the right direction (and only two months after Europe got the service). Head over and check it out right here.



  Show full PR text    SONY ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK'S ONLINE STORE FOR GAMES, MOVIES, TV SHOWS AND MORE COMING SOON TO THE UNITED STATES, CANADA, MEXICO AND BRAZIL

   Features Simple Navigation and Convenient Way to Discover and Purchase Content Via the Web for PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, Sony Android Devices, and PCs

   FOSTER CITY, Calif., January 24, 2013 – Sony Network Entertainment International and Sony Computer Entertainment America, today unveiled a new online store in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Brazil that enables PlayStation®Network and Sony Entertainment Network users to conveniently discover and purchase games, movies, TV shows, and more from the web.

   The new online store features rich product pages that offer an easy way to browse the store's integrated catalog, which offers millions of pieces of game-related content – including downloadable games, add-ons and themes, as well as movies and TV shows1. With an unprecedented amount of content now available in the PlayStation®Store (PS Store), the online store delivers a convenient and visually compelling destination for users to access, discover and enjoy digital entertainment.

   For PlayStation users, content purchased in the new online store from a PC (Mac and Windows) is added to My Downloads within the PlayStation Store. Users can then download games, movies and TV episodes directly onto their PlayStation®3, PlayStation®Vita, or PlayStation®Portable systems. Users can also purchase movies and TV episodes via the online store from any PC and watch them via the Media Go application (Windows-based PC only), or on Sony Xperia smartphones and tablets.

   The launch of the online store follows the recent release of the new PS Store for the PS3 system and is part of an on-going initiative of redesigning the various device user experiences. Sony Entertainment Network will continue to update the PlayStation Store and online store with new features that improve usability and convenience for finding, purchasing and accessing content. For example, users of the new online store can look forward to the future addition of advanced recommendation functionality and automatic remote download of purchased content, as well as mobile phone and tablet browsing.

   The online store was first available in European territories in December 2012. Today, the online store expands to the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Brazil. The new online store can be accessed at https://store.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com.

   The company also recently announced that Sony Entertainment Network account holders can now add funds to their wallets via PayPal2. The wallet can be used to purchase games, movies and TV episodes from the PS Store and more.  Additional information about Sony Entertainment Network can be found by visiting: blog.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com, www.facebook.com/sonyentertainment, and www.twitter.com/sonyentnet.

 
