
At Sony Mobile's HQ in Tokyo, Kichiro Kurozumi is itching to go into detail about the new flagship Xperia Z2. The VP says it's "all in the details." We really hope so, because it's getting increasingly hard to tell Sony's recent smartphone iterations apart, especially when it comes to the Xperia Z2 and Z1. Kurozumi emphatically states that it's all the work done behind the scenes (reengineered frame, a 20.7-megapixel camera that records in 4K) that makes the Z2 stand out. "2014 is about premium smartphones, tablets and the smartwear experience but we... Sony has to do it differently."


Take the Xperia Z2's 4K-recording camera sensor. Sony's certainly not the only smartphone maker with a device capable of recording video in Ultra HD, but Kurozumi reckons the company's software-based "SteadyShot" stabilization keeps the Xperia Z2 ahead of the pack. Because of the relatively large camera sensor, it can compensate for more movement than its rivals -- up to 21 percent. He offers up a professional-level clip and his own real-world sample from a few weeks earlier in Barcelona, and (courtesy of a 4K Sony TV in the room) the level of detail is noticeably beyond that of 1080p video, but won't the lack of 4K screens (UHD TVs are still pretty rare) limit the usefulness? We asked Kurozumi exactly that.



                 
 
 
 No surprises -- the Sony exec didn't see it that way:"There's no dependency on 4K TVs. [Video] will look best on those, but even when downscaled to 1080p, the higher-resolution video looks good -- better than simply recording in 1080p."

We got to test out the Xperia Z2's 4K recording for ourselves -- embedded below -- which should offer a good estimation of what you can expect. (You should be able to play it back in 1080p or 4K, if you've got the hardware.) We gave it a tough order: filming Tokyo's lit-up skyline at night. Sony is fairly proud of the still-photo capabilities of its top smartphone imaging sensor. We've already documented the performance of its predecessor, but this time there's image stabilization (a wish-list item from our last review), so it wouldn't hurt to try the Xperia Z2 before our review, right?

You can immediately check out the lack of bluish noise and haze in the video, despite the mostly pitch-black subject material. Those image-stabilization skills also appear to dramatically boost the low-light photos too, even in our short testing time, although it made some shots look a little unnatural -- Sony tells us that this Xperia Z2 wasn't the final retail model. Sure, it's got the same megapixel count as the camera inside the Xperia Z1, but it's different. (A lot of Sony people stressed this during our playtime with the sequel.) 




