
 
It took a few days hours longer than expected, but Sony's VAIO TT is here. And it's sexy. This 11.1-inch beauty features a sub-1-inch thick, 2.87-pound chassis made from carbon-fiber, and Sony claims it's the lightest notebook on the planet to pack Blu-ray capabilities. Arriving in a variety of configurations, the VAIO TT is available with an XBRITE-DuraView LCD, Intel's Centrino 2 technology, an HDMI output, dual channel 256GB (128GB x 2) SSD setup with RAID, Sprint WWAN (EV-DO Rev. A) and Windows Vista running the show. The Fall-bound TT -- which will arrive in premium carbon black, silk black, champagne gold and crimson red outfits -- will start at around two large, with the Blu-ray model going for $2,700 and the SSD edition demanding $2,750. There's no direct mention of a battery life figure, which scares us just a tad, but you can dig into the full release just after the break.



 

Sony Unveils World's Lightest Blu-ray DISC NotebookSAN DIEGO, Sept. 23, 2008- Sony today took the wraps off the world's lightest computer with Blu-ray Disc™ technology- the VAIO® TT Series notebook.Housed in a lightweight carbon-fiber chassis, this new model weighs just 2.87 pounds and is less than 1-inch thin."This engineering marvel packs the power of HD technology into an ultra-light, ultra-portable notebook," said Mike Abary, senior vice president of VAIO product marketing at Sony Electronics.Select models play Blu-ray Disc movies in full HD 1080p resolution when connected to a compatible HDTV. These units can also record, store and play back personal content on high-capacity BD media.It features an 11.1-inch widescreen display (measured diagonally) with Sony's XBRITE-DuraView™ LCD technology, delivering 100 percent color saturation for a wide range of vibrant colors and true-to-life picture quality. This technology also produces a brighter screen thanks to an energy-efficient white LED backlight so you can view photos in crystal-clear resolution.The display is ideal for Blu-ray Disc movies. Since many HD films are shot using a 16:9 aspect ratio, the unit's extra-wide LCD is constructed with the same dimensions. This minimizes the black bars that typically appear, letting you view movies in their intended format. For those who prefer to watch content on a big screen television, the TT model also has an HDMI™ output connector so you can connect it to a compatible high-definition TV for a larger viewing experience (connector cable sold separately).It is equipped with Intel® Centrino® 2 processor technology for powerful PC output and energy-conserving features that deliver long battery life. Select VAIO TT notebooks feature a dual channel 256GB (128GB X 2) solid state drive (SSD) with RAID technology. The result is quicker boot-up times, faster application launches and overall enhanced performance. The PC integrates wireless Wide Area Network (WAN) technology provided by the Sprint® Mobile Broadband Network and its latest mobile network technology, EV-DO Revision A. For this, a separate Sprint service subscription is required.The notebook comes with the choice of Windows Vista® Home Premium, Vista Business and Vista Ultimate operating systems. Windows® XP Professional is also available on select models.All models are ENERGY STAR® 4.0 compliant, hold an EPEAT Silver ranking and incorporates such eco-conscious features as a mercury-free LED backlit LCD.The TT model starts at $2,000. The BD version will go for about $2,700, while the SSD model (128GB) for around $2,750. It is available in a premium carbon black, silk black, champagne gold and crimson red.The VAIO TT notebooks will be available online at www.sonystyle.com/pr/tt. They will also be sold at Sony Style® stores, military base exchanges, and select retailers around the country starting this fall.

       

 