
Sony took a rather unusual path with its flagship smartphone for 2013: it designed the hardware twice. The Xperia Z is ostensibly the star of the show with its glass body and waterproofing, but it's launching alongside the Xperia ZL, an equally brawny, yet plainer sibling. On a spec sheet, there's no apparent reason for the ZL to exist when its features almost perfectly match those of the slimmer and more stylish Z.


Still, it's precisely that emphasis on function over form that might just win the day. Sony bills the ZL as the most compact 5-inch smartphone on the market, which could win over folks who see large-screened phones as unwieldy. But is it enough to challenge conventional thinking on big phones, especially in light of fiercer competition? And is there anything special lurking underneath the ZL's reworked hood? Read on and we'll let you know whether the second device in Sony's dual-phone strategy is strong enough to outshine the Z -- and, more importantly, its rivals. 




Hardware
If the Xperia Z is the epitome of Sony's OmniBalance design, emphasizing flat surfaces and right angles across the board, the Xperia ZL fudges the rules a bit. While a cursory look at the front suggests nothing out of order, a quick flip to the back shows a few radical departures -- namely, shallow angles and curves. They're nowhere near as pronounced as on Nokia's Lumia 920, but they still lead to a considerably more comfortable grip. We also appreciate the switch to a soft-touch, textured-plastic back. Although the material has less of a premium feel than the glass on the Z, it generally serves as more of buffer against fingerprints and drops.

The ZL's real ace in the hole: you can use it one-handed, at least more easily than the Z.

And there's the ZL's real ace in the hole: you can use it one-handed, at least more easily than the Z. Those curves thicken the phone from the Z's 7.9mm (0.31 inch) to 9.8mm (0.39 inch), but they're more comfortable while helping Sony lop off a substantial 7.3mm (0.29 inch) from the height, mostly in the chin. The net effect is a 5-inch phone that doesn't feel at all as big as your eyes tell you it should. You can reach most parts of the screen without straining your thumb, even as two-handed typing remains very easy with the on-screen keyboard.

Sony's trick design is enough to give the impression that other phone makers have their priorities backwards in valuing thinness over ergonomics. While we generally like skinny devices, we can't really disagree with Sony after comparing this to some of its competitors. The 5-inch ZL is shorter and easier to wield than both the 4.8-inch Galaxy S III and a 4.65-inch Galaxy Nexus, let alone more directly comparable 5-inchers like HTC's Droid DNA / Butterfly. It's not as though those other devices aren't usable with one hand in some situations -- it's just that the Xperia ZL is more often a better fit.

Sadly, there are some trade-offs beyond just the more conspicuous pocket bulge. The ZL sheds waterproofing, for example. While that does provide flap-free ports, it also means having to shelter the phone in the rain. Moreover, the added bulk doesn't translate to any of the advantages that usually come with more space. The battery has an ever-so-slightly higher 2,370mAh capacity, but it's still non-removable. Sony also doesn't supply more than 16GB of internal storage. Odds are that at least a few owners will be reaching for the microSDHC slot, which has moved underneath a door that hides the micro-SIM as well.

    Sony Xperia ZL     Dimensions 131.7 x 69.8 x 9.8mm (5.18 x 2.75 x 0.39 inches)   Weight 5.33 oz. (151g)   Screen size 5.0 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080 (443 ppi)   Screen type OptiContrast LCD   Battery 2,370mAh Li-Polymer (non-removable)   Internal storage 16GB   External storage MicroSDHC   Rear camera 13MP, BSI, f/2.4, 1/3'' sensor size, 1.12µm pixel size   Front-facing cam 2.0MP   Video capture 1080p, 30 fps (front and back)   NFC Yes   Radios GSM / GPRS / EDGE (850 / 900 / 1,800 / 1,900), WCDMA (850 / 900 / 1,700 / 1,900 / 2,100), LTE (700 / 850 / 1,700 / 1,900 / 2,100)   Bluetooth v4.0   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro (APQ8064)   CPU 1.5GHz quad-core   GPU Adreno 320   RAM 2GB   Entertainment MHL, DLNA   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/b/g/n, WiFi Direct   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.1.2, Sony UI  Spin the phone around and you'll find some other elements in familiar and usually easy-to-reach places, including the volume rocker in the top right, the machined-aluminum power button at center right and the headphone jack at top. Unfortunately, this also means that the micro-USB socket is at the top-left corner, rather than the bottom. That may be partly forgiven since there's a two-stage camera button at the bottom right, something we'd sorely missed on the Xperia Z. The 13-megapixel camera on the back (with LED flash) also appears more safely recessed this time, and Sony still manages to stuff in that uniquely bottom-mounted, front-facing 2-megapixel camera despite the narrower chin.

Not surprisingly, a few weeks' interval between the Z and ZL launches didn't leave Sony any room to upgrade the processor. It wasn't hurting that badly, mind you. The 1.5GHz quad-core Snapdragon S4 Pro and 2GB of RAM still yield strong performance, as you'll see later on. In fact, most of our concerns center on how the Xperia ZL fares against the competition. It's arriving just as a round of nimbler, Snapdragon 600-based challengers are hitting the scene -- devices like the HTC One and certain Galaxy S4 variants. Not everyone cares for speed battles, but those who do may not give Sony much more than a cursory glance.

Display 
The real, you-can-buy-it-now market for 5-inch, 1080p smartphones is still small: Sony is the only company we know of that's shipping such a display on a truly global scale until the Galaxy S4 ships. Parallels like HTC's Butterfly, the Oppo Find 5 and NTT DoCoMo's edition of the LG Optimus G Pro are largely region-specific devices. As such, the OptiContrast LCD shared between both the Xperia Z and ZL still has the capacity to impress, especially in those countries where either one of those devices is currently the only 1080p phone on offer (including Canada, as of this writing).

You just can't ignore a screen density of 443 pixels per inch -- it's a treat when websites look like printed pages.

And it does, in some ways. You just can't ignore a screen density of 443 pixels per inch -- it's a treat when websites look like printed pages, or when HD movies show all their detail. Likewise, you'll see rich colors when viewing things head-on. Sony's Mobile Bravia Engine 2 delivers an additional boost in the gallery, movie and YouTube apps, punching up the saturation, sharpening images and improving contrast. It does occasionally go overboard, however. Tangelo fruit that was already a vivid orange in real life suddenly went neon when Sony's software got ahold of it. There's clearly still some room left for refinement.

We'd also remind you that the operative term here is "head-on." As with the Xperia Z, the ideal viewing angles on the ZL are considerably narrower than on the Droid DNA and most other devices this size. Look askew at the LCD to any significant degree and colors will quickly wash out, invert or otherwise deviate from their intended hues. We continue to wonder how a company known for pushing the limits of TVs can't crack the mystery of wide viewing angles in mobile when considerably smaller rivals like HTC or ZTE have fared better with screens they frequently outsource to part suppliers.

The picture is at least bright -- sometimes too bright, as blacks can become dark grays. The LCD does struggle in bright sunlight outdoors, although the readability is still leagues better than on phones with recent-generation AMOLED panels, like the Galaxy S III.

Camera 
As with the LCD, you'll largely know what you're getting with the 13-megapixel, Exmor RS-based rear camera of the Xperia ZL, since we saw the exact same unit on the Z in February. For the most part, that's a good thing. Shots aren't as sharp as we'd like when viewed at a 100 percent crop, and there tends to be an unnecessarily high level of noise in well-lit scenes, but the camera produces mostly accurate colors and focuses quickly on the right subject. To get the full resolution, you'll have to shoot at a more traditional 4:3 ratio. Matching the ZL's native display ratio requires dropping to a 9-megapixel image.



