
 
 Sony has decided to join the web-based shopping party, launching an online reader store for its e-inked devices and companion apps. Any e-Books purchased will arrive ready-to-read on the Reader app or other suitably wireless device, with titles also working on any Adobe DRM-supported apps and devices. Sony's Reader app has benefited from a UI redesign, the addition of a landscape view and improved stability. Hit up the source to grab the update -- before your phone tells you to.



  Show full PR text   Reader™ Store gives you more freedom to read anytime, anywhere
   Hey book lovers! In our mission to continue to offer the best reading experience, the Reader™ Store is happy to announce a new web-based Reader Store and Android™ Reader App, giving you more freedom to read the content you love, anytime and anywhere.

   Our new web-based Reader Store now allows you to access your Reader Store account from any web browser, and sign in and purchase content without having to install any software to your computer.¹ The web store officially supports the latest browsers on Windows® and Mac®, including Internet Explorer®, Safari®, Chrome™ and Firefox®.

   Now you can discover your next story and buy it whenever it is convenient for you, and any eBook you buy from a web browser will be waiting for you on your Reader App or wireless device. It is that easy. Reader Store eBooks work with any Adobe® DRM supported app or device, so you can download and read content in a number of new ways, including on some other non-Sony® devices (although we think the Reader Apps and devices are the best!). You can start now at ebookstore.sony.com.

   We also have launched a new update for the Android Reader App, now available for download at Google Play™. Reader by Sony offers the same user-friendly reading experience we have always offered, but with some nice improvements: the Reader App now also features a sharper user interface, landscape viewing capabilities and an overall improved stability.

   So, give both our new web store and Android Reader App a shot and let us know what you think, and, as always, happy reading!

 
