

 Sony's latest and greatest HDTV popped up in Japan earlier and now it has made its European debut as the HX95 series at IFA 2012. We're not seeing pricing information or a release date listed, but the benefit of a native English press release confirms it features full LED backlighting as well as the company's latest image processing technology. All that's left now is to find out any US release details, we'll see if we get any more information today or have to wait until CEDIA 2012 next week. In the meantime, check the PR after the break and browse through a gallery of sweet images showing off the slim monolithic design.




  Show full PR text    See the complete TV picture, crafted to show every detail  29 August 2012
  Reveal the beauty with the new HX95 Full LED TV from Sony
   • Enjoy an immersive Full LED picture from a slim TV design  • See beautiful 2D and 3D detail with X-reality PRO  • Go online with built in Wi-Fi for the latest catch-up TV, movies, music, apps and more

   BRAVIA KDL-HX950

   Images that shine bright  From dark to light and everything in between, the HX95 brings you immersive viewing that's bright and clear. Whether you're watching in 2D or 3D, a unique Full LED screen shows rich colours, high contrast and natural, realistic movement, all from a slim, minimalist design. It's image quality that's true to life.

   Bright whites and deep blacks  Turn on the HX95 and everything soon becomes clear. The Full LED screen arranges LED Lights into precise zones behind the picture to raise and lower brightness exactly where needed; delivering brilliant light in bright image areas and dimming dark areas completely. It saves energy, reveals more detail and ensures a higher contrast than a conventional LED TV.

   Improve the look of whatever you watch  The HX95 makes TV pictures come alive. X-Reality PRO, the innovative intelligent image processor from Sony, enhances the details of whatever you're watching. So whether it's Internet video, your favourite TV show or the latest 3D movie, X-reality PRO sharpens and adds texture to set you up for a thrilling view.

   Go online wirelessly for music and movies  Nothing you like on TV? With Sony Internet TV the only limit is your imagination. The HX95 gives you direct access to the Sony Entertainment Network through built-in Wi-Fi. It's a world of streaming HD movies, millions of songs, catch-up TV, a web browser and apps like Twitter™, Facebook®, YouTube™, Skype™ and more. You'll never be bored on the sofa again.

   Smooth lines, slim design  The HX95 looks as good as the refined TV picture it shows. It has a cool, minimalist design to complement the style of your living room. to the TV is crafted from high-quality materials with an aluminium stand that lets you position your TV on low furniture between 0 and 6 degrees for the ideal viewing position

   "The HX95 brings together our latest innovations, such as a Full LED backlight, to raise the bar in picture performance," says Kentaro Matsumoto, TV Product Manager at Sony Europe, "as people find even more ways to stay entertained, from online videos to on-demand movies, the HX95 offers a deeply immersive picture which really pulls them into the viewing experience."  Notes to editors

   HX95

   Bring pictures to life with Full LED

   Enjoy a higher contrast than a conventional TV with intelligent Full LED technology  Get true-to-life detail and clearer 2D and 3D images with X-Reality PRO  Enjoy a higher contrast than a conventional TV with intelligent Full LED technology  Add an elegant picture to your living room with a cool, minimalist, slim, flush screen  Easily connect to the web with built-in Wi-Fi for movies, music, Internet videos and apps on the Sony Entertainment Network  Watch highly detailed, natural 3D viewing with 3D Super Resolution and 2 pairs of supplied Active 3D glasses  Make free Skype™ calls to friends and family from the comfort of your sofa using the included voice control camera and microphone

   For more information please contact  Sony Europe PR Team  e: press@eu.sony.com

   Offering an integrated entertainment experience through its electronics, mobile, music, pictures, game and the Sony Entertainment Network, Sony is uniquely positioned to be one of the world's leading consumer brands. Sony is renowned for its audio-visual products in both the consumer and professional markets, such as the BRAVIA™ LCD high-definition (HD) television, Cyber-shot™ digital camera, Handycam® camcorder, "α" (pronounced Alpha) digital SLR camera, Xperia™ Tablet and Walkman® MP3 player as well as its VAIO™ personal computers and 3D HD professional broadcast equipment.

   For more information on Sony Europe, please visit www.sony-europe.com. For more information on Sony Corporation please visit www.sony.net

   "Sony", "WALKMAN", "VAIO", "Cyber-shot", "Handycam", "α", "BRAVIA" and "Xperia" are registered trademarks or trademarks of Sony Corporation. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

 
