
 

One thing we criticized in our Xperia Play review was the lack of games specifically adapted to the handheld's controls. So it's only fair to mention that a bevy of new titles is on the horizon -- some old, some new, but all optimized for this specific brand of button-mashing. Headline acts include Minecraft (a port we've already seen in action) as well as Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard and Battlefield Bad Company 2, both of which have both been accruing headshots on iOS devices for a while now. Hit the PR after the break for the full list of titles, but don't expect much in the way of pricing or availability. Those details will be announced at E3 next week, when the Xperia Play will have to compete for attention against the Sony NGP. Guess we'll patiently have to twiddle our thumbs until it's time to twiddle them with vigor.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Sony Ericsson and Gameloft partner to launch Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard exclusively on Xperia™ PLAY and over 20 games to be showcased at E3		Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard coming to Android exclusively on Xperia™ PLAY during June and July		Over 20 new games optimised for Xperia™ PLAY, including 10 exclusives  		London, June 2, 2011 - Sony Ericsson is again teaming up with Gameloft, a leading global publisher of digital and social games, to deliver an exclusive experience for its flagship gaming smartphone - Xperia™ PLAY - with exclusive access to the all-action spy thriller shooter game Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard, adapted from the famous Ubisoft video game franchise. Taking full advantage of the smartphone's outstanding graphical capabilities and game-changing control pad, Xperia™ PLAY brings the high-octane international action adventure to the Android operating system for the first time. The Android version of the game, which will be launched on Friday 3rd June, will be available only to Xperia™ PLAY customers in Western Europe throughout June and July. 		Adapted from the famous Ubisoft's video game franchise, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six is one of the most popular video game brands. It's a high-energy tactical first-person shooter game based on a fictional international counter-terrorist unit called "Rainbow." Focusing more on stealth and tactics than firepower alone, weapons (including assault rifles and high-caliber handguns), uniforms and equipment are chosen to suit each operative's skills and the mission. 		"Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard with its big fan community and fascinating gameplay is a perfect addition to the quality releases for Xperia™ PLAY," said Robert Styppa, Vice President Western Europe for Sony Ericsson. "The stunning graphics and the unique possibilities with the full gamepad give you a unique user experience." 		"We are very excited to continue our support of Xperia™ PLAY with an exclusive release of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard," said Gonzague de Vallois, Senior Vice President Publishing of Gameloft. "This title will further enrich our game lineup for Xperia™ PLAY and we're very pleased that the device's fans truly enjoy this first full-featured smartphone including an exclusive gaming interface." 		During June and July 2011 consumers across Western Europe who have an Xperia™ Play will be able to download a free copy of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Shadow Vanguard. During this time the game will be available for Android only on the Sony Ericsson Xperia™ PLAY. 		In addition, Sony Ericsson also announces 20 new games, including 10 exclusive titles, optimised for Xperia™ PLAY. The new games, many of which will be showcased at the world's leading games expo, E3, June 7-9. 		The new titles offer broad appeal to different users and usage occasions from popular, innovative, massively multi-player online titles (MMO) to immersive titles and addictive graphically rich new casual content. 		Amongst the titles announced today is Minecraft™, the much anticipated game from the Swedish indie developer Mojang. Minecraft™ is one of the fastest growing game franchises in history, with over eight million registered users announced to date and over 50,000 new players joining every day. 		Sony Ericsson can confirm that new games from Sony Computer Entertainment's stable of classic PlayStation 1 titles will be coming to Xperia™ PLAY shortly. 		Sony Ericsson's support for the Android ecosystem also includes its partnerships with key industry players, such as Unity and Havok, with whom it is working to build an ever growing ecosystem. Sony Ericsson is launching a programme to support and find new upcoming innovative developers called "Stand out from the crowd", which enables game developers to become part of the Xperia™ PLAY story and get their games the profile they need.		Sony Ericsson will be present at E3 in Los Angeles, June 7-9, to offer first hands-on demos of Xperia™ PLAY and many of the new games in the Sony Ericsson booth 713.		New Android Games Exclusive on Xperia™ PLAY:		Minecraft™ by Mojang		Battlefield Bad Company 2 by Electronic Arts		Tom Clancy's Rainbow 6 Shadow Vanguard by Gameloft		Desert Winds by Southend Interactive		Ruined by Bigpoint		Icebreaker™ by NaturalMotion		Sleepy Jack by SilverTree Media		Cracking Sands by Polarbit		Armageddon Squadron 2 by Polarbit		An unnamed fighting game from Khaeon Gamestudio  		New Games coming soon on Xperia™ PLAY:		Pocket Legends by Spacetime Studios		Star Legends: The Black Star Chronicles by Spacetime Studios		Eternal Legacy by Gameloft		Guns 'n'Glory 2 by HandyGames		Dungeon Hunter 2 by Gameloft		Pocket RPG by Crescent Moon Games		D.A.R.K. developed by Gamelab		Samurai II: Vengeance by MADFINGER Games		Vendetta Online by Guild Software		Order & Chaos - Gameloft		Happy Vikings by Handy Games		A Ball Game by Trendy Entertainment		Lumines by Connect2Media  		The new games announced today will be released in the coming months. More details regarding timing and exclusivity will be announced during E3 week and closer to launch. 		Check out the Sony Ericsson Product Blog for more information: http://blogs.sonyericsson.com/products
 