
 

We only caught wind of the Sony Xperia S -- which is a decidedly beautiful Android 2.3 set -- launching at CES a couple hours ago, and here it is in all its black or white glory. Featuring a large 1280 x 720 4.3-inch display, a quick 1.5GHz CPU, 1GB of RAM, and will be available in both 16 and 32GB versions -- but choose wisely as there's no internal storage expansion. The rear camera is a 12 megapixel affair featuring Sony's Exmor R backlit sensor, and a useable 1.3 megapixel cam up front to service all your video calling needs. The set should ship during Q1 this year but we'll be back in a few with some galleries and impressions as we learn more.





 		Show full PR text  First smartphone from the new Xperia NXT series – next generation smartphones from Sony 		9 January, 2012, Las Vegas, Nev. 		Xperia™ S, the first smartphone from the new Xperia NXT series – next generation smartphones from Sony*, was today announced at Sony's press conference ahead of the 2012 International CES show in Las Vegas. The new Xperia S is an Android™ smartphone that delivers a stunning viewing experience with a high resolution screen, Sony HD experiences and a 12MP camera that takes pictures in just 1.5 seconds from standby. Xperia S also comes with a powerful 1.5GHz dual-core processor for faster performance. 		Xperia S within the world of Sony 		The new Xperia S enables easy connectivity with multiple screens for consumers looking to share and enjoy content on whichever screen best suits their situation, whether it's TV, smartphone, laptop or tablet. Consumers can watch their favourite content from the Sony Entertainment Network by connecting their Xperia S through HMDI to TV or share photos wirelessly with just one touch. Xperia S is also NFC (near field communication) enabled to allow consumers to share content with each other as well as enjoying an increasing number of NFC applications and services. 		Biggest and best entertainment experiences from Sony 		Xperia S will be able to access the richest entertainment experiences from Sony Entertainment Network**. Music Unlimited offers a global catalogue of 12 million unique songs while Video Unlimited has the latest Hollywood blockbusters and TV shows from all major studios***.		Xperia S is also PlayStation™ Certified, guaranteeing a high quality smartphone gaming experience and access to the PlayStation® Store. 		Instantly Recognizable Design 		Xperia S showcases a new design approach referred to as "Iconic Identity". The design will be replicated across the Xperia NXT series and creates a simple strong look that is instantly recognizable. The transparent element at the base creates an iconic silhouette where the display is emphasized and underlined. In addition, it provides illumination effects and integrates the antenna components. 		The user interface has been redesigned to match the minimalistic design of the hardware. The home screen has a new colorful flow background making full usage of HD Reality Display and dual-core processing power. 		Availability 		Xperia S will be available to consumers globally from the first quarter 2012. Launching on Android platform 2.3 (Gingerbread) Xperia S will be upgraded to Android platform 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) during the second quarter 2012.
 