
 

Less noticed in Sony's PlayStation Network fiasco was the fact that it affected the company's Qriocity video and misc services as well, but today the company announced those are back online everywhere (with the exception of Japan.) Of course, even though Qriocity access is built into many Sony devices, we just haven't heard of anyone actually using it. As promised, Music Unlimited Premium subscribers have had a free 30 days added to their accounts, while the video service merely encourages users to check back later. Anecdotal evidence suggests most had never heard of Qriocity before it was mentioned so prominently during the outage, let us know if you're interested in trying it out now that its back on your Bravia TVs and Sony Blu-ray players.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Jun 08, 2011 21:00 ET Full Restoration of Qriocity™ Services Begins Today 		TOKYO, June 8, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Corporation and Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE) announced that Sony Network Entertainment International (SNEI, the company) will fully restore all Qriocity™ services today June 9, 2011, in all serviced territories, excluding Japan. As a result, all PlayStation Network and Qriocity services which were shut down on April 20 will be available. In addition to full PlayStation®Network services as well as "Music Unlimited powered by Qriocity™" for PlayStation®3 (PS3®), PSP® (PlayStation®Portable), VAIO and other PCs which have already resumed, full restoration of Qriocity services will include: 		Full functionality on "Video On Demand powered by Qriocity™" across all compatible devices		Full functionality on "Music Unlimited powered by Qriocity" across all compatible devices 		Announcement for the restoration of the remaining services on Qriocity™ in Japan will be made as they become available*1 		*1 "Music Unlimited powered by Qriocity" is unavailable in Japan 		"Qriocity™" is a trademark of Sony Corporation 		"PlayStation®", PS3® and "PSP®" are registered trademarks of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. 		About Sony Corporation 		Sony Corporation is a leading manufacturer of audio, video, game, communications, key device and information technology products for the consumer and professional markets. With its music, pictures, computer entertainment and online businesses, Sony is uniquely positioned to be the leading electronics and entertainment company in the world. Sony recorded consolidated annual sales of approximately $87 billion for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Sony Global Web Site: http://www.sony.net/ 		About Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. 		Recognized as the global leader and company responsible for the progression of consumer-based computer entertainment, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) manufactures, distributes and markets the PlayStation® game console, the PlayStation®2 computer entertainment system, the PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) handheld entertainment system and the PlayStation®3 (PS3®) system. PlayStation has revolutionized home entertainment by introducing advanced 3D graphic processing, and PlayStation 2 further enhances the PlayStation legacy as the core of home networked entertainment. PSP is a handheld entertainment system that allows users to enjoy 3D games, with high-quality full-motion video, and high-fidelity stereo audio. PS3 is an advanced computer system, incorporating the state-of-the-art Cell processor with super computer like power. SCEI, along with its subsidiary divisions Sony Computer Entertainment America Inc., Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Ltd., and Sony Computer Entertainment Korea Inc. develops, publishes, markets and distributes software, and manages the third party licensing programs for these platforms in the respective markets worldwide. Headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, SCEI is an independent business unit of the Sony Group. 		SOURCE Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
 