
   
Well whaddaya know. Sony just rolled out a global update for the PS3 this morning, fixing some of the smaller gripes with the console, and completely ignoring the only one we care about. Naturally, most people have been a bit anxious about that 1080i bug, especially since Sony retracted its initial statement about a fix being on the way, so instead of calming our fears with soothing PR statements or, perish the thought, actually fixing the problem, Sony is teasing us all with a re-org of display resolution hierarchy, moving 720p to below 1080i in preferences. Sony also added a BD/DVD image output option, for switching between automatic, RGB and Y Pb/Cb Pr/Cr over HDMI. Slightly less exciting -- but still welcome -- are the additions of a utility to backup your SD cards, compact flash cards and USB memory sticks to the hard drive, and a HDD formatting option, to bring your PS3 back to spankin' new status. All that's great and all, but if Sony doesn't currently have 50 engineers chained to desks in Tokyo, feverishly working out a fix for this bug, we're not inviting Sony to our birthday party. So there![Via Impress; thanks Caleb C.]Update: Well, we don't have a 1080i set to test it on, but from what it sounds like, perhaps this 1080i bug could be fixed after all. We received an email this afternoon from Sony, (pasted in full after the break) about firmware 1.3, and while it does not specifically address the bug, it does sound like it's been fixed. Check it out.
      

 

[Quoted]Sony Computer Entertainment America today introduced new features and settings to the PLAYSTATION®3 (PS3™) computer entertainment system as part of the latest firmware update, version 1.30. Among the key updates is support for a Blu-ray Disc™ (BD) remote control and the ability to select the output format for BD/DVD video through an HDMI cable. In addition to offering developers the ability to create more immersive games, the Blu-ray format delivers the ultimate in high-definition video through the highest resolution available today (1080p). Now PS3 owners can register a remote control for easier playback of movies on BD discs. The Bluetooth®-enabled remote control will be available at retail later this month for $24.99. Also, to suit your TV's specification, you can now select the video output format (automatic, RGB, or Y Pb/Cb Pr/Cr) for Blu-ray disc playback using an HDMI cable.In addition to the updates related to the Blu-ray player, firmware 1.30 includes the following. Selecting video output resolution has changed, allowing you to choose all the resolutions supported by the TV. The video will automatically be displayed at the maximum resolution possible, according to the following order: 1080p, 1080i, 720p, 480p, Standard (NTSC). Backup utility has been added as a feature under System Settings, enabling you to back up your PS3's hard disk data to storage media or restore data from storage media to the hard disk. USB peripherals designed for PlayStation®2 titles, including steering wheels and flight sticks, can now be used when playing PlayStation 2 games on the PS3 system.To install the latest system software on your PS3 system, you can select the System Update feature, use a PC to download the update data and transfer it to the PS3 system through storage media or a USB mass storage device, or install it using update data included on a game disc. Further details are available at http://www.us.playstation.com/PS3/Network/Updates/default.html.

       

 