
 

Another year, another slate of new Blu-ray players from Sony. The BDP-S790 is of particular interest with its ability to convert Blu-ray's 1080p to 4K. Both it and the BDP-S590 of course do 3D and include WiFi, which like those before it, facilitates the delivery of more video and audio streaming opportunities than we can list. In addition to favorites like Netflix and Hulu Plus, you can also access the Video Unlimited and Music Unlimited streaming services from the Sony Entertainment Network. If you've ever wished there was an easier way to share what you were watching with your followers and friends, the new Socialize viewing application lets you do just that directly from the player. The new 9-inch portable Blu-ray player, the BDP-SX910, has a rechargeable 4-hour battery, built-in speakers and a USB port for content that doesn't come on a shiny disk. The press release after the break has no mention of price or availability, but we'd guess Q2 2012 for less than what you probably paid last year.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   The Content Consumers Want – However They Want It 			Building on the award-winning Sony Blu-ray Disc player line, three new models feature Wi-Fi® Internet connectivity, offer access to an array of online entertainment and provide support for Blu-ray 			Disc media, DVDs, CDs and USB playback. The BDP-S590 and BDP-S790 players also add Blu-ray 3DTM playback capabilities. Additionally, the BDP-S790 is the first BDP capable of "upscaling" HD content, converting it to 4K resolution. When connected to a broadband network, all models offer access to movies, video, and music services through the Sony Entertainment Network including its Video Unlimited and Music Unlimited streaming services, as well as the most popular entertainment services from Netflix®, Pandora®, HuluPlusTM, Amazon Video on Demand, YouTube®, Slacker® Internet Radio, Crackle and many more. 			In addition to Web content, the new models include the Sony social viewing application, SocializeTM which lets viewers share their media experiences with friends and followers on TwitterTM and FacebookTM directly through their Blu-ray disc player. The 2012 models will also add Sony's new user interface to deliver greater customization and streamlined access to online content and apps. Quick access to the new portal which highlights four sections, "Favorites," "Apps," Video" and "Music" is available through a new "SEN" (Sony Entertainment Network) button on the device remote control. 			Also on display is the BDP-SX910 portable Blu-ray Disc player which includes a 9-inch screen, and supports playback from Blu-ray Disc media, DVD discs and USB media. It features up to four hours of battery life2 from the built-in, rechargeable battery and offers built-in speakers and headphones output as well as touch-key controls. 			Speidel continued, "Only Sony can bring consumers an ecosystem of hardware, content and networked services, and those users expect a seamless interface for that ecosystem." 
 