
 

It's been a few months since Sony made its (tardy) entrance into the tablet market, and since then it hasn't been sharing details so much as teasing them in whimsical, perplexing ads. Finally, the outfit's ready to take specifics. We're sitting at a roundtable with Sony executives, and just learned that its clamshell S2 tablet is headed to AT&T's "4G" (read: HSPA+) network, confirming what we already suspected after peeping a tell-tale FCC report. Sony's is quick to remind us that "S2" is just a codename, so don't be surprised if it surfaces with a completely different moniker. Otherwise, the company didn't get too chatty: we still don't know how or when AT&T will begin selling it nor how much it will cost on contract. Also still MIA: details on when, where, and for how much you'll be able to nab that folded magazine-inspired S1. Check out the press release below.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   AT&T to Connect "Sony Tablet" S2 on Nation's Fastest Mobile Broadband Network 			DALLAS, July 13, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- AT&T* today announced that AT&T will be the exclusive U.S. mobile broadband provider for the "Sony Tablet" S2 (codename), a dual screen, multi-functional tablet ideal for mobile communication and entertainment, that Sony Corporation plans to launch later this year. 			"We're pleased to be working with AT&T on yet another unique mobile device," said Mike Lucas, senior vice president of Networked Technology and Services Division at Sony Electronics. "AT&T provides the speed and coverage that are integral to the different features and functions of our tablet. We value our relationship as they share our commitment to growing the 'Sony Tablet' S2 and the tablet market overall." 			The "Sony Tablet" S2 will be 4G** capable and Wi-Fi compatible. With a qualifying data plan, users of the "Sony Tablet" S2 will have access to AT&T's mobile broadband network and unlimited access to AT&T's more than 20,000 hot spots nationwide. With both 4G and Wi-Fi, users can browse the Internet, access digital content including videos, games, and check e-mail, while on the go, nearly anytime. 			"With its unprecedented, completely portable form factor, the 'Sony Tablet' S2 offers tablet enthusiasts a convenient and unique entertainment experience," said David Haight, vice president of business development, AT&T emerging devices. "Users will be treated to exceptional graphics and the touch-screen capabilities will enable a fast and efficient website experience." 			AT&T will offer monthly data plans for the "Sony Tablet" S2. Distribution and pricing will be announced at launch. 			For more information on AT&T, please visit www.att.com. 			*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc. 			**4G speeds delivered by HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. Available in limited areas. Availability increasing with ongoing backhaul deployment. Requires 4G compatible device. Learn more at att.com/network. 			***Access includes AT&T Wi-Fi Basic. Wi-Fi enabled device required. Other restrictions apply. See www.attwifi.com for details and locations. 
 