
 
 Kaz Hirai is live on stage at Sony's press even at IFA, and has just announced three new Xperia phones -- the T, V, and J. The Xperia T is the new flagship and sports a 1,280 x 720 4.6-inch display, a 13-megapixel camera, a dual-core Qualcomm Krait 1.5GHz processor, PlayStation certification and one touch NFC connectivity. There will also be an Xperia TX in some markets. The Xperia V is confirmed as being LTE-enabled, as well as highly water resistant, plus a 1.5GHz dual core Qualcomm processor a 4.3-inch display, and a similarly megapixel-endowed (13) camera, and is also bestowed with PlayStation certification. The Xperia J is the more budget focused of the three, and also the smallest, with a 4-inch screen, a 1GHz core and just 5-megapixels on the camera front. All the new phones will launch with Android 4.0.4, with a Jelly Bean update already confirmed to be on the way for the lucky T and V. The flagship Xperia T will be available in the next few weeks, with the other two arriving some time in Q4 this year. All will be available in a variety of colors



  Show full PR text   New Xperia smartphone series with Sony's best HD experiences deliver next step in connected entertainment
   Xperia T combines Sony's best HD experiences, easy connectivity with 'One-touch' sharing enabled by NFC and award-winning arc design. Xperia J makes stylish smartphone design affordable with a standout screen size

   29 August, 2012 – London, UK – Sony Mobile Communications ("Sony Mobile") today announced a new range of Xperia™ smartphones, along with the first Xperia Tablet from Sony Corporation at the consumer electronics show IFA. Featuring in the upcoming James Bond cinema release Skyfall, Xperia T is the new flagship model for the UK, providing Sony's best HD smartphone screen, camera and easy 'One-touch' functions enabled by NFC (Near Field Communications).

   Xperia J has eye-catching design with a stand-out screen size for consumers looking to combine great style with affordability. Xperia Tablet S brings Xperia to the world of tablet for the first time. Xperia T will launch in the UK next month. Xperia J will launch in calendar Q4 2012.

   "This year's IFA marks an important milestone for Sony and Sony Mobile Communications. Xperia smartphones are at the heart of Sony's mobile strategy of delivering a consistent user experience across devices, enabling consumers to easily and quickly access the world of entertainment that Sony delivers," commented Kunimasa Suzuki, President and CEO of Sony Mobile Communications.

   Xperia smartphones: best of Sony's technology and design

   Xperia T combines Sony's best screen, camera and connectivity to provide consumers with the best HD experience with which to enjoy content on any screen, any time. Xperia T and Xperia J build on the same design language first introduced by the award-winning* Xperia arc and Xperia arc S – combining a slim form factor with an emphasis on the display for excellent viewing.

   More entertainment with new Sony's media applications and Music Unlimited

   Sony's media applications ("WALKMAN®", Album and Movies) combine the best of Sony's technologies and connect consumers to a variety of entertainment services. The Sony media applications are an integral part of the UI on Xperia smartphones, tablets and VAIO PCs to deliver a consistent and superior entertainment experience.

   Furthermore, with Album and Movies applications, consumers can remotely enjoy their photos and movie content stored in their home digital media servers.

   Xperia smartphones shipping from September until the end of the year will come with a free 60 day trial of Sony Entertainment Network's** cloud-based digital streaming music service Music Unlimited giving consumers the opportunity to subscribe directly from their Xperia and enjoy access to millions and millions of tracks.

   'One-touch' functions for content sharing

   Sony is putting NFC at the heart of content sharing through its 'One-touch' function, taking NFC beyond the traditional uses such as eticketing and payments. Now, consumers can easily and instantaneously enjoy their music and photos across an array of NFC enabled Sony devices, by simply touching one to another to establish a wireless connection without a cumbersome pairing process. For example, Xperia T users can stream music wirelessly with 'One-touch' to the new Sony SRS-BTV5 NFC enabled speaker, also announced today at IFA.

   Product Details

   Xperia T key features:

   4.6" HD Reality Display powered by the Mobile BRAVIA® Engine for razor sharp clarity  13MP fast capture camera that goes from sleep mode to snap in just over a second  Full 1080p HD video recording capabilities and a 720p HD front camera for the highest quality content  Easy connectivity with 'One-touch' function enabled by NFC  PlayStation™ Certified  Latest generation 1.5GHz dual core processor for improved battery life, fast performance and ultra sharp graphics

   ·Android version 4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). Will be upgraded to Android version 4.1 (Jelly Bean) following launch. Detailed timing to follow

   MHL connectivity for viewing content on a big screen without the need for a charger  Use Xperia TV Dock with MHL to HDMI converter and charging connector to enjoy photos and videos on an HDMI enabled TV  In some markets Xperia T will be known as Xperia TX  Available in Black, Silver and White colours

   Xperia J key features:

   9.2mm slim stylish design  Large 4.0" FWVGA Display  Social media updates by illumination  5MP camera  Front chat camera  Available in Black, Gold, White and Pink colours

 
