
CES 2014 is creeping up on us, and the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) has announced that Sony President and CEO Kaz Hirai will deliver the headline keynote on the show's first day. Last year, the honor went to Panasonic and its head honcho, Kazuhiro Tsuga. Mum's the word on exactly what Hirai will cover -- other than his thoughts on "innovations occurring at the intersection of content and hardware" -- but if he takes a page out of Panasonic's book, most product reveals will happen at a separate press conference. Admittedly, it's a tad early for scheduling, but if you're ready to clear your calendar, mark yourself as busy for 8:30 AM PT on Tuesday, January 7th.



Show full PR textSony CEO Kazuo Hirai to Deliver Keynote Address at the 2014 International CES®
Arlington, VA – 10/22/2013 – President and CEO of Sony Corporation ("Sony") Kazuo ("Kaz") Hirai will deliver the opening morning Tech Titans keynote address at the 2014 International CES, bringing his unique perspective and insights about the latest innovations occurring at the intersection of content and hardware. Owned and produced by the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)®, the 2014 International CES, the world's gathering place for all who thrive on the business of consumer technologies, will run January 7-10, 2014 in Las Vegas, Nevada.Mr. Hirai's address is slated for 8:30 a.m. Tuesday, January 7 in The Venetian's Palazzo Ballroom, directly following a State of the Industry Address by Gary Shapiro, president and CEO, CEA."Sony is a global brand synonymous with innovation and cutting-edge technology," said Shapiro. "There is no better way to kick off the world's greatest innovation event than a keynote from one of the leading brands in the industry, bringing content and technology together to transform the way we live, work and play. We are thrilled to welcome Kaz Hirai to the 2014 CES keynote stage and are excited to hear his insight surrounding the next generation of consumer technology."Kazuo Hirai was appointed representative corporate executive officer, president and CEO of Sony Corporation in April 2012 and was appointed director of the Sony Board in June 2012. Mr. Hirai began his career with CBS/Sony Inc. (now Sony Music Entertainment Japan) in 1984. In 1995 he joined Sony Computer Entertainment America, and in 1999 he was appointed president and chief operating officer, SCEA with responsibility for overall operational management of the U.S. game business. As of April 2011, Mr. Hirai assumed responsibility for all of Sony's consumer electronics products and services, together with its global software, sales and marketing and design platforms.Mr. Hirai's CES address will be part of the Tech Titans keynote series, where CEOs from the most powerful companies in technology present their vision for revolutions in products, services and networks that will shape the next wave of innovation.Additional keynotes at the 2014 CES will be held as part of the Technology Innovators keynote series. This new series will offer insight by innovators, thought leaders and disruptors – the "rock stars" of their industries. It is a stage for those with big ideas that are reframing the way technology will impact our interaction with the world today, and in years to come.More keynote speakers for both the Tech Titans and Technology Innovators series will be announced in the coming weeks.The 2014 CES will feature more than 3,200 exhibitors unveiling the latest consumer technology products and services across the entire ecosystem of consumer technologies. For more information on the 2014 International CES, visit CESweb.org.

