
       
The last we heard of a reasonably sized Sony OLED display was way back in June, even though it was just the panel itself rather than a full package like the XEL-1 OLED TV. But yesterday, Sony unveiled a couple of new OLED monitors for its Trimaster EL professional range: on the left we have the BVM-E250 25-incher, accompanied by the BVM-E170 17-inch sibling on the right. The "Super Top Emission OLED" panels on both models boast an RGB 10-bit driver, 100 cd/m2 standard luminance, 1920 x 1080 resolution, plus an impressive 178-degree viewing angle both vertically and laterally. We'll save the rest of the technical details for you video nuts in the press release (along with a video) after the break, but let us warn you that these don't come cheap: the E250 will be available in mid-April for around ¥2.4 million ($28,910), and the E170 in June for around ¥1.3 million ($15,710).
      

 

Show full PR textSONY UNVEILS NEXT GENERATION OF PROFESSIONAL DISPLAY TECHNOLOGY WITH GROUNDBREAKING OLED REFERENCE MASTER MONITORSNew 25- and 17-inch Models Designed to Provide True Replacement for CRT in Critical EvaluationPARK RIDGE, N.J., Feb 15, 2011 – Sony is once again re-defining professional master monitoring technology with its introduction of two new OLED displays. The new reference-grade BVM-E Series – in 25- and 17-inch sizes – incorporate groundbreaking processing and imaging capabilities designed to give digital production professionals a true replacement for CRT in critical evaluation applications."These new monitors are the next step in professional displays, providing end users with extremely high picture quality," said Gary Mandle, senior product manager at Sony Electronics' Professional Solutions of America group. "This is breakthrough technology for applications where visual performance and accuracy are paramount, offering an unbeatable combination of image reproduction, color accuracy, reliability and stability."The new monitors – the 25-inch BVM-E250 and 17-inch BVM-E170 -- boast several new features specifically designed for professional master monitoring. The first monitors to deliver full HD resolution OLED panels with 10-bit drivers, the BVM-E Series uses a newly developed Sony Professional Display Engine. The OLED processor is designed to bring out the full performance of a master monitor, producing deep blacks with high dynamic range, blur-free motion, wide color gamut and accurate picture reproduction.The new TRIMASTER EL lineup is refined with its new EL (electro-luminescence) displays, expanding the capabilities of Sony's TRIMASTERTM technology. This maximizes the full performance capabilities of professional flat-panel displays to deliver higher levels of color accuracy and color reproduction, precision imaging and consistent picture quality.The BVM-E series features the advantages of OLED display with Sony's "Super Top Emission" technology. The result is high light efficiency, high color purity, high contrast and high reliability.These models feature a higher accuracy "Nonlinear Cubic Conversion" color management system, and I/P conversion technology offering extremely low process delay. Finally, the monitors have a new chassis design, with a refined black aluminum body, and lighter and slimmer chassis, which puts a larger image in a smaller foot print.The BVM-E series also offers input versatility. Standard inputs include 3G/HD/SD-SDI; HDMI and a DisplayPort input. Four slots are also available with a choice of six BKM input boards. Other features include: HD frame capture, pixel zoom and P&P (Side by Side, Butterfly, Wipe, Blending). Finally, the monitors' OLED technology is environmentally friendly, with less power consumption, lower weight and no environmental pollutants produced.The BVM-E250 will deliver mid April and BVM-E170 will be available in June. 
 