
It's time to set the record straight: the original Xperia Z, launched back in February, was a decent phone. A solid phone. It was as if Sony had suddenly paused its chaotic schedule of handset releases in order to take stock of what Android users actually want: things like 1080p, microSD and a premium look and feel. And yet, the Xperia Z failed to be compelling. It wasn't just its subpar battery life that held it back. It was also the lack of a standout feature, which caused the phone to be buried amidst all the news of the GS4 and the HTC One -- and also by the announcement of the Lumia 1020 Windows Phone, whose camera suddenly made Sony's pokey, 13-megapixel module look like old technology.


That's why today, just seven months later, we're looking at a new flagship: the Xperia Z1 (codenamed Honami, and not to be confused with the Xperia ZL), with a far more boast-worthy camera and some other subtle-but-important enhancements. Buyers of the Xperia Z may understandably be displeased at being left behind so soon, but -- as much as we feel for them -- we'd hazard a guess that they don't constitute an especially large population anyway. In contrast, the Xperia Z1 should have much greater mainstream appeal. Read on to discover why.





HardwareIt rained heavily while this review was being written. The Xperia Z1 was used for calls in the middle of downpours; it was dunked into pints of beer; it facilitated the reading of e-books while in the bath; and it came out none the worse for wear. Admittedly, there was a slightly hoppy scent around the seams for a couple of days, but only until the phone was washed under tap.

The reason for this ruggedness is of course Sony's waterproof and dustproof design. The phone's predecessor, the Xperia Z, was rated to survive immersion down to a depth of one meter, whereas the Z1 can go slightly deeper, to a depth of 1.5m, and it can function there for up to 30 minutes. This is only in fresh water, mind you -- don't try it in the sea, and don't expect it to survive an assault of mud or sand.


The environmental protection comes courtesy of internal seals within the headphone jack (top-left), the loudspeaker (which runs along the bottom), the power button, volume rocker and camera button (all three of which run along the right side). There are also plastic flaps over the SIM slot (just above the power button) and the microSD slot and micro-USB / charging ports (both on the left side).

These flaps are an improved design, with the micro-USB flap in particular being larger and less fiddly when it comes to plugging in a charge cable. You can also get a magnetic charging dock accessory for around $50, which connects to a dedicated terminal on the left edge and will probably make charging even more convenient.

All is not perfect, however. The tempered glass continues to attract just as much pocket-fluff as the Xperia Z did. Both the front and rear sides of the phone have an uncanny ability to entice little particles of fabric away from a piece of clothing, to the point where it sometimes makes the phone look messy.

The issue with the loudspeaker is more serious: it butts up right against your palm when you hold the phone in landscape position to watch video, which obviously has an impact on the audio quality -- especially since the speaker is weak and tinny to start with. Fortunately, audio quality from the sealed headphone jack is excellent.

It's worth mentioning that the Z1 is even bigger than the Z. Yes, it avoids having a hump to contain its expanded camera module, but the extra machinery has merely been shunted into the upper bezel of the phone, making it noticeably longer by half a centimeter. Then again, the increase in girth is less of an issue -- the Z1 is still just 8.5mm thick and should be easily pocketable by anyone who's used to big phones.

Overall, we'd say that the Z1's use of a solid chunk of aluminum, sandwiched between two glass panels, gives it an understated gravitas. Nice little details like the well-placed notification LED (at the top of the front panel) are just about sufficient to overcome the other bothers. It's hardly a cheap phone, at £600 SIM-free in the UK it's at the upper end of what you'd pay for a top-of-the-line Android, but it starts to justify that price point as soon as you pick it up. It's a sleek and impervious chunk of rigidity; a thing that commands respect.

    Sony Xperia Z1     Dimensions 144.4 x 73.9 x 8.5 mm    Weight 169g   Screen size 5.0 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080   Screen type Triluminos LCD with 16 million colors   Battery 3,050mAh Li-ion (non-removable)   Internal storage 16GB (12GB free)   External storage MicroSDXC, up to 64GB   Rear camera 20.7MP (1/2.3-inch sensor, f/2.0 lens with 27mm equiv. focal length)   Front-facing cam 2MP stills, 1080p video)   Video capture 1080p   NFC Yes   Radios  HSPA+ (850 / 900 / 1700 / 1900 / 2100); GSM GPRS / EDGE (850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900); LTE (Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 17, 20)

    Bluetooth v4.0   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 (MSM8974)   CPU 2.2GHz quad-core Krait 400   GPU Adreno 330   RAM 2GB   Entertainment MHL, USB OTG, WiFi Direct, DLNA   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/ac/b/g/n   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.2.2 (Sony-specific UI)  Display
The Z1 possesses a 5-inch, 1080p (441-ppi) LCD display that you're either going to love or hate. Depending on your frame of reference, you'll either notice poor viewing angles and faded blacks, or amazing sharpness and natural color reproduction. All of these assertions are true: it's as if Sony has designed its Triluminos screen on the premise that you'll always be looking directly at it, and that you'll spend more time watching 1080p movies than navigating Android.

Indeed, it's mainly with native 1080p content that the display comes alive, and its crispness becomes even greater than that of the Xperia Z. This is perhaps due to tweaks to the picture engine, which loses the old Bravia branding in favor of the slightly vacuous name of "X-Reality," and which is mostly good, but occasionally over-does things like edge-sharpening.

Ultimately, this is too subjective to call outright. Yours truly likes the look of movies with the X-Reality switched off (it's too erratic, and sometimes messes up the appearance of footage that is too highly compressed or not full 1080p), and with the power-conserving backlight profile also switched off (which slightly increases power consumption, but stops shadows from crushing to black so steeply). We wouldn't rate it as highly as the HTC Super LCD 3, perhaps, but we definitely prefer it to Samsung's AMOLED technology.

Camera
This section of our phone reviews just hasn't been the same since the Lumia 1020 came to town. Other manufacturers are still playing catch-up to Nokia's Microsoft's PureView technology, and Sony is no exception. In fact, whatever else you might read online, there's just no way that the Z1's camera module can technically match the Lumia 1020's. It boils down to the laws of physics: the Z1's sensor is smaller (1/2.3 of an inch, versus 1/1.5); it has fewer pixels to play with (20.7 million versus 41 million); and it lacks optical image stabilization (OIS).

But here's what we need to find out: even if the Z1 can't claim to be the 1020's equal, does it at least deserve to eat at the same table? Or is it overwhelmed to the point where it may as well get its coat and go home? So, rather than dwell on Sony's camera app -- which is pretty basic, anyway -- we'll get right to the task of trying to gauge imaging performance at a hardware level.




