
 

During the run-up to CES, we heard through the grapevine that eco-friendly and well-connected HDTVs were going to be all the rage in early January, and so far, those premonitions are spot on. Sony's new BRAVIA VE5 line sucks down around 40% less power than many of the company's other LCD HDTV models, and there are two main developments to thank. First, the 52-inch KDL-52VE5, the 46-inch KDL-46VE5 and the 40-inch KDL-40VE5 all tout a zero-watt standby switch, which -- when flipped on -- cuts power usage to "nearly zero watts." Additionally, this Energy Star 3.0-compliant trifecta is the first from Sony to sport the micro-tubular Hot Cathode Fluorescent Lamp (HFCL), and as if that wasn't enough, there's even a motion sensor that can turn the set off if no action is sensed and a ambient light sensor for good measure. All greenness aside, each of the three also boasts Motionflow 120Hz technology, a USB port for loading up digital media files, the BRAVIA Engine 2, BRAVIA Sync, four HDMI inputs and 24- True Cinema. Check 'em this summer for currently undisclosed prices; full release is after the break.
 

SONY SAVES ENERGY WITH NEW BRAVIA "ECO" TELEVISIONS  LAS VEGAS (CES BOOTH 14200), Jan. 7, 2009 – Sony took another important step on the environmental front today by unveiling a series of highly energy efficient televisions.    The new BRAVIA VE5-series models offer substantial power savings thanks to a zero-watt standby power switch, along with motion and light sensors that minimize energy usage without compromising performance.   The 52-inch KDL-52VE5, the 46-inch KDL-46VE5 and the 40-inch KDL-40VE5 models (all measures diagonally) are also the first to incorporate Sony's exclusive micro-tubular Hot Cathode Fluorescent Lamp (HCFL). The technology helps reduce power consumption by almost 40 percent compared to the company's other LCD HDTV models.   "Sony is constantly ranked as one of the most environmentally conscious consumer electronics companies in the industry," said Randy Waynick, senior vice president of Sony Electronics' Home Products Division. "Our new Eco TVs represent the company's commitment not only to saving the environment, but also to saving consumers money through lower power consumption."    Televisions often are left unattended by children or others who become busy and forget to turn the set off when they leave the room. Sony's Presence Sensor feature solves the issue by automatically turning off the picture when no one is present in the vicinity after a user-set timeframe. When the sensor detects motion, the TV turns it self back on instantly.   The VE5 models are also Sony's first LCD televisions to offer a zero-watt standby Energy Saving Switch. When not in use, the standby switch can also be manually turned off, cutting power to nearly zero watts. Simply flip the switch back on and the TV is fully operational.    Additionally, the sets feature a light sensor that will automatically adjust the backlight depending on ambient room light. The setting saves energy and improves image contrast by lowering the backlight when it is set unnecessarily high in dimmer room light.   All of Sony's new 2009 LCD high-definition televisions exceed Energy Star® 3.0 requirements. By employing a range of innovative power-saving features, the VE5-series sets a new standard for HDTV energy efficiency.   On the performance front, the sets feature Sony's Motionflow™ 120Hz technology for improved sharpness and detail in fast-moving images. The models also offer a USB input for playing audio files from a USB storage device or connecting a compatible digital camera to display photos.   The models are compatible with Sony's BRAVIA Link modules including the BRAVIA Wireless Link, BRAVIA Input Link and BRAVIA DVD Link.   The models also feature: • The BRAVIA Engine™ 2 • BRAVIA Sync™ • 24p True Cinema™ • 4 HDMI inputs • Single PC, component, composite and S-video inputs • Favorites menu    The BRAVIA Link modules are currently available online at www.sonystyle.com and at retail outlets including Sony Style® stores and other authorized Sony dealers across the country. The VE5-series televisions will be available this summer both direct from Sony and from authorized retailers, as well as at military base exchanges. More information is available at www.sonystyle.com/TV09. 
 