
 

They didn't earn highlights during Sony's IFA 2011 keynote, but it did slip out a few more pieces of home theater hardware that are more likely to end up in your living room than its outlandish 3D helmet. The SMP-N200 replaces the earlier Netbox that debuted last year with a refreshed design and support for HD and 3D. Unsurprisingly, this Blu-ray player (without the Blu-ray) also supports DLNA "throwing" of content, making it a natural Apple TV-style tie-in for the Tablet S and Tablet P once they launch. Moving on, the VPL-VW95ES is a proper replacement for last year's VPL-VW90ES that we'll probably get more properly acquainted with later this week at CEDIA. For 2011 it's been refreshed with 3D conversion capabilities, an integrated 3D emitter to sync the glasses and the ability to set and memorize different lens positions to switch seamlessly between 16:9 and ultrawidescreen projecting. Finally, the BDP-S185 Blu-ray player was announced, with compact size and power consumption that Sony claims is 47 percent less than the previous year's models as its most notable features. All should start shipping in October, no specific word on pricing yet.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Are you ready to explore? 31 August 2011		Discover an online world through your TV with the SMP-N200 Network Media Player 		• Easily turn any TV into an Internet TV		• Stream movies, music and more in HD and 3D		• Play content from other devices via built-in Wi-Fi or USB  		Life's more fun on the big screen		Explore the web from the comfort of your sofa. Enjoy on-demand, online movies in HD and 3D. Bring to life photos and videos on the full space of your TV screen. The SMP-N200 Network Media Player turns any TV into an Internet TV so you can start exploring a whole new world. 		The web like you've never seen before		Open your TV, and your eyes, to the best of the web. Catch up on TV programmes you missed. Visit favourite websites using the web browser. Update Facebook™ and Twitter™ with what you're watching. Even enjoy content in 3D (*1). Compact and stylish to complement your living room, and with technologies to boost online pictures, our SMP-N200 Network Media Player brings the future of entertainment straight to your home. 		What do you want to watch today?		Your free time is precious, so why put limits on what you can enjoy? Stream thousands of classic and contemporary movies from the Sony Entertainment Network – in High Definition and 3D, and from all the major studios. Bring everyone from Bach to the Beach Boys into your living room with access to over 10 million songs. The "3D Experience", a new, free of charge on-demand streaming service is available now. With the SMP-N200 you'll never be bored again. 		Connect everything together seamlessly		Internet TV doesn't have to be complicated. Connect to the Internet through built-in Wi-Fi, or an Ethernet cable, and be up and running in seconds. Easy set up, no messing with wires, just fast access to a world of online entertainment. 		Share entertainment wherever it is at home. Connect and play via USB or Wi-Fi. Enjoy photos,movies and music from a PC, laptop or other DLNA® device. Sit back and control everything using a free app for your Sony Tablet (*2), Android smartphone or iPhone. You can even "throw" (stream) content from your Sony Tablet to your SMP-N200 and enjoy your entertainment the way you want. 		Imagine what you can do with your TV		"The SMP-N200 Network Media Player will change how people experience entertainment at home," says Anthony Koustelos, General Manager of Home Audio Video Business at Sony Europe. "It's an easy way for everyone to enjoy Internet TV. With streaming speed and quality constantly improving, you can discover an almost limitless world of online channels, music and movies on your TV screen with no need for separate entertainment devices." 		Sony SMP-N200 Network Media Player is available from October 2011. Exact date of availability varies by country. 		(*1) Requires a 3D TV and depends on location		(*2) For further details, please refer to the Sony Tablet press release 		iPod, iPhone and iPod touch are trademarks of Apple Inc.		Android is a trademark of Google Inc. Use of this trademark is subject to Google Permissions. 		Notes to editors  		SMP-N200 Network Media Player 		· Built-in Wi-Fi for easy connectivity to the Internet and wireless home network		· Get online channels and services from the Sony Entertainment Network		· Stream movies and 3D content		· Enjoy better quality online videos with Internet Picture Enhancer		· Boost pictures to near HD quality with Precision Cinema HD Up scaling		· Visit websites and search the Internet using a web browser (display of embedded video or music not supported)		· Share personal content via USB		· Easy USB playback with support for HD file formats		· DLNA® certified for video, audio and photo streaming		· HDMI®, component video output and composite video output ports enable connection to all types of TVs		· Free app for Sony Tablet, Android smartphone, iPhone or iPod Touch for use as remote control		· "Throw" (stream) media contents from your Sony Tablet to the SMP-N200 with the touch of a button		· 3 second start-up time with Quick Start mode		· Easy navigation with the XrossMediaBar™ menu 		Show full PR text 		New Projector Brings True Cinematic Experience To The Home 31 August 2011		VPL-VW95ES home projector gives viewers' a natural, brighter and superior 3D experience  		At the IFA conference in Berlin, Sony Professional today launched its newest home projector, the VPL-VW95ES, which delivers viewers an unsurpassed 3D home cinema experience. The VPL-VW95ES is a successor to the VPL-VW90ES, which was announced last September, and was Sony's first 3D home cinema projector and a key step in it realising its 3D World vision. Based on the new dynamic lamp control technology, the VPL-VW95ES brings 3D film to life with vivid, crisp, bright and vibrant imagery that will satisfy the greatest film enthusiast's desires. 		"It offers superb picture quality with high dynamic contrast ratio (150,000:1) and a more real cinematic experience. Customer feedback on the VPL-VW90ES was carefully considered and changes were made accordingly to ensure the VPL-VW95ES gives viewers the best home cinema experience yet,' said Tak Nakane, product manager at Sony Professional. "The comfort of home cinema has also been greatly advanced with the availability of low fan noise, flexible picture calibration, and picture position memory which allows customers to set the 2.35:1 aspect ratio with just one button." 		Given the number of films now available on 3D Blu-ray, the VPL-VW95ES ensures viewers can get the same experience in their home as in their local cinema. The product is equipped with Sony's Advanced Iris 3 technology which includes a contrast enhancer to maximize the dynamic contrast ratio when used with the iris, giving viewers a crisper and brighter final image. Motionflow technology also reduces motion blur and judder, giving viewers superb picture quality. 		New features include a converted 3D mode which is based on a unique algorithm to reproduce a 3D effect from any 2D source. Additional picture position memory also remembers the positions set to meet aspect ratio and users can enjoy a cinema scope size screen. In addition, Sony's 3D glasses have been upgraded so they are lighter by about 24 percent and the transmitter has been built around the lens so it doesn't need to be connected or installed with a cable. 		The VPL-VW95ES is a perfect all rounder and can cater seamlessly for 2D and 3D films. It also encourages comfortable viewing and runs quietly in the background with an advanced cooling system so fan noise is suppressed to 22dB at low lamp mode. In addition, the VPL-VW95ES has a motorised adjustable 'Lens Shift' function which means the picture can be easily adjusted making the installation process a lot simpler. 		The projector will be available across Europe in October. 		Notes to editors 		About Sony Professional		Sony Professional, a division of Sony Europe, is the leading supplier of AV/IT solutions to businesses across a wide variety of sectors including, Media and Broadcast, Video Security and Retail, Transport & Large Venue markets. It delivers products, systems and applications to enable the creation, manipulation and distribution of digital audio-visual content that add value to businesses and their customers. With over 25 years' experience in delivering innovative market-leading products, Sony Professional is ideally placed to deliver exceptional quality and value to its customers. Sony's Professional Services division, its systems integration arm, offers its customers access to the expertise and local knowledge of skilled professionals across Europe. Collaborating with a network of established technology partners, Sony delivers end-to-end solutions that address the customer's needs, integrating software and systems to achieve each organisation's individual business goals. For more information please visit www.pro.sony.eu 		Follow us on twitter at www.twitter.com/sonyproeurope 		Show full PR text 		More fun for less than you think 31 August 2011		Enjoy Full HD movies, online entertainment and stylish design with our new BDP-S185 Blu-ray Disc™ Player 		• Watch Blu-ray and DVD movies in High Definition		• Stream movies, music and more from the Sony Entertainment Network		• Easily share entertainment via USB and save energy too  		Step into a world of Full HD		Give the latest blockbuster movies a cinematic feel. Enjoy your favourite DVDs in extra detail. Play movies, music and video channels straight from the Internet. Our new BDP-S185 Blu-ray Disc™ Player is an affordable way to start enjoying the latest home entertainment without compromising on style or quality. 		Soak up the real atmosphere		Movie evenings at home will never be the same again. Enjoy every thrill of an action film or whispered word from a romantic comedy. Blu-ray Disc™ from Sony delivers up to 10 times the sound quality and 5 times the picture quality of DVD. You can even upscale DVDs from your collection to near High Definition quality and replay your favourite movie scenes in a whole new light. 		Create your own TV time		Got the sofa to yourself or the whole family to amuse? The BDP-S185 can help you find just the thing for the occasion. Go online and access the Sony Entertainment Network to choose films from leading movie studios, including the latest blockbusters or classic movie titles. Sit back, relax and listen to over 10 million songs. Or stream the best of the web, video sharing sites and catch-up TV straight to your screen. It's time you took control of your free time. 		Transform life in the living room		Stylish and sophisticated, the BDP-S185 Blu-ray Disc™ Player will change how you view home entertainment. Enhance the room with its compact size, only 290mm wide, and elegant black finish (also available in silver as the BDP-S186). Share movies, music and photos using the USB port. 		"The BDP-S185 Blu-ray Disc™ Player is ideal if you want to take a first step into the future of entertainment at an affordable price," says Anthony Koustelos, General Manager of Home Audio Video Business at Sony Europe. "From watching Full HD Blu-ray Disc™ movies to streaming the latest on-demand, online services, the entertainment possibilities are endless." 		Reducing environmental impact		The BDP-S185 Blu-ray disc player demonstrates a significant reduction in environmental impact. It uses 47 per cent less power than its predecessor and is wrapped in a unit approximately one third narrower. The smaller size means more efficient transport packing and a lower unit weight, cutting shipment-related carbon emissions by 40 per cent. Its low power consumption of just 10 watts and compact size means it's good for the environment and your pocket too.  		Sony BDP-S185 Blu-ray disc player is available from October 2011. Exact date of availability varies by country. 		Notes to editors 		BDP-S185 / BDP-S186		Start enjoying the future of Full HD and online entertainment 		· Full HD Blu-ray Disc™ playback		· Upscale DVDs to near HD quality with Precision Cinema HD Upscale technology		· Access on-demand movies and music through the Sony Entertainment Network		· 1 x HDMI® output for 1080p picture detail		· 1 x USB input		· Simple, fast navigation with the XrossMediaBar™		· Deep Colour delivers a smoother, more realistic picture		· Low energy consumption at just 10Watts		· Sharp audio with Dolby True HD and dts-HD Master Audio		· Compact size: width only 290mm		· BD-Live for extra disc features
 