
       Last official word we had on the launch of Sony's PS3 Motion Controller was Spring 2010. However, we just received a press release from Sony Japan with a revised availability of "Fall 2010." The calendar push affects Japan, Asia, North America, and Europe. In the statement, Kaz Hirai avoids using the "d" word saying only: 
"We have decided to release the Motion Controller in fall 2010 when we will be able to offer an exciting and varied line-up of software titles that will deliver the new entertainment experience to PS3 users."
Still no mention of Arc though Sony does concede that "Motion Controller" is just a tentative name. Full press release after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textMotion Controller for PlayStation(R)3 to Become Available Worldwide in Fall 2010  Motion Controller, Together with an Extensive Line-up of Software Titles, Delivers Whole New Entertainment Experience on PlayStation(R)3  TOKYO, Jan. 20 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE) today announced that it will release its new Motion Controller(1) (tentative name) for the PlayStation速3 (PS3速) computer entertainment system in fall 2010 in Japan, Asian regions and countries, North America and Europe/PAL territories together with an extensive line-up of exciting software titles. The new controller, combined with the PlayStation速Eye camera(2), can detect the natural and intuitive movement of the hand and reflect the precise movement within the game, delivering a whole new entertainment experience on PS3.  "We have decided to release the Motion Controller in fall 2010 when we will be able to offer an exciting and varied line-up of software titles that will deliver the new entertainment experience to PS3 users, " said Kazuo Hirai, President and Group CEO, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. "We will continue to work to have a comprehensive portfolio of attractive and innovative games for the Motion Controller, not only from SCE Worldwide Studios but also from the third party developers and publishers, whom we have been working closely with. We look forward to soon unveiling the exciting software line-up that further expands and defines the PS3 platform as the ultimate entertainment system for the home."  SCE will vigorously promote the Motion Controller as the de facto controller of the PS3 platform along with the DUALSHOCK速 series controller and will deploy various measures to enhance the software title line-up for the Motion Controller, delivering groundbreaking interactive entertainment only possible on the PS3 platform.  (1) Motion Controller is a tentative name. (2) Users will need to use the PlayStation Eye camera to enjoy the Motion Controller on PS3.
 