
 
Some interchangeable lens standards have been around for ages. Others, however, are rather more modern contrivances, and Sony's E-mount definitely falls in that latter category. We've seen it hit HD camcorders as well as the NEX-3 and NEX-5 compacts, but so far the greatest selections of lenses we've yet seen has come courtesy of a simple adapter. Sony wants that to change, releasing the "basic" specifications for its E-mount interchangeable lens system and doing so for free, a move that lens makers like Carl Zeiss and Sigma have all lauded -- though none went so far as to say they'd actually start making this particular flavor of glass. Oh, and the specs for the NEX-5 Lego viewfinder? Still totally free.
      

 

Show full PR textSony Discloses Basic Specifications of the "E-mount" for Interchangeable Single Lens Cameras without FeeSony Corporation announced today it will disclose the basic specifications of its "E-mount" for interchangeable single lens cameras, without fee, to manufacturers of lenses and mount adaptors, starting April 1st, 2011.This opens the way for manufacturers of various lenses and mount adaptors to effectively develop products conforming to "E-mount" specifications.Users of the Sony's "NEX-3", "NEX-5", "NEX-VG10" and other "E-mount" compatible Sony digital imaging products to be launched in the future will now be able to use interchangeable lenses from both Sony and various other manufactures, while they will also be able to attach non-Sony lenses to their Sony digital imaging products via a mount adapter.Sony believes the growth of digital imaging products employing the "E-mount" will further increase the enjoyment of photography and video shooting among an even wider range of users.These basic specifications will be disclosed to manufactures of lenses and mount adaptors following a predefined process of approval and the signing a license agreement with Sony.As of today, the decision to disclose basic specifications of the "E-mount" has been endorsed by the following companies.Carl Zeiss AGAs an independent lens provider, Carl Zeiss welcomes the disclosure of the "E-mount" specifications by Sony. It helps manufacturer's product development, benefits customers and therefore assists in establishing "E-mount" as a new, healthy and strong system on the market.Cosina Co., Ltd.Cosina Co., Ltd is excited by the potential of Sony's "E-mount" which enables to a large-size image sensor to be incorporated in a compact, interchangeable lens camera. We have high expectations for the "E-mount" with its aims to create a new photography culture, and express its assent to Sony's decision to provide information related to "E-mount".Sigma CorporationSigma Corporation fully supports Sony's decision to disclose basic "E-mount" specifications. We believe this move will spur the further growth and diversification of camera system across the industry, provide photo enthusiasts with a wealth of choice and enrich in their photographic lifestyles.Tamron Co., Ltd.Tamron Co., Ltd endorses Sony's decision to disclose basic "E-mount" specifications. We aim to offer our customers new solutions and unprecedented photo-shooting enjoyment through the manufacture and sale of "E-mount" lenses.
 