
 Strange, but true: it seems James Bond is an Android man and the Xperia TL, his phone of choice. Well, at least that's the marketing tie-in made possible by Sony's corporate synergy. Regardless, the company's latest smartphone flagship has found a new stateside home on AT&T's 4G LTE network. The 4.6-inch device, unveiled at IFA 2012, reps a 720p HD Reality display powered by Mobile BRAVIA Engine, 13-megapixel rear module capable of "sleep to snap" fast capture and runs a skinned build of Ice Cream Sandwich atop a dual-core 1.5GHz S4 CPU. It also comes loaded up with three of the Japanese outfit's media apps -- Walkman, Movies and Album -- a bevy of exclusive content (e.g. ringtones, wallpaper, etc.) from the next Bond film, Skyfall, and packs one SmartTag in the box for use with the handset's NFC chip. There's no official word on when this black beauty's set to hit retail shelves -- or pricing, for that matter. But if the imminent arrival of its galactic stablemates is any indication, expect to see it in "the coming weeks." Official PR after the break.



  Show full PR text     AT&T Debuts Exclusive Xperia(TM) TL, Sony's Best in Mobile Camera Technology, HD Viewing and NFC Connectivity  Xperia TL Will be Featured in the Upcoming James Bond Cinema Release Skyfall

   Dallas, Texas, October 01, 2012  ShareThis

   AT&T* today announced plans to offer Xperia TL, the latest Sony smartphone bringing Sony's best HD experiences, easy connectivity with 'One-touch' sharing enabled by NFC (Near Field Communications) and award-winning** arc design. This 4G LTE smartphone takes connected entertainment to the next level with new Sony media applications.

   Photo enthusiasts will delight in the impressive images taken with Xperia TL's 13-megapixel primary camera that brings even the smallest of details to life. This high resolution camera captures quality images swiftly with its quick launch feature, going from standby mode (sleep) to first shot in just 1.5 seconds,1 making sure life's unexpected moments are not missed. Plus, both the rear and front-facing cameras deliver HD recording capabilities for vivid video capture on the go.

   Xperia TL gives you the ultimate in HD with a superb 4.6-inch HD display (1080 x 720), powered by the Mobile BRAVIA® Engine for razor sharp clarity and brilliance. The viewing experience on Xperia TL is accentuated by a stylish, slim form factor that emphasizes the display. For those looking to take their content from their smartphone screen to the TV screen, Xperia TL connects through MHL or wirelessly through DLNA.

   To make enjoying content across devices even easier, Xperia TL supports 'One-touch' connectivity through NFC. Now, you can conveniently and instantaneously enjoy your music and photos across an array of NFC enabled devices by simply touching one to another to establish a wireless connection without a cumbersome pairing process. To get started with experiencing NFC, Xperia TL comes with one Xperia SmartTag in box. Using near field communication technology, SmartTags let you store device preferences for a variety of locations and situations – like opening and controlling volume on the music player if you head out for a run, turning on GPS and Bluetooth in the car or turning on your alarm and silencing your ringer at night.

   Xperia TL includes three preloaded Sony media applications, Walkman, Movies, and Album, introducing a consistent user interface across Sony devices. Album will be especially appealing to photo takers with features such as:

   Geo-mapping in satellite and traditional map views  More than 25 editing options  Improved layout of photo and video folders, both in device and online

   AT&T customers have access to the nation's largest 4G network***, covering 275 million people. AT&T has two 4G networks that work together for customers, LTE and HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul. That means AT&T customers are able to enjoy a widespread, ultra-fast and consistent 4G experience on their compatible device as they move in and out of LTE areas. With other carriers, when you travel outside of their LTE coverage area, you may be on a much slower 3G network.

   Key Specs for Xperia TL:

   4.6" HD Reality Display powered by the Mobile BRAVIA® Engine  13MP quick launch-fast capture camera that goes from sleep to snap in just over a second  Full 1080p HD video recording and a 720p HD front camera for the highest quality content  Easy connectivity with 'One-touch' function enabled by NFC  Latest generation 1.5GHz dual core processor for improved battery efficiency and fast graphics performance  Android version 4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). Upgradable to Android version 4.1 (Jelly Bean) following launch.  MHL connectivity for viewing content on a big screen without the need for a charger  Available in Black

   *AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.

   ** Xperia arc S and Xperia arc are winners of the EISA (European Imaging and Sound Association) award for European Camera Phone 2011-2012. Xperia arc is also the winner of the prestigious red dot Product Design Award 2011. Xperia arc was announced at CES in January 2011 followed up by the announcement of Xperia arc S announced at IFA 2011

   ***4G speeds not available everywhere. Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.

   Sony Entertainment Network services are subject to availability by region, please see www.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com for more details.

   Legal

   1) Facts and features may vary depending on local variant. 2) Operational times are affected by network preferences, type of SIM card, connected accessories and various activities e.g. playing games. Kit contents and colour options may differ from market to market. The full range of accessories may not be available in every market. 3) Actual size of screen is approximately 4.55". Camera capabilities are accurate as the date of this release.

   Sony "make.believe" and Bravia are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sony Corporation. "PlayStation is a registered trademark or a trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Xperia is a trademark or registered trademark of Sony Mobile Communications AB. Android™ is a trademark of Google Inc. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.

   Limited 4G LTE availability in select markets. 4G speeds delivered by LTE, or HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul, where available. Deployment ongoing. Compatible device and data plan required. LTE is a trademark of ETSI. Learn more at att.com/network.

 
