
 
 Sony has announced its newest set of headphones under the MDR-1 brand here at IFA. Produced in collaboration with artists like Katy B, Magnetic Man and engineers like Naweed Ahmed, the classy cans seem to be aiming straight for the Beats crowd. Coming in Wired (MDR-1R), Bluetooth (MDR-1BT) and Noise-Canceling (MDR-1RNC) editions, the latter two includes a one-touch function that lets you instantly pair your headphones to any NFC-compatible Sony device. All three are available from October this year, with pricing still to be announced. 




  Show full PR text   Ultimate sound quality, comfort wear and design are beautifully harmonised in the new MDR-1 range of premium headphones from Sony.
   The pinnacle of over fifty years of design innovation by Sony, the ground-breaking MDR-1 range is the result of unique creative partnership with Sony Music Entertainment.

   Available in standard, digital noise cancelling and Bluetooth® wireless versions, the new headphones feature a closed-back design for maximum isolation and exceptional bass response.

   The headphones have been created with leading music industry figures, whose knowledge of current trends has directly influenced the design of the MDR-1. In a unique collaboration with Sony Music artists, singer songwriter Katy B and dubstep supergroup Magnetic Man joined evaluation sessions with Mastering engineer Naweed Ahmed at Whitfield Mastering, one of London's longest-established and most respected music studios.

   During these sessions, collaborating artists and engineers identified the critical 30-40Hz sub-bass region that's a signature of today's music styles. This insight led to an enhanced Beat Response Control design. Air vents at the back of each driver unit have been enlarged for improved airflow with low-end sounds. This larger vent allows freer diaphragm movement particularly in bass frequency area. This permits a quicker, more 'rhythmic' low frequency response with improved transient characteristics – a must for bass-hungry music lovers everywhere.

   MDR-1R Headphones

   The standard MDR-1R features a specially-developed 40mm Liquid Crystal Polymer Film diaphragm. This innovative structure delivers the rigidity and lightness that's essential for balanced, highly accurate reproduction of today's up-front vocals and mid/high range sounds.

   The MDR-1R also includes specially-engineered HD driver units that assure ultra-wideband audio performance extending from 4Hz to 80kHz – a match for today's high resolution music sources. The high-compliance diaphragm and light-weight voice coil together assure quick responses for rich, powerful lows and extended highs.

   MDR-1R Headphones

   Long-term wear comfort is assured by pressure-relieving cushions. These provide a supportive, wrap-around feel plus a highly effective acoustic seal, further reinforcing the headphones' powerful sub-bass reproduction. There's also a unique hanger structure that moves the headphones' housing axis inward for the ultimate in stable fit and comfort.

   Every detail of the MDR-1R has been crafted for an immersive, uninterrupted music listening experience. Physical joints between earcups and headband are via smoothly-articulated silicone rings. This cuts mechanical noise for rattle-free enjoyment of the quietest, most detailed musical passages.

   Painstaking attention to detail extends to the newly-developed cable. Featuring tiny grooved serrations on its surface, this innovative design cuts friction between cable surfaces and reduces the source of frustrating tangles.

   The MDR-1RBT brings the same innovative sound processing technologies to music lovers who demand the freedom of clear, crystalline sound without wires. The headphones can be paired easily with smartphones or other Bluetooth®-enabled sources, and offers a lengthy 30 hrs battery stamina between charges.

   One-touch function* makes it easy to enjoy music and photos across a range of NFC enabled devices from Sony. Just touch to instantly establish a wireless connection between devices, with no need for any Bluetooth or Wi-Fi set-up.

   If you're enjoying Music Unlimited through the speakers of your Xperia™ T or Xperia™ V Smartphone, just touch the MDR-1RBT with your phone and continue listening on headphones without interruption.

   * One-touch Function by Sony incorporates Near Field Communication (NFC) technology.

   Also available, the MDR-1RNC offers fully automatic 'AI' digital noise cancelling that delivers an even more immersive musical experience. Digital dual noise sensors – inside and outside the headphones housing – are teamed with twin digital noise cancelling software engines. Together, this combination reduces 99.7% of ambient noise.

   With a generous battery life of 22 hrs between charges, the MDR-1RNC is perfect for long-distance travellers – or anyone who wants to immerse themselves in pure sound without distractions at home or in the office.

   S-Master Digital Amplifier technology in MDR-1RBT and MDR-1RNC models assures ultra-detailed reproduction. Sony's Digital Sound Enhancement Engine in both headphones also improves frequency response with heavily-compressed audio sources.

   The MDR-1R standard headphones, MDR-1RBT Bluetooth® wireless headphones and MDR-1RNC noise cancelling headphones from Sony are available from the beginning of October 2012.

   * The Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum is a non-profit industry association that promotes the use of NFC.

 
