
 


	Four months after unveiling the relatively bare bones W8, Sony Ericsson has now taken the wraps off yet another Walkman phone, known as the Live with Walkman. Powered by a 1GHz processor, this Android handset features a 3.2 inch, capacitive touchscreen (with somewhat disappointing HVGA resolution), a five megapixel AF shooter with 8x digital zoom, and a front-facing VGA camera capable of capturing HD video in 720p. The petite, Gingerbread-equipped device also packs a lackluster 320MB of RAM, provides up to 32GB of microSD storage, and offers either tri-band 3G support (HSPA+) at 850, 1900 and 2100MHZ, or dual-band 3G at 900 and 2100MHz, depending on the model. And, as you'd expect, Sony Ericsson has placed a special emphasis on the music phone's media capabilities, beefing it up with enhanced audio and Qriocity integration. The specs may not sound earth shattering, but we'll wait until we get pricing information before casting judgment. The Live with Walkman is slated to hit "selected markets" by Q4 of this year, but you can find more information in the full PR, after the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  Sony Ericsson Live with Walkman™ delivers unique social music experience for smartphones 		22 August 2011 		Smartphone with Walkman™ on the latest Android platform (Gingerbread 2.3)		Unique Facebook™ integration enables instant music and media sharing		Content services from Sony provide access to the latest music and video titles 		22 August 2011, London, UK – Sony Ericsson today announced Sony Ericsson Live with Walkman™, an Android smartphone that delivers a unique social music experience. A dedicated Walkman™ hardware button provides instant access to the music player and consumers can also like, share and discover content through a deep Facebook™ integration. The infinite button lets the consumer explore even more and the *Qriocity service from Sony provides music and video content for the consumer to enjoy. 		With attractive curved design, a glossy finish and a mineral glass display, the phone has a 3.2" screen and a powerful 1Ghz processor. A front facing camera is enabled for Skype video calling, while a 5MP AF camera can capture 720p HD video recording. *Sony's xLOUD™ enhances audio output, while the latest Android platform for smartphones (Gingerbread 2.3) provides access to over 250,000 applications on the Android Market™. 		Nikolaus Scheurer, Head of Product Marketing, Sony Ericsson said: "Consumers want smartphones to deliver a rich and social entertainment experience. Rather than a one dimensional music experience, they want instant and seamless access to new content, combined with the ability to share and connect with their friends. The Sony Ericsson Live with Walkman™ provides exactly this, in a powerful package with great style." 		A perfect combination of social networking and music entertainment: 		Deep Facebook™ integration: Allows users to instantly access Facebook through the most used areas of the phone such as the picture gallery, music player, phonebook and calendar.		Media Discovery Application: A dynamic application placing the world of music and videos at consumer's fingertips including Facebook™ recommendations from their friends.		Infinite button: Tapping it within the media player enables consumers to have instant access to new content about their favourite artist, such as music videos, artist information and lyrics search.		Qriocity music and video content services from Sony: Consumers can access millions of songs from all major labels and watch thousands of movies from all major studios. Only Sony Ericsson Android smartphones provide consumers with unique access to the entertainment services from *Sony.		*Sony's xLOUD™ technology: Enhances audio output of the inbuilt speakers at high levels.		TrackID™: Identifies the music track you are listening to within the FM radio and music player. The track can then instantly be shared or downloaded. 		Sony Ericsson Live with Walkman™ will be available globally in selected markets from Q4 2011.		For full details all products news, please visit the press room and the product blog:		http://www.sonyericsson.com/cws/corporate/press/pressreleases/latestnews		http://blogs.sonyericsson.com/products/ 		Sony Ericsson Live with Walkman™ at a glance.		*Please note that all services mentioned may not be available in every market. 		Colours 		Black and White 		Facts 		Size: 56.5 x 106 x 14.2 mm		Weight: 115 g 		Camera 		5 megapixel camera		8x digital zoom		Auto focus		Face detection		Flash/Photo light		Flash/Photo flash		Flash/LED		Front-facing camera (VGA)		Geo tagging		HD video recording (720p)		Image stabiliser		Red-eye reduction		Scene detection		Self-timer		Send to web		Smile detection		Touch capture		Touch focus		Video light		Video recording 		Music 		Album art		Bluetooth™ stereo (A2DP)		Music tones (MP3/AAC)		PlayNow™ service		Stereo speakers		TrackID™ music recognition		Walkman™ player		xLOUD™ 		Internet 		Android Market™		Bookmarks		Google™ search		Google Voice™ Search		NeoReader™ barcode scanner		Pan & zoom		Web browser (WebKit) 		Communication 		Call list		Conference calls		Facebook™ application		Google Talk™		Polyphonic ringtones		Skype		Sony Ericsson Timescape™		Speakerphone		Twitter™ (Timescape™ integration)		Vibrating alert		Video chat ready 		Messaging 		Conversations		Email		Google Mail™		Handwriting recognition		Instant messaging		Multimedia messaging (MMS)		Predictive text input		Sound recorder		Text messaging (SMS)		Type & Send widget 		Design 		Auto rotation		Four-corner Home screen		Keyboard (on-screen, 12-key)		Keyboard (on-screen, QWERTY)		Live wallpaper		Picture wallpaper		Touch screen 		Entertainment 		3D games		Media browser		Radio (FM radio with RDS)		Video streaming		Video viewing		YouTube™ 		Organiser 		Alarm clock		Calculator		Calendar		Document readers		Emanual		Flight mode		Google Calendar™		Google Gallery 3D™		Infinite button		Phonebook		Setup guide		Event		Timer		Widget manager 		Connectivity 		3.5 mm audio jack		aGPS		Bluetooth™ technology		DLNA Certified™		Google Latitude™		Google Maps™ for Mobile		Google Maps™ with Street View		Media Transfer Protocol support		Micro USB support		Modem		Native USB tethering		Synchronisation via Facebook™		Synchronisation via Google™ Sync		Synchronisation via Sony Ericsson Sync		Synchronisation with computer		Synchronisation via Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync®		Synchronisation: Microsoft® Exchange ActiveSync® via Moxier client		USB mass storage		USB High speed 2.0 support		USB support		Wi-Fi™		Wi-Fi™ Hotspot functionality		Wisepilot™ turn-by-turn navigation 		Display 		3.2 inches		16,777,216 colour TFT		480 x 320 pixels		Capacitive touchscreen (multi-touch)		Scratch-resistant 		Memory 		Phone memory (user-free): Up to 320MB		Memory card support: microSD™, up to 32GB 		Battery life 		Talk time GSM/GPRS: Up to 14 hrs 15 min*		Standby time GSM/GPRS: Up to 600 hrs* 		Talk time UMTS: Up to 6 hrs 42 min*		Standby time UMTS: Up to 850 hrs* 		Music listening time: Up to 17 hrs 30 min		Video listening time: Up to 6 hrs 30 min 		*According to GSM Association Battery Life Measurement Technique. Battery performance may vary depending on network conditions and configurations, and phone usage. 		Networks 		UMTS HSPA 850 (Band V), 1900 (Band II), 2100 (Band I)		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 		UMTS HSPA 900 (Band VIII), 2100 (Band I)		GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 		In the kit 		Sony Ericsson Live with Walkman™		1200 mAh battery		stereo headset		2GB microSD™ memory card		Charger		micro USB cable for charging		synchronisation and file transfer		user documentation
 