
  Sony stole our hearts with the NEX-FS100, which brought large-sensor filming into the reach of low-budget productions. When we heard rumors of a 4K-capable FS700 model coming for $9,000, known in North America as the NEX-FS700U or in Europe as the NEX-FS700E, we got ready to hand over our kidneys too. Now that the FS700 is official and scheduled to land in June, we're faced with a couple of caveats. The price seems to have shifted slightly to "less than $10,000," but more importantly the camera's 4K superpowers have been delayed until a promised firmware upgrade that will enable a 4K bitstream output from the 3G HD-SDI port to a compatible Sony recorder. Nevertheless, there are still plenty of reasons to get renal right away: The camera can shoot Super Slow Motion of up to 120 frames a second in a 16-second burst, or 240 fps in an 8-second burst. If you need even crazier time-suspension, the FS700 does 960 fps too, so long as you're prepared to sacrifice 1080p. It takes E-mount interchangeable lenses, has built-in ND filters and a packs a Super 35 sensor with 11.6 million pixels -- ready to spring to life once that new firmware arrives. Check out the press release after the break for more specs, including a full list of the 60/50Hz switchable output formats, and make sure you keep something left over for a suitable projector.
      

 

  Show full PR text  SONY EXPANDS NXCAM LINE WITH NEW FULL-HD SUPER SLOW MOTION CAMCORDER  NEX-FS700U Delivers High Quality, Flexible and Creative Shooting Options for Workflows of Today . . . and Tomorrow  PARK RIDGE, N.J., April 2, 2012 -- Sony is pushing the creative boundaries once more with the new NEX-FS700U Full-HD Super Slow Motion camcorder, the latest in Sony's line of NXCAM interchangeable E-mount camcorders. The new Super 35mm model is designed for high-speed shooting, capable of capturing footage at up to 960 frames per second. The camera also features a range of capabilities such as 3G HD-SDI output and built-in ND filters. Additionally, it also offers several creative options, shooting styles, and enhanced ergonomics – all based on customer feedback -- to deliver a flexible production tool that can fit seamlessly into a variety of shooting applications.  "This camera opens a new door to creative shooting," said Juan Martinez, senior product manager at Sony Electronics' Professional Solutions of America group. "You can record beautiful high speed full HD movies with the freedom of creative interchangeable lens choice. The NEX-FS700U, with its super slow motion mode, is ideal for promos, TV dramas, commercials and documentaries as well as sports and a variety of event shooting." The camera delivers full HD quality at 120 and 240 frames per second in a 16 or 8 second burst mode respectively. The NEX-FS700U's high sensitivity and low noise shooting capability makes super slow motion shooting more convenient without the need for additional equipment. Its 480 fps and 960 fps at reduced resolution are available for faster frame rate recording.  The NEX-FS700U camcorder uses a new 4K "Exmor" Super 35 CMOS sensor (Total 11.6 million pixels). This high-speed readout chip is optimized for motion picture shooting, giving high sensitivity, low noise and minimal aliasing. The NXCAM line's E-Mount flexibility is designed to accept virtually all SLR and DSLR 35mm lenses, with the use of simple, inexpensive adapters without optical degradation. FS series owners can use their existing lenses and add more lenses without being limited to brands or mounts.  Users can capture high-quality still images with the NEX-FS700U. The camera also includes "face detection" and auto focus to help ensure that a subject is always kept in focus. With the NEX-FS700U, operators can take advantage of the camera's built-in ND filters, with a newly designed ND filter wheel that rotates across the sensor like a turret. The wheel includes positions for Clear, 1/4 (2 Stop), 1/16 (4 Stop), and 1/64 (6 Stop).  The camera is 60/50Hz switchable to give shooters the freedom of working in any geographic region without being restricted to only PAL or NTSC recording.  The NEX-FS700U's 3G HD-SDI and HDMI connectors can output full HD 50p and 60p, in addition to standard HD 60i, 24p, 25p or 30p frame rates with embedded time code and audio. With 3G HD-SDI, it can output native 23.98, 25, 29.97 progressive signals. Users can elect to output PsF over the 3G HD-SDI. Thanks to flexibility of the digital ports virtually any external recorder can be paired.  Users can save up to 99 camera profile settings on a memory card, and can copy the same setting to multiple cameras. Compatible media includes SD and Memory Stick cards, and Sony's HXR-FMU128 flash memory unit that attaches to the camera. The NEX-FS700U features a robust detachable top handle, secured by a pair of screws (a cold shoe, plus two sets of 1/4 and 3/8 inch holes) to allow secure mounting for heavy accessories. The handle is attached with a rosette mount.  A key element of the handle is an "active grip" that features four buttons for commonly used functions – expanded focus, auto iris, still capture and recording start/stop. Function buttons are also enlarged to make operation easy even while wearing gloves. The camcorder's enhanced design also includes anchor points for compatibility with third-party accessories and a more durable design than previous models.  Sony is planning a future firmware upgrade that will enable the NEX-FS700U to output 4K bitstream data over 3G HD-SDI when used with an optional Sony 4K recorder. The NEX-FS700U (body only) and NEX-FS700UK (with 18-200mm zoom lens) are planned to be available in June at a suggested list price less than $10,000.
 