
Sony's E3 event didn't end until 11PM ET last night. So, just as we did with the Xbox titles revealed at E3, we're going to round up all the future games heading to Sony's various consoles. It'll basically be a condensed version of our Sony liveblog, with an extra helping of trailers and without the excitable prose of Ben Gilbert, who was up way past his bedtime.



Grim Fandango
That's right. Tim Schafer's 16-year-old PC classic is now an active and exclusive Sony title, in the hands of Double Fine Productions. It'll be coming to the PlayStation 4 and the PlayStation Vita at an undisclosed date, and we can particularly imagine the morbid adventure getting a new lease on life (death?) on the handheld's touchscreen. Alas, no trailer at this point.

Far Cry 4
We already knew Far Cry 4 was coming to all major platforms in November, but E3 has exposed a Sony-exclusive feature. In what sounds like a pretty smart approach to promoting game downloads, we're told that Far Cry 4's multiplayer mode will be open to groups of PSN friends, even if only one of them owns the title -- possibly through Sony's PlayStation Now streaming service.

LittleBigPlanet 3
Sackboy's creators have learned some new stitches, resulting in some new characters like the quadrupedal "Oddsock." In turn, these characters will bring new abilities and dynamics into the game -- including flying! -- that should make your homemade levels (which will still be playable, with enhanced graphics) a whole lot easier to complete. Expect to see LittleBigPlanet 3 on the PlayStation 4 in time for the holiday season.

Destiny Beta
If you've been waiting to experience this title, you only need to be patient for five more weeks. PS3, PS4 and Xbox owners can get early access to the beta on July 17th when they pre-order. It's probably the closest you're going to get to a playing Halo game on a Sony console. Oh, and bundle shoppers will find the game packaged with a matching "glacier white" PS4, out with the final release on September 9th.

Rainbow 6: Siege
The Division isn't the only new title inspired by the late Tom Clancy. Rainbow 6: Siege is a strategic multiplayer shooter in which destructible environments seem to play a big role -- at least judging from the heavily rehearsed match shown in the video.

Assassin's Creed: Unity
Arno Dorian's upcoming adventure sees him add even more blood to the spillage of the French Revolution. As well as a peek at in-game footage, E3 also gave us a release date: October 28th on the PS4 (as well as Xbox One and PC).

The Order: 1886
Almost a century later than the fall of the French monarchy, a group of four knights resurrected the myth of King Arthur on the streets of London. Or did they? Either way, this spooky, pseudo-historical third-person shooter won't arrive until 2015, and it only got a fleeting appearance during Sony's E3 event.

Entwined
A colorful twin-stick action game that sort of reminds us of Flower. You can play it for yourself right now on PS4 via the PlayStation Store, while PS3 and PS Vita versions will arrive at a later date.

Let It Die
Gosh, this one looks gruesome. A PS4 exclusive consisting of hatchets, spiky balls on chains, wooden clubs with nails poking out of them and extra points for being nasty. Alas, no straight-up gameplay footage in the E3 trailer.

Dead Island 2
Again, no gameplay footage was on show here, but E3 revealed that the zombie franchise is making its way to the PS4, with a few platform-exclusive features (including 30-day early beta access) and with the help of the same studio that brought us Spec Ops: The Line. Headed for release in spring 2015.

Bloodborne
If you're going to be playing a dark fantasy game in 2015, it may as well be one made by Hidetaka Miyazaki. The director and his team at From Software brought us Dark Souls, and now they're working on a grisly action-RPG for the PS4 that was previously code-named Project Beast.

Abzu
A very calm, underwater version of Journey. Made by some of the same people who made Journey. Fancy that! It's coming to the PS4, but we don't know when.

Battlefield: Hardline
Ben Gilbert can't bear the look of it, and the gameplay certainly seems chaotic -- almost ridiculously so. If you're a Battlefield fan, however, you might appreciate this new use of the game's mechanics. Plus, you can try the beta free right now from inside the PS4 version of Battlefield 4.

No Man's Sky
A deep, procedurally generated space-faring sim that will come first to the PS4. This was probably Tim Seppala's top game of the night.

The Last Of Us
We already knew a remastered edition was coming to the PS4, but you've got to watch the new trailer to feel the vibe.

Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain
With probably the best soundtrack of the night ("Nuclear," by Mike Oldfield), the trailer is full of big men with tiny weapons.

Grand Theft Auto V
Another definite contender for your wish list: GTA V is finally headed to next-gen consoles and the PC this fall. Expect weather, damage, wildlife and all-round better graphics to bring this game to life.

Batman: Arkham Knight
The new Batman game looks to heavily feature the Batmobile... and don't forget Scarecrow. Fortunately, Gotham City doesn't appear to contain any pedestrians.

Uncharted 4: A Thief's End
More Nathan. More Sully. More heavily directed gameplay that still somehow manages to create a sense of place and character. The newly named Uncharted 4: A Thief's End should arrive in 2015.

Update: Okay, okay, we forgot to mention Mortal Kombat X and PlanetSide 2, which were also shown off during Sony's event. What's more, due to an arcane piece of Engadget electoral law, these two games now both win the poll by default. Sorry, Uncharted.

All the games from Sony's PlayStation event at E3 2014

