
Sony's Xperia Z1, the phone formerly known as Honami, has finally been revealed to the world here at IFA 2013. As expected, the phone is fully focused on imaging capabilities, with a G lens, 20.7-megapixel camera nestled in the back of a one piece aluminum frame and waterproof tempered glass on the front. That camera is more than just the sum of its megapixels, however, as it also has some software to improve picture-taking. First, there's an Info-Eye feature that gives users contextual information about what you're shooting using augmented reality. There's also a Time Shift Burst mode that can shoot up to 61 images in just two seconds. And, all that imaging output is automatically sorted, categorized and kept in the cloud through PlayMemories Online -- and storage is unlimited for folks in the US and most of Europe.


Beneath that tempered glass is a 5-inch 1080p Triluminous display, and the whole phone is powered by a Snapdragon 800 SoC. Additionally, mobile photogs have the option of adding on the QX10 and QX100 external lenses to give the Z1 some serious optical zoom. The phone itself is set to launch this month, and those buying in Germany will get around 100 euros of content for free with the phone, and every device will come with a pass to see the movie Elysium, too. Of course, we still don't know how much the Z1 or its lens attachments will cost, but you can check out our hands-on to find out just how much you'd be willing to spend on one.





Show full PR textSony introduces Xperia™ Z1 – a stunning waterproof smartphone with a groundbreaking camera experience
Combines the very best of Sony's technology in a slim, waterproof and beautifully designed Android smartphone

True compact camera performance through combination of Sony's award-winning "G Lens", large 1/2.3-type 20.7MP "Exmor RS for mobile" CMOS image sensor and "BIONZ for mobile" image processing engine

Innovative suite of Xperia Camera Applications that deliver unique experiences including live social broadcasting

Immersive viewing experience via Sony's TRILUMINOS® Display for mobile and X-RealityTM for mobile

Discovery of online and offline content through the integration of Music Unlimited and Video Unlimited with Sony's media applications

Premium and exclusive out of the box entertainment offer from Sony Entertainment NetworkUnrivalled ecosystem of accessories and companion products

4th September 2013, IFA, Berlin – Sony Mobile Communications ("Sony Mobile") today introduces Xperia Z1, a premium waterproof smartphone that combines the very best of Sony's technology, entertainment and wide range of companion products with a unique and groundbreaking camera experience. Xperia Z1 will launch globally from September 2013.

"Xperia Z1 represents a significant milestone for Sony in our continued efforts to deliver unforgettable experiences to our consumers," said Kunimasa Suzuki, President and CEO, Sony Mobile Communications. "Not only by bringing the power of Sony to the smartphone and through close collaboration with our partners but by setting a new standard in premium smartphones."

The world's leading camera in a smartphone

The elegant, 5" Xperia Z1 is the latest addition to Sony's premium Z series of products and brings Sony's proven world-class technologies to the smartphone like never before - including the very best of Sony's camera expertise. Xperia Z1 features Sony's award-winning "G Lens" with a 27mm wide angle and bright F2.0 aperture, custom made large 1/2.3-type CMOS image sensor Exmor RS for mobile with 20.7MP and a BIONZ for mobile image processing engine. The combination of these technologies delivers the same level of quality and performance as a conventional compact digital camera in a slim, waterproof smartphone. Indeed, independent testing has confirmed that Xperia Z1 provides the best overall image quality of all leading smartphones1. This means that Xperia Z1 captures beautiful, sharp and bright images even in lowlight conditions. High shutter speeds and 3x clear image zoom also prevents shots from being blurred while enabling them to be captured at distance.

Innovative suite of Xperia Camera Applications

Xperia Z1 takes the conventional camera experience to a whole new level by including an innovative set of Xperia Camera Applications that deliver new experiences. Applications at launch include:

Social live: Broadcast precious moments live from Xperia Z1 to Facebook and get your friends' comments right on your screen.Info-eye™: Innovative visual search function that provides related information on landmarks and on items such as books or wine simply by capturing them with the camera.Timeshift burst: Capture the perfect shot every time - Xperia Z1 takes 61 images in 2 seconds - a second before and after pressing the shutter - so you can scroll back and forth to find the perfect image.AR effect: Overlay a selection of fun, customizable animations to create pictures using Sony's SmartARTM augmented reality technology.

This experience is supported by a robust ecosystem of established and up-and-coming developer partnerships who are working to create Xperia Camera Applications. Many more apps will be available through the Sony Select recommendation store after launch.

Beautiful design with high power and performance

Xperia Z1 also includes all of the features consumers have come to expect of a Sony smartphone. Its stunning looks combine Sony's acclaimed OmniBalance design with premium materials and precision engineering in a slim waterproof and dust resistant smartphone (IP55 & IP58). A solid one-piece aluminium frame with tempered glass on the front and back ensures beauty and durability as well as a consistent viewing experience from any angle.

Xperia Z1 features the fully integrated Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 800 processor with 2.2 GHz quad-core CPU and 4G LTE to provide a seamless connected entertainment experience, industry leading battery performance and amazing speed. The Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor features the latest GPU and dual ISP for incredible graphics, 3D games and videos. The Xperia Z1 also includes a 3000 mAh battery for a high battery performance. Sony's Battery STAMINA Mode automatically turns off functions to save power when you don't need them and restarts them when you do.

Incredible out of the box entertainment with Sony's media applications and technologies

Xperia Z1 integrates PlayMemories Online2, a cloud-based image and video service that is integrated into the Album application. A new 'All Sync' feature enables users to instantly auto-upload all of their photos without storage limitation3.

Sony's "WALKMAN" and Movies applications are also included and provide access to more than 22 million songs on the "WALKMAN" app through Music Unlimited and more than 150K movies and TV series on the Movies app through Video Unlimited2 from Sony Entertainment Network.

Thanks to the inclusion of Sony's BRAVIA TV technology, Xperia Z1 features Sony's unique TRILUMINOS Display for mobile, creating a wider palette of rich natural colours for an immersive viewing experience. It also includes X-Reality for mobile - Sony's intelligent super resolution technology which analyzes each image and optimizes the quality to deliver super sharp videos. Xperia Z1 also brings Sony's audio expertise to play with Sony's ClearAudio+ which automatically optimizes the audio experience without the need to adjust individual settings.

Xperia Z1 comes with an incredible entertainment offer that includes five great movies plus an exclusive movie access pass to the digital release of Sony Pictures' summer blockbuster Elysium as well as a two month free trial of Sony's Music Unlimited4 streaming service plus much more.

Xperia Z1 also features a new application called TrackIDTM TV5 that enhances your TV-viewing experience. It lets users search, share and explore information from broadcasted TV shows such as cast & crew, biographies, filmography or show related Tweets.

Unrivalled ecosystem of companion products and smart accessories

Xperia Z1 is supported by an ecosystem of innovative companion products and accessories. All are underpinned by Sony's one-touch functions with NFC technology which will number approximately 100 compatible products by the end of the year including TVs, headphones, audio speakers, tablets, and more. Key products include:

Companion products to enhance the camera experience

QX10/QX100: High-performance 'lens-style' cameras designed for mounting on smartphones and operated through the smartphone screen – a perfect partner for the Z1.

· Smart Imaging Stand IPT-DS10M: An intelligent accessory that helps Xperia Z1 detect smiles and capture special moments without the need to hold the handset

· Smartphone Tripod SPA-MK20M: A versatile tripod perfect for extra stability when taking pictures or capturing video

A host of other companion products and smart accessories that enrich your smartphone experience.

· SmartWatch 2 – Use as a second screen for Xperia Z1. Read messages, handle calls, easily access notifications – all from your wrist. Trigger the Xperia Z1 camera shutter. Download other camera apps to enhance the Xperia Z1 experience. Sony is working closely with developers for even more optimised apps

· SBH52 Smart Bluetooth Handset – Splash proof wireless audio accessory that enables you to listen and talk without taking out your smartphone.

· MDR-10BT NFC headphones and SRS-BTS50 wireless speaker - New, high quality NFC enabled headphones and wireless speaker.

· SmartTags NT3 – Create a unique experience for your tag and share with a friend via NFC.

· Continually update the experience over time with the Bluetooth Music Receiver BM10 – stream music and audio from Xperia Z1 to your home Hi-Fi system

· Miracast Wireless Display IM10 – Mirror your smartphone display on your HDTV or projector

Xperia Z1 key specifications

Sony's "G Lens": A lens with F2.0 and wide angle 27mm as well as 3x clear image zoom.BIONZ for mobile: Image processing engine with the algorithm from Sony's leading digital compact cameras. It ensures pictures have less noise, fast auto-focus as well as high stable images for video shooting, preventing shots from being blurred.1/2.3-type Exmor RS for mobile CMOS image sensor with 20.7MP: high sensitivity sensor capturing huge amounts of detail for sharp, crisp images, even in low-light conditions.Dust and water-resistant (IP55 & IP58), with acclaimed OmniBalance design featuring durable tempered glass and solid one-piece aluminium frameQualcomm Snapdragon™800 quad-core 2.2 Ghz processor, 3000 mAh battery, 4G LTEXperia Camera Applications such as Social live which broadcast to Facebook. More applications will be available to download from Sony Select.Memory: RAM 2 GB, Flash memory up to 16 GB, Expansion slot microSD™ card, up to 64 GB.Available in black, white and purple colour variants

1 Based on consumer research conducted by Strategy Analytics conducted on 23rd August 2013

2 Subject to market availability

3 If an image exceeds 1920 pixels along its longest plane (either width or height), it will automatically be resized to 1920 pixels.

4Sony Entertainment Network services are subject to availability by region. Please visit www.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com for more details.

Also the number of tracks available from this catalogue varies by country and may be fewer than stated.

5 TrackID™ TV is available in DE, UK, FR, JP and US


