
 If you've spent all of this effort launching an All-3D channel, it's probably wise to ensure you've got enough content to keep your schedules full. That's why 3net founders Sony, Discovery and IMAX are teaming up to launch 3net Studios, with facilities opening in California and Maryland. The new business will be used to bring together the best and brightest minds in stereoscopic media to produce footage for the channel. It'll begin announcing the first projects in the next few weeks, but unless there's space for a 3D version of Dan Harmon's Community, we won't be listening.



  Show full PR text   3NET - THE 24/7 3D NETWORK FROM SONY, DISCOVERY AND IMAX – ANNOUNCES THE FORMATION OF 3NET STUDIOS    -- Global Production Arm Brings Together Worldwide Creative Production and Sales Teams To Develop Native 3D and 4K Content for Platforms and Partners Worldwide --  October 16, 2012 – Culver City, Calif – 3net, the joint venture from Sony, Discovery and IMAX – has formed 3net Studios, a new global television program production and distribution division, it was announced today by Tom Cosgrove, President and CEO, 3net. 3net Studios - based at both Sony Pictures headquarters in Los Angeles, CA and Discovery Communications headquarters in Silver Spring, MD - employs a worldwide team of creative personnel, utilizing the world-class technology and production expertise of the parent company's joint venture partners to produce the highest quality native 3D content available. Additionally, the studio will be employing a revolutionary production strategy, whereas select projects will be completed in native 3D 4K, 2D 4K, 3D 2K and both 3D/2D HD formats - effectively providing a global suite of content solutions for both current and future entertainment platforms and partners worldwide.   "From television, mobile, computer and tablet companies, to broadcast channels and digital content providers, the global demand for a high quality, native 3D programming pipeline has quickly become one of the most vital elements within the 3D ecosystem," said Cosgrove. "With the industry now struggling to keep pace with the rapidly accelerating consumer demand for 3D programming across multiple platforms – and now with the evolution of 4K - the formation of a world class production studio to help fill both the 3D and ultra high definition content voids became a logical next step in our evolution as a global player in the entertainment arena."   3net, which has been actively producing native 3D content for several years and launched the first fully-programmed 24/7 3D television network in the United States in early 2011, has amassed the world's largest and most diverse library of native, original 3D programming. The formation of 3net Studios will allow the company to further build upon the award-winning library that fuels its flagship 3net channel service in the United States, while also offering existing and new partners around the world a vibrant, top quality 3D and 4K content source. The studio will offer original, native 3D and 4K long form and short form content across a diverse spectrum of programming genres. The first slate of projects the company is producing under the 3net Studios banner will be announced in the coming weeks.   About 3net:  3net, the joint venture of Sony Corporation, Discovery Communications and IMAX Corporation brings together three of the world's leading media, technology and entertainment companies to provide the nation's first and only fully programmed, 24/7 3D network. The three partners deliver an extraordinary collection of award-winning 3D content, technology and production expertise, television distribution and operational strength to the project, with a mission to bring viewers the highest quality and most immersive in-home 3D viewing experience possible. The channel features the most extensive library of native 3D content in the world, including genres that are most appealing in 3D: natural history, documentary, action/adventure, travel, history, kids and family, lifestyle and cuisine, concerts, movies, scripted series and more. 3net is currently available on DIRECTV channel 107. For more information, please visit www.3net.com.

 
