
Sony's feeling pretty unstoppable right now, and it's adding to the momentum by announcing that the PlayStation Plus edition of Driveclub will be free for the first year to Plus members. The game, which was announced alongside a litany of other PS4 titles in February, is a team-based driving game that features realistic vehicles modeled after their real-life counterparts. Alongside Driveclub you'll find Don't Starve, Outlast and Secret Ponchos as part of the PS Plus instant game collection as well.


Follow our liveblog for all of the latest news from E3 2013.


Show full PR textPlayStation®PlusSCEA also unveiled new details for PS Plus, built to bring games and gamers together and fuel the next generation of gaming on the PS4 system. With a single PS Plus membership, gamers will enjoy all of the program benefits across the PS4, PS3, and PS Vita systems.

PS Plus benefits include exclusive game discounts, cloud game saves, early access to beta programs and content, and access to the Instant Game Collection.

The Instant Game Collection, which provides PS Plus members immediate access to a library of games - including blockbuster hits, innovative indie games, and classic titles - will extend to gamers on the PS4 system along with online gameplay, ensuring that gamers always have a selection of games to discover and enjoy with other members of the PS Plus community.

To celebrate the support of PS Plus on the PS4 system, SCEA will offer the #DRIVECLUB PS Plus Edition to PS Plus members which delivers all the authenticity and immersion users would expect from the full #DRIVECLUB experience, in the Instant Game Collection. In addition, one digital title will be rotated each month, including three of the new digital games introduced during the PlayStation E3 press conference, Don't Starve, Outlast, and Secret Ponchos. These three titles will be available at no extra cost via the Instant Game Collection during the first year following the launch of the PS4 system. PS Plus members will be able to enjoy a variety of other amazing PS4 titles, while enjoying new ways to share their experiences with friends via online multiplayer, broadcasting and spectating games, cross-game voice chat, and the ability to seamlessly join a friend's online game.

PS Plus membership can be purchased through PlayStation®Store and is available as a one-year membership for $49.99, a three-month membership for $17.99, and a new a one-month membership option for $9.99*.


