

Sony's just announced a new handset will be joining its Xperia line-up this year: the Xperia M. Much like the Xperia L, it's aimed at the lower end of the Android spectrum, with far from benchmark-busting specs. It's got a 4-inch FWVGA (854 x 480) display seated behind a panel of stcratch-resistant glass, and a dual-core 1GHz Snapdragon S4 SoC (MSM8227) inside, paired with 1GB of RAM. There's only 4GB of on-board storage, but a microSD slot supporting up to 64GB cards will allow you to bolster that. The rear camera has a 5-megapixel Exmor RS sensor and companion flash, while the front-facing shooter is only a VGA offering. There's no LTE radio in the Android 4.1 handset, so HSPA+ will be taking care of data, with Bluetooth 4.0 and NFC for pairing and sharing. While it's no transparent element, the OmniBalance design includes a notification light for, well, notifications. A 1,750mAh battery powers both the the single- and dual-SIM versions, which will be available in black, white and purple (yellow also for the single-SIM variant) when the Xperia M becomes available globally "from Q3 2013."





Show full PR textIntroducing Xperia™ M for the Best of Sony Connectivity and Design
LONDON, June 4, 2013 /PRNewswire/ --

 Latest model added to the Xperia range of premium smartphones, with Xperia M offering unique Sony experiences at new price point Combines Sony's technology and design expertise with one-touch functions and a beautiful, striking form Dual SIM version also available - Xperia MdualSony Mobile Communications ("Sony Mobile") today introduces Xperia M featuring Sony's innovative one-touch functions for effortless connectivity, and signature premium design.

Xperia M is designed to bring Sony experiences to a new market and price point; NFC connectivity for one-touch functions, stunning design and a range of technologies including: a high quality screen for sharp viewing; smart camera functionality for impressive pictures and videos; Battery STAMINA Mode for outstanding battery life; and Sony's signature media apps for enjoying photos, music, movies and games on the go, integrating Sony Entertainment Network services directly in the apps.

"Consumers looking for their first steps into the world of Xperia smartphones would be well-advised to look at Xperia M or Xperia Mdual," said Calum MacDougall , Director of Xperia Marketing at Sony Mobile Communications. "Both models benefit from Sony's proven innovation and engineering expertise, and are perfect for those who want the premium technology and experiences often only associated with high-end models."

Ease of sharing and enjoyment

Xperia M features Sony's one-touch functions, allowing you to easily and instantly enjoy photos and music across an array of devices, such as Sony's SBH20 wireless stereo headset and latest range of NFC-enabled BRAVIA TVs, with just a single touch.

Premium, signature Sony design

Xperia M boasts Sony's now familiar OmniBalance design, first introduced in flagship Xperia Z. The aesthetic language takes the form of a precision-crafted skeleton frame, and gives the phone a seamless look that is both tactile and sleek. Designed to complement the slim style, Xperia M also features colour-changing illuminations that can be personalised to visually alert you to incoming calls, text messages and alarms.

Xperia M and Xperia Mdual will be available in Black, White and Purple - a Yellow colour variation will also be available for the single SIM model.

Key features for XperiaM
 One-touch functions with NFC and screen mirroring, to display content on your TV or to share music and photos between devices Sony's OmniBalance design, with generous 4" FWVGA touchscreen display and LED illuminations Sony's signature audio enhancement technology ClearAudio+, xLOUD and 3D Surround Sound (VPT) 5 megapixel fast capture camera with auto-focus and HDR for photos, and dedicated shutter key Fast performance with dual-core processor Battery STAMINA Mode for outstanding battery life Available in Black, Purple, White and Yellow colour variationsConsistent Sony entertainment experiences

Xperia M benefits from Sony's media applications, offering consistent entertainment experiences across mobile, tablet, desktop and console platforms. The "WALKMAN", Album and Movies apps provide online and offline content through a single access point with new ways to enjoy and share that content. The "WALKMAN" application provides access to all your downloaded music, plus Music Unlimited* with over 18 million songs to explore, and Facebook social integration. The "Movies" application gives consumers access to over 100,000 movies and TV series from Video Unlimited*. The "Album" application enables easy access to Facebook friends' photos, as well as the ability to organise images both by location and, through the new "Faces" function, by the people that feature in them.

Sony's entertainment technology turns content into experiences, and withXperia M you can enjoy these experiences for longer thanks to Battery STAMINA Mode. The latest version of Sony's battery management technology improves the standby time of your smartphone by four times or more**, by automatically shutting down battery-draining apps whenever the screen is off and starting them up again when the screen is back on.

Xperia Mdual
The Dual SIM variant Xperia Mdual lets users select between two SIMs before making a call or sending a message with just a single click. Each SIM card can also be customised separately - for example, a formal ring for business or another tune for pleasure - perfect when users want to separate work from play, and handle calls more efficiently.

Xperia M and Xperia Mdual from Sony Mobile will both be available worldwide from Q3 2013.


