
 
Sony has revealed a slew of new camcorders touting cutting-edge specs. While three 3D camcorders were announced, the HDR-TD10 is the flagship model and is touted by Sony as the world's first "Double Full HD" 3D consumer camcorder thanks to its double Sony G lenses, double "Exmor R" CMOS image sensors, and double BIONZ image processors. The camera also sports 3.5-inch Xtra Fine LCD 3D touch screen that enables users to view 3D footage sans glasses. Storage-wise, the unit will ship with 64GB of flash memory and hit shelves this April for around $1,500. 

Sony also introduced three Handycam models featuring video projectors built-in to their 3-inch flip-out LCD panels which can display footage in sizes of 60 inches diagonally from 18ft. away. When combined with the integrated stereo speakers with so-called Clear Phase and S-master digital amplifiers, these cameras are designed to provide an ideal playback experience without a TV. The HDR-PJ50V features the largest amount of storage in the series with a 220GB hard drive and will be available this April for $1000. The 32 GB HDR-PJ30V and 16GB HDR-PJ10 will be available slightly later in March for $950 and $700 respectively. 

Rounding out the camcorder news is the HDR-CX700V video enthusiast-level unit, featuring a 16:9 Exmor R CMS image sensor, wide angle Sony G lens, and 60p/24p recording. This unit will ship with 96GB of flash memory and also be available in March for about $1,300. The reality is that these models are just the tip of the Sony Camcorder announcement iceberg though, so for all the details feel free to read the PR below and browse through the gallery. 


 




Show full PR textSONY REINVENTS ITS HANDYCAM® CAMCORDER LINE WITH A FULL HD 3D SOLUTION AMONG OTHER BREAKTHROUGH MODELSProjector and Enthusiast Camcorders Also Join Industry-Leading Video Capture FamilyLAS VEGAS (CES BOOTH #14200), Jan. 5, 2011 – Sony today unveiled a lineup of feature-packed Handycam® camcorders that redefine the way consumers capture video and photos, including its first foray into the consumer world of 3D. Sony is the only company that can deliver motion pictures and live action sports in 3D – and then provide a similar experience to consumers at home or on-the-go. Significant technological advancements enhance the new camcorder portfolio, yielding innovative devices that offer unique digital imaging solutions. In addition to a Full HD 3D Handycam consumer camcorder with a glasses-free built-in 3D LCD, a built-in video projector model and a video enthusiast consumer model highlight Sony's camcorder lineup. "This year's lineup really breaks the mold of what conventional camcorders can do," said Andy Bubala, director of the camcorder business at Sony Electronics. "Adding to Sony's comprehensive line of 3D solutions, our Handycam products answer consumer needs as well as create new demand, setting Sony apart from the competition."Handycam Headliners: Full HD 3D, Projection, Film-Like ProductionCreating a new standard in video creation and playback, three new additions bring 3D technology, a video projector and enthusiast solutions to Sony's industry-leading high definition lineup.Sony's HDR-TD10 is the world's first "Double Full HD" 3D consumer camcorder. The camcorder employs an integrated dual lens system, which includes two of each key component - double Sony G Lenses, double "Exmor R" CMOS image sensors, and double BIONZ® image processors.The dual recording system allows 3D content to be recorded in 1920x1080 Full HD resolution and viewed with 3D active glasses on 3D-capable HDTVs or in Full HD 2D on non-3D displays. All 3D footage can also be played back without glasses on the camcorder's 3.5-inch Xtra Fine LCD™ 3D touch screen. In addition to other innovative features, 10x optical zoom with Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization with Active Mode and iAUTO are offered in 3D mode. Providing 64GB of flash memory, the HDR-TD10 will be available in April for about $1500.Sony's new Handycam camcorders with a built-in video projector offer the ultimate playback experience, even on the go. A compact, LED-based projector is built into the 3-inch flip-out LCD panel, maintaining the camcorder's compact size, and allows video and images to be projected at up to 60 inches (diagonally; when projected 18ft. away) onto walls, ceilings, or other flat surfaces. Stereo speakers with Clear Phase™ and S-Master™ digital amplifiers produce clear, dynamic sound and when combined with the integrated projector, provide a whole new way to enjoy video playback without needing to plug into an HDTV. The HDR-PJ50V with a 220GB Hard Disk Drive will be available in April for about $1000, while the HDR-PJ30V with 32GB of flash memory and HDR-PJ10 with 16GB of flash memory will be available in March for about $950 and $700, respectively.Sony also introduced the video enthusiast-level consumer camcorder, HDR-CX700V, with hallmark Handycam features – "Exmor R" CMOS image sensor, Wide Angle Sony G Lens, Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization with Active Mode, Highlight Share, iAUTO – and new technologies like 60p/24p recording, PMB portable (compatible with Mac in April), built-in USB cable, Tracking Focus, and Event Browse for automatic grouping of your content by events for easy playback.Borrowed from Sony's professional products, the camera boasts film-like shooting with 24p native recording, along with advanced features such as CinemaTone Gamma and CinemaTone Color presets, Expanded Focus, Zebra and Peaking settings for more precise video expressions. Additionally, a newly developed 16:9 "Exmor R" CMOS sensor realizes a wide angle of up to 26.3mm (35mm equivalent) and higher megapixels for video and photos. With 96GB of flash memory, the HDR-CX700V will be available in March for about $1300.Advanced Optics & Intelligent Features With sleek designs and best-in-class features such as its high-speed BIONZ® imaging processor, Sony's camcorder family offers unparalleled performance. Across the entire lineup, the following technologies will be integrated:* iAUTO for automatic selection of optimal camcorder settings in different environments by detecting the camcorder's surroundings and continually optimizing settings in real-time for a variety of unique scenes* Extended Zoom for longer zooming capability, in addition to Optical zoom* Direct Copy to create your own video library on external Hard Disk Drive without a PC* Built-in USB cable and software for easy web upload and quick charge (except HDR-TD10)* Large 3-inch LCD display for easy viewing and touch operation (HDR-TD10 has a 3.5 inch LCD)* Auto lens cover & power-on just by opening the LCD* Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization with Active Mode in HD models and SteadyShot with Active Mode in SD models, reducing the effects of hand shake for dramatically smoother video footage even while walkingSony continues to offer superior engineering in its HD models, even at entry level. In addition to the above, all new HD Handycam models will feature the back-illuminated "Exmor R" CMOS sensor for stunning low light performance, Golf Shot for a rendering of your swing in up to 22 images, Wide Angle Sony G Lens (26.3mm for HDR-CX700V/560V; 29.8mm for the rest of HD models), and 60p recording, in addition to capturing content in full 1920 x 1080 high-definition video recording at up to 24Mbps, the highest bit-rate offered by the AVCHD™ format. All HD Handycam camcorders will also be equipped with new features like Event Browse for automatic grouping of contents by events, Highlight Playback & Share for simple highlight reels, and Tracking Focus, which maintains focus of moving objects. Similar to Face Touch, where you can select a person in the frame to be prioritized, you can touch a subject in the shot, such as a dog or vehicle. A vital part of good video is optimal sound, and with deep roots in audio innovation, Sony brings exceptional sound to more of its camcorder models. Now many Handycam camcorders will be equipped with a high quality built-in microphone with 5.1ch surround system, stereo speakers with Clear Phase and S-Master technology, wind noise reduction, and a mic/headphone jack.HIGH-DEFINITION LINEUPSony will offer attractive entry-level HD camcorder options in both hard drive (HDR-XR160) and flash memory (HDR-CX160 and HDR-CX130) formats. The HDR-XR160 features a 160GB hard drive for up to 66 hours of HD video (LP mode), while the HDR-CX160 has 16GB of embedded flash memory for up to six hours of HD video (LP mode), and the HDR-CX130 allows for customizable capacity with the purchase of a memory card. These camcorders are packed with features including:· ¼-inch "Exmor R" CMOS Sensor with "ClearVid" array· 30X optical zoom lens and 42X extended zoom· 3.3-megapixel still photos· 29.8mm Wide Angle G Lens (35mm equivalent, video mode)· Wind Noise Reduction· Mic jack (except HDR-CX130)· 5.1ch microphone and stereo speaker (HDR-XR160 only)The HDR-XR160 will be available in April for about $600, while the HDR-CX160 and HDR-CX130 will be available in March for about $500 and $450, respectively. The HDR-CX130 will come in black, blue, and silver.Sony will also offer the HDR-CX360V, with 32GB of flash memory and the following step-up features:· 7.1-megapixel still photos· Embedded GPS to track destinations on a map with built-in GPS antenna and NAVTEQ® digital maps for Geo-tagging video and photo · LED video light & flash· 24p recordingRepresenting Sony's high end camcorder, Sony will offer the HDR-CX560V, with 64 GB of embedded flash memory for up to 26 hours of HD video (LP mode). This camcorder adds the following features:· 1/2.88-inch "Exmor R" CMOS Sensor with "ClearVid" array (16:9 ratio)· 12.3-megapixel still photos· CinemaTone Gamma, CinemaTone Color presets· NightShot· Built-in flash· Assignable dial for manual control (Iris/Shutter/Exposure/WB/Focus)The HDR-CX560V and HDR-CX360V will be available in March for about $1100 and $800, respectively. These camcorders and their accessories will be available at Sony Style® retail stores, online through www.sonystyle.com and at authorized dealers nationwide.STANDARD DEFINITION MODELSSony refreshed its standard-definition lineup with three new flash memory-based models offering up to 16GB of capacity, including the 16GB DCR-SX85, 4GB DCR-SX65 and the DCR-SX45 which allows for customizable capacity with the purchase of a memory card. These high-performance models have features found across the line, including a built-in USB cable and PMB portable software, 3-inch LCD touch panel wide screen (230K resolution), SteadyShot® image stabilization with Active Mode, Direct Copy, Carl Zeiss® lens, auto lens cover, iAUTO, and Extended Zoom. They also employ 60x optical zoom, Face Detection, and an on-board video light.The DCR-SX85, DCR-SX65, and DCR-SX45 camcorders will be available in February and cost about $280, $250 and $230, respectively. The DCR-SX65 and DCR-SX45 models will be offered in blue, black, and silver. The top-selling 80GB DCR-SR68 hard disk drive model will continue from last year, in red and silver. These camcorders and their accessories will be available at Sony Style® retail stores, online through www.sonystyle.com and at authorized dealers nationwide.BETTER StORAGE AND Post-Shooting OPTIONSIn addition to the hard disk drive or built-in flash memory, all of Sony's new camcorders can record video and still images directly to Memory Stick PRO Duo™ media, Secure Digital (SD), or SDHC media card (all sold separately).Also featured on all HD and SD models, the Direct Copy feature lets you copy footage directly from Handycam camcorders to any brand of external hard disk drive (USB2.0; under2TB) via a USB cable (VMC-UAM1; sold separately), when connected to AC power, for PC-free back-up and archiving. Video stored on the external HDD can be played back through the camcorder for viewing on a compatible TV. The Handycam camcorders are also compatible with Sony's VRD-MC10 and VRD-MC6 Multi-Function DVD Recorder, as well as the VRD-P1 DVDirect® Express DVD writer, offering quick and easy ways to transfer home videos directly to DVD without a computer. Plus, with the addition of the new BD-Cube DVDirect VBD-MA1 Blu-ray Disc™ burner, AVCHD content from your Handycam camcorder can now be transferred to Blu-ray Disc for playback on a Blu-ray Disc player and for easy archiving.Handycam camcorders are compatible with both PC and Mac® computers. Mac users can transfer AVCHD content and edit video clips in HD quality using iMovie® software (sold separately). For PC users, the bundled Picture Motion Browser ("PMB") software allows viewing, editing, organizing and uploading images to many major video and photo sharing Web sites.Editor's Notes:For additional information about Sony products, your readers can call toll-free at (888) 222-SONY, or visit Sony's web site at www.sonystyle.com. Press releases and digital images are available for the news media at Sony Electronics? news and information web site at www.sony.com/news.Facebook? is a registered trademark of Facebook Inc.YouTube and Picasa are trademarks of Google Inc.
 