
 
What a way to celebrate 25 years of the Handycam brand, right? Out of absolutely (almost) nowhere, Sony has just upended the entire prosumer camcorder universe, and it may very well sway you from purchasing that Canon EOS 7D for video purposes. For all intents and purposes, this is Micro Four Thirds for your camcorder, but since Olympus and Panasonic own that specific technology, Sony's left calling the NEX-VG10 an "interchangeable lens HD camcorder." Moreover, it's the first Handycam to sport an Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor (the same one found in the NEX-5 and NEX-3), and it'll shoot 1080p (1,920 x 1,080/60i at 24Mbps, if we're being precise) with a wealth of E-mount and A-mount lenses. When not handling live action, it's also capable of snapping stills at 14.2 megapixels, and the 18-200mm lens that's bundled with it is about as versatile as they come. Budding videographers will also appreciate the Quad Capsule Spatial Array Stereo Microphone (yes, seriously), not to mention the 3-inch swivel display, Optical Steadyshot image stabilization, BIONZ processor and twin accessory shoes. There's no internal storage to speak of, but it will accept SDHC / SDXC (huzzah!) in addition to MS Pro Duo. Get ready to get wowed this September when it lands for around $2,000. 






Show full PR textCAMCORDER REDEFINED: SONY DEBUTS WORLD'S FIRST CONSUMER INTERCHANGEABLE LENS HD CAMCORDERSAN DIEGO, June 13, 2010 – Following the 25th anniversary of its industry-leading Handycam® product line, Sony today announced the innovative NEX-VG10 Interchangeable Lens HD Camcorder. The new NEX-VG10 is the world's first consumer camcorder with interchangeable lenses and the first Handycam camcorder to feature an extra-large Exmor™ APS HD CMOS sensor."The NEX-VG10 takes Sony's Handycam line to the next level by allowing unprecedented artistic expression that isn't possible with conventional consumer video cameras," said Andy Bubala, director of Sony's camcorder business. "With this camcorder, video enthusiasts and photographers can now capture cinematic full HD movies and premium stereo sound."Sony's NEX-VG10 Interchangeable Lens HD Handycam® Camcorder is equipped with the same Exmor™ APS HD CMOS sensor used in the "NEX-5" and "NEX-3" digital cameras and compatible with the high grade "E-mount" series of smaller, lighter lenses optimized for video shooting with silent operation and AF. It is also compatible with a wealth of "A-mount" interchangeable lenses used by Sony's existing α DSLR camera lineup via a mount adapter (sold separately), including award winning Sony G Lenses and Carl Zeiss® branded lenses.Coupled with Sony's powerful BIONZ® processor, the camcorder's Exmor™ APS HD CMOS sensor realizes high resolution video and 14 megapixel still images. Approximately 19.5 times bigger than the standard sensor found in conventional camcorders, the APS HD CMOS sensor enables an extremely shallow depth of field. This allows videographers to achieve cinematic results with stunning background defocus (bokeh). Users can also enjoy DSLR-quality photo capture with features like Auto HDR, Handheld Twilight, and Anti Motion Blur, as well as catch fast action sequences with a continuous burst rate of up to seven fps.The NEX-VG10 can capture full 1920x1080 high definition video at up to 24Mbps for amazing clarity and detail, ideal for recording on to Blu-ray Disc™ media. It also comes with an E-mount 18-200mm lens optimized for video shooting that offers a powerful 11x optical zoom in addition to a silent auto-focus system and Optical Steadyshot™ image stabilization with Active Mode for superior versatility. Satisfying the needs of serious videographers, sound quality matches the stellar imaging performance of the NEX-VG10. Its Quad Capsule Spatial Array Stereo Microphone uses advanced processing algorithms to combine signals from four individual microphone capsules. The result is exceptionally clear stereo audio with high directional response, allowing videographers to capture more sound from their subject and less background noise. The camcorder also features dedicated inputs for optional external microphones and headphones to monitor sound levels. The camcorder's TruBlack™ technology brings remarkably higher contrast and brightness to its 3.0" Xtra Fine LCD™ swivel display, delivering more natural, realistic colors and easier viewing in bright conditions. The LCD is supplemented by a high-resolution adjustable electronic viewfinder that helps framing, monitoring and capturing clear images.Compact and easy to handle, the NEX-VG10 gives videographers the flexibility of a removable lens with the ergonomics and operability of a Handycam camcorder. An intuitive jog dial and hotkeys make it easy to navigate menus and adjust shooting parameters, including full manual control of Iris, Shutter Speed, Gain and White Balance for professional results. Dual accessory shoes (Alpha Hot Shoe/Universal Cold Shoe) allow for many still photography and video accessories, such as the ECM-CG50 shotgun microphone and external flash lighting. There's also a choice of rechargeable battery options, including the NP-FV100 that provides up to 315 minutes of continuous HD shooting (may vary), and a specially designed soft carrying case. Included with purchase as a download voucher ($99 value), Sony Vegas® Movie Studio HD Platinum 10 video editing software includes powerful tools for video compositing, color correction and sound mixing to produce cinema-quality HD movies with ease. You can also share your creations via DVD, Blu-ray Disc™ media, or upload to the web – all from one simple program.The NEX-VG10 accepts both Memory Stick PRO Duo™ (including Memory Stick PRO-HG Duo™) and SD (including both SDHC and SDXC formats) media. Users can record up to four hours of high definition footage (1920x1080, FH mode) when using the 32GB memory card.Sony's Memory Stick PRO-HG Duo HX offers an industry leading 30MB per second transfer rate, which means Handycam users can upload video clips in a fraction of actual playback time.Price and AvailabilityThe NEX-VG10 will be available in September for about $2,000 and presales on www.sonystyle.com will begin July 14. They will also be available at Sony Style® retail stores and at authorized dealers nationwide.
 