
 Sony may have teased American photographers by launching the NEX-3N and Alpha A58 in Europe, but it's not cruel: both interchangeable lens cameras are coming to the US this April. The NEX-3N will cost a relatively frugal $500 when bundled with the camera's signature motorized, 16-50mm f/3.5-5.6 lens. Venturing into DSLR territory with the Alpha A58 will cost an only somewhat dearer $600 when paired with a refreshed 18-55mm, f/3.5-5.6 kit lens that's quieter and less error-prone than its ancestor.

 Both A- and E-mount cameras will also be getting a similar raft of accessories for the US unveiling. An RM-VPR1 remote commander comes in April for $65, while a compact HVL-F20M flash is due in May for $150. A-series photographers will have no shortage of lenses to choose from -- they'll get cracks at both a stand-alone version of the 18-55mm lens and a new 50mm f/1.4 prime in May for respective prices of $220 and $1,500, while a 70-400mm f/4-5.6 telephoto zoom is coming in July for an eye-watering $2,200.



  Show full PR text   Sony Introduces the α NEX-3N: The World's Smallest and Lightest Interchangeable Lens Camera with an APS-C Size Sensor
  Stylish New Camera Features Advanced 16.1 MP APS-C Sensor, Fingertip Zoom Control, New Auto Object Framing and more
  SAN DIEGO, Feb. 25, 2013 – Sony's new α NEX-3N digital camera delivers professional quality photos and Full HD videos in an ultra-compact body weighing in at just under 7.5 ounces, making it the world's smallest and lightest interchangeable lens camera with an APS-C size sensor*.
  The new NEX-3N camera will be offered as a kit with the sharp, compact SELP1650 motorized zoom lens, offering the ultimate package of portability and performance in a compact system camera. The camera features a newly added zoom lever on top of the body, allowing for smooth fingertip control of lens focal length. The lever can also adjust digital zoom on the camera if a powered zoom lens (SELP1650 or SELP18200) is not being used.   The powerful, 16.1 effective megapixel APS HD CMOS sensor in the new NEX-3N camera is identical in size to those found in traditional DSLR cameras. Its large surface area takes in more light during image capture, allowing the camera to produce flawless, low-noise photographs with blurred backgrounds and highly detailed full HD videos (60i/24p). It also boosts maximum camera sensitivity to ISO16000, resulting in exceptional low-light shooting performance.   "The new NEX-3N is the ideal camera to introduce consumers to the creative world of interchangeable lens photography, offering new levels of performance and convenience never before realized in a mirrorless model," said Mike Kahn, director of the Alpha business at Sony. "By pairing the camera with our retractable SELP1650 lens, loading it up with a host of our newest, most advanced technologies and offering it at a great price point, we've created a palm-sized powerhouse that promises outstanding value for our customers."
  The NEX-3N camera debuts new Auto Object Framing technology, which allows shooters to create professionally framed photos with each composition. This innovative feature identifies the main object of the framed scene – whether it's one person, two people or even macro and moving subjects – and then automatically trims the scene around the object to create a professionally-styled composition. The cropped photo is then boosted to full resolution using Sony's unique By Pixel Super Resolution technology, which uses pattern matching to maintain superb image detail, tones and textures. Both the original and cropped image files are saved for review.   Additionally, the NEX-3N model is built with an evolved BIONZ processor that utilizes the same area-specific noise reduction technology featured on Sony's acclaimed full-frame α99 camera. The high-power processor individually adjusts level of noise reduction and sharpness in different imaging areas, assuring crisp, ultra-low noise handheld shots in all types of lighting situations without loss of detail.
  The NEX-3N is also the first E-mount interchangeable lens camera from Sony that offers support for new "TRILUMINOS Color". This allows consumers to experience a dramatically expanded palette of vivid, ultra-realistic colors when videos and still images from the camera are played back on any BRAVIA TV with support for "TRILUMINOS Display".
  Other convenient essentials include a crisp, bright, 7.5cm (3.0-type) LCD screen that flips 180 degrees for hassle-free self-portraits, as well as a new, easy-to-hold textured grip.
  Shooters can now choose from a range of 13 high-quality E-mount lenses available for use with the NEX-3N camera to realize its full creative potential. The line-up includes a variety of telephoto, zoom, wide angle, and macro lenses manufactured by both Sony and Carl Zeiss® to suit any shooting situation. Each model blends superb optical performance with elegant styling to complement the E-mount camera line.
  Pricing and Availability
  The new NEX-3N compact digital camera will be available this April in black and white in a kit with the motorized 16-50mm zoom lens (model SELP1650) for about $500.
  The camera kit and a range of compatible E-mount lenses and accessories including the LCS-SB1 sling bag will be available at Sony retail stores (www.store.sony.com) and other authorized dealers nationwide.
  Sony Introduces Speedy α58 Digital SLT Camera Featuring New 20.1 MP APS-C Sensor Powered by Translucent Mirror Technology
  Exciting New DSLT Model Features OLED Viewfinder, up to 8 fps shooting, Auto Object Framing and more
  SAN DIEGO, Feb. 25, 2013 – Lightweight, easy to use and packed with a variety of powerful imaging capabilities, the new Sony SLT-A58 camera is an ideal choice for consumers eager to explore the world of DSLR-style interchangeable lens photography.
  The new α58 camera is the latest to feature Sony's acclaimed Translucent Mirror Technology, which delivers a potent combination of fast shooting, non-stop phase detection autofocus and continuous live image preview during still and full HD video (60i/24p) shooting. This innovative technology also allows the camera to shoot sharply focused images at up to eight frames per second (in Tele-Zoom High Speed Shooting Mode), ensuring that every important detail of any precious moment is fully captured.
  At the heart of the new α58 camera is a brand new, highly advanced 20.1 (approx.) effective megapixel Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor teamed with an improved BIONZ image processing engine, which individually adjusts levels of noise reduction and sharpness in different imaging areas. This powerful combination of sensor and processor gives the camera an extra-wide sensitivity range of ISO 100 to 16000, and ensures that it can produce exceptionally detailed, low-noise still images and full HD videos in all types of lighting conditions.
  "With the new α58 model, we are bringing unparalleled levels of performance, speed and design to the world of affordable-class DSLR cameras," said Mike Kahn, director of the Alpha business at Sony. "Featuring our innovative Translucent Mirror Technology, a brand new, high-resolution image sensor and a variety of new, convenient technologies all packaged at a great price, it is perfect for consumers looking to upgrade from the world of point-and-shoot cameras or replace an older DSLR."
  To improve the framing, focusing and image playback experience, the α58 camera features a bright new OLED Tru-Finder electronic viewfinder. Using the EVF, shooters can instantly see the result of adjusting exposure compensation, aperture, ISO, white balance, Picture Effect and other parameters while they are composing - not afterwards. It's a great teaching and learning tool, and a huge help for framing and creating that "perfect shot" with full confidence.   To complement its high-speed shooting capabilities, the α58 camera has a high-performance 15-point AF system that features new Lock-on Autofocus technology for speedier, more accurate subject tracking. This makes it easier for shooters to focus on and capture fast moving subjects like birds in flight, kids playing sports and virtually everything in between.
  The new α58 also introduces new Auto Object Framing technology, an evolution of the innovative Auto Portrait Framing feature introduced last year in Sony's lineup of interchangeable lens cameras. With Auto Object Framing, the α58 camera judges what's in the scene – one person, two people, even moving objects or macro subjects – tracking, framing and cropping the shot to create powerful, professionally-framed compositions. Cropped photos are boosted back to full resolution using Sony's unique By Pixel Super Resolution technology, and both the original and re-composed image files are saved for review.
  Additionally, the new camera features a total of 15 artistic 'in-camera' Picture Effect treatments including Toy Camera, Mono and Partial Color and much more, all of which can be accessed instantly from the mode dial.
  The α58 model is Sony's first A-mount interchangeable lens camera that offers support for new TRILUMINOS Color, which allows consumers to experience an expanded palette of colors when content from the camera is played back on any BRAVIA TV that supports TRILUMINOS Display.   The Sony A-mount camera system now features a total of 35 interchangeable lenses - including several Carl Zeiss® and G-series optics - that offer the ultimate in performance, sharpness and clarity.
  Pricing and Availability
  The α58 digital camera will be available as a kit with a brand new 18-55mm zoom lens (model SEL18552) this April for about $600 at Sony retail stores (www.store.sony.com) and other authorized dealers nationwide.
  Sony Adds Three New-Generation A-Mount Lenses to α Interchangeable Lens Camera System
  Sharp New Lenses include Full Frame 70-400mm G Telephoto Zoom, Full Frame 50mm F1.4 Carl Zeiss Prime and DT 18-55mm Standard Zoom
  SAN DIEGO, Jan. 22, 2013 – Sony is extending the range of its α A-mount interchangeable lens camera system with the introduction of three new lenses designed to fit the needs of the most demanding photo enthusiasts and professionals.
  New models include the 70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II and Carl Zeiss Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM lenses, designed to complement the impressive imaging capabilities of Sony's full-frame α99 SLT (Translucent Mirror) camera. Additionally, the DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM II lens is a light, compact 3x zoom that's an ideal partner for all A-mount cameras with APS-C size sensors.
  New 70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II telephoto zoom (model SAL70400G2)
  Ideal for capturing wildlife and action-packed sports, the new, upgraded 70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II super-telephoto zoom lens builds on the premium performance of its predecessor with enhanced optics and faster, more responsive autofocus. The lens features a new LSI drive circuit and faster AF responsiveness, making the ultimate choice for capturing crisp, sharply focused still images and Full HD videos of fast moving subjects.
  The new-generation SAL70400G2 lens also features Sony's proprietary Nano AR Coating on its optical surface. Offering around five times the efficiency of conventional anti-reflection coatings, it reduces flare and ghosting for exceptionally high-contrast images.
  New Carl Zeiss Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM (model SALF0F14Z)
  The new Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM prime lens joins the existing Distagon 24mm, Planar 85mm and Sonnar 135mm in Sony's A-mount range of prime length optics by Carl Zeiss. With a fixed 50mm focal length and extra-bright F1.4 aperture, the premium lens is an ideal choice for professional-quality portraiture and low-light shooting.
  Featuring eight lens elements in five groups with two aspherical elements, the brand new optical design on the SAL50F14Z lens is optimized for use with Sony's full-frame α99 camera. The lens maintains exceptional resolving power and contrast at all apertures, and utilizes a rear-focus system to focus smoothly, quietly and effectively. It is also dust- and moisture-resistant, extending the appeal to a wide range of outdoor shooting applications.
  New DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM II zoom lens (model SAL18552)
  With second-generation styling, the new SEL18552 lens succeeds the popular DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM that was introduced in 2011. The light, compact 3x zoom lens maintains the same smooth AF motor (SAM) as its predecessor with a quieter AF drive, ideal for continuous AF during video capture. It also features newly-designed rear lens elements that reduce flare and ghosting, and upgraded mechanical elements for more comfortable operation.   New Accessories for Sony Cameras and Camcorders
  Sony has also introduced two new accessories compatible with a growing range of α A-mount and E-mount, Cyber-shot™ and Handycam® models.
  The new HVL-F20M external flash, a new space-saving on-camera flash compatible with all Multi Interface Shoe mounted cameras (includes relevant A-mount, E-mount and Cyber-shot models) is ideal for brightening up portraits, interiors and dimly-lit scenes. Despite its compact size, the new flash is packed with several pro-style features including wireless control, simple bounce operation and Auto White Balance compensation for more accurate, natural-looking white balance. The flash can also be turned on and off easily either by raising or lowering the flash head.
  The new RM-VPR1 wired remote commander features convenient controls for zoom (with relevant models) and video recording start/stop, and includes a shutter lock function that's ideal for long-exposure 'bulb' shooting with α cameras.
  Pricing and Availability
  The new SAL70400G2 telephoto zoom lens will be available this July for about $2200. The SAL50F14Z prime lens and SAL18552 zoom lens will be available this May for about $1500 and $220 respectively.
  The HVL-F20M compact flash will be available this May for about $150, and the RM-VPR1 wired remote commander will be available this April for about $65.
  The Sony α family of cameras, camcorders, lenses and accessories can be purchased at Sony retail stores, online at www.store.sony.com and at all other authorized retailers throughout the Sony dealer network.
 
