
 Normally when the giants of the entertainment industry team up, it's to record "We Are The World"-- but not this time. Sony, Panasonic, X6D and Samsung are forming a supergroup that makes the Traveling Wilburys seem small-time. They're forming the "Full HD 3D Glasses initiative," a project to standardize 3D glasses. Currently, we have wholly incompatible active-shutter models based on different technologies, which the consortium wants to replace with a unified standard that will let you use the same pair of spectacles on any display or at any theater that uses the Xpand 3D standard. The doors open on the joint testing center later this month, which will check and approve products to the program, gaining the logo you see before you as a badge of honor.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Licensing Program for 'Full HD 3D Glasses Initiative' Kicks into High Gear  09 November 2011, Panasonic Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, Sony Corporation and X6D Limited (XPAND 3D) today announced that the licensing program of "Full HD 3D Glasses Initiative", an industry-wide initiative to standardize 3D active shutter glasses for consumers, has recently begun. 		Infrared (IR) and Bluetooth® enabled radio frequency (RF) system 3D active glasses technologies are licensed within the licensing program. All information including licensing fees and process requirements to become a licensee, are available on the Initiative's official website and the application can be submitted on the same web as follows; 		Full HD 3D Glasses Technology License Licensor　		website: www.fullhd3Dglasses.com 		In early August, Panasonic, Samsung, Sony and XPAND 3D announced their intent to collaborate on the standardization of RF and IR system protocols between consumer 3D active shutter glasses and 3D displays such as televisions, personal computer monitors and projectors, as well as 3D theaters utilizing XPAND 3D active shutter glasses. Twelve companies, of which are Changhong Electric Co., Ltd.; FUNAI Electric Co., Ltd.; Hisense Electric Co., Ltd.; Hitachi Consumer Electronics Co., Ltd.; Mitsubishi Electric Corporation; Royal Philips Electronics; Seiko Epson Corporation; Sharp Corporation; SIM2 Multimedia S.p.A.; TCL Corporation; Toshiba Corporation and ViewSonic Corporation have expressed their support for the activities of the Initiative. 		With the successful launch of the Full HD 3D Glasses Initiative licensing program, a test center has been slated to open later this month, which will verify the compliance of any products manufactured under the new Full HD 3D Glasses Initiative license program-within the Initiative's specifications.		Notes to editors 		About Full HD 3D Glasses Initiative		The Full HD 3D Glasses Initiative-formed in 2011 by Panasonic Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Sony Corporation and X6D Limited (XPAND 3D)-will set a new technology standard for consumer 3D active shutter glasses, aiming to provide consumers with a more convenient and high-quality 3D viewing experience. By developing and licensing a standardized 3D active shutter technology, the Initiative aims to achieve interoperability among any 3D active shutter products that are developed and manufactured using the Initiative's technology and that bear a distinct logo designated by the Initiative. For more information, please visit http://www.fullhd3dglasses.com/.
 