
 
It's a Super 35mm world, and we're all just trying to fit in frame. At least, it will be once Sony's done expanding its lineup of cinematic shooters. Last week it was the "affordable" PMW-F3, and now the company is teasing the NXCAM HD, a decidedly professional-oriented camcorder with a Super 35mm equivalent large format CMOS sensor nestled behind an E-mount interchangeable lens system. It'll record to AVCHD in 1080p at frame rates covering all the majors: 23.98, 29.97, and 59.94, along with 25 and 50. All progressive, natch. Sony is planning to release this boxy beast in the middle of 2011 and plans to make it "affordable" for professionals as well. See what good a little competition can do?

[Thanks, Demetri]

 

Show full PR textSony to expand 35mm large format sensor camcorder lineup"NXCAM" HD camcorder under development, featuring E-mount lens systemSony Corporation announced today that it is developing a new type of E-mount interchangeable lens camcorder for professional use that is equipped with a Super-35mm equivalent large format CMOS sensor. This new addition to Sony's professional "NXCAM" line will be available in the middle of 2011.Already a key player in the 35mm digital cinematography business with the highly acclaimed "CineAlta" F35 and SRW-9000PL for high-end digital cinema production, Sony has just strengthened its lineup in this category with the recent PMW-F3 announcement. In addition to this, with this new "NXCAM" HD camcorder now (still under development), Sony looks to further strengthen its position in the entry-level segment by providing an affordable yet highly capable professional solution for many applications including independent film, music video and corporate communications all looking for the cinematic look.This "NXCAM" HD camcorder under development will be equipped with a Super-35mm equivalent sensor, a widely used film stock size in the film industry that is perfectly designed for capturing motion picture. This new sensor will have extraordinary performance in terms of picture quality and sensitivity, and is able to create rich "Bokeh" effect (beautifully defocused image) that is perfect for artistic story-telling in motion picture.Thanks to the adoption of the E-mount interchangeable lens system that is identical to the "α" series NEX-5, 3 and "Handycam" NEX-VG10, the E-mount lenses will be compatible with this new professional camcorder. In addition, a very short flange back distance (the distance between lens mount surface and sensor surface) let various "α" A-mount lenses be mounted via a mount adaptor (LA-EA1). Furthermore, it is also possible to attach many other lenses using third-party mount adaptors*1. With such flexibility, users will be able to experiment with various creative expressions by exploiting the characteristics of different optics.*1: Not all types of adaptors and lenses are guaranteed.The recording format for this new HD camcorder will be AVCHD, a widely supported format by many non liner editing software vendors and the same format as HXR-NX5 "NXCAM" camcorder. There is also a plan to implement 1080p (60p / 30p / 24p*2 or 50p / 25p) recording modes. (MPEG4-AVC/H.264 compression will be used for these modes.)*2: 59.94p / 29.97p / 23.98p respectively."NXCAM", "α" and "CineAlta" are trademarks of Sony Corporation."Handycam" is a registered trademark of Sony Corporation."AVCHD" is a trademark of Panasonic Corporation and Sony Corporation
 