
 
On the surface it doesn't look like much separates Sony's new 21.5-inch VAIO J all-in-one from the growing number of touchscreen AIOs on the market, but it's definitely one of the more head-turning options out there. Like its 24-inch L Series, the VAIO J has a 1920x1080-resolution display and a Blu-ray drive, but the larger model now packs a 2.66GHz Intel Core i7-620M CPU, up to 8GB of RAM, and NVIDIA discrete graphics options with 512 vRAM. It also has a 7,200rpm 500GB hard drive and boots Windows 7 Premium, though Sony has added its touch-friendly Media Gallery software layer. The best news? While the L starts at $1,300, the J will arrive next month with a $900 starting price. Sure, there are cheaper models out there, but when doesn't Sony demand a few extra bucks for its good looks? On that note, we'll leave you with some polished press shots and the full PR after the break. 






Show full PR textSONY UNVEILS NEW ENTRY-LEVEL PRICED TOUCH-SCREEN PC VAIO J All-In-One Puts Music, Photos and Blu-ray Disc Movies One-Touch AwaySAN DIEGO, June 8, 2010 – Sony today unveiled its new, affordable touch-enabled, multi-media machine- the VAIO® J Touch All-In-One PC.With the VAIO J Series' multi-touch screen, easy access to your PC, HD movies- your entire entertainment hub- is readily at your fingertips. Equipped with a 21.5-inch (diagonal) 1920x1080 widescreen panel, the unit displays high-definition content in Full HD. Select models feature a Blu-ray Disc™ optical drive so you can enjoy movies in stunning 1080p high definition. "The J Series changes the way consumers interact with their PC enabling them to tap, drag, zoom, rotate and engage with their content and entertainment like never before," said Mike Lucas, senior vice president of the VAIO business at Sony. "And with its attractive price point, this cutting-edge technology will reach a whole new audience."The J Series comes with three unique hardware buttons-VAIO, ASSIST and DISPLAY OFF to get you to where you want to go with a touch of a button. Launch directly into Sony's own Media Gallery software by pushing the designated VAIO button and simplify your music library. With Media Gallery you can automatically create 21 unique channels of music based on beat, tone, rhythm and other elements. It also enables you to rediscover forgotten favorites by recommending content you already own based on your unique listening and viewing habits.Facilitate simple do-it-yourself PC maintenance procedures by pressing the ASSIST button and launching the included VAIO Care™ software program. Finally a DISPLAY OFF button is included so you can turn off your screen for privacy or to perform nighttime applications without sending your PC into hibernation. By utilizing built-in wireless 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi technology and your wireless router (required, sold separately), you can position the model virtually anywhere in your home and access the Internet, email or home network.A built-in webcam with face-tracking technology and microphone let you video chat with colleagues. Included Webcam Message Board software makes it easy to create video messages or leave handwritten notes on the screen. A third-party internet service provider is required.The unit packs a powerful 2010 Intel® Core™ processor (select models), loads of RAM, and an optional dedicated NVIDIA® GeForce ® series graphics for graphic-intense gaming and movies. It comes with Windows® 7 Home Premium or Professional 64-bit operating system. Featuring a stylish, compact design the PC comes with an adjustable stand to help you adjust it to meet your desired viewing or touch angle or simply to decrease the slant for space-saving. A wireless keyboard and mouse that can easily be stored under the unit's display are included. The VAIO® J Touch All-in-one PC will start at about $900. It is available for pre-orders today online at www.sonystyle.com/pr/jseries. It will also be sold at Sony Style® stores and select retailers around the country starting next month. ###Editor's Note: For complete specifications and digital images, members of the news media are invited to visit Sony Electronics' news and information web site at www.sony.com/news. For all things VAIO visit www.sony.com/jseries. For information on BackstageSM, Sony's in-store VAIO PC services and repairs division, log onto www.sonystyle.com/backstage. 
 