
 
 Sony is continuing to build out its NXCAM video camera line with the new interchangeable lens NEX-EA50EH, a surprise entrant that's aimed firmly at the run and gun professional crowd. It sports the same APS-C Exmor CMOS sensor as other cameras in the NEX line, and has notably added a rocker-style zoom lever for its brand new SEL18-200PZ 11x E-mount Servo Zoom Lens. That item is one of the first large sensor servo zooms we've seen, and packs continuous variable isis, auto focus and "Optical Steady Shot" active image stabilization. Another eyebrow-raiser is the model's still photo flair, with the ability to shoot 16MP RAW stills, a mechanical shutter with its own release button and a flash hot-shoe all squeezed in. Video is recorded up to 60fps at 1080P in AVCHD 2.0, presumably at 28 or 17 Mbps, to SD/SDHC/SDXC cards, Sony Memory Sticks or Sony's dedicated external SSD unit, which attaches to the camera. All that is topped off by an onboard shotgun microphone, a shoulder mount form factor and $4,500 price point (which has already changed twice on B&H). That means a lot of event or ENG pros who want large sensor results -- without all the DSLR foibles -- may be sorely tempted. See the PR and video after the break for all the details.



  Show full PR text   Sony expands NXCAM range with an affordable and versatile interchangeable lens camcorder
   The new NEX-EA50EH offers creative, high quality images for a range of applications, featuring a large format sensor, E-mount lens system and a new form factor

  Basingstoke, UK, August 17th, 2012: Sony is pleased to unveil the latest addition to the professional NXCAM range of camcorders, the NEX-EA50EH. This versatile new camcorder offers the ultimate flexibility in lens selection thanks to its interchangeable E-mount lens system.

   The large format Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor gives the user creative freedom when shooting Full HD movies and high-quality still photos. The new form factor enables users to shoot in a way that suits them best, allowing them to switch quickly between handheld and shoulder configuration without the need for additional accessories.

   "This all-in-one camcorder brings a new level of creativity to a wider range of professional users than ever before," said Bill Drummond, Sony Europe. "It combines affordability and high performance with a range of versatile, professional features for many applications, including event production, budget movie making and corporate production."  The Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor produces high quality, creative movie images with low noise and high sensitivity in low light conditions. It also enables 1080 progressive and interlace recording with 60/50Hz selection (50p/25p/50i or 60p/30p/24p/60i)*.

   By capturing 16.1 megapixel still pictures with higher picture quality and rich post-processing capabilities. In addition, the NEX-EA50EH has a built-in mechanical shutter to realize high-speed shutter while capturing still pictures.

   The NEX-EA50EH incorporates the Sony E-mount interchangeable lens system, which enables auto focus, auto exposure and stabilisation during shooting. With its short flange back distance, it is possible to attach both established A-mount lenses via the LA-EA2 lens mount adapter, and an unrivalled choice of other brands lenses using third-party adapters.  The unique design of the NEX-EA50EH further adds to the camcorders versatility. When the shoulder pad is extended, the camcorder can be balanced on the shoulder giving added stability for longer shooting times. Alternatively, when the shoulder pad is returned to the original position, the camcorder becomes compact enough to use in various handheld styles allowing users to capture a wide variety of shots.

   The NEX-EA50EH camcorder comes with the newly developed Power Zoom E-mount lens E PZ 18-200mm F3.5-6.3 OSS SELP18200. It features auto focus, continuous variable iris and Optical Steady Shot image stabilisation with Active Mode, making it ideal for shooting moving images. It is electronically controlled by both the zoom rocker lever on the camcorder grip and top handle. Film-makers can achieve a constant zoom speed and smooth, slow zoom, both of which can be difficult to accomplish with manual zoom lenses. In addition, using fixed focal length lenses users can simulate a zoom effect using the smart digital zoom function, ensuring fast-paced shots are never missed.

   The NEX-EA50EH features a range of professional functions usually associated with NXCAM camcorders, such as 2-channel XLR audio (the ECM-XM1 Shotgun microphone is included with the NEX-EA50H), Linear PCM audio, time code, user bit and built-in GPS. In addition, Sony's HXR-FMU128 flash memory unit can dock directly to the camcorder for simultaneous backup recording. The camcorder is compatible with the new Mirroring Memory Stick (MS-PX64/32/16) which is the world's first memory card featuring a "Mirroring" function. This enables the card to deliver high reliability and data security through a dual recording (mirroring) function. This new professional memory card will be available in 3 different capacities: 16GB; 32GB and 64GB.

   The NEX-EA50EH will be available from Sony Professional Solutions Specialists in October 2012.  For more information on the PX Series, please visit:  http://www.sony.net/Products/memorycard/en_eu/px/index.html.

   

