
 
According to Sony, your Ultimate Weapon when it comes to schooling fools on the FPS battlefield is a 3D surround sound headset. Just like its newly minted DR-GA500 above, what a coincidence! Coming with a separate box to process your computer's audio into a 7.1-channel surround sound environment, this mic-equipped set of cans is targeted squarely at gamers looking to optimize every last inch of their fragging experience. There's also a GA-200 model that makes do without the extra audio processing. Both variants share the super special "triple enfolding" padding design, which is intended to make the headgear comfortable for prolonged use. Prices and retail dates aren't yet available, but just to underline that gaming connection one extra time, Sony will be bundling a free copy of the latest Medal of Honor with these 'phones starting in mid-October.
      

 

Show full PR textSony Unveils Ultimate Weapon Gaming headsets with unique Sony surround technology17 August 2010• DR-GA500 model features 7.1ch digital surround sound perfect for first person shooters (FPS)• DR-GA500 and DR-GA200 have 40mm drive units for premium gaming sound quality• Both showcase unique 'triple enfolding' design for unrivalled comfort over long periods of wearSony is launching two very special headsets into the gaming sector. Each has been designed in response to extensive user research that shows what different gamers want from the ideal headset.The DR-GA500 combines a Dolby Pro Logic IIx decoder with unique Sony Virtual Phones™ Technology (VPT) to create convincing 7.1ch 3D surround effects. The signal processing hardware is contained in a compact external unit.The result is a soundscape rich in precision spatial detail that pinpoints everything from a stealthy footstep to the position of an exploding grenade. This audio environment is perfect for first person shooter (FPS) games where what you can hear is often as important as what you can see.DR-GA500 brings out the highest gaming performance with its superb sound quality. It is something you can't forget, if you really want to win the game.And as every gamer knows, any advantage you can gain can make the difference between winning and losing.Both the DR-GA500 and GA200 headsets will also appeal to an audience of strategy and online multiplayer games where long stretches of gameplay are the norm. They feature 40mm drive units for outstanding sound quality with resonant, living bass and crisp high frequencies, plus the Sony 'triple enfolding' design for the last word in comfortable wear.Both headsets share exceptional visual appeal thanks to a striking and individualistic design that sets them apart from the competition. The design features durable materials and is as practical as it is eye-catching, but the real secret is the comfort factor.The Sony triple enfolding design has its origins in user research underlining the importance of ventilation and avoiding pressure on the ear. It means long sessions of wear without the growing distraction of discomfort.Both models incorporate a high quality, compact boom microphone to complete the ideal feature set for the most demanding of gamers.
 