
Here at CEDIA 2013, Sony has just announced three new SXRD projectors, including two 4K models and one for the 1080p crowd. If you must have the highest res video output, only the new VPL-VW1100ES and VPL-VW600ES will do, with both tossing a DCI-approved 4,096 x 2,160 pixel count at the nearest display surface. The VPL-VW1100ES (pictured above) updates the VPL-VW1000ES introduced two years ago and remains at the top of Sony's projector line, bringing a bundled 4K player for a tidy $28,000. The VPL-VW600ES arrives with similar specs to the model introduced in Europe last month, offering that high pixel count with lower brightness and contrast levels in a smaller frame. As a result its $15,000 pricetag is lower too, although an option to bundle the FMP-X1 4K player and tablet controller will add an extra grand on top of that. The old VPL-VW1000ES is getting some love to, with a "premium service activation" program that brings HDMI 2.0, the new media player, a Sony tablet and a replacement lamp.


If your display space or budget aren't 4K ready yet the VPL-HW55ES continues Sony's 1080p line with "enhanced optical efficiency" and an improved cooling system that should make the lamp last longer, all for a price of $4,000. All three projectors are going on sale through custom installers, with the VPL-HW55ES due in October and the VPL-VW600ES in November. If you're looking to upgrade the VPL-VW1000ES however, you're encouraged to check back in October to set up that service appointment. Check after the break for the complete specs, and check out the gallery for an in-person look.



Show full PR textSONY'S NEW FRONT PROJECTORS ELEVATE STANDARDS ON THE 4K HOME THEATER EXPERIENCEHigh-Resolution Audio Components, TVs and HD Projectors for Custom Installers Raise Expectations Among the Discriminating Home Entertainment Enthusiasts
DENVER, Sept. 26, 2013 (CEDIA Booth #1100) – Sony Electronics today announced three home theater front projectors for the custom install channel. The VPL-VW1100ES and VPL-VW600ES 4K front projectors join the High Definition VPL-HW55ES home projector as the leading SXRD-based, large-format displays for the home. Like their predecessors, these projectors are designed to bring the high quality, immersive images of a big screen cinema experience into the home.

"Each year, we come to CEDIA to deliver innovative, high performance products for the custom install channel," said Mike Lucas, senior vice president of Sony Electronics' Home Entertainment & Sound division. "Our ES line-up continues to raise the bar on what the most discerning home entertainment enthusiast expects from Sony, whether they want to enjoy the best picture quality or unmatched sound, we have the right solution for every environment."

Sony VPL-VW1100ES 4K Home Theater ProjectorTwo years ago, Sony introduced its first home theater front projector capable of displaying stunning 4K images. That 4K projector has been updated and is now debuting as the VPL-VW1100ES 4K home theater projector. Specifically designed to support the evolving 4K Ultra HD standards, this new model is also available bundled with the Sony 4K Ultra HD Media Player (model FMP-X1) used to access, download, store and play back 4K content from the Video Unlimited 4K service.

Still designed to meet the needs of custom installers and exceed the expectations of home entertainment enthusiasts, the VPL-VW1100ES delivers an immersive visual experience with four times the resolution of HDTV, and its 2,000 ANSI-lumens of brightness makes it suitable for screen sizes up to 200-inches diagonally. With outstanding black levels due to Sony's Iris 3 technology and advanced SXRD panels, the projector can achieve an incredible 1,000,000:1 dynamic contrast. This projector offers a variety of installation options and includes dual triggers, a 2.1x motorized zoom, expanded lens shift, an RS232 interface, control over IP and compatibility with leading home automation systems.

Priced at $27,999.99, the VW1100ES projector also uses Sony's Reality Creation picture engine to dramatically enhance all video content regardless of source, however it also integrates the latest HDMI standard to support 4K/60p playback for smoother images when watching fast moving action content. Furthermore, the VPL-VW1100ES has an exclusive upscaling algorithm designed for "Mastered in 4K" Blu-ray™ discs from Sony Picture Entertainment, which enable the viewer to enjoy more accurate 4K picture quality from HD content delivered on Blu-ray discs. For greater versatility, it can also display Full HD 3D movies, as well as 2D and 3D anamorphic films.

Sony is also highlighting its support for owners and dealers of the VPL-VW1000ES 4K home projector by offering a premium activation service package which includes an in-home service visit, a Sony 4K Ultra HD Media Player (FMP-X1), a Sony Xperia Z Tablet as a controller, and a new replacement lamp. The updates are designed to ensure compatibility with Sony's Video Unlimited 4K download service available through the FMP-X1 player. The updates also ensure compatibility with 4K/60p content from future broadcast or home video sources. Customers should contact their dealer or installer beginning in October for more details and to schedule their premium activation service visit.

Sony VPL-VW600ES 4K Home Theater ProjectorThe VPL-VW600ES home theater projector, like the VW1100 and VW1000 models offers Full Digital Cinema Initiative (DCI)-based 4096 x 2160 resolution, delivering a cinematic 4K experience. The VPL-VW600ES projector boasts 1,700 ANSI-lumens of brightness and a 200,000:1 contrast ratio. The projector has rich color reproduction thanks to TRILUMINOS™ display, an enhanced optical engine design, and auto-calibration and manual color correction features to allow installers to adjust the hue, saturation and brightness to obtain and maintain a customized picture quality. Also, meeting the latest HDMI® standard, it supports 4K native resolution at 60 frames per second. Dramatically improving the viewers' experience, the Reality Creation engine for 4K upscaling enhances both the "Mastered in 4K" Blu-ray Discs and high definition 1080p content including 3D video.

The VPL-VW600ES sports a compact, installation-friendly design, offering technology integrators and end-users more options for placement, especially in replacement situations. New features such as front-exhaust, a 2.06x powered zoom lens, and a wide lens shift range provide further installation flexibility and remarkable performance in nearly every screening room. For 3D viewing, the VW600 includes a built in RF transmitter which conforms to the "Full HD 3D Initiative" industry standard and uses the same glasses as Sony's 3D Bravia televisions. Available in November for $14,999.99, this projector is optimized to work with Video Unlimited 4K, which is only available in the US. It may also be purchased as a package that includes a Sony FMP-X1 4K Ultra HD Media Player and a Sony Xperia Z Tablet for $15,999.99.

"Sony knows from our experience in the custom install channel that not every screening room will be part of a new construction, but we also know that home projector enthusiasts are eager to bring 4K entertainment home," said Andre Floyd, manager in Sony Electronics' Home Front Projector Group. "The innovative design and proven technology in the VPL-VW600ES allows us, with our Custom Install Solutions channel partners, to deliver the cinema experience to more homes than ever before."

Sony VPL-HW55ES HD 3D Home ProjectorFor smaller screening environments, the VPL-HW55ES home projector is the next generation of Sony's industry-acclaimed and multiple-award winning VPL-HW50ES from 2012.

Enhanced optical efficiency and an improved cooling system enables longer lasting lamp (approximately 5,000 hours) and reaches 1,700 ANSI lumen of brightness, delivering clear images, even in well-lit environments. With its proven optical engine and Advanced Iris 3 technology, the new workhorse of Sony's front projector line achieves a dynamic contrast ratio of more than 120,000:1. This improves black levels without diminishing peak brightness to maximize detail during darker scenes. This projector also has Sony's Digital Reality Creation picture engine and delivers the superior picture quality in SD, HD or 3D. The VPL-HW55ES will be available from custom installers throughout the U.S. in October at $3,999.99.

Because you care about musicSony's CEDIA booth is also filled with the latest in audio technology such as its latest high resolution audio components, the handcrafted SS and ES speakers and our ground breaking line of A/V Receivers which incorporate home automation technology. Cutting-edge products are demonstrated by industry experts, illustrating the company's continued commitment to both high-end home entertainment enthusiasts and the dedicated custom installers who service them.

For full specifications and a list of dealers, please visit www.sony.com/es.For high-resolution images, visit www.sony.com/news.

###


