
  Major changes are afoot over at Sony. After rebranding its mobile division, the firm has also now moved aside the former Ericsson exec who initially came with it. Kunimasa Suzuki will replace Bert Nordberg as CEO of Sony Mobile on May 16th, after leaving his current role as Executive Vice President at Sony proper. Nordberg will still have a hand in the division, taking on the role as Chairman of Sony Mobile Communications' board. Sony's Xperia S might be fresh-faced, but it's soon to come up against stiff competition -- the handling of which will no doubt be Suzuki's first true test.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Sony Mobile Communications Announces New Leadership Kunimasa Suzuki named new President and CEO and Bert Nordberg to become Chairman of the Board  04 April 2012  LONDON, UK – April 4, 2012 – Sony Mobile Communications today announced that Kunimasa Suzuki has been named President and CEO of Sony Mobile Communications, effective 16 May 2012, and Bert Nordberg, currently President and CEO, will step down from the leadership of the company. Bert Nordberg will become Chairman of Sony Mobile Communications' board.  As announced by Sony Corporation on 27 March, Corporate Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Kunimasa (Kuni) Suzuki, will assume responsibility to oversee planning and design of all Sony's consumer products and services, with the aim of strengthening horizontal integration and enhancing the user experience across Sony's entire product and network service lineup. His responsibility includes overseeing the mobile business that Sony has identified as one of its core electronics business areas, including smartphones, tablets and PCs.  "Kuni has a vast experience in product planning and management in the information technology and mobile product business, as well as experience of cultivating business in emerging markets," said Kazuo Hirai, President and CEO of Sony Corporation. "He is a strong leader and the right person to oversee Sony Mobile Communications as we establish a new business structure as 'One Sony' intended to reinforce and accelerate our overall business management."  "Bert Nordberg has done an outstanding job in transforming Sony Ericsson, now Sony Mobile Communications, from a feature phone to a smartphone company," continued Kazuo Hirai. "I have enjoyed working with Bert and I would like to thank him for his vital contributions over the years, and I am glad that he will become the Board's chairman to support Kuni and the management team of Sony Mobile Communications during these critical phases of the company's integration with the wider Sony Group."  "During my years with Sony Ericsson and now Sony Mobile Communications, I've seen the mobile industry change at a rapid pace. We've shifted the company from feature phones to a smartphone company, and established Xperia™ as the Sony smartphone with consumers and operators around the world," said Bert Nordberg, outgoing President and CEO of Sony Mobile Communications. "Sony is a content, electronics and entertainment powerhouse and it has been a pleasure being part of the Sony team during both the joint venture and through the transition of becoming Sony Mobile Communications."  "Sony has identified digital imaging, game and mobile as the three core pillars of its electronics business, and smartphones are a cornerstone of this strategy," said Kunimasa Suzuki, Corporate Executive Officer, Executive Vice President of Sony Corporation. "I look forward to working more closely with our global operator customers and everyone at Sony Mobile Communications to drive the company's business and bring outstanding connected entertainment experiences to consumers around the world."  From 16 May 2012, Kunimasa Suzuki will assume the role of President and CEO of Sony Mobile Communications in addition to his role as Corporate Executive Officer, Executive Vice President of Sony Corporation. Kunimasa Suzuki will be based in Lund, Sweden and Tokyo, Japan.  Yoshihisa (Bob) Ishida will continue to serve as Deputy CEO and Kristian Tear will continue to serve as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Sony Mobile Communications.  "Sony" and "Sony Entertainment Network" are registered trademarks or trademarks of Sony Corporation. "Xperia" is a trademark of Sony Mobile Communications. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  About Sony Mobile Communications Sony Mobile Communications is a subsidiary of Tokyo-based Sony Corporation, a leading global innovator of audio, video, game, communications, key device and information technology products for both the consumer and professional markets. With its music, pictures, computer entertainment and online businesses, Sony is uniquely positioned to be the leading electronics and entertainment company in the world. Through its Xperia™ smartphone portfolio, Sony Mobile Communications delivers the best of Sony technology, premium content and services, and easy connectivity to Sony's world of networked entertainment experiences. For more information: www.sonymobile.com
 