
 We got a peek at Sony's 2013 HDTV lineup during CES in January, and now the company has announced they're starting to roll out and confirmed official pricing. The new sets add features like NFC, MHL and Miracast support to certain models, while the top of the line W900A is its first to use Quantum Dot technology in combination with edge LED lighting. Sony's brought back its old Triluminos brand name for the technology, which it claims provides a wider color gamut while keeping prices quite a bit lower than its last TVs to rock the tag, the now-retired XBR8 series.

 There's no word on the XBR series, but in the lower W- and R- lines the KDL-W900A is the only one with Triluminos. It also brings an extra long internal speaker duct for improved sound and standard NFC remote, and the 55-inch model will carry an MSRP of $3,299. The step down W802A version keeps MHL standard, has the NFC remote as an option and comes in 55- and 47-inch versions that start at $1,799. The 32-inch W650A will ship for $799. The R-Series dodges some of the higher end features, but some still include 3D, WiFi, RVU and the Sony Entertainment Network suite of apps including Netflix, Hulu Plus and more. The R550A has all that and is available in 70-, 60- and 50-inch versions that start at $1,399. Hit the source link for info on more models, or just keep an eye out on (digital) store shelves as these leak into retail.



  Show full PR text   SONY's 2013 BRAVIA® TVs START ARRIVING IN STORES  New Series Loaded With Features to Entertain Deliver Sony's Best HD Picture Ever
  Triluminos Display with Quantum Dots Provides Widest Color Spectrum for Life-Like Pictures
   SAN DIEGO, Mar. 17, 2013 – Following through on its product introductions in January at CES 2013, Sony today announced the arrival of its new core 2013 BRAVIA® HDTV line-up, including the debut of two new series of LED TVs created for viewers looking for an amazing high definition entertainment experience. The new models in the W- and R-series offer consumers Sony's unique combination of technology and content services, delivering life-like picture quality and immersive audio. Arriving at Sony Stores and electronics retailers nationwide now through May, consumers can enjoy these new models for as low as $399.

   "Sony continues to deliver pioneering technologies to consumers, providing superb picture quality with rich, vibrant images that bring TV to life," said Mike Lucas, senior vice president, Sony Electronics' Home Division. "This year, Sony lends its storied audio technologies to the television line, along with such engaging experiences as OneTouch screen mirroring that let viewers instantly show content from their phones and other NFC-enabled devices. We invite consumers to go to stores and audition the brand, side by side with others, and let their own eyes and ears discover the Sony difference."

   Innovation Delivers Better Viewing

   The W series of LED BRAVIA televisions includes the KDL-W900A, KDL-W802A and KDL-W650A. In addition to being Wi-Fi enabled, all W-series models utilize Sony's acclaimed X-Reality PRO picture processor which ensures the TV displays unprecedented detail and astonishing color regardless of the content source. This series also employs Motionflow XR™ for the best experience when viewing fast action television programming and gaming.

   New in 2013, the W900A TV incorporates TRILUMINOS Display LED backlighting to present rich, authentic color with subtle tones while also replicating bold colors including hard-to-reproduce reds, blues and greens. By integrating Quantum Dot* technology with Sony's own unique display technologies, the W900A delivers a significantly wider color gamut and provides a far more natural and vivid viewing experience with a heightened sense of depth.

   Lastly, the W900A model integrates a unique long duct speaker cabinet design. The long 1.2m speaker duct is cleverly folded into a compact unit that's hidden neatly behind the TV screen. Though the speakers are hidden, the newly-designed speaker cabinet reproduces rich bass and lower midrange sounds, adding extra punch and depth to action movies, music and dialogue and producing the bass extension of a much bigger, bulkier speaker.

   All W-Series TV models include screen mirroring via Wi-Fi, with the W900A model shipping with an NFC remote, and an optional NFC remote available for the W802A television. Additionally, all three series are MHL-ready for wired mirroring capabilities.

   The KDL-W900A model comes available in a 55-inch screen size at a suggested retail price of $3,299. The KDL-W802A model is available in both 55-inch and 47-inch screen sizes, and starts at $1,799. The KDL-W650A model comes in a 32-inch screen size and a suggested retail of $799.

   HD for Every Room in the House

   Sony's R-series BRAVIA LED HDTVs include several options for consumers looking for feature-rich TVs with Sony's famed picture quality, each driven by Sony's Clear Resolution Enhancer technology, delivering a superb high definition resolution and a vivid, clear, life-like picture. The KDL-R550A LED HDTV with 3D is Wi-Fi connected, enabling consumers to wirelessly access a full array of Sony Entertainment Network services and other services, including Netflix®, HuluPlus™, Pandora®, and more. In addition this series is RVU compliant, meaning DirectTV™ customers with Genie™ Whole-Home HD DVR can access their set-top box, DVR and on-demand services right from the KDL-R550A TV without the need for additional equipment. Also, with wireless screen mirroring (Miracast™) and passive 3D (including four pairs of glasses), the model is available in 70-inch, 60-inch and 50-inch sizes, representing new sizes and performance from Sony, and start at a suggested retail price of $1,399. Also available with the same feature-set, in 70-inch and 60-inch sizes, minus 3D capability is the KDL-R520A model, starting at $1,999. Additionally, the KDL-46R453A, KDL-40R450A and KDL-32R400A models also debut with excellent picture and a bevy of features, including screen mirroring via MHL (Mobile High Definition Link) cable sold separately, and starting at $399 represent a great value for consumers.

   *Quantum Dots is a technology of QD Vision, Inc., as is also known as Color IQTM. It is an advanced light emitting semiconductor technology developed by QD Vision, Inc.

   Find more about Color IQ™ http://www.sony.net/infociq

   For further details and ordering information, please visit http://store.sony.com. For additional media information including photo assets, please visit http://www.sony.com/news.

 
