
With the launch of its new flagship phone, the Xperia Z1 (and a slew of other products), Sony has had its hands full at IFA. But the day is still young, and there are accessories yet to be launched, like a new Bluetooth wireless speaker and a set of premium noise-canceling headphones. The "splash-proof" speaker comes with five color choices and One-Touch listening, allowing users to pair it with NFC-capable devices. Additionally, three models of the MDR-10R headphones will be available this fall: standard, noise-canceling and Bluetooth. Interested parties can grab the speaker for $130 when it launches tomorrow, but you'll have to wait until October to get your paws on the headphones, which will retail for $200 for the basic version and $270 for the noise-canceling variety. The Bluetooth, NFC-ready headset will hit shelves in November with a sticker price of $250. To learn more, you can check out the product pages (linked below) or the press releases after the break.


Follow all of our IFA 2013 coverage by heading to our event hub!


Show full PR textSony Introduces New Wireless Ultra-Portable Bluetooth® Speaker With One-Touch Listening Using NFC TechnologySony Electronics - 09/04/2013

NEW YORK, Sept. 4, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony today introduced the new splash-proof SRS-BTS50 ultra-portable Bluetooth® speaker with Near Field Communication (NFC) technology, designed to stream powerful, dynamic sound experiences from compatible smartphones, tablets and computers on the go.

With Sony's One-Touch Listening, the speakers use NFC technology to easily pair and connect any NFC-enabled smartphone1 or tablet, with a simple touch, eliminating the complex pairing process. Once paired, NFC makes connect or disconnect a breeze.

The new speaker can also stream music wirelessly from iPhones® and iPads® as well as Android™ smartphones and tablets that are not NFC equipped, via Bluetooth by pairing using the traditional Bluetooth pairing method.

Enjoy Music to Your Ears OutsideLightweight yet durable, the new SRS-BTS50 portable Bluetooth speaker with an internal rechargeable battery that will last up to 10 hours on the single charge is the perfect complement to your outdoor activities. Whether hiking with friends, spending the day at the beach, or enjoying an outdoor party, the SRS-BTS50 speaker gives music lovers the freedom to enjoy their favorite tunes anytime due to its splash-proof2 design that can weather water splashes such as sudden rain.

Shaped for SoundThe SRS-BTS50 speaker is perfect for sharing the music with friends. By simply rotating the speaker to lay flat on any surface the Surround Mode automatically creates an expansive and enjoyable listening experience.

Demonstrating Sony's uncompromising passion for music and commitment to extraordinary sound performance, the new SRS-BTS50 speaker supports aptX and AAC codecs in order to ensure high quality sound while streaming wirelessly.

Pricing and AvailabilityThe new portable wireless NFC speakers will be available September at a suggested retail price of $129.99 in a variety of fun colors including Blue, Red, Pink, White and Black, at Sony online at www.sony.com/bluetoothspeakers, in Sony Stores, and at authorized retailers nationwide. For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/news. Please visit www.sony.com/bluetoothspeakers or Follow #Sonyaudio on Twitter for the latest Sony NFC speaker news. Please also stay tuned to the Sony Blog for upcoming news.

Show full PR textSONY UNVEILS NEXT GENERATION PREMIUM MDR-10 HEADPHONESby Communications 09/04/2013

Sony Music Artists Collaborate to Refine Sound of Premium Headphones

NEW YORK, NEW YORK, September 4, 2013 – Today Sony introduced the next evolution of premium headband-type MDR-10 headphones. Available in digital noise canceling, Bluetooth® wireless with Near Field Communication (NFC) technology and standard versions, the new MDR-10 headphones deliver music lovers a premium audio experience in a more lightweight and portable design that is distinctly Sony.

"Fusing Sony Electronics' expertise in superior sound quality, comfort, and design with Sony Music Entertainment's immersion in current music trends, the new MDR-10 headphones deliver a premium listening experience," said Andrew Sivori, vice president of the Sound Division at Sony Electronics.

Unmistakable Sony Sound

The new MDR-10 premium headphones deliver an enhanced acoustic design, allowing listeners to hear the music the way artists intended it to sound in the studio.

Sony engineers and Sony Music artists identified the critical 30-40Hz sub-bass region that is the signature of today's music styles and developed an enhanced Beat Response Control design for the new MDR-10 headphones, featuring a closed back for maximum isolation and exceptional bass response. With enlarged air vents at the back of each driver, music lovers experience a quick and rhythmic low frequency response.

Featuring a dedicated 40mm HD driver unit, the MDR-10 headphones deliver a wider frequency range with a balanced, highly accurate reproduction of today's up-front vocals, mid-range details, as well as rich, powerful lows and extended highs. The high-definition driver assures ultra-wideband audio performance matching today's high resolution music sources.

The MDR-10 headphones are designed for hours of comfortable listening with pressure-relieving ear cushions, for a supportive, wrap-around feel. They also have a highly effective acoustic seal, further reinforcing the headphones' powerful sub-bass reproduction. There's also a unique hanger structure that moves the headphones' housing axis inward for the ultimate in stable fit and comfort.

Featuring grooved serrations on its surface, the detachable cable provides an innovative design that eliminates friction between cable surfaces and reduces the incidence of frustrating tangles.

Digital Noise Canceling Headphones

By pressing Sony's Automatic Intelligence Noise Canceling technology button, the new MDR-10RNC headphones automatically activates one of three optimal noise canceling modes based on an analysis of ambient noise. Sony's digital signal processing technology effectively reduces up to 99.4% of ambient noise whether on an airplane, on a train or in an office.

The MDR-10RNC digital noise canceling headphones include noise canceling sensors both inside and outside the headphone housing, as well as a digital noise canceling software engine.

The MDR-10RNC headphones offer up to about 20 hours of battery life. Unlike most other noise canceling headphones, the Sony MDR-10RNC model can always be used as standard headphones even when the battery runs out.

Bluetooth® Headset with NFC Technology

The MDR-10RBT Bluetooth® headset brings the same innovative sound processing technologies to music lovers who demand the ultimate in sound quality without wires. Incorporating NFC technology, users can simply tap an NFC-enabled smartphone or tablet to the MDR-10RBT Bluetooth headset to instantly stream high-quality music or crystal-clear phone calls via Bluetooth.

These new headphones also stream music wirelessly from iPhones® and iPads® as well as Android™ smartphones and tablets that are not NFC equipped, once paired through traditional Bluetooth pairing methods.

Demonstrating Sony's uncompromising passion for music and commitment to extraordinary sound performance, the new MDR-10RBT headphones support aptX and AAC codecs to ensure high quality sound while streaming wirelessly.

The MDR-10RBT headphone offers up to about 17 hours of battery life between charges. This model can also always be used as standard high-resolution headphones with a frequency range from 5Hz to 40kHz­ – even without the battery­ – by attaching the supplied audio cable. High-resolution audio helps music lovers conveniently access and enjoy the digital music they love with the best playback quality.

Standard High-Resolution

The new MDR-10R standard headphone model also supports high-resolution audio, with a frequency range from 5Hz to 40kHz. Available in both black and white versions.

Pricing and Availability

The MDR-10R standard headphones and MDR-10RNC digital noise canceling headphones will be available in October 2013 while the MDR-10RBT Bluetooth wireless headphones will be available in November at Sony Stores, including online at http://store.sony.com, and other authorized retailers nationwide at the following suggested retail prices: MDR-10RNC, $269.99, MDR-10RBT, $249.99 and MDR-10R, $199.99. For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/news.


