
 
Alright, it's official, Sony's PlayStation Plus subscription just became a thing worth owning with the new addition of online storage for game saves. It's coming with v3.60 of the PS3 firmware, which we're promised to receive tomorrow, March 10th. You'll be allowed to stash up to 150MB of PlayStation 3 game progress data in Sony's make.believe cloud, which is not exactly a staggering amount, but then it's not like those save files take up that much space. The major attraction that we see here is being able to just plug your account details into any PS3 around the globe and continue your questing in Dragon Age II as if you're still at home. See Sony's press release and instructions on how to use the new cloud saving option after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textPLAYSTATION®NETWORK BRINGS ONLINE STORAGE FOR GAME SAVES EXCLUSIVELY TO PLAYSTATION®PLUS SUBSCRIBERSMarch 9, 2011 – Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC (SCEA) today announced that online storage for game saves will be available exclusively to PlayStation®Plus subscribers, allowing gamers to back up their save data to the cloud. Online storage for game saves will be available with system software update (v3.60) for the PlayStation®3 (PS3™) system, coming on March 10, 2011 and will be automatically enabled for PlayStation Plus subscribers once users install the update.With the new feature, PlayStation Plus subscribers can store up to 150MB of PS3 game save data and a maximum of 1000 data files per PlayStation®Network account. "Copy-prohibited save data" is also supported, and all previously backed-up save data may be restored once per 24-hour period. When the new feature launches, most PS3 titles will be compatible with online storage for game saves, and moving forward new titles will have the capability to offer the storage option.Online storage for game saves ensures that data stored by PlayStation Plus subscribers is more secure than ever and is an integral feature for gamers who wish to access their data on other PS3 systems. Users can check their available/total space at any time via the XMB™ (XrossMediaBar). Users who wish to utilize the feature immediately following the system software update (v3.60), can do so with these instructions:To back-up:1. Select [Game] > [Save Data Utility].2. Focus on the save data you wish to back up.3. Open up the option menu using "triangle" and select [Copy].4. Select [Online Storage] as the destination of back up.To copy:1. Select [Game] > [Save Data Utility] > [Online Storage].2. Focus on the save data you wish to copy.3. Open up an option menu using "triangle" and select [Copy].PlayStation Plus is available for a yearly fee of $49.99, and for a limited time, gamers will also receive 3 free bonus months when signing up for a one-year subscription. Gamers can also subscribe to the 3-month option for $17.99.
 