
 We've already gotten our collective mitts on Sony's Xperia TL, and come November 2nd, you'll be able to do the same by plunking down $99.99 and inking a two-year contract with AT&T. In case you need a refresher, the LTE handset runs a skinned build of Ice Cream Sandwich, packs a 1.5GHz dual-core S4 processor, 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, NFC and a 4.6-inch 720p display powered by the firm's Mobile BRAVIA Engine. Since Sony's smartphone flagship is lucky enough to call itself the official James Bond phone, it'll come stuffed with behind the scenes footage of the upcoming film Skyfall and Bond-themed ringtones, wallpapers and more. For the full lowdown on the Xperia TL's arrival on Big Blue, hit the jump for the press release.



  Show full PR text   Sony Xperia TL available from AT&T beginning Nov. 2
  DALLAS, Oct. 25, 2012 – Beginning Nov. 2, AT&T* will give everyday people the chance to live like James Bond with the launch of the Sony Xperia™ TL for $99.99 with a two-year agreement. Featured in the upcoming 007 film, Skyfall, Xperia TL features Sony's best HD capture and viewing experiences and the ability to share content across multiple devices through One-touch connectivity with near field communication (NFC). A look at Xperia TL's features in action is available in this video.
  The Xperia TL's 13-megapixel primary camera brings even the smallest of details to life. This high resolution fast capture camera takes quality images swiftly with its quick launch feature, going from standby mode (sleep) to first shot in just 1.5 seconds, making sure life's unexpected moments are not missed. Plus, both the rear and front-facing cameras deliver HD recording capabilities for vivid video capture on the go.
  Xperia TL offers Sony's best HD viewing on a smartphone with a superb 4.6-inch HD Reality Display (1280 x 720), powered by the Mobile BRAVIA® Engine for razor sharp clarity and brilliance. The viewing experience on Xperia TL is accentuated by a stylish, sleek form factor that emphasizes the display. For those looking to take their content from their smartphone screen to the TV screen, Xperia TL connects through HDMI with MHL support or wirelessly through DLNA.
  To make enjoying content across devices even easier, Xperia TL supports One-touch connectivity with NFC. Now, you can conveniently and instantaneously enjoy your music and photos across an array of NFC enabled devices by simply touching one to another to establish a wireless connection without a cumbersome pairing process. To get started with the One-touch experience, Xperia TL comes with one Xperia SmartTag in the box. Using NFC technology, Xperia SmartTags let you perform a variety of customizable functions for different locations and situations.
  Featured in the upcoming James Bond cinema release Skyfall, Xperia TL will be used in the film by 007 himself. As the official Bond phone, it will come preloaded with exclusive Bond content which includes behind the scenes footage, interviews, clips, wallpapers, ring tones, and more.
 
