
 
 Sony almost sneaked this one by us at today's IFA press event. In fact, it was never mentioned on stage and practically buried in the day's flood of PR. The HMZ-T2 is the company's next generation wearable 3D display. Aesthetically it doesn't appear very different from last year's T1 and, spec-wise, things seem largely the same as well. Put the head-mounted unit on and you'll be presented with a pair of 0.7-inch OLED monitors that deliver 45 degrees of three-dimensional entertainment. There's also the same Virtualphones tech baked in, that create the illusion of a 360-degree 5.1 surround sound system. The T2 distinguishes itself primarily through a refined design that makes it lighter and more comfortable (without resorting to shape-shifting liquid metal, either). For more, check out the PR below.





  Show full PR text   The all-new, totally enhanced cinema and gaming experience–the Personal 3D Viewer 
   29 August 2012  Sharper display, improved sound and superior comfort with the new HMZ-T2  · Play 2D & 3D movies and games in vivid High Definition  · Enjoy smooth, comfortable viewing with bright, clear OLED screens and a lighter, more adjustable headset  · Get the full atmosphere with virtual 5.1 surround sound   Totally immersive gaming and movies  Now even more light and comfortable, the all-new Personal 3D Viewer from Sony is a head-mounted, High Definition 2D and 3D personal display with virtual 5.1 surround sound. It's perfect for movies and gaming, with twin OLED screens that display vivid, super-sharp images (with zero cross-talk interference) to absorb you in a truly personal experience.

   Clear, smooth, cinematic 3D viewing  The Personal 3D Viewer features dedicated, high response Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) screens for each eye, which reproduces deep, vivid colour tones with sharp contrast and no blurring. And with a 45° field of vision, you'll feel completely immersed in a widescreen cinema experience.

   The HMZ-T2 also has a set of detachable and adjustable light shields for greater privacy and total involvement in your viewing experience. These flexible light shields simply clip on or off the Personal 3D Viewer, and are completely unobtrusive to the headset comfort and design.

   Viewing perfection for film fans or gamers  The Personal 3D Viewer is made for both film enthusiasts and solid gamers. 24p True Cinema mode shows films exactly as the director intended for the big screen, at 24 frames per second. Or, if you're a keen gamer, select the Clear mode for smooth fast-action sequences. Whatever you select, Auto Colour Temperature adjustment gradually lowers image tone intensity from blue to red hues so that you can watch or play your favourite movies/games comfortably for longer hours.

   Lose yourself in 5.1 surround sound  With a choice of sound modes, the Personal 3D Viewer features Virtualphones™ technology to create a 360º natural sound field, just as though you're listening to true 5.1 channel surround sound. There's also Harmonic Equalizer technology built in, which restores audio compression losses in the digital waveform for a fuller, more spacious sound.

   Lighter and more adjustable for wearing comfort  Weighing just 330g, the Personal 3D Viewer is 20% lighter than previous models, with greater options for wearing comfort. It has a highly adjustable headband and forehead support for a secure, gentle fit with positional screen lenses for relaxed and clear 3D viewing. You can also use your own favourite wired or wireless headphones or inner-ear phones to enjoy immersive surround sound.

   "Everything about the HMZ-T2 Personal 3D Viewer is designed for comfort and total immersion," says Naoto Yoshioka, Home Audio Video Senior Product Manager at Sony Europe, "so once you're watching a film or playing a game, you're totally absorbed in the thrilling action and forget you're even wearing the headset."

   Notes to editors

   HMZ-T2Personal 3D Viewer

   Your personal, cinematic home entertainment experience

   · Immersive Full HD 2D and 3D – enjoy a 45° full cinematic widescreen picture  · Smooth 3D viewing – dedicated, high response OLED screens for each eye smoothly display 2D and 3D images without the blurring of image crosstalk  · Virtual 5.1 channel sound – crisp, clear 360º audio with ambient sound, also Harmonic Equalizer audio enhancement and a choice of listening modes  · Vivid clarity and high contrast picture – a TruBlack display creates a clear visual experience  · Watch comfortably for hours – Auto Colour Temperature adjustment lowers image tone intensity for longer play with less eye fatigue  · Adjustable supports for enhanced performance - for optimum comfort, headband and forehead supports are fully adaptable, with adjustable screen lenses for precise 3D viewing  · Use your favourite headphones– make it more personal by using your own wired or wireless headphones or inner-ear phones  · Detachable light shields etacable lwersg mode you select, you'dset[stipeirnce for different kinds of play. for greater privacy– fully detachable and adjustable light shields for total involvement in your viewing experience  · Wireless remote controls– adjust sound and vision, and access the menu wirelessly without breaking from the action  · Play while others watch TV – a dual output switcher means other people can watch TV or films while the wearer plays games (or the other way around)

 
