
Sony is shipping its Bravia X9 line of 4K TVs in the UK this week, and it wants to convey the advantages of all those extra pixels. The solution? Advertising that's as finely detailed as the screens themselves. It's putting micro ads on the fingernails and uniform of tennis player Anne Keothavong as she makes her way through Wimbledon, showing how the extra detail pays off. Few of us will get to see the ads in full clarity, however -- while Sony and the BBC are recording some of the event in 4K, they're playing that footage at an experience zone on the Wimbledon grounds. We're not looking at a decisive marketing coup, then, but those left squinting at home will at least know what they're missing.



Show full PR textSony serves up world-first campaign at Wimbledon
The British public will need to take a closer look at Anne Keothavong during this year's Wimbledon Championship - as the tennis star is sporting micro-sized advertisements.
Sony has launched an unusual campaign to place microtising, the word being a hybrid of microscopic and advertising, on Keothavong in a bid to highlight how every detail matters at this year's Wimbledon.
For the first time ever, parts of The Championships will be shot and recorded in 4k Ultra HD –a cutting edge technology that provides footage with four times greater resolution than that of standard HD – meaning even the smallest detail will stand out. Sony's two flagship 4k models – the 55X9 BRAVIA and 65X9 BRAVIA – launch in-store today.
Anne Keothavong will be sporting the microscopic adverts on her fingernails, hem of her skirt, shoelaces and sporting equipment.
The tennis star, currently ranked as number five within the UK, sees the funny side of the campaign: "This is a real laugh, I've got a lot of friends and family paying attention to the smallest detail – I've had it on my shoe laces, my index finger and the hem of my skirt, but there are a few hidden places no one has noticed yet."
Paul Gyles, Marketing Head of Sony Televisions commented: "With more footage being generated in 4k people are going to see every single detail and get much closer to the action. We thought we'd push it to the limit by running a microtising campaign – proving that Sony televisions can pick up on the smallest details."
"4k Ultra HD is a fairly new technology, and with two new television models available in-store from today it is going to become more commonplace. Marketing campaigns such as this could become a regular occurrence as the market penetration for 4k continues to increase."
Sony has two of its highly popular 4k cameras capturing the action at Wimbledon – the F55 35mm 4k camera and an NEX-FS700.
The microtising campaign will run for the duration of Anne Keothavong's involvement at Wimbledon, with the potential of it being replicated at future sporting events to be filmed in 4k.
Mick Desmond, Commercial Director of the All England Lawn Tennis Club said: "The Championships may be the oldest tennis tournament in the world, but that doesn't mean we're behind the times as proven by the cutting edge 4k Ultra HD partnership we're running in conjunction with Sony this year. We're very proud to be the first tennis tournament – and indeed one of the first major sporting events globally – to embrace this new technology."
The new 55X9 4k Ultra HD BRAVIA and 65X9 4k Ultra HD BRAVIA featuring 4k X-Reality PRO, Magnetic Fluid speakers and Triluminos display are available in-store today. Find out more at local Sony Centres or sony.co.uk

