
 

No one is more pleased than us that Sony has finally seen the light and somehow found a way to condense last year's lineup of 27 TVs to only ten new models for 2012, all due in Q1 2012. All of which fit into either the BX, EX or HX line. We'll start at the top with HX. It is broken up into the HX850 or HX750, both available in 46 or 55-inches. All the HX models are Skype ready (optional CMU-BR100 camera and microphone) include Track ID, have built-in WiFi and provide access to the Sony Entertainment Network (SEN) as well as apps like Netflix and Hulu Plus. The key different between the 750 and the 850 is frameless Monolithic design and Motionflow XR 960 vs the 480 Motionflow flavor on the 750. The EX640 also has Motionflow, but the 240 type, and instead of having built-in WiFi like the HX, there's a dongle in the box. SEN is available on the both the 40, 46 and 55-inch EX640, but no other apps are. Rounding out the lineup on the lower end is the BX450 CCFL back-lit available in 40 and 46-inches and finally the BX330, only available in 32-inches. The complete press release is available after the break, but don't bother looking for any prices, because they aren't there.





 		Show full PR text   SONY's NEW BRAVIA® TVs OFFER SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE – STARTING WITH THE MOST VIVID HDTV PICTURE EVER  New Models – from entry-level to top-of-the-line -- Keep Consumers Connected and Entertained			LAS VEGAS (CES BOOTH #14200), Jan. 9, 2012 – Sony is reaffirming its leadership in the fundamentals of home entertainment, announcing today its new BRAVIA® television lineup. This year Sony introduces three distinct series – the entry-level BX, the step-up EX, and the flagship HX. Each newly introduced model delivers the best picture quality available and offers a range of features to give consumers flexibility in choosing the right entertainment solution. 			"Television consumers have told us the mix of formats and features often creates confusion," said Brian Siegel, vice president for Sony‟s television business. "But, we know that the best part of the TV has always been – and will always be – the picture quality. Sony is cutting through that noise to make TV buying easier: three model lines with very clear differences, each designed to deliver the most premium, best-in-class picture ever."			Innovations in Picture Quality 			The new BRAVIA models offer many of the unique-to-Sony technologies and features that consumers have come to expect from a Sony TV, complemented by new enhancements and additional innovations. 			Select models incorporate Dynamic Edge LED with local dimming and deliver a brilliant Full HD (1080p) picture with increased brightness and outstanding contrast, particularly in best-in- class deep blacks. Sony‟s exclusive OptiContrastTM panel elevates the picture to the front surface of the TV and creates a dark background for rich, vibrant, high contrast pictures even in well-lit rooms. 			Picture quality is further enhanced with Sony‟s X-RealityTM PRO and X-Reality digital video processors. The dual-chip X-Reality PRO optical engine optimizes video sources by utilizing a vast database of signal patterns and comparing incoming signals with ideal scenes to display unprecedented detail and astonishing color. The single-chip X-Reality engine separates incoming video into its constituent parts of outline, texture and color/contrast, and then applies image enhancements to deliver its outstanding picture. Finally, Sony‟s newest version of MotionflowTM XR technology reduces blur caused by quick camera movements, enhancing sharpness and creating a smoother viewing experience for fast-paced sports and movie programming, as well as gaming. 			The Lineup			Sony‟s HX850 and HX750 debut in the first quarter of 2012 and the HX850 carries forward Sony‟s distinctive Monolithic design incorporating Gorilla® Glass by Corning, allowing for thinner, lighter and stronger screen material. Complete with X-Reality PRO and Motionflow XR			960, the HX850 is a fully Internet-connected television with built-in 3D, delivering a premium viewing experience when on, and a stunning addition to home décor even when off.			Consumers wishing to step into Internet-connectivity and Edge LED backlighting need not sacrifice picture quality with Sony‟s out-of-the-box Wi-Fi-ready (adapter included) EX640, debuting in the first quarter of the year. The EX series uses Motionflow XR 240 processing, delivering brilliant Full HD 1080p resolution, and integrates Clear Resolution Enhancer providing a vivid, clear, life-like picture. 			Entry into the Sony line begins with the BX series, with the BX450 delivering a vivid Full HD 1080p picture with bright images and color. Clear Resolution Enhancer and Digital Noise Reduction provide clear, well-defined images with reduced picture noise.			Connected to a World of Streaming Entertainment The connected features of the BRAVIA line let consumers discover more content through the Sony Portal, featuring one-touch access to the Sony Entertainment Network and its Video Unlimited and Music Unlimited streaming services, offering on-demand catalog of over 80,000 blockbuster movies and favorite TV shows, as well as a constantly expanding global catalog of more than 15 million music tracks1. 			From the BRAVIA home screen, consumers also will find easy-to-navigate apps for Netflix®, Pandora®, HuluPlusTM, Amazon Instant Video, YouTubeTM, Slacker® Internet Radio, Crackle and many more, as well as access to social platforms such as Facebook® and TwitterTM. First to market, Sony delivers Yahoo! Broadcast Interactivity, with auto-content recognition, which allows viewers one-click access to TV apps with Internet content related to the programming being watched. This interactive content can include show trivia, viewer votes for fan favorites, purchases of items they see on TV, playing along with a favorite game show, or viewing of related videos and photos. 			BRAVIA HX series models also come with SkypeTM embedded. After connecting the Sony camera and microphone (model CMU-BR100, sold separately) users can enjoy free widescreen Skype-to-Skype video calls with friends and family from the comfort of their living rooms (subject to Skype terms and conditions). Users can also make voice calls while simultaneously watching TV.			The DNLA®-certified and Wireless LAN built-in HX models also easily connect to and share content from mobile devices and computers on the same home network, as well as allow consumers a wide variety of control options via Sony‟s Media RemoteTM and Remote Keyboard apps, for a comfortable, lean-back experience at home. Viewers can „throw‟ a browsed website from a smartphone to the BRAVIA HDTV for easier viewing, and the app allows control of the web cursor with one thumb, tapping for selecting links, and pinching in and out to enlarge or shrink the viewable areas. The apps are available for download from both Android MarketTM and iTunes® App Store, and function as a full remote control with keyboard, allowing easy online content search and playback.			￼			Lastly, the Internet-connected BRAVIA HX TVs ensure consumers will never again have to wonder what song is playing during their favorite movie, TV program, or commercial. Sony‟s Track ID® service powered by Gracenote analyzes any selected song playing on the TV, identifies it, and provides artist, album, and song information. 			New 2012 BRAVIA® models include the following:			BRAVIA® HX850-series LED LCD HDTV with 3D			- Brilliant Full HD (1080p) picture quality with Dynamic Edge LED backlight with Local			Dimming			- X-RealityTM PRO Engine with 3D Super Resolution			- MotionflowTM XR 960 technology			- Frameless Monolithic Design with Corning‟s Gorilla® Glass and OptiContrast Panel			Technology			- Built-in Wi-Fi® (802.11n)			- SkypeTM ready			- One-touch access to the Sony Entertainment NetworkTM and apps			- Screen sizes include 55-inch class (54.6" diag.) (KDL-55HX850), and 46-inch (diag.)			(KDL-46HX850) 			BRAVIA® HX750-series LED LCD HDTV with 3D			- Brilliant Full HD (1080p) picture quality with Dynamic Edge LED backlight with Frame			Dimming			- X-RealityTM Engine			- 4x High Speed 3D Panel with MotionflowTM XR 480 technology			- Built-in Wi-Fi® (802.11n)			- SkypeTM ready			- One-touch access to the Sony Entertainment NetworkTM and apps			- Screen sizes include 55-inch class (54.6" diag.) (KDL-55HX750), and 46-inch (diag.)			(KDL-46HX750) 			BRAVIA® EX640-series LED LCD HDTV			- Brilliant Full HD (1080p) picture quality with Edge LED backlight			- MotionflowTM XR 240 technology			- Clear Resolution Enhancer			- Wi-Fi® (802.11n) LAN-ready with in-box Wi-Fi adaptor			- Sony Entertainment NetworkTM			- Screen sizes include 55-inch class (54.6" diag.) (KDL-55EX640), 46-inch (diag.) (KDL-			46EX640) and 40-inch (diag.) (KDL-40EX640) 			BRAVIA® BX450-series LCD HDTV			- Full HD (1080p) CCFL backlight LCD HDTV			- 60Hz panel with Clear Resolution Enhancer and Digital Noise Reduction			- USB Media Player			- 2 HDMI® inputs			- Screen sizes include 46-inch (diag.) (KDL-46BX450) and 40-inch (diag.) (KDL- 40BX450) 			BRAVIA® BX330-series LCD HDTV			- 60Hz panel with Digital Noise Reduction			- USB Media Player			- 2 HDMI inputs			- Screen size is 32-inchclass (31.5" diag.) (KDL-32BX330)			For further details and pre-orders, please visit http://store.sony.com. For additional media information including photo assets, please visit http://www.sony.com/news/ces.			1Number of tracks from the Music Unlimited catalog varies by country and may be less. 
 