
 

Sony Ericsson has just outed a brand new pair of compact Xperia smartphones. The new Xperia Mini will run Android Gingerbread (2.3) on a 3-inch, multitouch, scratch-resistant display, which comes with Sony's proprietary Bravia Engine with Reality Display. There's a 1GHz processor inside, access to Android Market, and home screen customization with custom shortcuts available in the four corners of the screen. A 30 percent improvement in battery life is also touted, courtesy of a larger cell. SE is also pretty jolly about having the world's smallest smartphone capable of recording video in 720p HD. You'll be able to grab yours in one of four different colors this August.

The new Xperia Mini Pro features the same 1GHz processor, 3-inch display, and 1200mAh battery, but it also adds a front-facing camera and that sliding QWERTY keyboard that made the original X10 Mini Pro such a favorite. The new model is coming at some point in the third quarter of this year. Sony Ericsson's launch presentation is still ongoing, but we'll have more details and hands-on pics as soon as we can.

Update: Hands-on pics and impressions can be found right here!





Show full PR textSony Ericsson unveils next-generation Xperia minisIntroducing two powerful, versatile and compact smartphonesXperia™ mini – the world's smallest HD video recording smartphoneXperia™ mini pro –intuitive fast messaging in a compact smartphoneMay 5th, 2011, London – Sony Ericsson unveils the new Xperia™ mini and Xperia™ mini pro, the latest additions to its Xperia™ family. Building on the success of the original mini series, these innovative smartphones come packed full of features, powered by a 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon™ processor, and run the latest platform of Google's Android™ – Gingerbread 2.3. Beautifully designed, Xperia™ mini and Xperia™mini pro both integrate best-in-class imaging and display technology from Sony, including Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA Engine and HD video recording (720p). The products offer a full multimedia entertainment experience. Xperia™ mini and Xperia™ mini pro enable access to over 150,000 apps on the Android Market™ and has a 3" scratch-resistant, multi-touch glass screen. The improved user interface allows up to 16 apps displayed on the home screen. Facebook inside Xperia™, a feature just announced for the Xperia™ family, provides a unique social media integration.Xperia™ mini pro brings the optimised slide-out keyboard with smart functionality first seen on the Xperia™ pro to a compact smartphone. A subtle but fast Type & Send functionality eliminates the need to open a dedicated app for each type of message, and Smart Keyboard triggers predictive messaging actions automatically when the user slides out the keyboard. Xperia™ mini pro also comes pre-loaded with Office Suite and McAfee antivirus software, letting consumers manage documents and e-mails instantly and securely while on the move. Steve Walker, Head of Marketing, Sony Ericsson said, "We wanted to provide consumers even greater choice across the Xperia™ range, while building on the success of the original mini series. These turbo-charged smartphones now contain even more power, enhanced functionality, a larger screen and premium features unique to Sony Ericsson. They are packed full of features, making them a perfect choice for consumers looking for all the benefits of Android and Sony in a beautiful and easy to use compact form factor."Sony Ericsson also unveils today a new integration, Facebook inside Xperia™, which will be included in the new Xperia™ mini and mini pro and soon to be available across the wider Xperia™ range. Facebook inside Xperia™ integrates social connections throughout the phone, by making Facebook immediately accessible from the most used areas of the phone such as the picture gallery, music player, phonebook and calendar. As people are becoming increasingly reliant on their smartphones for instant communication, Sony Ericsson is enabling people to 'like', share and comment more easily than ever before with Facebook inside Xperia™.Sony Ericsson Xperia™ mini – Key featuresWorld's smallest Android™ smartphone with HD video recordingReality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® EnginePlace up to 16 apps in the corners of your home screenOver 150,000 apps on Android Market™Facebook inside. Keeping your friends closerSony Ericsson Xperia™ mini pro – Key featuresErgonomic keyboard and smart functions for fast messagingHD video and Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® EngineSynch your email and view office documents safely on the goPlace up to 16 apps in the corners of your home screenOver 150,000 apps on Android Market™Sony Ericsson Xperia™ mini pro and Xperia™ mini with HD will be available globally in selected markets from Q3.Check out the Sony Ericsson Product Blog for more information: http://blogs.sonyericsson.com/products
 