
 

Jack Tretton just announced PS3 gamers can get into the 3D game for much less this fall when the company launches a 24-inch monitor and active shutter LCD glasses under the PlayStation brand. $499 gets the monitor, a pair of glasses, an HDMI cable and a copy of Resistance, while additional pairs of glasses -- which are compatible with TVs from other manufacturers and can be used to give two split-screen gamers their own full screen view -- are $69. That's a competitive package to be sure, but many will likely still need to be convinced slipping on the specs is worthwhile, and competitors like Vizio are slipping passive 3D glasses TVs in with similar price points and similar features.

Update: Sony has issued a press release (included after the break) with full specs: it's a 1080p edge LED lit LCD with two HDMI inputs, stereo speakers, an integrated subwoofer and claims to be the first display at this size with "quad speed frame sequential display technology". The glasses charge via USB and will be available at the same time as the screen this fall.





 		Show full PR text 		Sony Computer Entertainment Announces 3D Display to Further Expand the World of 3D on PlayStation®3, Hitting Worldwide Market in Fall 2011  		Display Features a Special Mode Where Players Can View Individual, Unique, Full-Screen Images of Gameplay When Playing Two-Player Games   		TOKYO, June 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE) today announced that it will release a 24-inch 3D Display available this fall in Japan, North America, Europe/PAL territories, and Asian countries/regions. For North America, the 3D Display comes bundled with 3D Glasses, an HDMI cable and the highly anticipated Resistance 3 title from Insomniac Games for PlayStation®3 (PS3®) at an attractive recommended retail price (RRP) of US$499.99. 3D Glasses included in the 3D Display bundle will also be sold separately, concurrently with the 3D Display , at RRP of US$69.99 in USA. Through the introduction of this new product, PS3 users will have easy access to all of their 3D entertainment by simply connecting PS3 to the 3D Display. 		The 3D Display features a 24-inch full HD LCD display and, in an industry first for its size*1, the display adopts quad-speed frame sequential display technology that is able to minimize crosstalk*2 distortion, delivering stunningly realistic 3D viewing experiences. The 3D Display supports several 3D formats, including "frame packing," "top and bottom" and "side by side," which will offer users various options for enjoying 3D. 		The 3D display offers a broad range of other attractive features, including: 		Full high-definition display   		The display features high contrast (5000:1), wide viewing angle (176 degree) high response time (4ms GTG average), delivering users with crisp high-quality image in stereoscopic 3D, as well as in 2D. 		Special feature for two-player mode   		Designed to deliver the ultimate gaming experience only possible on the 3D Display, it utilizes new, proprietary technology, that allows two players playing a multi-player game to see individual, unique, full-screen images of gameplay using the bundled 3D Glasses and supported software title. 		High quality sound   		The 3D Display adopts stereo 2ch+subwoofer speakers that can generate a broad range of sound from low pitch to high pitch. Featuring stereo 2ch incorporated on the side of the screen, right and left sides, and subwoofer on the backside of the screen, users can enjoy games and other entertainment content with high quality and dynamic sound. 		Slim, sleek design   		Adopting edge-LED lighting as the backlight, the 3D Display is 35 mm thin (the thickest part) and features a curved line form factor that is both stylish and unobtrusive in living spaces, complementing the sleek design of the PS3 system. 		3D Glasses   		The 3D Glasses come with a rechargeable lithium ion battery to enable quick and efficient charging time. A three minute charge results in three hours of use, while a 45 minute charge provides 30 hours of use. 		Versatility for the supported devices   		Along with 3D Glasses, the 3D Display comes bundled with an HDMI cable to provide high-definition 3D entertainment out of the box. The display adopts two HDMI input connectors, allowing users to connect the display to the PS3 system as well as to other HDMI-supported device*3. Some devices including PlayStation®2 and PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) can be connected to the 3D Display by using a component input connector. 		Other features   		With quick start-up mode, users will only have to wait for one second after pushing the power button to boot the display. The 3D Display also offers a power saving mode which shifts to auto standby if it does not receive a video signal for more than five seconds. Additionally users can utilize the separately sold BD remote control (CECH-ZRC1), incorporating infrared transmission to operate the 3D Display remotely.    		Through the introduction of new peripherals, SCE will continue to further expand the PS3 platform and create a new world of computer entertainment that is only possible on PlayStation. 		*1 Researched by SCE. As of June 5, 2011. 		*2 Bleeding of the left and right image thus creating image ghosting 		*3 The connected device needs to support stereoscopic 3D to enjoy 3D content. 		Product Outline 		3D Display 		Product name		3D Display 		Product code		CECH-ZED1 		Release date		To be announced by regions after fall, 2011 		Recommended		retail price		499.99$US (North America) The price in other countries and regions will be announced by regions when ready. 		Display		Screen size: 23.5 inch		Panel type: VA		Optimal Resolution 1920 x 1080		Colors About 16.7 Million		Viewing Angle 176 degrees/176 degrees (Contrast over 10:1)		Color Gamut(CIE1931) 72%		Contrast Ratio 5000:1		Response time 4ms (GTG)*		Backlight Type Edge type, white LED 		Sound output		Stereo 2ch (full range, 3W x 2, 28mm)		Sub Woofer (5W, 50mm) 		Inputs		HDMI x 2		Video: digital GBR/Y Cb(Pb) Cr(Pr)		Sound: PCM 2ch(32kHz 44.1kHz 48kHz)		Component x 1		Pin jack Y 1Vp-p 0.3V Pb/Pr Cb/Cr 350mVp-p		Pin jack 2channel 500mVrms Impedance more than 47kW 		Outputs		Headphone out x 1		3.5mm stereo mini jack 		Others		Support IR remote control with BD remote control (CECH-ZRC1) 		Electric source		AC100 ~ 240V 50/60Hz 		Power consumption		45W (2D viewing mode)		Standby mode; less than 0.2W 		Mass		5.7kg (stand included)		4.6kg (stand excluded) 		Dimensions		W 650 x H 391 x D 207 mm (stand included)		W 650 x H 346 x D 35 mm (stand excluded) 		Included		Power code (1.5m) x 1		3D Glasses set (3D Glasses, Pouch, USB Cable(Type A-micro B, 0.2m)) x 1		HDMI cable (2.0m) x 1		PS3 Software title Resistance 3 x 1* 		* Items included in the bundle may vary by regions.     		3D Glasses 		Product name		3D Glasses 		Product code		CECH-ZEG1 		Release date		After Fall 2011, release simultaneously with 3D Display 		Recommended		retail price		69.99$US (North America). The price in other countries and regions will		be announced by regions when ready. 		Mass		About 45g 		Dimensions		W 174x H 41 x D 177 mm (in use)		W 174 x H 41 x D 60 mm (folded) 		Battery time		About 3 hours for 3 minutes rapid charging, about 30 hours for		45 minutes charging 		Included		Pouch x1		USB Cable for charging (Type A-micro B 0.2m) x1      		About Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. 		Recognized as the global leader and company responsible for the progression of consumer-based computer entertainment, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) manufactures, distributes and markets the PlayStation® game console, the PlayStation®2 computer entertainment system, the PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) handheld entertainment system and the PlayStation®3 (PS3®) system. PlayStation has revolutionized home entertainment by introducing advanced 3D graphic processing, and PlayStation 2 further enhances the PlayStation legacy as the core of home networked entertainment. PSP is a handheld entertainment system that allows users to enjoy 3D games, with high-quality full-motion video, and high-fidelity stereo audio. PS3 is an advanced computer system, incorporating the state-of-the-art Cell processor with super computer like power. SCEI, along with its subsidiary divisions Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC., Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Ltd., and Sony Computer Entertainment Korea Inc. develops, publishes, markets and distributes software, and manages the third party licensing programs for these platforms in the respective markets worldwide. Headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, SCEI is an independent business unit of the Sony Group. 		PlayStation and PSP are registered trademarks and PS3 is a trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. 		All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.
 