
 
We've got plenty of options for would-be Cyber-shot owners coming out of the Sony press event, so let's get right into it, eh? For those with a little money to burn, the DSC-HX5V and DSC-TX7 compact digital stills rock full HD (1920 x 1080 60i) AVCHD video, Backlight Correction High Dynamic Range (said to improve shooting in low light) and that world famous TransferJet (perfect for moving data back and forth between all those new Sony Memory Sticks and Vaio F Series notebooks). The former includes GPS + Compass and Optical SteadyShot with Active Mode, while the latter has a slim, swanky form factor. On the lower end of things, the DSC-W370 and DSC-W350 are 14MP shooters, while the DSC-W330, DSC-W310, and DSC-S2100 rock a longer zoom and wide-angle lenses. Speaking of that world famous Sweep Panorama, both the W370 and W350 Cyber-shot models can take up to 243 and 268-degree pictures, respectively, "in one easy press-and-sweep motion." And no, this ain't even the best part, for all the new Sony cameras support both dual-SD and MemoryStick. You're pretty stoked, right? Prices, release dates, and PR after the break.
      

 

 DSC-HX5V (black) will be available in March for about $350 DSC-TX7 (white) will be available in February for about $400 DSC-W370 (silver, graphite black, green and red) in March for about $230 DSC-W350 (silver, black, pink and blue) in January for about $200 DSC-W330 (silver, black, red and blue) in February for about $170 DSC-W310 (silver, black and pink) in March for about $150 DSC-S2100 (silver, black and orange) in February for about $120Show full PR textSONY UNVEILS FIRST COMPACT DIGITAL STILL CAMERAS WITH HIGH DEFINITION 1080i AVCHD VIDEO CAPABILITYModels Also Add High Dynamic Range, TransferJet and GPS + Compass TechnologiesLAS VEGAS (CES Booth #14200), Jan. 6, 2010 – Sony took the wraps off two new Cyber-shot® digital still cameras today that create a new standard of mobility with technologies that answer consumers' on-the-go needs.Sony has designed two new innovative Cyber-shot cameras (models DSC-HX5V and DSC-TX7) that are the world's first compact digital still cameras to include full HD (1920 x 1080 60i) Advanced Video Codec High Definition (AVCHD) video capability. They are also the world's smallest and thinnest AVCHD capable cameras.These are the first Cyber-shot cameras with an in-camera Backlight Correction High Dynamic Range (HDR) feature for managing difficult lighting situations and TransferJet™ wireless technology for sharing, storing and viewing images. The HX5V model is also the world's first still camera to include GPS + Compass and Optical SteadyShot™ with Active Mode technologies.With Sony's "Exmor R" back illuminated CMOS sensor technology, these cameras provide excellent low-light performance, 10fps burst shooting and the new Intelligent Sweep Panorama™ feature.In addition to its cameras, Sony introduced three other devices with TransferJet technology at CES, including a Sony Memory Stick® memory card (model MS-JX8G) with a wireless transmitter/receiver, a Sony TransferJet Station (model TJS-1) and a VAIO® F Series notebook."Adding to the outstanding low-light performance and impressive Sweep Panorama feature, we are providing high-quality movies with full HD video, stereo sound recording when capturing movies on the go and an in-camera HDR solution for capturing high-contrast scenery. Sony can provide these solutions because of its expertise with other imaging products including Handycam® camcorders and α DSLR cameras," said Kelly Davis, director of the Digital Imaging business at Sony Electronics. "Our goal is not only to make it easy for consumers to get the best shot-still or video-but also to have the best sharing experience."High-Quality Stills and VideosWith the AVCHD format, these new cameras record movies in 1920 x 1080 full HD resolution at 60i in 17Mbps. The AVCHD format captures a high degree of detail and smooth movement, and when footage is burned to disc, it can be played back on your HDTV using most Blu-ray Disc™ players, Sony® PlayStation®3 systems and compatible Blu-ray Disc enabled PCs. In addition to the supplied PMB software for Windows users, it is also possible to edit recorded AVCHD file using iMovie® for Macintosh users.The camera will also capture videos in the MP4 format (up to 1440 x1080 30p 12Mbps) for online sharing.Managing Difficult LightingThe HX5V and TX7 cameras offer in-camera multi-shot High Dynamic Range (HDR), which combines highlight and shadow detail of two separate captures into one remarkably natural looking image-even without a tripod.HDR offers a solution for strong backlight situations which typically result in either dark shadows in the foreground or a washed out background. Sony's "Exmor R" sensor and BIONZ™ processor help to correct these issues. Impressive PanoramasThe HX5V and TX7 cameras have an Intelligent Sweep Panorama™ feature that captures wide landscapes or tall buildings in one easy "press and sweep" motion. Due to their "Exmor R" CMOS sensor technology, they can take up to 270 and 258-degree panorama shots, respectively, horizontally or vertically with an image size of 7,152 x 1,080 (horizontal wide panorama mode). In addition, these cameras' Intelligent Sweep Panorama feature, which is comprised of up to 100 separate captures, detects faces and subject motion and intelligently adjusts the width of each picture while stitching them together, resulting in natural looking panoramic photos.Relive the ExperienceIdeal for travelers who take hundreds of photos, the in-camera GPS + Compass feature on the HX5V camera makes it easy to store and share the location and direction of where photos were taken.With social networking sites becoming more popular, people want to share more details of their experiences. The GPS + Compass feature provides a fun new way to share where they were -- beyond the location. Using the free online satellite imagery application, Google Earth™ mapping service, users can view the images from a bird's eye view or from the direction in which the photo was taken. The GPS function automatically adjusts the camera's internal clock by selecting the travelling area, without the hassle of setting the time manually.A Wireless Way of Sharing, Storing and Viewing TransferJet technology, which was developed by Sony and is supported by a consortium of other companies, allows you to transfer files between two TransferJet-enabled devices just by bringing the TransferJet marks on each product within one inch of each other without the hassle of hunting for cables or the complication of pairing. To transfer photos, TransferJet-enabled still cameras must each utilize the TransferJet Memory Stick media (sold separately).TransferJet technology is perfect for sharing on the go. You can select up to 10 pictures and transfer them from camera to camera. For storing images, you can place the HX5V or TX7 cameras on the lower left-hand corner of the VAIO F Series notebook and import photos. For sharing at home on devices which do not have the technology, you can connect the TransferJet Station to devices with a type-A USB port, including your TV, digital photo frame or PlayStation®3.Designed for Technology EnthusiastsWith the most innovative digital imaging technologies, the HX5V camera is ideal for everyone from travelers to party-goers. The multi-occasion camera features a 10 megapixel "Exmor R" sensor, a 3-inch LCD screen (measured diagonally) and a 10x optical zoom with wide-angle 25mm-250mm equivalent high-quality G lens allowing easy group shots and close ups when on the move.In addition to its AVCHD video capability, the HX5V camera has Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization with Active Mode, which lets you capture moving subjects such as kids walking or running. It allows a moveable lens element to shift with greater range of motion-10 times the range of the Optical Steady Shot™ feature at wide end in standard mode-during camera shake. The feature reduces camera shake so users can shoot smoother movie footage on the move. The cameras also have an HDMI™ output adapter for easily connecting to an HDTV for viewing pictures and movies (HDMI cable required). Powerful and StylishFor those seeking a sleek, compact camera, the 10MP TX7 model is just under an inch thin and is slim enough to slip into a pocket or purse. The 3.5-inch (measured diagonally) high resolution (921K) touch LCD screen offers easy image scroll by simply swiping your finger across the display. The camera's high-performance Carl Zeiss® Vario-Tessar® 4x optical wide angle 25mm-100mm equivalent zoom lens brings distant subjects closer and Close Focus snaps close-ups in just under a half an inch from the subject.The DSC-TX7 camera is also compatible with the Party-shot™ (model IPT-DS1) automatic photographer, which pans, tilts, zooms and adjusts composition to capture spontaneous images. Additionally, an embedded touch sensor located on the front edge illuminates when the TX7 camera is attached. By touching the sensor, the camera goes into the "On-demand shot" mode, which allows users to select the shutter timing without losing the advantage of Party-shot's built-in intelligence.To give customers greater choice and enhance the overall customer experience, the TX7 and HX5V cameras feature a memory card slot compatible with both Memory Stick® (PRO Duo™) and SD/SDHC formats. Sony is also expanding its industry leading line of consumer media with the addition of SD/SDHC memory cards.Additional features found on HX5V and TX7 include iAuto, which detects eight and nine scenes, respectively, and optimizes camera settings and Easy Mode, which simplifies the camera menu. Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization reduces blur without impacting image quality, Face Detection and Smile Shutter™ technology, which captures faces and smiles naturally.A New Way to Share Photos and Videos OnlineThese models include Picture Motion Browser ("PMB") software for viewing, editing, organizing and uploading images to many major video and photo sharing Web sites.This spring, Sony will launch a new service and a new integration with Facebook® allowing users to easily and quickly share their photos and videos privately with friends and family. The service and the integration will be available as a downloadable update to the "PMB" and "PMB portable" software applications that are embedded with bloggie™ and Cyber-shot cameras and bundled with Handycam® camcorders, bloggie cameras, Cyber-Shot cameras and α cameras. The Facebook integration complements the existing sharing capability with such sites as YouTube™ and Picasa™ Web Albums.Pricing and AvailabilityThe HX5V camera will be available in black this March for about $350, and the TX7 camera will be available in silver, blue and red this February for about $400. The TransferJet-enabled Memory Stick media will be available in January for about $100, and the station will be available in February for about $150. Pre-sales begin in January.The cameras, Memory Stick, station, and a range of accessories will be available online at Sonystyle.com, at Sony Style® retail stores (www.Sonystyle.com/retail), at military base exchanges and at authorized dealers nationwide.-----------------------------------------------------SONY INTRODUCES FIRST CCD CYBER-SHOT DIGITAL STILL CAMERAS WITH SWEEP PANORAMA TECHNOLOGYNew CCD Models Offer Value, Slim Design, and Wide-Angle Lenses for High-Quality Images and VideosLAS VEGAS (CES Booth #14200), Jan. 6, 2010-By developing the most innovative, stylish and high-quality digital still cameras, Sony has created a new standard of mobility with technologies that answer consumers' on-the-go needs.Sony today announced two new 14 MP Cyber-shot® cameras (models DSC-W370 and DSC-W350) with a CCD image sensor that provides the innovative Sweep Panorama™ feature in a slim, compact body, making it easy to get the best shot.Sony also announced three cameras (models DSC-W330, DSC-W310 and DSC-S2100) that offer a new thin, stylish design with advanced features such as longer zoom and wide-angle lenses, which provide versatility when shooting."We're expanding Sweep Panorama, which has been such a well received feature, to our more affordable models," said Kelly Davis, director of the Digital Imaging business at Sony Electronics. "Allowing users to capture the impact of a full panoramic scene with an easy to use, practical camera provides a great value to our customers." Innovative Sweep Panorama™ TechnologySweep Panorama mode, first introduced in Sony's breakthrough Cyber-shot DSC-HX1, DSC-TX1 and DSC-WX1 CMOS models, utilizes a CCD sensor to capture dramatic panoramic scenes. The W370 and W350 cameras shoot images continuously to capture wide landscapes or tall buildings in one easy "press and sweep" motion. They automatically stitch the images together to create one stunning panoramic photo.The W370 and W350 Cyber-shot models can take up to 243 and 268-degree panorama shots, respectively, in one easy press-and-sweep motion with an image size of 7152 x 1080 (horizontal wide panorama mode).Compact Design and Rich TechnologiesThe W370 and W350 cameras are designed for customers who seek Sweep Panorama technology at an affordable price. For those seeking a long zoom and a compact body, the 14 MP DSC-W370 camera has a 7x long zoom lens for capturing far-away subjects, a 3-inch LCD screen (measured diagonally) for scrolling through images, Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization, 720p movie recording capability and HDMI™ output for easily viewing movies on compatible televisions.For those looking for the ultimate in portability, the W350 is the smallest camera in height and depth in the Sony 2010 line. It has a 2.7-inch LCD screen (measured diagonally) for viewing and sharing photos, a Carl Zeiss® wide angle 26mm equivalent lens for excellent close-up shots and a 4x optical telescopic zoom. With 720p movie recording capability and Sony's Optical SteadyShot image stabilization on the W350 camera, it helps overcome camera shake when taking photos and videos on the move.With HD video capability, these cameras record HD movies in 720p high definition MP4 format for stunning large-screen home movie playback. You can record up to 29 minutes (or up to 2GB file size) in the 720p format.If sharing with friends and family is your first priority, the 14MP W330 camera has a large 3-inch LCD screen (measured diagonally) that makes viewing images easy. Additionally, it has a 4x Carl Zeiss lens with a wide angle 26mm equivalent lens.Designed with size and affordability in mind, the 12MP CCD W310 model has a 2.7-inch LCD screen (measured diagonally) and 4x zoom with wide angle 28mm equivalent lens. For ultimate convenience and simple, straightforward image capture, the 12 MP S2100 model covers your basic camera needs with a 3x zoom, 3-inch LCD screen (measured diagonally), and it is powered by AA batteries.Auto Intelligence and Easy to OperateAll five cameras include core Sony technologies: Intelligent Auto (iAuto) mode and Easy mode, which recognize scenes, lighting conditions and faces, and adjusts settings resulting in clearer images, faces with more natural skin tone and less blur. They also have Smile Shutter™ technology, which automatically captures a smile.To give customers greater choice and enhance the overall customer experience, the cameras feature a memory card slot compatible with both Memory Stick® (PRO Duo™) and SD/SDHC formats. Sony is also expanding its industry leading line of consumer media with the addition of SD/SDHC memory cards.A New Way to Share Photos and Videos OnlineThese models include Picture Motion Browser ("PMB") software for viewing, editing, organizing and uploading images to many major video and photo sharing Web sites.This spring, Sony will launch a new service and a new integration with Facebook® allowing users to easily and quickly share their photos and videos privately with friends and family. The service and the integration will be available as a downloadable update to the "PMB" and "PMB portable" software applications that are embedded with bloggie™ and Cyber-shot cameras and bundled with Handycam® camcorders, bloggie cameras, Cyber-Shot cameras and α cameras. The Facebook integration complements the existing sharing capability with such sites as YouTube™ and Picasa™ Web Albums.Pricing and AvailabilityThe cameras and a range of accessories will be available online at Sonystyle.com, at Sony Style® retail stores (www.Sonystyle.com/retail), at military base exchanges and at authorized dealers nationwide. Presales begin in January.* The W370 camera will be available in silver, graphite black, green and red this March for about $230.* The W350 camera will be available in silver, black, pink and blue this January for about $200.* The W330 camera will be available in silver, black, red and blue this February for about $170.* The W310 camera will be available in silver, black and pink this March for about $150.* The S2100 camera will be available in silver, black and orange this February for about $120.
 