
 Sony's Alpha A58 and NEX-3N broke cover just a few days ago in rogue press shots, and now the firm's European branch has made the duo official. With a 16.1-megapixel Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor, the NEX-3N picks up the banner as the outfit's entry level mirrorless camera and packs a 3-inch LCD screen that can tilt up to 180 degrees. According to Sony, the NEX-3N is the smallest and lightest interchangeable lens camera with an APS-C sized sensor, gently tipping the scales at 269 grams. The shooter sports a pop-up flash, has its ISO notched up 16000, a revamped Bionz processor for noise reduction and even packs support for Sony's Triluminos display tech. A price tag for the NEX-3N is still MIA, but it's slated to hit Europe in March.

 As for the translucent mirror-toting A58, it features a 20.1-megapixel Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor and a 2.6-inch, 460k-dot LCD with an adjustable angle. If you'd rather not compose shots with the LCD screen, however, the A58 also has an OLED viewfinder. When it comes to video, the device can record 1920×1080 footage in AVCHD. Hirai and Co.'s refreshed Bionz image processing engine makes an appearance in the camera as well. Come April, the A58 will be available in Europe with an as-of-yet unspecified price tag.

 Itching for new lenses? Sony's just dished out details on a trio of new A-mount glass and accessories (with some E-mount peripherals as well) that are headed for a March debut in Europe. For the complete lowdown on the cams, lenses and accessories, hit the jump for the press releases and galleries.





  Show full PR text   Easy to handle, easy to use: the new NEX-3N by Sony puts pro-quality images in everyone's reach 20 February 2013
  Super-compact interchangeable lens APS-C camera weighs just 210g
   No-fuss self-portraits with 180° tiltable LCD screen and zoom lever  Large Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor with 16.1 effective megapixels and high sensitivity, for detail-packed, low noise photos and Full HD video  Beautiful compositions made easy with new Auto Object Framing  Light, compact body with pop-up flash  Moving up from your fixed lens camera? Travel light with the compact, easy to use NEX-3N E-mount camera with built-in flash – an exciting introduction to the world of interchangeable lens photography by Sony.   Self-portraits have never been simpler with the NEX-3N, thanks to the camera's easy-to-hold textured grip that fits reassuringly in the hand. The crisp, bright 7.5cm (3.0-type) LCD screen instantly flips through 180 degrees for fuss-free arm's-length compositions. What's more, a newly-added zoom lever on the camera body allows smooth, fingertip control of focal length with compatible lenses like the slim, light SELP1650 power zoom. Great for one-handed portrait framing, the zoom lever also adjusts digital zoom if you're not using a powered lens.
  All serious photographers know that great photos start with a great composition. Brand new Auto Object Framing helps you get better-looking, more professional results without effort. The camera judges what's in the scene – one person, two people or even macro and moving objects – automatically cropping the shot to create more powerful, professionally-framed compositions.
  Weighing approximately 210g, the NEX-3N is the world's smallest, lightest interchangeable-lens camera with a large APS-C sized sensor*. Grabbing more light than the sensor in ordinary compact cameras, it's the big sensor that's key to exquisitely detailed photos and sparkling Full HD movies that stand out from the crowd. What's more, it's easy to create pro-style background blur effects with your collection of interchangeable E-mount lenses... just like you'd achieve with a bigger, bulkier DSLR camera.
  The camera's large sensor also boosts maximum sensitivity to ISO 16000. It's complemented by an evolved BIONZ processor that uses the same area-specific noise reduction techniques featured on the acclaimed full-frame α99. Levels of noise reduction and sharpness are individually adjusted for different image areas. Even if you're shooting in dim light, you'll enjoy crisp, ultra-low noise handheld shots without needing flash.
  The NEX-3N is also the first NEX interchangeable lens camera from Sony that offers support for new "TRILUMINOS Colour". You'll experience a dramatically expanded palette of vivid, ultra-realistic colours when videos and still images are played back on any BRAVIA TV with support for "TRILUMINOS Display".
  There's now a range of thirteen high-quality E-mount lenses to realise the immense creative potential of the NEX-3N. Choose from telephoto, zoom, wide angle, macro lenses by Sony and Carl Zeiss to suit any shooting situation. Every model blends superb optical performance with elegant looks to complement your E-mount camera. There's also a full range of coordinating accessories by Sony, from style-matching carry cases and straps to spare batteries.
  The light, compact new NEX-3N interchangeable lens camera from Sony is available in Europe from March 2013.
  * Among interchangeable-lens cameras with an APS-C sensor and pop-up flash, as of Feb 2013.
  Never miss the moment: the new α58 from Sony
  Digital SLT camera with Translucent Mirror Technology
   Capture fine detail with new 20.1 effective megapixels Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor  Grab fast-moving action with speedy 8fps* shooting and new Lock-on Autofocus  Shoot and view with confidence through new OLED Tru-Finder  Compose like a pro with new Auto Object Framing   * In Tele-zoom Continuous Advance Priority AE mode
  For life's spontaneous moments – catch all the split-second excitement with the new α58 interchangeable lens camera from Sony. With Translucent Mirror technology for speedy shooting with fast, accurate autofocus, it's the must-have choice for grabbing those once-in-a-lifetime picture opportunities. Even if you're new to interchangeable lens photography, you'll enjoy image quality that effortlessly exceeds your point-and-shoot compact camera, plus features you'd expect from a far higher-priced DSLR.
  At the heart of the α58 is a brand new Exmor APS HD CMOS sensor with an extremely high resolution of (approx.) 20.1 effective megapixels. It's teamed with an improved BIONZ image processing engine for exceptionally detailed, low-noise stills and Full HD video, plus an extra-wide sensitivity range of ISO 100 to 16000.
  Pick from the choice of 35 interchangeable A-mount lenses (including two tele-converters) and experience flawless images in virtually any lighting conditions, from dimly-lit interiors to atmospheric twilight scenes. Even if you're shooting handheld, SteadyShot INSIDE keeps pictures crisp and stable, letting you shoot with confidence at slower shutter speeds or higher zoom settings where wobbles are often a worry.
  Unlike ordinary DSLR cameras, SLT cameras by Sony use Translucent Mirror technology that directs light onto the main image sensor as well as a separate autofocus sensor. This means that subjects stay sharply focused at all times as you compose scenes with the tilt-angle LCD or through the high-resolution, high-contrast OLED Tru-Finder. And with no moving mirror to slow you down, you'll enjoy non-stop live image preview during speedy burst shooting or while you're recording Full HD video.
  The α58 is your ideal partner for grabbing the action as it happens – like sports, wildlife or spur-of-the-moment fun with friends and family. Tele-zoom Continuous Advance Priority AE mode brings that decisive moment closer with a high-speed burst of sharp images at 8 frames per second. The high-performance 15-point AF system now features Lock-on Autofocus with speedier, more accurate subject tracking. So now you can capture the athletic grace of a gymnast or animals in the wild with a burst of crisply-focused images, even if your subject's moving.
  Featured on previous models, Auto Portrait Framing has now evolved into even more versatile Auto Object Framing – helping you get better-looking, more professional results without effort. The α58 judges what's in the scene – one person, two people, even moving objects or macro subjects – tracking, framing and cropping the shot to create powerful, professionally-framed compositions. Thanks to Pixel Super Resolution Technology by Sony, cropped images preserve the same resolution as the original exposure.
  Instantly selectable from the mode dial, Picture Effect lets you pick from a palette of 15 artistic 'in-camera' treatments, like Toy Camera, Mono and Partial Colour.
  Framing, focusing and viewing your shots is a pleasure through the new OLED Tru-Finder. This bright, high resolution electronic viewfinder accurately shows the results of adjusting camera settings in real time. Instantly see the result of adjusting exposure compensation, aperture, ISO, white balance, Picture Effect and other parameters before you shoot... not after. It's a great way to compose the perfect shot with confidence.
  The α58 is the first-ever A-mount interchangeable lens camera from Sony that offers support for new 'TRILUMINOS Colour'. You'll experience a dramatically expanded palette of vivid, ultra-realistic colours when videos and still images are played back on any BRAVIA TV with support for 'TRILUMINOS Display'.
  The new α58 interchangeable lens camera from Sony with Translucent Mirror technology is available from April 2013.
  Sony adds three A-mount lenses, new A-mount and E-mount accessories
  Full-frame G Lens 70-400mm telephoto zoom; Full-frame Carl Zeiss Planar 50mm F1.4; DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 standard zoom; compact add-on flash and remote commander
   New-generation 70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II telephoto zoom – with 4x faster autofocus and improved optical performance  Full-frame, wide-aperture, single-focal-length Carl Zeiss Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM – high-end image quality with renowned resolving power and contrast  Light, compact, newly-styled DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM II standard 3x zoom lens – designed for APS-C cameras  HVL-F20M flash – space-saving design with wireless control and bounce flash  RM-VPR1 wired remote – easily control shutter release, video start/stop and zoom  Sony extends the range of A-mount interchangeable lenses with three new models to satisfy the most demanding enthusiasts and photo professionals.  The 70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II and Carl Zeiss Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM lenses complement the impressive imaging capabilities of Sony's full-frame α99 SLT (Translucent Mirror) camera. The DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM II is a light, compact 3x zoom that's an ideal partner for A-mount cameras with APS-C sensors.   They're joined by a compact new on-camera flash and a wired remote that's ideal for advanced shooting.
  "70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II" telephoto zoom
  Sony's G lens line-up is strengthened for 2013 with the revised 70-400mm F4-5.6 G SSM II. Ideal for capturing wildlife and action-packed sports, the upgraded super-telephoto zoom builds further on the premium performance of its predecessor with enhanced optics and faster, more responsive autofocus. Thanks to a new LSI drive circuit, autofocus speed of the SSM (Super Sonic Wave Motor) is around four times quicker than before. Teamed with enhanced tracking AF, the upgraded lens is now even more suitable for capturing stills and Full HD video of fast-moving subjects.
  While its optical design is carried over from the previous-generation model, the new-generation lens features Sony's proprietary Nano AR Coating on optical surfaces. Offering around five times the efficiency of conventional anti-reflection coatings, this advanced technology reduces flare and ghosting for exceptionally high-contrast images.
  Carl Zeiss "Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM"
  The new Planar T* 50mm F1.4 ZA SSM joins the existing Distagon 24mm, Planar 85mm and Sonnar 135mm in the A-mount range of prime length optics by Carl Zeiss. Offering a fixed 50mm focal length and extra-bright F1.4 aperture, the premium lens is an ideal choice for quality-critical portraiture and low-light shooting.
  Featuring 8 elements in 5 groups with two aspherical elements, the brand new optical design is optimised for superb results with Sony's full-frame α99. Exceptional resolving power and contrast at all apertures are teamed with smooth, quiet autofocusing and a rear-focus system that maintains the same lens body length during AF. The dust- and moisture-resistant design extends the appeal of the new lens to a wide range of outdoor shooting applications.
  "DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM II" zoom
  Boasting second-generation styling, this new lens succeeds the popular DT 18-55mm F3.5-5.6 SAM that was introduced in 2011. The light, compact 3x zoom lens covers a frequently-used range of focal lengths from wide-angle 18mm to standard 55mm (35mm camera equivalent range: 27-82.5mm). While retaining the same smooth AF motor (SAM) as its predecessor, newly-designed rear lens elements suppresses flare and ghost, while mechanical elements have been upgraded for more positive, comfortable operation.
  New accessories for Sony cameras and camcorders
  The HVL-F20M is a space-saving, easy to carry new flash for Multi Interface Shoe mounted cameras, that's ideal for brightening up portraits, interiors and dimly-lit scenes. Despite its compact size, it's packed with pro-style features like wireless control for fuss-free multi flash set-ups, simple bounce operation and Auto White Balance compensation for more accurate, natural-looking white balance. It's refreshingly easy to use: just raise the flash head to switch on... then turn off again by lowering when the flash isn't needed.
  Compatible with a growing range of 'α' A-mount and E-mount, Cyber-shot™ and Handycam® models that feature the versatile Multi Terminal interface, the RM-VPR1 wired remote commander features handy controls for zoom and video recording start/stop. It also includes a shutter lock function that's ideal for long-exposure 'bulb' shooting with 'α' cameras. The remote comes supplied with two cables. One is for use with Multi Terminal-equipped cameras/camcorders, while the other allows simple shutter release with 'α' A-mount cameras that only include a REMOTE terminal.
  Please see http://www.sony.co.uk/hub/lenses for full details on new lens and accessories.
  The new lenses and accessories will start to become available in Europe from March 2013.
 
