
 
Surprised? No, not really, but let's not rain on Sony's parade, adding a trio of new models to its lineup of simple to use Bloggie cameras. Most notable is the Bloggie 3D, which does 1080p in 3D through two sensors and has a 2.4-inch 3D LCD -- glasses-free. Then there's the Bloggie Duo, with a 2.7-inch LCD on the back and 2.0-inch on the front, nestled beneath the lens. Finally is the "ultra compact" MHS-FS1, which doesn't have any fancy tricks. It's just tiny. We just got some quick hands-on time with the Bloggie 3D at the Sony press conference, and while it wasn't a real working unit, we can confirm that you will soon be able to put 3D in your pocket. Check out some of the hands-on pictures below and then hit the break for the full PR. 







 Show full PR textWONDERFULLY SIMPLE TO SHOOT AND SHARE: SONY INTRODUCES THREE NEW BLOGGIE HD CAMERAS INCLUDING 3D AND MORELAS VEGAS (CES BOOTH #14200), Jan. 5, 2011 – Continuing to innovate in the pocket video camera space, Sony today revealed new Bloggie® HD camera models that focus on affordability and fashion-forward style. Sony's Bloggie HD cameras include unique features that break through the cluttered category while still offering simple high quality MP4 video and still photo shooting, as well as easy web sharing capabilities.The lineup, anchored by the recently launched Bloggie Touch™ model, now includes 3D technology, dual screen capabilities and simple operation. With the Bloggie, Bloggie Duo and Bloggie 3D models, you can capture "had to be there" moments in full high definition (1920x1080) MP4 video and 5-megapixel still photos, but in a whole new way anytime, anyplace. "As the popularity of pocket cameras grow, we not only wanted to provide simple, compact video and photo solutions, we wanted to make these devices fun and different while still delivering a high quality product," said Andy Bubala, director of the camcorder business at Sony Electronics. "With Sony paving the way for 3D entertainment, that technology was the perfect addition to the Bloggie family and robust offering of 3D solutions."Bloggie RosterSony's Bloggie brand welcomes three models that each bring distinct value to the category. The world's first HD 3D pocket camera*, the Bloggie 3D camera (MHS-FS3) is an innovative model with two lenses, two image sensors, stereo microphone and built-in LED light to capture incredible 3D or 2D video and photos. This content can be played back in 3D without glasses on the camera's 2.4-inch LCD screen or utilizing 3D glasses on any 3D capable HDTV like Sony's new BRAVIA® KDL-HX820 HDTV also announced today.The portable HD camera lineup also offers a dual-screen option dubbed the Bloggie Duo camera (MHS-FS2). The slim camera features two vibrant LCD screens – 2.7-inch on the back and 2.0-inch on the front under the lens – for fun new ways to capture yourself and others in full HD video or 5.1 megapixel photos. The Bloggie Duo camera has a built-in LED light and comes in four fashionable colors -- violet, green, pink, and white.An entry model completes the trio of Bloggie introductions, offering on-the-go video lovers a smart, pocket device at a low price point. The MHS-FS1 sports an ultra compact, lightweight design, with a large 2.7-inch wide LCD screen, and comes in black and white. Easy as 1, 2, 3 All of the Sony® Bloggie HD cameras are slim and stylish, with simple hard key operation, and combine hardware, software and seamless integration with internet social network services for easy, intuitive shooting and sharing. Across the line, you can find an abundance of features including:Sensitive Exmor™ CMOS sensor to achieve high resolution video and crisply-detailed still photos with less grain, even in challenging lighting conditionsFree style shooting & playback to automatically adjust GUI for vertical or horizontal shooting and viewingDual Record to enable photo capture while shooting videoAuto Focus / Auto Macro to allow auto focus capabilities and Auto Macro to focus sharply on objects as close as four inches away360 Video bundled kit option lets consumers capture everything around them and playback incredible 360-degree footage a quarter at a time on the camera's LCDCompatible with PC and Mac® computers, a "Share it Later" function tags the clips and pictures you want to post for easy upload the next time you're onlineThe Bloggie models also have SteadyShot® image stabilization for smoother footage, Face Detection technology to enhance faces by automatically correcting focus and exposure, a built-in USB arm for easy charging and uploading to a computer, internal memory, built-in rechargeable battery, embedded Bloggie software, and HDMI™ output to enjoy content on your HDTV (cable sold separately). Simple Public and Private Online SharingWith the included Bloggie software for Mac and Windows, it's never been easier to share videos and photos online. Share privately with friends and family using Personal Space™ by Sony or become the next Internet sensation with integrated support for Facebook®, YouTube™, Flickr®, and Picasa™ Web Albums. With Personal Space Sharing Groups, keeping friends and family updated with a constant stream of your latest photos is easy. There's no need to re-type long lists of recipients' email addresses or deal with slow, bulky email attachments every time you want to share. Add photos or videos to a Sharing Group using the "Share it Later" feature or Bloggie software, and your loved ones are just a click away from enjoying your latest memories with no registration necessary. You and those in your Sharing Groups can also view photos and videos away from the computer with apps for iPhone® or Android™. Additionally, Sony BRAVIA HDTV and DASH Personal Space support will be added later this year, providing even more viewing options.The Bloggie (MHS-FS1) and Bloggie Duo (MHS-FS2) cameras, both with 4GB of internal memory, will be available in March for about $150 and $170, respectively. The Bloggie 3D camera (MHS-FS3) with 8GB of internal memory will be available in April for about $250. The Bloggie cameras and their accessories will be sold at Sony Style® retail stores, online at www.sonystyle.com/bloggie and through authorized dealers nationwide.
 