
 


As much as you love your PSP, we suspect that its low graphics definition is starting to bug even the most devoted fans. Sure, you can wait for the almighty NGP, but for the time being, Sony's offering the next best thing for you game connoisseurs: the PSP Remaster series for PlayStation 3. As the name says for itself, Sony will be porting select portable game titles to the PS3 in high-def Blu-ray flavor, and some may even come with new add-on content plus stereoscopic 3D support. But that's not all: gamers will also be able to share game save data between the two platforms, meaning you can pick up where you left off on your preferred device. Pretty neat, though it'll be interesting to see how much Sony and the studios wants to charge for what are essentially the same games you already own. The first PSP Remaster title announced is Monster Hunter Portable 3rd, but this is only heading to Japan at an unknown date -- gamers in other countries will just have to keep squinting at the PSP for now.
      

 

   		Show full PR text  NEW "PSP® (PLAYSTATION®PORTABLE) REMASTER" TITLE SERIES		AVAILABLE FOR THE PLAYSTATION®3 SYSTEM 		PSP Blockbuster Games Re-mastered to Deliver Rich Gameplay on the PS3 System 		Tokyo, May 22, 2011– Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCEI) today announced that a new "PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) Remaster" title series, PSP titles customized and developed specifically for the PS3 computer entertainment system, will become available as Blue ray Disc™ games starting in the Japanese market. 		"PSP Remaster" titles will deliver rich and immersive gaming experience on the PS3 system through stunning high-definition graphics as well as through additional new features for these titles, such as operability on the PS3 Wireless Controller (SIXAXIS® and DUALSHOCK®3), new add-on content or stereoscopic 3D support*1. Users will also be able to utilize the same save data from the original PSP game for the "PSP Remaster" version and enjoy the game on the go with the PSP system and continue the game at home on a large TV screen using PS3. Ad-hoc mode gameplay will also be supported through "adhoc party for PlayStation Portable" application on the PS3 system*2. 		For Japan, the first "PSP Remaster" title to be introduced will be Monster Hunter Portable 3rd HD Ver. from Capcom Co., Ltd. Monster Hunter Portable 3rd for the PSP system is the latest installment of the blockbuster Monster Hunter franchise, which has alone shipped over 4.5 million units in Japan since its release in December 2010. The graphics of the PS3 version, including monsters, fields, equipment, as well as Felyne Comrades, are more gorgeous and vibrant than ever, and will deliver dynamic gameplay when played on the large TV screens. SCE, with strong support from software developers and publishers, will deploy various measures to enhance the software title line-up for the PS3 system. 		SCE will continue to further expand the PS3 platform and create a new world of computer entertainment with innovative and exciting new titles.
 