
 


	Sony didn't exactly dwell on it during its IFA keynote, but the company also expanded its desktop PC offerings today with its latest VAIO L Series all-in-one. This one packs a 24-inch multitouch display complete with a touch-sensitive bezel, along with your choice of second-gen Intel Core processors (yet to be specified), NVIDIA GeForce GT 540M graphics, 8GB of RAM, a 1TB hard drive, and a Blu-ray / DVD burner combo drive. And, judging from the number of times its mentioned in the press release after the break, it also appears to be 3D-capable. Still no word on pricing, but it looks like this one will at least be available in Europe starting in October.
 

 		Show full PR text  Explore your 3D world with new VAIO L Series 31 August 2011 		61cm (24") all-in-one 3D touchscreen multimedia PC 		Slim, space-saving all-in-one PC with large multi-touch 3D screen		61cm (24") Full HD VAIO Display Plus with LED backlight brings entertainment to life in 3D		Convert 2D movies and videos to 3D at the touch of a button		First all-in-one PC with 3D HDMI® input to enjoy 3D PlayStation®3 games		Create 3D artworks with easy-to-use Family Paint 3D software		Now the whole family can watch and create thrilling 3D content with the new VAIO L series 3D multimedia PC from Sony. 		Slip on the supplied pair of re-chargeable active shutter glasses – the same as used with latest BRAVIA® 3D TV models. Then let VAIO immerse you in a fast-growing world of 3D movies, games, videos and panoramic photos. 		With its slim, space-saving looks, VAIO L Series 3D makes an elegant addition in any living space. Its stunning design is accented by a 61cm (24") Full HD VAIO Display Plus screen with LED backlight. This super-size display brings all your movies, photos, music and games vividly to life with superb clarity and contrast, whether you're watching in 2D or 3D. 		Explore your media collection using the generously sized multi-touch LCD screen. Scroll through files, flick between web pages, zoom and rotate images with intuitive fingertip gestures... and no mouse or menus needed. The screen is framed by a touch sensitive 'Edge Access' bezel that gives mouse-free access to key functions. The bezel also houses an embedded 3D transmitter: just slip on your active shutter glasses and enjoy the show in 3D, with no extra hardware needed. 		New VAIO L Series 3D offers more ways to enjoy your favourite entertainment. 'Native' supported 3D content includes movies on Blu-ray Disc™, games and videos. You can also enjoy 3D panoramic still images captured with Cyber-shot™ digital cameras and α DSLR digital cameras by Sony. There's also a dedicated button on the bezel that instantly converts 2D content like Blu-ray Disc movies to simulated 3D at a single touch. 		With the latest generation of speedy Intel® Core™ processors inside, this all-in-one VAIO provides the power you need to manage today's media collections. Latest graphics by NVIDIA® assure an even more satisfying HD video experience with the new generation of PC games designed for multi-core processors. 		Depending on configuration, the integrated Blu-ray Disc writer lets you create, edit and store Full HD content with up to 50GB of storage on a single Blu-ray Disc. And whether you're playing games or watching HD movies in 3D, S-Force Front Surround 3D complements your HD entertainment experience with powerful, ultra-realistic audio. 		The integrated HD web camera powered by 'Exmor' technology delivers a crisp, clear High Definition image. It's ideal for more realistic, satisfying web chats and video calls. 		Touching the handily-placed WEB button gets you powered up and online in seconds. There's also an ASSIST button that launches VAIO Care software, troubleshooting problems and keeping your VAIO in top condition. 		An HDMI® output connects VAIO L Series to any HD Ready television to watch video, photos, graphics and games on your TV screen. It's also the first all-in-one PC with a 3D HDMI input, allowing this VAIO to display 3D video from a connected PlayStation®3. You'll enjoy a superb view of PlayStation®3 games and other connected HD sources - even when the PC's not booted up. 		VAIO L Series adds yet another new dimension to your 3D world. It's easy to create colourful 3D artworks with supplied Family Paint 3D software. Select from a choice of backgrounds, then build your masterpiece on the large touchscreen with a wide range of sketch, paint, stamp and text tools. Adjust the depth of up to five separate picture layers, and enjoy the spectacular results in 3D. It's a great way for all the family to have fun making their own 3D content. 		The all-in-one 61cm (24") VAIO L Series 3D multimedia PC by Sony is available in Europe from October 2011, depending on country.
 