
  Details about Sony's new handheld have been trickling out for months in the form of spec sheets and fantastic footage of its quad core capabilities. All that, and we still didn't know how much she'd cost or when we could get our grubby paws around one. Thankfully for those tuned in at E3, said mystery is a mystery no more -- the Vita will be listed at $249 for the WiFi-only model, or $299 for the 3G version. Sony's Kaz Hirai confirmed will be available exclusively through AT&T, with both models shipping worldwide toward the end of 2011. For those of you camped out overseas, prices are set for ¥24,980 (WiFi) and ¥29,980 (3G) in Japan, while those closer to that other pond will see tags of €249 and €299.The device, also known as the PS Vita, offers up six-axis motion sensors, dual analog controls (proper ones, with thumbsticks), front- and rear-facing cameras, an OLED touchscreen, and a touchpad on the back, too. The company showed off a number of top-tier titles, including Uncharted: Golden Abyss, a hack-and-slash RPG called Ruin, a new ModNation Racers, LittleBigPlanet, and Street Fighter x Tekken, each showing off plenty of motion and touch interactivity... things that we couldn't be more elated to try for ourselves in due time. They're all looking quite good, and honestly a bit more advanced than what the 3DS has delivered so far -- for the same money.Update: Check out our hands-on impressions from E3!





  Show full PR text  Sony Computer Entertainment Announces "PlayStation®Vita" as the Official Name for Next Generation Portable Entertainment System  Wi-Fi Model: 24,980 Yen (including tax), $249 and euro 249 3G/Wi-Fi Model: 29,980 Yen (including tax), $299 and euro 299  Realizes Unparalleled Interactive Network Entertainment  TOKYO, June 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCE)today announced PlayStation®Vita (PS Vita) (PCH-1000 series) as the official platform name for the next generation portable entertainment system (codename: NGP). Wi-Fi model will be available for 24,980 yen (including tax) in Japan, $249 in US and euro 249 in Europe, 3G/Wi-Fi model will be available for 29,980 yen (including tax) in Japan, $299 in US and euro 299 in Europe and successively launch in global market starting the end of 2011.  "Vita," which means "Life" in Latin, was chosen as the most appropriate name for the next generation portable entertainment system as it enables a revolutionary combination of rich gaming and social connectivity within a real world context. SCE is aiming to transform every aspect of user's daily life into an entertainment experience.  PS Vita incorporates a beautiful 5-inch multi-touch organic light emitting diode (OLED) as the front display and a unique multi-touch pad on the rear. Together with the front touch screen and the rear touch pad, PS Vita offers new game play experiences never before seen on any device, allowing users to interact directly with games in three dimension-like motion, through "touch, grab, trace, push and pull" finger motions. Also PS Vita features two analog sticks which enable a wider range of game genres to be brought into the portable experience, such as shooters, action games, and fighting games. Exciting and attractive new titles*1 are scheduled to be released from SCE Worldwide Studios, including "GRAVITY DAZE," "Uncharted Golden Abyss," "Little Deviants," "Hot Shots Golf," "Reality Fighter," "Hustle Kings," "ModNation Racers," "Wipeout 2048" and "Super Stardust Delta," as well as from a broad range of third party game developers and publishers, which will deliver value only possible on PS Vita.  Also, by having both Wi-Fi and 3G network connectivity, together with various applications, PS Vita will enable infinite possibilities for users to "encounter," "connect," "discover," "share" and "play" with friends wherever they are. On January 27, 2011, SCE announced the first PS Vita application, "near," which will come pre-installed. It will let users discover what games PS Vita users in the vicinity are or were recently playing, as well as let users share their game information. "near" also enables location-based gaming features such as "gifting," in which a user can access virtual game-related items that other users are sharing, through checking in at geographic locations that others have also visited. The virtual items can include content unlocked from games, such as character costumes, weapons, and treasures. Sharing these items between users adds a unique dimension to the portable gaming experience on PS Vita while enhancing the social connectivity among the PS Vita community.  Additionally, PS Vita will come pre-installed with a newly developed application called "Party." "Party" is an innovative application for a portable entertainment system which enables users to enjoy voice chat or text chat not only during online gaming, but also when users are playing different games or using different applications such as internet browser. Through "Party," which offers a new form of social networking, and "near," which enables users to share their game information with other users anywhere, anytime, users can dramatically expand the boundaries of interactive communication.  Also a tutorial application called "Welcome Park," developed specifically to guide every user about PS Vita's brand new user interface such as the front touch display and the multi-touch pad on the rear, will come pre-installed. By playing "Welcome Park," users can easily become accustomed to the three dimension-like finger motions used on PS Vita.  SCE will vigorously promote PS Vita towards the launch as the next generation portable entertainment platform and work towards expanding the portable gaming market.*1 Some title names are tentative. Titles may differ by countries and regions.  Show full PR text  Sony Computer Entertainment America Unveils Exciting Details About Next Generation Hardware and Exclusive Software   SCEA Continues Long-Standing Tradition of Delivering Groundbreaking Technology and Unrivaled Content at the 2011 E3 Media & Business Summit    LOS ANGELES, June 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC. (SCEA) today announced at its annual press conference at the E3 Media & Business Summit in Los Angeles, Calif., a stunning line-up of PlayStation® products, services and exclusive content that will change the way consumers experience their favorite games and entertainment at home and on-the-go.  "We are dedicated to providing our consumers with the types of entertainment offerings that have made PlayStation a definitive leader in the gaming and portable entertainment industries for more than 15 years," said Jack Tretton, CEO and President of SCEA. "With the official North American unveiling of PlayStation®Vita as well as the introduction of an extensive line-up of software, hardware and services, the PlayStation platform has never been stronger or more exciting for our customers. We believe that 2011 will be a defining year as we usher in a new era of portable gaming and drive widespread adoption of 3D through our content and hardware offerings."  Introducing PlayStation®Vita  In March 2005, the PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) system defined new standards in portable entertainment and provided game enthusiasts worldwide with a new way to experience games outside of their living room. The PSP system broke through traditional boundaries then and has gone on to sell more than 70 million units since its launch. In January, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (SCE) announced a new portable device for a new generation of gamers --- the next generation portable entertainment system (codename: NGP).  Today, SCE announced PlayStation®Vita (PS Vita) as the official platform name for NGP. A Wi-Fi model will be available for 24,980 yen (including tax) in Japan, $249 MSRP in US and euro 249 in Europe, while a 3G/Wi-Fi model will be available for 29,980 yen (including tax) in Japan, $299 MSRP in US and euro 299 in Europe. PS Vita will launch in the global market starting at the end of 2011.  Derived from the Latin word "Vita," which means "Life," this next generation portable entertainment system enables a revolutionary combination of rich gaming and social connectivity within a real world context.  The PS Vita system incorporates a beautiful 5-inch multi-touch organic light emitting diode (OLED) as the front display and a unique multi-touch pad on the rear. Together with the front touch screen and the rear touch pad, the PS Vita system offers new game play allowing users to interact directly with games in three dimension-like motion, through "touch, grab, trace, push and pull" finger motions. Also the PS Vita system features two analog sticks which enable a wider range of game genres to be brought into the portable experience.  In addition to the PS Vita system pricing, SCEA also revealed today that AT&T, which powers the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, will be the exclusive service provider in the United States for the PS Vita system. The speed and coverage of AT&T's mobile broadband network will ensure that PS Vita system users will remain connected to content and each other on the go.  On the content front, SCEA showcased a robust collection of software titles developed exclusively for the PS Vita system. Featured titles including UNCHARTED: Golden Abyss™, LittleBigPlanet™ and Ruin (working title) utilize the platform's groundbreaking technology to make unprecedented immersive, interactive and social game play available on-the-go. UNCHARTED: Golden Abyss takes full advantage of PS Vita's stunning OLED screen to deliver vibrant cinematic visuals and combines input from the front-touch screen and dual-analog sticks to create the most intuitive 3rd person shooter experience available on a portable system. Also making use of PS Vita's unique feature set, LittleBigPlanet allows users to Play, Create and Share like never before with the system's front touch screen and rear touch pad as well as its front and rear cameras. Finally, Ruin brings the ultimate social action RPG experience and also delivers interoperable compatibility for players to save their game on the PS Vita system and continue on at home using the PlayStation®3 (PS3™) system. Adding to this selection of innovative games, SCEA unveiled a collection of PS Vita titles that will be available including wipEout®, ModNation™ Racers, Reality Fighter (working title), Super Stardust™ Delta, Sound Shapes, Hot Shots Golf®, Hustle Kings™ and more.  Additionally, conference attendees received a look at Capcom's STREET FIGHTER® x TEKKEN® for the PS Vita system which will feature Cole MacGrath as a playable character from the popular PS3 franchise, inFAMOUS™.  PlayStation®3 system  Currently in its fifth year, the PlayStation®3 (PS3™) system continues to experience tremendous momentum, recently surpassing 50 million units sold worldwide. To-date, more than 2,300 games have been made available for PS3 including 108 stereoscopic 3D titles and 184 PlayStation®Move titles, and that momentum continues into 2012. Expanding PS3 system's industry-leading catalog of stereoscopic 3D games, SCEA presented a selection of new entries from fan-favorite series featuring full stereoscopic 3D support including UNCHARTED 3: Drake's Deception™, Resistance®3 and God of War®: Origins Collection. SCEA also announced the return of one of PlayStation's most beloved franchises, Sly Cooper®: Thieves in Time™, which will treat players to an all-new adventure in stereoscopic 3D featuring classic characters, Sly, Murray and Bentley. In addition, SCEA introduced new titles utilizing the innovative PlayStation Move controller to deliver unique motion gaming experiences such as Everybody Dance™, Carnival Island (working title), and Medievil Moves: Deadmund's Quest™.  In addition to an unprecedented line-up of first-party titles, third-party support for the PS3 system has never been stronger. Content shown at the conference includes the highly-anticipated first-person shooter BioShock Infinite from 2K and Irrational Games which will support the PlayStation Move motion controller, and will also include the original BioShock on the PS3 Blu-ray disc.  Additional exclusive content that will only be found on the PS3 system was announced for titles including Saint's Row: The Third from THQ, Electronic Arts' SSX™, Need for Speed™ The Run, and Battlefield 3™. For Battlefield 3, the PS3 version promises to be bigger than any other as Electronic Arts will be using the extra storage capacity of the Blu-ray to add a second game to the disc, Battlefield 1943, one of the most popular games available on PlayStation®Network.  Innovations in stereoscopic 3D  As a leader in 3D entertainment and gaming, SCEA kicked off the 2011 press conference at E3 on the world's largest 3D screen – showcasing a breadth of first- and third-party titles coming this year in 3D that is unmatched.  SCE today also announced the upcoming availability of the new PlayStation branded 3D Display. The 24-inch full HD LCD display will give PS3 users easy, affordable access to stereoscopic 3D entertainment. Available this fall, the 3D Display comes bundled with 3D Glasses, an HDMI cable and the highly anticipated Resistance 3 title from Insomniac Games for PlayStation®3 (PS3®) at an attractive recommended retail price (MSRP) of US$499.99. The 3D Glasses will also be sold separately, concurrently with the 3D Display launch for MSRP of US$69.99.  Designed to deliver the ultimate gaming experience, the 3D Display comes equipped with a special two-player feature, which allows two players playing a multi-player game to see individual, unique, full-screen images of gameplay using the bundled 3D Glasses and supported software title.  PlayStation®Network  With more than 77 million accounts worldwide, PlayStation®Network continues to be one of the largest networked entertainment platforms in the world and is the premier destination for games, TV and movies, sports and music entertainment. Today, SCEA announced that coming this fall , BestBuy's CinemaNow video service will be accessible to PS3 owners, providing consumers with access to more than 12,000 of their favorite TV episodes and movies for rental or purchase.  Publisher support for PlayStation Network continues to remain strong as CCP introduced a new PlayStation Network exclusive title, Dust 514®, which will feature PlayStation Move support and also be made available for the PS Vita system. Another exciting game coming exclusively to the PS3 system and PlayStation Network in 2012 is Star Trek™ from Paramount Digital Entertainment. The game, which continues the adventure that director and producer J.J. Abrams envisioned with Star Trek™ (2009), boasts a story filled with action- packed combat and will be fully PlayStation Move enabled. Paramount Digital Entertainment will also offer an exclusive prequel to the game only on PlayStation Network.
 