
 
It's with mixed emotions that we present to you Netflix's latest partnership with Sony, which is awesome, but could be so (so!) much more. Today, the world's leading online movie rental service inked a deal that'll bring instant Netflix streaming to Sony BRAVIA Internet Video-capable HDTVs this fall along with older BRAVIA models that are compatible with Sony's BRAVIA Internet video link module. Sadly, the PlayStation 3 is glaringly absent in the announcement, which is a golden opportunity missed in our humble estimation. Ah well, at least there's PlayOn, right? Full release is after the break.
      

 

NETFLIX ANNOUNCES PARTNERSHIP WITH SONY ELECTRONICS TO INSTANTLY STREAM MOVIES TO BRAVIA TVsSony Joins Growing List of World-Class CE Manufacturers That Enable Netflix Members to Instantly Watch Movies Streamed to the TV via the InternetLOS GATOS, Calif., July 9, 2009 – Netflix, Inc., (Nasdaq: NFLX) the world's largest online movie rental service, today announced a partnership with Sony Electronics that will enable Netflix subscribers to instantly watch movies streamed from Netflix on Sony's BRAVIA Internet Video-capable HDTVs and on previous BRAVIA models compatible with Sony's BRAVIA Internet video link module.In the fall, Netflix members on an unlimited plan can use the Sony BRAVIA Internet Video-capable HDTVs to instantly watch more than 12,000 movies and TV episodes streamed from Netflix. Sony is the latest consumer electronics (CE) company to partner with Netflix. Other CE companies partnering with Netflix are Microsoft (with the Xbox360), LG Electronics, Roku, Samsung, TiVo and VIZIO.  Netflix members pay as little as $8.99 a month for unlimited streaming from a library of more than 12,000 choices and unlimited DVDs by mail from a library of more than 100,000 DVD titles in more than 200 genres."Sony has been a world leader in consumer electronics for decades," said Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings. "We are proud to include Sony Electronics among our CE partners who continue to provide new and exciting ways for Netflix members to instantly watch movies and TV episodes in their living rooms on their TVs." About Netflix, Inc.Netflix, Inc. is the world's largest online movie rental service, with more than ten million subscribers. For one low monthly price, Netflix members can get DVDs delivered to their homes and can instantly watch movies and TV episodes streamed to their TVs and PCs, all in unlimited amounts. Members can choose from over 100,000 DVD titles and a growing library of more than 12,000 choices that can be watched instantly. There are never any due dates or late fees. DVDs are delivered free to members by first class mail, with a postage-paid return envelope, from 58 distribution centers. More than 97 percent of Netflix members live in areas that generally receive shipments in one business day. Netflix is also partnering with leading consumer electronics companies to offer a range of devices that can instantly stream movies and TV episodes to members' TVs from Netflix. For more information, visit http://www.netflix.com/.
 