
 
No surprise here, but Sony's making darn sure it's not left behind in the connected HDTV arena by introducing seven new sets that all look to the Yahoo! Widget Engine to pull down Amazon Video on Demand, YouTube, Slacker and other web-based content right on one's HDTV. Proudly dubbed Bravia Internet Widgets, the functionality will come bundled in with the firm's ZBR9 lineup (comprised of the 52-inch KDL-52XBR9, 46-inch KDL-46XBR, 40-inch KDL-40XBR90 and 32-inch KDL-32XBR9) as well as the 52-inch KDL-52Z5100, 46-inch KDL-46Z5100, and 40-inch KDL-40Z5100. All seven sets tout 1080p panels, BRAVIA Sync, four HDMI inputs, an Ethernet jack and a cute Energy Star 3.0 sticker to boot. Gear up for TV 2.0 (or are we up to 3.0?) to land this Spring.
      

 

SONY DEBUTS INTEGRATED NETWORKED TELEVISIONS Latest BRAVIA Models Offer Interactive "Widgets" and Streaming Internet Video  LAS VEGAS (CES BOOTH #14200), Jan. 7, 2009 – Sony is bringing built-in, interactive entertainment directly to your television.  The company today announced the first new networked BRAVIA® LCD HDTV models with Internet applications called "widgets" that deliver real-time information, as well as streaming video capability via integrated BRAVIA Internet Video Link capability.   Sony's new XBR9 and Z-series models feature an Ethernet connection, allowing the sets to directly access Sony BRAVIA Internet Video content using an existing broadband connection. The service offers one of the largest selections of free and premium movies, TV shows, sports, music and more from an array of partners like Amazon Video on Demand, YouTube®, Yahoo!®, Slacker(sm), and others. Bravia Internet Widgets, powered by the Yahoo! Widget Engine, expand and personalize the TV experience by adding on-screen applications that provide such real-time information as weather reports, stock ticker updates, financial news, Yahoo! Video, Flickr® images, and additional content.   "Internet-based content is driving the evolution of home entertainment," said Randy Waynick, senior vice president of Sony Electronics' Home Products Division. "Our new networked BRAVIA models deliver streaming videos, access to digital files, and real-time information that transforms the television into a true multimedia hub."   The XBR9 and Z-series models are also Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA®) compliant, enabling easy access to digital photos, music and video stores on a PC or other DLNA server using the XMB® interface and the TV's remote control.   Sony's full HD 1920 x 1080 progressive (1080p) 52-inch KDL-52XBR9, 46-inch KDL-46XBR9 and 40-inch KDL-40XBR9 televisions (screen size measured diagonally) feature a wide color gamut cold cathode fluorescent light (WCG-CCFL) backlight providing a broader color palette. This results in on-screen images with more vibrant, "life-like" colors.   The XBR9 models also include Sony's new Motionflow™ 240Hz technology, which delivers exceptionally crisp and detailed images with natural motion. The Motionflow algorithm goes beyond traditional 120Hz technology by quadrupling the frame rate of conventional LCD TVs and interpolating three new frames..   The models also offer a USB input for displaying digital photos or playing digital video and audio files from a USB storage device.   These models also feature: • The BRAVIA Engine™ 3 • 24p True Cinema™ • XrossMediaBar™ (XMB)with enhanced 3D favorites Menu • Internet powered TV Guide Onscreen  • BRAVIA Sync™ • BRAVIA Link Compatible • 4 HDMI inputs • Single PC, component, composite and S-video inputs   Also new to the XBR line is the 32-inch KDL-32XBR9 (31.5 inch diagonal). The full HD 1920 x 1080 progressive model features Motionflow 120Hz technology for improved sharpness and detail in fast-moving images. This model also offers a USB input so you can play audio files from a USB storage device or connect a compatible digital camera to display photos.   Other features include:  • The BRAVIA Engine™ 2 • BRAVIA Sync • BRAVIA Link Compatible • 24p True Cinema  • 4 HDMI inputs • Single PC, component, composite and S-video inputs • Favorites menu   Sony's new Z-series models include the 52-inch KDL-52Z5100, 46-inch KDL-46Z5100, and 40-inch KDL-40Z5100 (screen size measured diagonally). The models feature full HD 1920 x 1080 progressive resolution and Motionflow 240Hz technology.   Other features include: • The BRAVIA Engine™ 3 • 24p True Cinema • XrossMediaBar (XMB) with enhanced 3D favorites Menu • Internet powered TV Guide Onscreen  • BRAVIA Sync • BRAVIA Link Compatible • 4 HDMI inputs • Single PC, component, composite and S-video inputs   The XBR9 and Z-series models exceed Energy Star® 3.0 requirements with the assistance of Sony's LightSensor™ technology and dynamic backlight control that helps save energy and reduce the user's overall carbon footprint. The BRAVIA Link modules are currently available online at www.sonystyle.com and at retail outlets including Sony Style® stores and other authorized dealers across the country.  The new XBR9 and Z-series television models will be available this spring online and at and at similar retail outlets, in addition to military base exchanges. More information about all of the new models is available at www.sonystyle.com/TV09. 
 