

More Info

Sony Xperia P review
Sony officially debuts Xperia U at MWC 2012
Sony Xperia U gets torn to pieces, FCC destroys something beautiful


There's an oft-used idiom about small packages, which frequently doesn't apply to the world of technology. That's to say that a diminished form factor often doesn't bring the "best things" with it. For example, Sony's NXT family members, revealed between CES and MWC, gifted consumers with the choice of three new handsets: the Xperia P, S and U. The last one in that list is by far the smallest, and in congruence with the general trend of mobile technology, the most lightly armored.


However, we're not ones to make assumptions, and heaven forbid we pre-judge something based on size alone. We're as willing to be surprised as anyone, and the new baby of the Sony bunch is as likely a candidate as any to throw us a curveball. Our initial impressions in Barcelona were largely positive, so this review -- as the firm says on its marketing material for the phone -- is all about (the Xperia) U.




HardwareWe're not going to belabor the point any more, but it's true that the Xperia U is the proverbial runt of the latest litter, measuring 12mm thick with a 3.5-inch display, some way off its larger S and P siblings (4.3-and 4-inches respectively). This equates to a deceptively miniature-looking facsimile of its larger brethren, and, it has to be said, an altogether palm-friendly slab of phone. There's no doubting its heritage though, with the tell-tale geometric design and protruding chin letting you know that this is definitely a Sony.

There's no doubting its heritage though, with the tell-tale geometric design and protruding chin letting you know that this is definitely a Sony.About that chin. It undoubtedly catches the eye, though we're not sure if it's the bold-colored plastic caps (less striking tones are available) or just the illusion of extra length, but it's certainly a defining characteristic. In fact, along with the distinctive illuminating bar above it, much of the handset's visual character – like it or not – is derived from that bottom end.

The rest of the jet black face does little more than conceal the front VGA camera, speaker grill and sensors. The rear isn't exactly a feature-full landscape either, with a matte finish white battery cover and the usual holes for the camera, flash and speaker keeping the Sony Mobile logo company. The right-hand side is where you'll find all the buttons the Xperia U possesses: power / sleep, volume rocker and camera shutter, leaving the left-hand side bereft of anything bar the micro-USB port. Put this all together, and you get a fairly satisfactory, but not remarkable, slice of phone.


Much like the Xperia S before it -– given that the similarities are many –- the baby U has its fair share of potentially dust-gathering ridges. The angular design is partly responsible, but the LED bar and removable cap serve up multiple channels for the daily dirt buildup to hide in. It's not terribly problematic, just an unwelcome side effect of the otherwise functional form. The LED bar also poses another tiny problem, at least during your first few days with the phone. Hidden beneath it are the back, home and menu icons that correspond to the touch-sensitive navigation buttons above it. When whipping the handset out of your pocket to quickly do something, you can find yourself mashing the redundant LED strip (i.e. aiming for the icon) instead. Sure, you'll get used to it soon enough, but it's counter-intuitive to begin with, and only further highlights the curious use of space.

That is until you see the humble, transparent strip's party trick. When browsing images, that innocent piece of plastic will adopt a chameleon-like ability to match the dominant color of your photos and album art. The same is true for the prevailing tone of your theme. When the bar lights-up, it'll be with matching luminosity. Nothing more than a trick, but a cute one nonetheless.


Lastly, that screen. It might not have inherited the WhiteMagic sorcery bequeathed to the Xperia P, but it definitely has no problems making itself seen when drenched in solar gold. That FWVGA display does have the appearance of being somewhat long, but again, that might be more to do with the dimensions of the phone, rather than the aspect ratio (given that it's bang-on 16:9). We did notice, however, that under direct light, a dotted grid can clearly be seen. This is only while the screen is black or in stand-by, and doesn't affect the quality when in use. In our experience, photos and videos came out brightly with bold colors, and provided a pleasing visual experience, which brings us neatly to...

Camera
The Xperia S might be able to boast a double figure megapixel count (12 in fact) but for the U it's firmly back down in the more pedestrian single numbers: five. This might be a good thing, considering the phone only has 8GB of storage, and only four of those are available to the user. You should never be a slave to the peer pressure though, as five megapixels with a good sensor behind it can still be a winning combination. Is that the case here however? All in all, we're saying yes. This isn't a phone that particularly sells itself on its camera credentials, and as such, it just kind of gets on with the job. You can see from the sample shots yourself that quality is a bit of a mixed bag. Give this camera some good, healthy spoonfuls of sunshine, and it'll serve up vivid, reasonably sharp shots. However, snatch some of that light back (or, rather, have conditions do it for you) and the Xperia U starts to get a little upset.






