
 
 It's 2013, and as such, it's time for Sony to preview its updated flagship Blu-ray player and catch some sun in the Nevada desert. This year's model is the BDP-S5100, which shares plenty of features with last year's BDP-S790, including 2D-to-3D conversion, DVD upscaling and streaming content from Netflix and its ilk. The refinements promised in this model include a fully encased optical drive to repel dust and debris, I/P noise reduction, One-Touch and boosted WiFi reception. There's also an interesting reference to the unit being able to run interactive apps including health and wellness software, which reminds us of that Dr. TV patent we stumbled across a few months back. If you want to slim down while watching TNG in high definition, you'll have to wait until March, when the company will reveal details of pricing and availability for that and two lower-end models, the BDP-S3100 and the BDP-S1100.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   SONY TAKES A NEW ANGLE ON THE TOTAL HOME ENTERTAINMENT EXPERIENCE  Innovative and Stylish New 3D and Wi-Fi-enabled Blu-ray Disc/DVD Players Deliver the Perfect Combination of Form and Function
  LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7, 2013 (CES Booth #14200) – Sony Electronics is unveiling an array of new home audio and video technologies which combine style, features and performance to create the perfect multi- faceted home entertainment experience. From Blu-ray DiscTM players to Home Theater Systems to accessories for the Internet player powered by Google TVTM, Sony's newest devices offer something for everyone: 3D, Wi-Fi®, Internet connectivity with access to hundreds of apps, near-field communications and more.

   Inventive Designs Move Blu-Ray DiscTM Player to the Top of the Stack  Sony is adding three new models to its acclaimed line of Blu-ray Disc players: the BDP-S1100, BDP-S3100 and BDP-S5100. Each model is Internet-connected and packed with apps, and offers stunning performance when playing back Blu-ray Discs or DVDs thanks to a fully encased optical drive and powerful image processors. The S3100 and S5100 players are also equipped with improved Wi-Fi capability offering a stronger signal and excellent range. In addition to giving consumers more entertainment choices than ever before, the new Blu-ray Disc players also incorporate Sony's striking new premium design.  "Consumers have so many choices at retail and these new players were designed to make a striking first impression the minute you walk into a store," said Yamato Tanikawa, director of product management, Sony Electronics. "'Premium' is the best way to describe these new models, with their stylish quartz design and high end performance. They are the perfect example of form following function, delivering all the features consumers want for home entertainment and creating a striking focal point of the living room."

   Entertainment Choices: Blu-ray discs, DVDs and Streaming Services Enhance the Experience  The S5100 player is also Blu-ray 3DTM playback-capable, so consumers can choose to enjoy videos from nearly any media. All three new models offer access to more than 100 online apps and content services, including Sony Entertainment Network's Video Unlimited and Music Unlimited, as well as the most popular entertainment options from Netflix®, Pandora®, HuluPlusTM, Amazon Video on Demand, YouTube®, Slacker® Internet Radio, Crackle and many more. The BDP-S1100 player is compatible with the most services of any entry Blu-ray Disc Player on the market.

   The newest addition to Sony Entertainment Network is a Fitness and Wellness channel, offering a variety of interactive nutrition, healthy cooking and workout services.

   Innovative Engineering with a "Touch" of High Performance

   The new Sony Blu-ray Disc home theater systems (available this Spring) feature One-touch, Near Field Communication (NFC) technology too. NFC promises to offer unprecedented interconnectivity across much of the Sony home ecosystem. By simply touching an NFC-enabled mobile phone or tablet to the player, users can automatically connect and play music from that mobile device while controlling the entertainment experience across multiple screens. All new Blu-ray disc home theater systems as well as the BDP-S5100 and BDP-S3100 players are compatible with the TV SideView universal remote control app for Android and iOS devices. The app also allows consumers to play personal videos, pictures, and music on their TV via the Blu-ray disc player, simply by "throwing" the content from their tablet or smart phone.

   New Audio and Video Components that are Worth Planning Ahead For  New 2013 Audio/Video receivers, sound bars, home theater systems, speakers and much more are being previewed at CES, with full announcements planned for early Spring.  At CES 2013, Sony is also highlighting new features from the latest platform update and peripherals for the Internet Player with Google TV, such as a remote control with a built-in microphone for enabling Voice Search.  For more information and product images for all of the new Sony products please visit Sony.com/CES.

 
