
       
The cat is out of the bag, Sony! We just walked into Sony's CES press conference and look at what we found hanging around in the back? It's Sony's Xperia Arc, and it is one slim smartphone. Seriously, it's really thin and its concave back reminds us a lot of the Nexus S. According to the placard it has a "Reality Display" with a Mobile BRAVIA Engine. We're not sure what those fancy words mean, but the display (we're assuming it is 4.2 inches) is definitely extremely bright and crisp -- like AMOLED bright and crisp. We don't know the exact measurements of the handset, but it looks just as thin as the iPhone... if not thinner. Other than that we know it has an mini-HDMI port and runs Android 2.3 (confirmed on the device itself!). It also has a Sony Exmor R camera. We should be learning much more about this thing as soon as it becomes "official," but until then hit the break for some hands-on shots. 





Update: Ah, finally some confirmed specs. The Arc does in fact have a 1GHz Snapdragon processor, 4.2-inch display, 8.3 megapixel camera, and measures just 8.7mm thick. Hit the break for the full PR and specs.
      

Show full PR textSony Ericsson introduces Xperia™ arc - the ultimate smartphone with super-slim design and state-of-the-art Sony technology Xperia™ arc combines stunning design with Sony technology on Android™ platform version 2.3Newest addition to the Xperia™ range delivers visual brilliance and the ultimate multimedia experienceJanuary 5, 2011, Las Vegas, USA – Sony Ericsson today unveils the new Xperia™ arc smartphone with cutting edge Sony technology and an exceptional multimedia experience on the latest version of the Android™ platform - 2.3. Xperia™ arc is the first of a new generation of Xperia smartphones to be announced in 2011.Bert Nordberg, President, Sony Ericsson said, "We're starting strong in 2011 by introducing our most exciting Xperia™ product yet. Xperia™ arc combines state-of-the-art Sony technology with breathtaking design to entertain and wow consumers. All on the latest Android™ release." Xperia™ arc takes the stunning design language that Sony Ericsson has become known for to a new level. Super slim and light, Xperia™ arc is just 8.7mm at its thinnest part and has a extra wide 4.2" multi-touch screen. Created from premium materials and with a stunning arc body, this smartphone is sleek, strong and designed to fit perfectly in the user's hand. The best of Sony technology is inside Xperia™ arc. The Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine delivers exceptional visual brilliance and a crystal clear image which enhances the overall entertainment experience. Furthermore, Sony's award-winning Exmor R™ for mobile sensor with the f/2.4 lens enables the capture of high quality, bright pictures and HD videos even in low light. All pictures and videos can be shared in HD on your living room TV via the built in HDMI-connector.Xperia™ arc will launch on the latest version of the Android™ platform providing access to Google Mobile Services and the myriad of applications available on the Android market. Xperia™ smartphones add best in class entertainment on top of smartphone fundamentals such as apps, maps, email and fast Internet to create the most entertaining smartphone experience. Sony Ericsson Xperia™ arc – Key featuresSlim, lightweight and strong, with perfect ergonomicsExtra wide 4.2" multi-touch Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine to ensure ultimate multimedia and viewing experiences Sony Exmor R™ for mobile: for best-in-class low-light photography and video capture 8.1 megapixel camera and HD video recording capability Android Market™ – thousands of applications to keep you entertainedSony Ericsson Xperia™ arc will be available globally in selected markets, including Japan, from Q1 in the colours Midnight Blue and Misty Silver.Check out the Sony Ericsson Product Blog for more information: http://blogs.sonyericsson.com/products
 