
We've already hinted that the name of the game for laptops at CES will likely be incremental updates, and the latest company to prove our point is Sony. The PC division just announced an optional touchscreen for its VAIO T Series 14 Ultrabook, which originally debuted back in October. The touch T14 will be available for $800 in the spring.


In addition to updating the T Series 14, Sony is releasing the T Series 15, which boasts a full HD touch display and will go for $950 when it hits the market this spring. Why no specs, you ask? Well, the company isn't sharing any yet -- and we suspect that has something to do with Intel's releasing a new chipset in the near future. Finally, talk about incremental -- Sony's last PC announcement is a new color for the VAIO Duo 11 slider: it's now available in silver in addition to the original black.


Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


Show full PR textMEDIA ALERT: SONY EXPANDS VAIO® ULTRABOOK™ LINE
Touch Display Comes to VAIO® T series 14 and New VAIO® T series 15; New Silver Color for VAIO® Duo 11
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (CES booth #14200) – Jan. 8, 2013 – Sony today updated its top-selling VAIO® T Series Ultrabook™ line with an optional touchscreen for the T Series 14 Ultrabook and the new Full HD, touch-enabled T Series 15, both allowing consumers to experience Windows 8 in a clamshell form factor. The T Series incorporates Sony's innovative digital imaging and audio technologies, and packs high performance and mobility into a stylishly slim magnesium and aluminum design for daily trips to the office or campus.
New Color for the VAIO Duo 11
Transforming instantly between a power-packed Ultrabook and a multi-media tablet, the VAIO Duo 11 is now available in Silver at www.store.sony.com.
Pricing and Availability
 The new touch enabled VAIO T Series 14 and T Series 15 will be available in Spring for about $800 and $950 at Sony retail stores (www.store.sony.com) and other authorized dealers nationwide. For images and information, please visit www.sony.com/news.

