
Fancy some of the 4K magic from Sony, but are living over in the UK? Well you can get one step closer by pre-ordering today. The Bravia X9 -- as it's known over there -- comes in two sizes (55- and 65-inch) both of which will land in bricks and mortar stores in mid-June. The price? Well, £4,000 and £6,000 respectively. That outlay will get you upscaling on all your media, and Sony's 4K X-Reality PRO engine handling the full-resolution stuff. Still not convinced? Well there is NFC and plus a TV SlideView app for Android and iOS if that sweetens the deal?



Show full PR textSony confirms prices and on-sale dates for new BRAVIA X9 4K TV
Pre-order BRAVIA X9 4K Ultra HD TV online from 15th MayIn-store from mid-JuneConfirmed European pricing: £4,000 (55") / £6,000 (65")

Treat yourself to the detail and excitement of 4K by Sony with the new BRAVIA X9 4K Ultra HD TV. Available to pre-order online today (15th May) on sony.co.uk, BRAVIA X9 blends stunning pictures, soul-stirring sound and breath-taking styling in a unique sensory experience.

In UK stores including Sony Centres, John Lewis and Currys from mid-June, BRAVIA X9 brings you TV pictures like you've never seen before. Offered in living room-friendly 55" and 65" screen sizes, it immerses you in the most natural, real images with four times the detail of Full HD.

Any content in 4K

With more films being produced and distributed in the format, 4K is this year's biggest entertainment story. BRAVIA X9 upscales ALL your current content to 4K – including Blu-ray Disc™ films, TV shows and even low-resolution web videos – for a thrilling world of lifelike cinematic viewing.

Whatever you're watching, the latest 4K X-Reality PRO engine ensures best-ever picture quality, from movies to smartphone clips.

Best picture and sound quality

Unique to Sony, TRILUMINOS Display enriches your viewing with a wider palette of richly realistic colours, from shimmering seascapes and skies to flowers and faces.

Fabulous pictures are teamed with sumptuous sound, powered by cutting-edge Magnetic Fluid Speaker technology for crisp dialogue and music.

BRAVIA X9 even connects wirelessly with your NFC-compatible Xperia smartphone or tablet at a touch. 'Mirror' your device wirelessly and enjoy photos, videos, games and apps on the big screen with rich colour and detail. Browse schedules, record shows and explore related content with TV SideView, the intuitive app for your Android or iOS device.

Sensational pictures and sound are complemented by an arresting new twist on 'Sense of Quartz' styling that makes a luxurious statement in any living space.

The new BRAVIA X9 4K Ultra HD TV is available in a choice of 55" (£4,000) or 65" (£6,000) screen sizes.


