
 
Sony's little mid-range Vaio just got a little more little. The Y series, launched back in January, is shrinking from 13.3 to 11.6 inches with the new VPCYA19FJ/B model, but still offers a perfectly respectable resolution of 1366 x 768. The CPU is an Intel Core i3-380UM processor running at 1.33GHz, storage is provided by a 320GB disk, between 2 and 8GB of memory is available, and connectivity is provided by Bluetooth 2.1, 802.11b/g/n, gigabit Ethernet, and the ever-popular HDMI port. All that will supposedly still net you six hours of battery life when it ships to lucky Japanese shoppers with laps on November 27th at an as of yet undisclosed price.





Show full PR textVAIO personal computer for personal "Y Series" Information of new product launchSony, VAIO will release a new product follows the personal computer.The compact, lightweight size and implemented a long drive for portability "Y Series"Equipped with 11.6-inch WXGA widescreen LCD, weighs 1.46kg while providing the portability Ito Takashi, CPU is "CoreTM i3-380Um "by adopting the PC have a good basic performance as a Masu. In addition, a small and lightweight a maximum of about six hours of battery supplied with the optional L-battery can be a maximum of about 11.5 hours of battery life, handy for use on the go.Subdued black design offices can also be usedThe top plate to unify both black palm, due to adopt a relaxed sense of quality design that is suitable for use in business. There is also a space between the keys and, by adopting a separate Aisoreshonkibodo keys one by one, little typo can be comfortable typing.PC equipped with safety features and software to useOn the keyboard "ASSIST (Assist)" by simply pressing a button, PC software that supports the prevention and resolution of problems "VAIO Care (Biocare)" starts, the computer system notifies the state list. This problem can be easily found, preventing serious problems. Also, "VAIO Care", just pick a menu that is prepared by symptom, features and troubleshooting guides coping, CPU is equipped with the ability to diagnose the condition, such as hardware and memory. Furthermore, when the PC does not start, "ASSIST" by pressing a button, saving valuable file and C recovery and repair support the drive back to its initial state.The world a little brighter, fun "VAIO ASSIST TORCH PROJECT (Project Assist torch bio)" Start 2nd"" Your words set the world alight, "a light and sound to express!"VAIO introduction service support, and for you to feel closer to their contents, was published in the first wave of November 1, "Thank you" and "luck" and "light the world words = words to assist the people "gathered from around the world continuously, WEB is expressed above.The second series is actually "words set the world alight," the WEB can be sent on the express. Entered on a special website "words" will, "VAIO melody start" program was created based on the logic of "sound" changes to, Twitter can be outgoing. Also, the type "words" on the official site of "light" becomes a collection, will be formed and they light the torch.Means, VAIO site, "set the world alight words" please change to express the light and sound.VAIO is a comfortable and pleasant to everyone from your PC to send'd thought that life, PC to "ASSIST" establishment of a button, VAIO run the site and post questions with other users, and increased telephone support service, free PC can assist a little fun life, we continue to strive every day.The third project (11/25 -) in, WEB gathered on the "words to brighten the world" (assist), expressed as a torch to light the chimney of a public bath in the real world. Directing the light to live through the site will deliver sound and light. The fourth project further, we plan to conduct the event under the torch light.
 