
   Can we get a "hey-oh" from all the party people in the CES-house? Soul Electronics (rapper Ludacris' line of audio products) has today unveiled its first non-headphone device, dubbed Party in a Box. The name may seem a bit silly, but this speaker system is packing some serious specs. The PIAB is large enough to dock an iPad, and features both AirPlay and Bluetooth wireless connectivity. On top of ensuring nearly any modern mobile device should be able to stream audio to it sans wires, the mini-rig also comes with 5.8GHz two-way transceiver that'll allow you to play your tunes over multiple PIABs, or even other speakers. Speaking of speakers, internally you'll find a duo of 6.5-inch woofers, to 3-inch mid-purposed drivers, and finally, a quartet of 1-inch tweeters.  For wired connectivity, the rig packs an HDMI output, an auxiliary connection for wired hookup, and a best of all, a balanced mic input (XLR?) so you can MC from just about anywhere there's power. Considering that Party in a Box features a carry handle, shoulder strap and will plug plug into wall and car sockets or run off of its own rechargeable batteries, we'd imagine it's a very feasible proposition. For a bit of extra spice, the system also has a a pair of VU meters that'll bump to your jams, and even customizable mood-lighting.  Aside from PIAB, Soul is also introducing a few new color-schemes for its SL49, SL99 in-ear headphones, as well as its SL300 over-ear model. There's no specific word on pricing or availability just yet, but if we hear anything from the show floor, you can be sure we'll keep you post. Full press release just past the break.
 

  Show full PR text  SOUL Electronics launches the ultimate, portable, high-performance, wireless entertainment system featuring Apple AirPlay® technology and Bluetooth streaming capabilities  LVCC Central Hall – Booth #7922  Las Vegas, NV – January 10, 2012 – Soul Electronics, a global leader in pro and consumer audio manufacturing and the creators of the popular SOUL by Ludacris premium headphone line, has unveiled its newest audiophile device, Party in a Box, at this year's International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.  This sleek, yet powerful wireless entertainment system is completely unique in its class with three different built-in formats, including Apple AirPlay® capability for use with iOS devices, advanced Bluetooth streaming capability that allows users to pair with various Bluetooth devices, and a 5.8GHz two way transceiver that provides CD quality, uncompressed wireless listening and allows users to sync together multiple PIAB units or other wireless speakers for an expanded sound system. Perfect for the home, dorm room or even outdoor entertaining, the SOUL Party in a Box has the sonic power to deliver the impact of a full home entertainment system in the form factor of a mobile boom box.  "We have dedicated some of the world's most advanced audio engineering technology to the Party in a Box, and we can't wait to see the reaction when we unveil this powerful system at the CES Show," said Bob Bonefant, The SOUL Man. "We are confident that we've got a product that is untouchable, and SOUL fans will not believe their ears when this thing fires up."  The robust eight-speaker, Omni-Directional Hybrid system with dual 6.5-inch subwoofers, two 3-inch midrange speakers and four one inch tweeters fills any room, delivering stunningly powerful sound with a superb balance of deep bass with clear mids and highs. Its digital signal processing capabilities deliver precision balancing and mixing of bass, mids and highs for a full range of sound.  The modern black casing with aluminum accents offers an extra design element, creating a sophisticated look to complement the superior sound characteristics. The programmable multi-color perimeter light helps set the perfect mood for any event. Party in a Box also features an FM RDS tuner.  The 110V to 240V AC 50/60 Hz power supply allows users to enjoy Party in a Box in most locations around the world. It also includes a 12V cigarette lighter adapter; ideal for tailgating, camping, and boating. Plus, the optional high- capacity rechargeable batteries keep the party going for hours when AC or 12V power is not available.  Want to take the party outdoors? The auxiliary audio input makes Party in a Box the perfect theater audio system for outdoor entertainment, allowing users to connect Party in a Box to additional stereos and sound sources for a larger sound system.  For hosts looking to communicate with their guests, the balanced MIC input delivers crystal sound, turning Party in a Box into the ultimate PA system. It also has a headphone jack for private enjoyment. Plus, the unique guitar strap makes mingling and controlling the music environment easier, and more fun, than ever before.  The VU analog meters offer an added visual effect. They display the current voltage output of Party in a Box so users can watch the needles jump back and forth.  The onboard controls and integrated lockable handle makes Party in a Box the perfect docking solution, bringing the old school boombox design into the 21st century. It even has a guitar style shoulder strap for added comfort when partying on-the-go.  And for the ultimate movie theater experience on the go, Party in a Box can bring any movie soundtrack to life with its spacial signal processing and thundering bass, and it even has an HDMI output for a projector or TV.  For More Information, please visit www.SoulElectronics.com   SOUL Electronics Unveils Latest Design Concepts for SOUL by Ludacris Premium Headphone Line at CES 2012  SOUL Electronics and Chris "Ludacris" Bridges debut as official CES exhibitors to showcase the original premium SOUL by Ludacris line along with new designs for 2012  LVCC Central Hall – Booth #7922  Las Vegas, NV – January 10, 2012 – Making their debut on the CES 2012 show floor, Soul Electronics, a global leader in pro and consumer audio manufacturing and the creators of the popular SOUL by Ludacris premium headphone line, reveals seven new design and color concepts. Made in collaboration with Grammy award winning artist Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, these headphones will have all of CES buzzing.  New for 2012 to enhance the popular existing array of headphones, SOUL presents the SL300CG chrome gold and SL150CS chrome silver Limited Edition models, which boast ultra high-end aesthetics and an eye-catching, sleek finish. Additionally, the classic white finish with gold accents on the new SL100GW model bring a heightened level of sophistication and class to any music lover. The SL49 in-ear model will also be offered in fresh new color combos, featuring green & black (SL49NB), red & black (SL49RB) and pink & white (SL49PW), while the SL99W brings a head-turning white & platinum style to the elite in-ear model. All of the new color models boast the robust, studio-quality sound that SOUL by Ludacris fans have come to love.  "As we make our official debut of the SOUL by Ludacris line on the 2012 CES Show Floor following an extremely successful launch year, we look forward to unveiling these innovative new designs, along with putting on an unforgettable show" said Bob Bonefant, The SOUL Man. "Our customers desire the highest quality of sound and style, and we deliver on all fronts, hands down."  The SOUL by Ludacris line features the elite High Definition SL300 Powered Noise Cancelling headphone, High Definition On-Ear models SL150 and SL100, and the SL99 and SL49 High Definition In-Ear headphones.  The entire SOUL by Ludacris suite of products contains professionally voiced sound technology with advanced circuitry and drivers designed by a team of world-class engineers who have developed some of the most notable acoustic  breakthroughs in the audio industry. All models feature gold-plated connectors for seamless signal transfer and come iPhone® Ready, which means they work with iPhones, iPads and iPods.  For More Information, please visit www.SoulElectronics.com
 