
  All those long, long drives to Florida in the family station wagon seemed worth it at the time, but now that we've found out that those lucky South Koreans have another crazy theme-park, we might just change our minds. Located near Seoul, Live Park uses 3D video, holograms and augmented reality, interacting with RFID wrist bands and Kinect sensors to stitch together a continuous immersive story. You (and your avatar!) have 65 attractions, over seven themed zones, and the world's biggest interactive 360 degree stereoscopic theater to wave, jump and shout your way through. Two years and $13 million in the making, Live Park's creator d'strict is now looking to license the concept out internationally, with locations in China and Singapore already earmarked. We're not sure we could handle that long of a family drive just yet, but with a Hollywood entertainment "powerhouse" reportedly nibbling, maybe we won't have to.
      

 

  Show full PR text  'Live Park,' World's First 4D Avatar Theme Park, Success in Korea The future of theme parks is here today: 4D avatar technology previously only imagined in movies becomes reality, as new media entertainment company d'strict present the 'Live Park 4D World Tour' at the KINTEX in Ilsan, Gyeonggi-do, Korea. d'strict CEO Choi Eun-seok says, "'Live Park' is d'strict's grand challenge for the world's entertainment market."  Share ThisShareThis Email Contact Email PDF Version PDF Printer Friendly Version Print  'Live360' Quote start"Last year James Cameron announced plans for an 'Avatar' themed land at Disney's Animal Kingdom ... d'strict have created an interactive 4D avatar theme park that's here today! "Quote end  (PRWEB) January 25, 2012  The future of theme parks is here today: 4D avatar technology previously only imagined in movies becomes reality, as new media entertainment company d'strict present the 'Live Park 4D World Tour' at the KINTEX in Ilsan, Gyeonggi-do, Korea. d'strict CEO Choi Eun-seok says, "'Live Park' is d'strict's grand challenge for the world's entertainment market."  4D Avatar Theme Park a Reality Now  The age of the passive theme park attraction has gone. Today two year olds play Xbox games; the silver generation own i-pads and consumers of all ages expect the latest interactive technology across all areas of entertainment. The 'Live Park'4D is a new genre of theme park that pushes the limits of future entertainment.  'Live Park' enables visitors to experience a virtual world previously only seen in movies like 'Minority Report' and 'Avatar.' Mixed reality architecture allows the visitor to create an avatar and become the main character in a unique adventure. With interactive game elements as well as installation art, the visitor creates their own story in augmented reality.  The 10,000 square meter space represents an investment of $13 million over 2 years and can accommodate up to 3,000 visitors at any one time or 10,000 visitors a day. Open to the public since December 2011, the 'Live Park 4D World Tour' has been such a success that d'strict plan to extend the Season 1 Tour at KINTEX.  The 'Live Park'  'Live Park' is composed of 65 attractions over 7 thematic stages and uses state of the art 3D video, holograms and augmented reality technology to create a seamless story. Visitors and their avatars move through the theme park's stages interacting with the attractions using RFID wristbands and kinect sensors to recognize their gestures, voices and faces. Highlights include:  The 'Ender Mirror'- visitors create their own look-alike avatar and take photos by laughing at a mirror loaded with a 'smile engine.'  'Live360'- the world's biggest interactive 360 degree stereoscopic theatre. Shouting and running together alongside their avatars, visitors can directly experience a realistic video game with multiple story endings in a huge space.  'Live Square' - allows visitors to enjoy the world's most advanced avatar game in the world's largest interactive projection square stretching over 150 meters.  'Live Holo' - holograms created by a collaboration between d'strict and domestic and overseas artists including David Garrett, Boxer Rebellion and 2NE1.  'Syno Star Performance' - visitors perform with their avatars in augmented reality on the hologram stage.  'Mega Live Event' - 'Live Park' is transformed into an evening entertainment venue providing unconventional performances, events and exhibitions in co-operation with top Rave DJs, artists, clubs, brands and fashion magazines.
 