
 
For those of you (we know, pretty much everyone in existence) who already picked up a set of Pink Pig PC speakers a few years back, you can carry on with your daily routine. For everyone else that owns an iPod, hold it right there. Speakal is delivering the iPod docking iPig, a unique speaker system that packs five total drivers (including a 4-inch subwoofer), adjustable bass controls, 360-degree sound distribution and a very debatable design. You'll also find a 3.5-millimeter auxiliary jack for hooking up every other source, and the bundled remote makes it easy to switch tracks and such from your sofa. The only problem? That $139.99 price tag. Check the full release after the jump.
      

 

Speakal Announces iPig, the Stylish Music Companion with Touch Controls & Booming SoundThe unique docking station features 5 speakers; including a 4 inch subwoofer, adjustable bass control, 360° sound distribution and unparalleled design elements. Culver City, CA – August 13, 2008 – Speakal is pleased to announce the release of the iPig. As the sole North American distributor, Speakal is thrilled to deliver the most advanced docking station to date. The iPig combines quality, performance, compatibility and style into one compact iPod docking station. Audio engineers were able to design the iPig with 5 speakers pumping out 25 watts of premium sound, in spite of its small footprint.  The acoustic design elements enable the iPig to disseminate 360° sound, insuring the entire room is filled with heart-pumping sound. "We could not be more pleased to bring the iPig to the masses," said CEO David Solomon. "Today's consumer demands electronics that function at a high level while still being a welcomed addition to each individual's décor. The iPig satisfies both needs with superior sound quality and a unique, aesthetically pleasing design," added Solomon.The iPig's key features include:  •  High Quality Sound - 4 speakers, a 4" subwoofer and 25 watts of powerful sound.  Adjustable Bass Control with Bass Reflex Technology. 360° Sound Distribution. Onboard Hi-Fi amplifier, dynamic airflow optimizer, interior dynamic cooling exchange and high sound stabilization to produce a clear powerful sound.   •  Extensive Compatibility - iPod dock with various included cradles, standard auxiliary 3.5 mm input jack providing connectivity to most portable and non portable audio players, gaming consoles, mobile gaming devices, cellular phones, desktop PCs, laptops and various other devices.  •  Unparalleled Design Elements - Patented volume control by touching the left and right ears. The iPig's small footprint easily masks itself as a decorative piece and includes rubberized feet to prevent rattling. The smiley mouth lights up when the iPig is powered on and blinks when receives commands from the remote. As GREEN and RoHS product, the iPig efficiently utilizes minimal energy and is designed using environmentally friendly components and non-hazardous materials.   •  Remote Control - Complete with audio controls as well as iPod menu functionalityDesigner Colors include yellow, pink and white. The iPig retails for $139.99 and includes a 90 full days manufacturer's warranty. 

       

 