
 
 Similar to last year's airing of Microsoft's E3 keynote, Spike TV's once again offering gamers who won't be making the trip to Los Angeles a quick way to enjoy a little bit of the show. The famed Major Nelson revealed the news that Spike TV will be showing the entire 90-minute Xbox: Entertainment Evolved event live on its network, which takes place on June 4th at 12:30PM Eastern time -- of course, we'll be there covering it. Unlike in 2011, though, now you'll also be able to check out whatever Redmond has in store for us as it airs on TV straight from your console via Xbox Live. Sadly, we know that won't be some new Xbox hardware...



     E3 All Access Live Preview  Get More: E3 All Access Live Preview

    Show full PR text   Spike TV To Present "Xbox: Entertainment Evolved" Exclusive From E3 2012
  Ninety-Minute Special to Include the World Premiere of "Halo 4" Telecasting Live and Commercial-Free on Spike
   NEW YORK, May 3, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Spike TV is partnering with Microsoft Corp for live and commercial-free coverage of the Xbox Media Briefing at the 2012 Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), the game industry's leading trade show on Monday, June 4 at 12:30pm ET / 9:30am PT. "Xbox: Entertainment Evolved" will take viewers on a 90-minute journey through the future of the Xbox 360 platform with world premieres of blockbuster games and entertainment experiences set for release in 2012 and beyond. The special event telecasts as part of Spike TV's "E3 All Access Live" live program, which features more than 17 hours of multi-platform coverage from the 2012 Electronic Entertainment Expo.

   (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20110419/NY85419LOGO)

   "Spike is proud to be the top destination for breaking news at E3 2012, highlighted by the much-anticipated 'Xbox: Entertainment Evolved' special event, which will be available for viewing in a record number of media platforms as a part of 'E3 All Access Live,'" said Jon Slusser, Senior Vice President, Sports and Multi-platform Programming, Spike TV.

   "Xbox: Entertainment Evolved," hosted by "GTTV's" Geoff Keighley, will telecast live from the USC's Galen Center in Los Angeles. During the event, Microsoft will offer an exclusive world premiere of "Halo 4," as well as present brand-new looks at "Forza Horizon," "Fable: The Journey," and world premieres of the most anticipated games of 2012 and beyond from Microsoft Studios and third party publishers. In addition, Xbox will outline how it is working with leading content partners to bring entertainment to life in profound new ways that are only possible on Xbox 360.

   "E3 2012 will be an important milestone for Xbox, and we can't wait to share our vision for how we are making the entertainment you love, more amazing with fans live across Spike TV, online, and, for the first time, on Xbox LIVE," said Yusuf Mehdi, Chief Marketing Officer of Microsoft's Interactive Entertainment Business.

   The exclusive broadcast of "Xbox: Entertainment Evolved" kicks off Spike's "E3 All Access Live" coverage on Monday, June 4. The network will deliver more than 17 hours of live E3-related programming, including gaming exclusives across multiple platforms from its state of the art HD studio overlooking the Los Angeles Convention Center. Spike's "E3 All Access Live" will unveil the biggest games of E3 before any other network with breaking news, live demonstrations, world premiere trailers, in-depth interviews and expert analysis. Spike's 2011 live E3 multi-platform special was the number one destination for E3 coverage last year*, garnering more than 10 million combined online and on-air viewers, and was also the largest live streaming event in Viacom history.

   In addition to airing on Spike TV, Viacom Media Networks and Xbox will make "Entertainment Evolved" available across a record number of digital platforms and screens, including a live broadcast on Xbox Live and a live, high-definition global video stream on the Internet, powered by the Akamai HD Network platform. The event will also air live in Times Square and will be streamed on Facebook, Twitter, mobile platforms, Spike.com, Xbox.com/E3 and more.

   For a sneak peek into Spike's "E3 All Access Live" and Microsoft's "Xbox: Entertainment Evolved," please visit http://www.spike.com/video-clips/7hlxh5/.

   Spike TV is available in 98.7 million homes and is a division of Viacom Media Networks. A unit of Viacom (NASDAQ: VIA, VIAB), Viacom Media Networks is one of the world's leading creators of programming and content across all media platforms. Spike TV's Internet address is www.spike.com and for up-to-the-minute and archival press information and photographs, visit Spike TV's press site at http://www.spike.com/press. Follow us on Twitter @spiketvpr for the latest in breaking news updates, behind-the-scenes information and photos.

   Xbox 360 is a premier home entertainment and video game system. Thanks to the addition of Kinect, Xbox 360 will forever transform social gaming and entertainment with a whole new way to play - no controller required. Xbox 360 is also home to the best and broadest games as well as one of the world's largest on-demand libraries of music, standard- and high-definition movies, TV shows and digital games, all in one place. The entertainment center of the living room, Xbox 360 blends unbeatable content with a leading social entertainment network of 40 million Xbox LIVE members to create a limitless entertainment experience that can be shared at home or across the globe. More information about Xbox 360 can be found online at http://www.xbox.com.

   *Spike TV was #1 on cable and broadcast TV for men 12-34 throughout E3 2011 (source: MultiTrak Live Same Day #1 among M12-34 in the 12-5 p time period)

   SOURCE Spike TV

 
