
 
Oh, sure -- you've got a smorgasbord of virtual machine clients out there for the iDevice in your life, but you haven't had this one. Until today, of course. Splashtop (the former DeviceVM) has just unleashed its Remote Desktop app for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad, enabling users to funnel Windows PC content onto their handheld. The catch is an obvious one -- you'll need a WiFi connection to make the magic happen, though we're assuming you wouldn't even want to imagine how sluggish the process would be over 3G. The company claims that this app will let users "watch movies, listen to music, or access any other Windows files and programs, including full web browsers with Flash," and you'll need a WiFi-connected Win7, Vista or WinXP machine nearby to take advantage. We've got a feeling this won't work nearly as well as advertised (sorry, it's just the nature of tunneling / emulation), but those willing to take the plunge can tap into the App Store as we speak.
      

 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textAccess Your PC Media from an iPhone with Splashtop Remote DesktopSplashtop unveils first iPhone and iPod touch app to remotely deliver the Windows PC experience, including video and audioSAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Splashtop Inc, the leader in mobile access to PC content, today announced the availability of Splashtop Remote Desktop for iPhone and iPod touch. The application connects your iPhone or iPod touch to your Windows PC for a seamless remote desktop experience. Already ranked as the #1 paid business app for the iPad in the U.S., and the #1 paid iPad app overall in many countries in October 2010, Splashtop Remote Desktop for iPhone and iPod touch lets users watch movies, listen to music, or access any other Windows files and programs, including full web browsers with Flash, right from the mobile device. The new application works over a Wi-Fi network, giving users easy access to PC content from any room of the house or office."We have invented technology that lets you put your PC in your pocket""We have invented technology that lets you put your PC in your pocket," said Mark Lee, CEO and co-founder of Splashtop Inc. "Picture yourself kicking back on your couch, using your iPhone to watch a Hulu video or to play a Farmville Flash game running on your home PC. You'll have full MS Office capability, too, to satisfy your workaholic soul. What we've built is a seamless bridge between your iPhone and Windows PC. With Splashtop Remote, you won't just have the coolest iPhone on the block, you'll be way more productive too."With Splashtop Remote Desktop, users can use their iPhone or iPod touch to:* See and control your Windows PC like you are directly in front of it* Access all Windows files and programs including Microsoft Office without having to sync files* Watch videos (including Flash) and listen to music (streaming or from your library)* Connect to multiple PCs with the same iPhone or iPod touch app* Interact with any Windows application using intuitive controls like touch, pinch and zoomSplashtop Remote Desktop for iPhone and iPod touch is available today in the Apple App Store. It requires iOS3.2 or later, and will work on the iPhone 4 and 3GS and 3rd generation iPod touch or later.Splashtop Remote Desktop connects to any device running Windows 7, Windows Vista, or Windows XP operating system. Splashtop Remote consists of two components: an application running on the iOS device, and a desktop application running on the PC. To learn more about Splashtop Remote, please visit: http://www.SplashtopRemote.com
 