
 
Fulfilling a claim made in November's Nintendo Direct, Nintendo has revealed that its third-person ink shooter Splatoon will reach the Wii U at some point in May.

Alongside the release window confirmation, Nintendo also mentioned that the game features a central "plaza" that links Splatoon's various game modes and allows players to customize their weapons and gear. Below you'll also find a gallery of new screenshots pulled from the vibrant action game.

[Image: Nintendo]






Show full PR textNEW NINTENDO 3DS XL LAUNCHES IN THE U.S. ON FEB. 13New Fire Emblem Game and Next Line of amiibo Among Nintendo AnnouncementsREDMOND, Wash., Jan. 14, 2015 – During a Nintendo Direct presentation, Nintendo announced that the New Nintendo 3DS XL system will launch in the U.S. on Feb. 13 at a suggested retail price of $199.99. New Nintendo 3DS XL offers a number of new enhancements designed to offer the smoothest and most engrossing portable gaming possible. New Nintendo 3DS XL features a wider range of controls with the addition of a C Stick and ZL/ZR buttons, super-stable 3D via face-tracking technology and built-in NFC functionality that allows for communication with amiibo figures.All of the new features of New Nintendo 3DS XL make it the ideal way to experience upcoming portable games like The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D, Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate and Code Name: S.T.E.A.M., as well as all other existing Nintendo 3DS software. The system also enhances certain games like Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS with amiibo functionality, faster processing speeds and more control options when compared to the Nintendo 3DS system. In addition to the standard hardware in New Red and New Black, two other New Nintendo 3DS XL designs will be available at launch: a system featuring artwork inspired by The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D and one based on Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate available exclusively at GameStop with the game pre-installed. The three stand-alone New Nintendo 3DS XL models and the Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate bundle will all be available on Feb. 13 at suggested retail prices of $199.99 and $229.99, respectively.In addition to the New Nintendo 3DS XL news, Nintendo also revealed the Feb. 13 launch date of The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D, a new game in the Fire Emblem series, a line of amiibo featuring classic characters from the Super Mario series, the arrival of amiibo compatibility in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and many details about upcoming Wii U and Nintendo 3DS games, including Code Name: S.T.E.A.M., Splatoon, Kirby and the Rainbow Curse and Mario Party 10.To view the Nintendo Direct video in its entirety, visit http://www.nintendo.com/nintendo-direct."We are only a couple of weeks into 2015, and Nintendo is already starting the year off with a bang," said Scott Moffitt, Nintendo of America's executive vice president of Sales & Marketing. "With New Nintendo 3DS XL coming very soon and an enormous library of exclusive Wii U and Nintendo 3DS games launching throughout the coming months, it has never been a better time to be a Nintendo fan."Some of the other highlights revealed in the video include:Nintendo 3DSNew Fire Emblem Game: The latest game in the Fire Emblem series is coming exclusively to the Nintendo 3DS family of systems. Developed by the same team that created Fire Emblem Awakening, the new adventure adds challenges never before seen in the series and asks players to make decisions that will affect the game's world in new ways.Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate from Capcom: Play alone in a robust single-player experience, join up to three other players locally or, for the first time on a portable system, play online using a wireless broadband Internet connection. Starting soon, select players will receive early access to a demo for the game that includes both single- and multiplayer options. A special-edition New Nintendo 3DS XL bundle, which includes a slick custom-designed system and a copy of the game, launches on Feb. 13 alongside the game's release.Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS amiibo Compatibility: In February, a new system update will allow amiibo support for Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS using the Super Smash Bros. series of amiibo and the NFC technology built in to the New Nintendo 3DS XL system. The previously announced NFC adapter for amiibo support on Nintendo 3DS will launch in the future.Xenoblade Chronicles 3D: In April, a remake of the well-received Xenoblade Chronicles game for the Wii system is launching exclusively for New Nintendo 3DS XL. The new version offers 3D visuals and allows players to view the maps and character stats on the bottom screen. An additional bonus mode lets players view 3D models of the characters and listen to music tracks from the game.Puzzle & Dragons Z / Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition: Based on the popular Puzzle & Dragons game – a game with RPG and strategy elements that previously launched in Japan – Puzzle & Dragons Z and Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition will launch as one package for the Nintendo 3DS family of systems in May. Puzzle & Dragons: Super Mario Bros. Edition features characters and worlds from the Super Mario Bros. series.Code Name: S.T.E.A.M.: A month after the launch of New Nintendo 3DS XL, Abraham Lincoln will bring together heroes from classic literature and American folklore to fend off an alien invasion. Code Name: S.T.E.A.M. launches for the Nintendo 3DS family of systems on March 13 and is one of the first Nintendo 3DS games to use amiibo. By tapping an existing Fire Emblem amiibo character like Marth or Ike, or an upcoming one like Robin or Lucina, on the touch screen of the New Nintendo 3DS XL system, players can enlist their help in battle as playable characters.Etrian Mystery Dungeon: From ATLUS and Spike Chunsoft comes a Nintendo 3DS exclusive that combines the game play of the Etrian Odyssey and Mystery Dungeon RPG series. The game launches this spring and gives players the freedom to create their own party of heroes and then embark on a near-infinite loot-hunting quest.Story of Seasons from Marvelous USA and XSEED Games: Combining farming and life simulation, Story of Seasons connects players with other lands across the in-game world and with other players online. The game launches exclusively for Nintendo 3DS in March.Pokémon Shuffle: Launching exclusively in the Nintendo eShop on Nintendo 3DS in February, Pokémon Shuffle finds players putting their puzzle-solving skills to the test by matching three or more Pokémon in the Puzzle Area to deal damage as they battle wild Pokémon across a variety of stages. Clearing Pokémon efficiently is the key to success. Players can download and start the game for free and purchase in-game items using Nintendo eShop funds.ACE COMBAT ASSAULT HORIZON LEGACY+ from BANDAI NAMCO Games America Inc.: The high-flying Ace Combat series is back with an improved 3D view and added C Stick and ZR/ZL button controls that make playing on New Nintendo 3DS XL the ideal way to experience the game. Players can even tap select amiibo figures to the New Nintendo 3DS XL system to unlock special aircraft skins. The game launches for the Nintendo 3DS family of systems on Feb. 13.Fossil Fighters: Frontier: A new entry in the Fossil Fighters series is stomping its way onto the Nintendo 3DS family of systems on March 20. Fossil Fighters: Frontier lets two to six players team up and battle each other's Vivosaurs in local or online tournaments.Wii USplatoon: A central "plaza" that connects to all the different modes in the game also grants access to a shopping center that lets players customize their weapons and outfits with in-game currency. Splatoon launches exclusively for Wii U in May.Hyrule Warriors DLC: New "Majora's Mask Pack" DLC will launch for Hyrule Warriors on Feb. 5 for $7.99. The content includes two new characters (Tingle and Young Link), a new Adventure Mode map and three additional costumes.Kirby and the Rainbow Curse: Kirby, King Dedede and Meta Knight amiibo are compatible with the game. Once a day, players can tap Kirby, King Dedede or Meta Knight amiibo to the GamePad to power up Kirby. Kirby and the Rainbow Curse launches for Wii U on Feb. 20.Mario Party 10: The new "amiibo Party Mode" brings amiibo compatibility to the classic party-game series. Select amiibo from both the Super Smash Bros. and Super Mario series will work with the game: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, Yoshi, Bowser, Rosalina, Donkey Kong and Wario. While at least one amiibo is required to play, amiibo Party Mode lets players tap an amiibo to the GamePad to use that character as a game piece, as well as play on a game board themed to that classic character. Mario Party 10 and a limited-edition Mario Party 10 bundle including a Mario amiibo figure launch for Wii U on March 20.Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker: A new update on March 20 will add amiibo support to the charming Wii U game. Tapping the Toad amiibo on the GamePad will make Pixel Toad appear in a stage, waiting to be found by the player.Xenoblade Chronicles X: The upcoming Wii U game is an open-world RPG that allows seamless access to anywhere in the massive world. Xenoblade Chronicles X is planned for launch in 2015.Wii Games Coming to Wii U: Starting today, players can purchase and download Wii games directly to their Wii U HOME Menus via the Nintendo eShop on Wii U – no need to access Wii Mode. The first game that is now available is Super Mario Galaxy 2. The future lineup includes Punch-Out!! (Jan. 22) and Metroid Prime: Trilogy (Jan. 29). The Wii U GamePad can be used to control Wii games that were compatible with the Wii Classic Controller. The games will be on sale for an introductory price of $9.99 each during their first week of availability, and $19.99 after.amiiboSuper Mario Series amiibo: A line of amiibo figures inspired by the characters of the Super Mario series will launch on March 20. The lineup includes new models of Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi and Bowser, as well as the introduction of Toad. Crossover amiibo characters from the Super Smash Bros. and Super Mario lines like Mario, Luigi, Peach and Bowser will have the same functionality in all compatible games, so players can choose which design they like best!Additional amiibo Figures: Robin, Lucina, PAC-MAN, Wario, Ness and Charizard amiibo figures, which are all compatible with Super Smash Bros. for Wii U and Nintendo 3DS, will launch this spring.Nintendo eShop on Nintendo 3DS and Wii UMario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars: In this puzzle/platformer hybrid, players guide Mario Minis to the exit door using touch control. As with previous games in the series, players can create their own levels and share them with other players online. In this game, players can "tip" the creators of the user-generated puzzles with stars, which can be used to buy new parts in the robust level creator. Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars will launch exclusively in the Nintendo eShop on both Wii U and Nintendo 3DS on March 5. As a bonus, players who buy one version will receive a free download code for the other version!IronFall: Invasion from VD-Dev: Created by a small team of talented indie developers, IronFall: Invasion brings fast-paced 60-fps shooting action to the Nintendo eShop on Nintendo 3DS with six-player local and online multiplayer and a dedicated single-player campaign. While playable on Nintendo 3DS or Nintendo 2DS, the C Stick on New Nintendo 3DS XL enhances the control options. IronFall: Invasion launches exclusively in the Nintendo eShop on the Nintendo 3DS family of systems in early 2015.Third-Party Games: Many great third-party games are coming soon to the Nintendo eShop, including the following:Elliot Quest from PlayEveryWare, Blek from Broken Rules & kunabi brother, and Citizens of Earth from ATLUS for Wii U.Gunman Clive 2 from Hörberg Productions, Moon Chronicles (eps. 2, 3, 4) from Renegade Kid, Citizens of Earth from ATLUS and SEGA 3D Classics from SEGA for Nintendo 3DS.Project Treasure: A new four-player co-op game from BANDAI NAMCO ENTERTAINMENT and Tekken director Katsuhiro Harada is currently in development for Wii U.For more information about Nintendo, visit http://www.nintendo.com. You can also now pre-order or purchase a number of games directly from a PC or smart device by visiting http://nintendo.com/buydigital.Remember that Wii U and Nintendo 3DS feature parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/wiiu or http://www.nintendo.com/3ds.About Nintendo: The worldwide pioneer in the creation of interactive entertainment, Nintendo Co., Ltd., of Kyoto, Japan, manufactures and markets hardware and software for its Wii U™ and Wii™ home consoles, and Nintendo 3DS™ and Nintendo DS™ families of portable systems. Since 1983, when it launched the Nintendo Entertainment System™, Nintendo has sold more than 4.2 billion video games and more than 673 million hardware units globally, including the current-generation Wii U, Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo 3DS XL, as well as the Game Boy™, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, Nintendo DSi™ and Nintendo DSi XL™, Super NES™, Nintendo 64™, Nintendo GameCube™ and Wii systems. It has also created industry icons that have become well-known, household names such as Mario™, Donkey Kong™, Metroid™, Zelda™ and Pokémon™. A wholly owned subsidiary, Nintendo of America Inc., based in Redmond, Wash., serves as headquarters for Nintendo's operations in the Western Hemisphere. For more information about Nintendo, please visit the company's website at http://www.nintendo.com.
 