
 
Since Netflix is experiencing new competition to its popular movie distribution model it only fits that Redbox should too and the most interesting entrant we've seen in the movie kiosk business is "Spot. The Difference". It recently test launched 25 boxes in Riverside County California and currently beat Redbox's pricing by renting DVDs and Blu-ray discs for $1 / day each, or 89 cents if rented in pairs. Of course, just winning on price isn't enough to keep us from sticking with our coupon codes and smartphone apps, but the company has fixed our main beef with the red boxes by designing a kiosk with two slots, one for rental, and another for return. That way you're not waiting behind the people of Walmart as they skim through every disc in the box when all you want to do is return Glee, Season 2, Volume 1 and be on your way. It also claims to fit more movies in a smaller space, but really, you had us at express disc return slot.
      

 

Show full PR textPublic Media Works Launches 25 DVD Kiosks in Riverside County, California Branded as Spot. The DifferenceTMCustomers "Spot the Difference," With Pricing for Both Blu-ray and DVD Rentals as Low as $.89 per DaySAUSALITO, CA--(Marketwire - March 17, 2011) - Public Media Works, Inc. (OTCBB: PUBM), operating under the consumer brand Spot. The Difference™, announced today that it has successfully launched a fully operational test of their first 25 kiosks at high traffic outdoor locations in Riverside County, California. All of the kiosks are the state of the art new S1400 model from Signifi Solutions, Inc. of Toronto, Canada. The initial deployment of 25 outdoor kiosks marks several industry firsts in the rapidly growing entertainment kiosk space, including parity pricing for DVD and Blu-ray discs, and discounts for customers who rent more than one disc at a time. This pricing allows customers to rent two new release Blu-ray titles for only $0.89 each per day plus tax. Single discs in both formats rent for $1.00 per day. All of the kiosks feature two slots -- one for rental and return, and the other exclusively for return, resulting in a much faster customer experience. In addition, the kiosks have capacity for up to 1400 discs, and a 32" high definition flat screen monitor at all locations. "We believe this launch hails the next generation of entertainment kiosks," remarked Greg Waring, President and Chief Operating Officer of Public Media Works. "By listening to consumers we've addressed several pitfalls inherent in current kiosk offerings, including low capacity, slow service times, and the perception of price gouging for Blu-ray. We also listened carefully to retailers who host kiosks, and have addressed their main concern which was the large size of current outdoor kiosks. Our kiosk offers 1400 disc capacity, and fully digital merchandising, all contained in about a 3 foot by 3 foot space."During this test period, based on customer feedback, the company will continue to validate and fine tune every aspect of its operations before moving into a planned phase of rapid scaling scheduled to begin in Q2 of 2011. More information is available at www.spotrentals.com, including a full listing of locations and registration for weekly customer e-mails. About Public Media WorksPublic Media Works, Inc. (OTCBB: PUBM) is in the process of rolling out a network of conveniently located self-service kiosks which vend Blu-ray Discs and DVDs for rental in retail locations under the trade name "Spot. The difference.™" Signifi Solutions, Inc. of Toronto, Canada, manufactures, operates, and maintains a network of kiosk "Stores" that feature the highest-quality, fastest, and most dependable access to home entertainment media.This press release may contain forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, particularly as related to the business plans of Public Media Works, the rollout and deployment of DVD entertainment kiosks, the ability to enter into agreements with retail partners, to gain market share, the ability to purchase and place kiosks, the size of the market, the appeal of our kiosk and rental pricing to consumers, and the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace, and the future opportunities of the company, are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from the Company's expectations and estimates. "Spot. The difference.™" is a trademark licensed to Public Media Works, Inc.
 