
Spotify is making another push to help its users find more music they're interested in listening to, and find out more about the artists they like by making its "Discover" feature available to all. Initially shown off late last year, this page combines several elements that have already been a part of the music service, including apps like Pitchfork, Songkick and Tunigo with its song recommendations and followed artist pages. There's also an audio preview feature to let you easily dip into a song that seems interesting, without pulling the focus away from whatever you were listening to before.


The new page is available today on Spotify's web player for all users, and is expected to come to its desktop and mobile clients "gradually." With the launch of Twitter Music and Google Play Music's All Access Spotify is facing renewed competition on multiple fronts, we'll see if this kind of one stop shopping for info is key to keeping its users tied to their subscriptions. Check after the break for a few more details in the press release, or hit the website to give it a try yourself.




Show full PR textHello music discovery. Spotify here.

· Buckle up, lean back and play: Discover feature available to all

Don't know what to listen to next? That's okay. We do. Spotify's Discover page seeks out personalized recommendations by seamlessly combining Spotify's best-in-class technology and social tools with curated content from music experts including Pitchfork, Songkick, Tunigo, and much, much more. Features include:

● New personalized recommendations every day based on the music you love

● New releases from the artists you follow

● All the music and playlists shared by friends and trendsetters you follow

● Find out when an artist you love is touring near you – the information will just bubble up through recommended shows from Songkick

● Related Music: play a song and get instant recommendations on what to play next

"With the Discover page, we're making good on our promise of helping you choose what to listen to when faced with millions of songs," says Gustav Söderström, Chief Product Officer, at Spotify. "We've made your listening experience more personal, more social and more current."

Make sure you also check out our handy Audio Preview feature. Dip into new music without moving away from the song you're playing. Just click and hold over any play button on the Discover page – if you like what you hear, save it for later or play it straight away. The choice is yours.

As of today, the Discover feature is available to everyone on our web player – a great additional feature for times you can't play music through your Spotify desktop app. So whether you're at the office, or over at a friend's house, simply log in to your account on the website and hit play. To check out Discover on the Spotify web player today, simply head to www.spotify.com.

The Discover page will gradually roll out to Spotify's desktop and mobile apps.

Happy discovering!


