
Sick and tired of picking your own music to play all the time? Spotify's been working to up its recommendation game, through the launch of features like social and Discover, now pushing things even further with Browse. The feature brings curated playlists to the music streaming service, starting with a "gradual" rollout on iOS and Android today, followed by the rest of Spotify's platforms at some point. The playlists, chosen by Spotify staffers, are built around moments, moods and new releases. More info can be had after the break.



Show full PR textIntroducing expert playlists for every mood and moment. Browse is available on mobile from today.
Going for a jog or to the gym? We've got the playlist to help you go the extra mile. Hosting a dinner orgetting ready for a big night out? We've got you covered. We even have playlists for different moods, so regardless of whether you need an upbeat boost or something more relaxing to wind down to - we've got just the thing. You can also browse through a collection of our top lists and check out new releases.Rolling out to all mobile users from today, Spotify's new Browse page offers carefully chosen playlists for every moment of your day, handpicked by our experts. With an easy-to-view interface, features include:
● Music for every moment: We've got just the right tunes for your morning commute, the party tonight, and the hangover tomorrow.● Music for every mood: More than just genres, listen to a playlist for romance or a collection of face melting guitarists.● Browse for what's hot and what's new: Find all the latest album and single releases from yourfavourite (or soon-to-be favourite) artists, and a collection of our top lists.
Recent innovations from Spotify have been all about helping people discover even more great music.
First, our social features made it simple to follow your friends, favourite artists and tastemakers, and to easily send music recommendations to your friends in return. Then, with the launch of Discover, we offered personalised recommendations, based on the combination of our unique algorithms and years of experience and data. Now, Browse adds the human touch to this mix, creating a three-dimensional approach to music discovery. Between your friends, our personalised recommendations and real music experts, it's the perfect formula to ensure you'll always have the right music for every moment.
"We don't rely on one source for recommendations in real life - and music discovery can't be onedimensional," said Gustav Söderström, Chief Product Officer, at Spotify. "Our three-dimensional approach now combines the human touch with strong social features and unique technology from over five years of experience. We know music and we're the first to marry all three aspects in one service, making it easier than ever for users to navigate the treasure trove of content within Spotify."
Browse will be gradually rolled out to our iOS and Android users, and will soon be available across all platforms.

