
Finally, a phone made in the year 2013 that Zack Morris can approve of. All kidding aside, Spot's aptly titled Global Phone isn't the most -- shall we say, svelte -- of handsets, but it's capable of communicating in places that your iPhone could only dream of. Spot is actually a subsidiary of satellite communications giant Globalstar, who is no stranger to providing satellite-based service to argonauts the world over. The Global Phone is one of the company's first consumer-facing phones, taking the intrigue and mystery out of procuring one of those fancy sat phones -- you know, the ones that can seemingly only be acquired by James Bond's nemeses.


The target market for this handset is obvious: if you're an avid hiker, explorer, boater or adventurer, there's a high likelihood that you'll end up in a locale where traditional cell networks provide no coverage. In fact, it's shockingly easy to find dead zones these days -- just head to your nearest national park and stroll up a marked trail for a bit. At $499 for the device itself and month-to-month plans starting at $25, it's actually a reasonably priced addition to one's off-the-grid arsenal. (Have you seen the prices on subzero sleeping bags these days?)


But, is it a worthwhile addition? I recently traversed 1,600 miles of mostly desolate territory in the US Southwest in order to find out, and the answer lies just after the break.




Hardware
Let's face it: satellite phones have never been sexy. But in reality, the Global Phone is a heck of a lot more attractive than those that have come before it. It measures 5.3 x 2.2 x 1.5 inches, weighs just 7.1 ounces and can withstand just about any temperature that the user can. The token extendable antenna is here in full force, and when fully erect, the length of the phone nearly triples. The device itself is barely a burden in the grand scheme of things; in fact, it's easy to misplace in larger packs. The four-line display is remarkably spartan, but it provides the essential information that you need -- remember, this thing is built to talk to someone in a pinch. It's not a phone designed for leisure or pleasure use.

The keys are solid enough, and beyond that, there's not much to say in regard to hardware. In my testing, it proved fairly rugged, but I'd be careful about dropping the (predominantly plastic) shell from too high a perch. On the rear, there's a compartment for a battery that's good for four hours of talking or 36 hours on standby. During my week in the wilderness, I actually squeezed out closer to 50 hours on standby, but obviously, those heading into the wild won't want to press their luck. 



