
 Quickly following AT&T's lead, Sprint is now ready to spill the details on its launch of the HTC One. Pre-orders begin on April 5th, while you'll be able to go online or into a store and pick one up starting April 19th. Since the 64GB is an AT&T exclusive, Sprint customers will only be able to grab it in 32GB for $200. Hit the press release for more details.



  Show full PR text   Sprint to Launch the New HTC One on April 19; Pre-Order Begins April 5   New HTC One boasts a slim aluminum unibody design, amplified minimal distortion sound, HTC UltraPixel camera   OVERLAND PARK, Kan. – April 2, 2013 – Sprint (NYSE: S) today announced Friday, April 19, as the availability date for the highly anticipated new HTC One®, the latest international smartphone with Truly Unlimited™ data while on the Sprint Network. HTC One reinvents the mobile experience by providing users a live stream that feeds personally relevant updates, a breakthrough camera that brings the photo gallery to life and the first dual front-facing stereo speakers on a phone with amplified audio.   HTC One will be available with 32GB of internal memory in Silver or Black in Sprint sales channels, including Sprint Stores, Sprint Business Sales, Telesales (1-800-SPRINT1) and Web Sales, for $199.99 with a new two-year service agreement (excludes taxes and surcharges). New and existing customers can pre-order HTC One beginning Friday, April 5, at www.sprint.com/htcone.   HTC One is equipped with eco-friendly attributes, including Underwriters Laboratory Environment (ULE) Platinum Certification, the highest level of environmental performance recognized by sustainable requirements established by ULE and Sprint, and packaging that is 98 percent recyclable.   HTC One brings users an unprecedented smartphone experience with unique features including:  HTC BlinkFeed™ – a bold new experience that transforms the home screen into a single live stream of personally relevant information, such as social updates, entertainment and lifestyle updates, and news and photos with immersive images so the user no longer needs separate applications to find out what's happening. HTC BlinkFeed aggregates the newest content from relevant and interesting sources, giving it to users at a glance, all in one place, without the need to jump between multiple applications and websites.  HTC UltraPixel Camera with HTC Zoe™ mode – a new feature bringing photos to life showing more personality and emotion than a still photo ever could. HTC Zoe mode gives users the ability to shoot high-resolution HTC Zoe highlights that come to life in three-second snippets. HTC Zoe highlights are then displayed in a unique way in the new gallery, transforming the traditional photo gallery of still images into a motion gallery of memories.  HTC BoomSound™ – front-facing stereo speakers with a dedicated amplifier and an amazing full high-definition display that brings users closer to their music, videos, games and YouTube™. Beats Audio™ integration is enabled across the entire experience for rich, authentic sound. HDR recording uses advanced dual microphones and audio processing to capture clean, rich sound that is worthy of HD video footage.  Additionally, HTC One boasts a 4.7-inch, full-HD 1080p display, 1.7GHz quad-core processor, international roaming capabilities and Near Field Communications (NFC).   HTC One customers can enjoy an unlimited data experience with Sprint Everything Data plans. Sprint's Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM includes unlimited Web, texting and calling to and from any mobile in America while on the Sprint Network, starting at just $79.99 per month for smartphones1 – a savings of $20 per month versus Verizon's comparable plan with unlimited talk, text and 2GB Web.

 
