
   To all the broken-hearted owners of the Nexus S 4G waiting for their chance to play with an official build of Ice Cream Sandwich: wait no longer. Sprint announced in a forum post (and subsequently on Twitter) that it's finally ready to unleash Android 4.0.4 to the anxious masses -- not just the adventurous souls willing to try out the leaked version last weekend. If you own this phone, we're guessing you're no longer reading this post. But, if you are, go check to see if your update is available. Do it.  [Thanks, Brent]
 

  Show full PR text  Nexus S 4G Gets Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich, Update Starting Today  Nexus S™ 4G from Google will be the first Android™-powered smartphone available on Sprint to get Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich. The over-the-air update will begin rolling out to users today, and all users should receive the update in the next month.  When your Nexus S 4G is eligible for the update, it will automatically download. Once the download is complete, you will be prompted to install the update. Installation will take a few minutes, and your device will be disabled during the installation process. It will be ready to use when the process is complete.  Android 4.0 adds numerous enhancements and new features, including: · A refined, evolved user interface that is simple, beautiful and useful · Android Beam™: quickly share web pages, apps, contacts and YouTube™ videos with your friends by simply tapping two Near Field Communication (NFC)-enabled phones together · Redesigned camera, which introduces panorama mode, effects like silly faces and background replacement and a powerful photo editor · Data Usage helps you avoid data overage charges by allowing you to instantly see your data usage for any period of time or any app – and get notified before reaching your limit; you can even restrict background data for individual apps · Web browser now lets you sync Google Chrome™ bookmarks, request full desktop versions of sites, see your open tabs in a new layout and even store web pages for offline reading · People: browse friends, family and coworkers, see their photos in high-resolution and check their latest status updates from Google+ and other social networks · Improved keyboard with incredibly accurate typing, an inline spell checker and improved copy and paste support · New Calendar app that lets you add events quickly, sync with Google Calendar™ or Microsoft Exchange and even pinch to adjust your calendar display · Redesigned Gmail™ app that now lets you swipe between conversations to catch up quickly, and search for emails even without a data connection · Google+ integration that lets you hangout and video chat with up to 10 friends using your front-facing camera
 