
 
 As Sprint continues to play an epic game of LTE catch up, the Now Network has officially flipped the 'on' switch for its 4G customers in the Chicago suburbs of: Addison, Bolingbrook, Des Plaines, Downers Grove, Kankakee, Rockford, Joliet, Naperville, Palatine and Plainfield. Further expanding its not-so-mainstream LTE footprint are Gary, Indiana; Wichita Falls, Texas; New Bedford and Fall River, Massachusetts; and Hutchinson and McPherson, Kansas, too. While these aren't exactly the big markets that many were hoping for, it's good to see that America's third largest carrier is expanding its next-gen coverage for the less populous parts of the country. As for you big city folks patiently waiting for Hesse and company to call your number, rest assured that you haven't been forgotten. We're just hoping that Softbank's latest investment doesn't encounter any additional delays during its LTE rollout, because delays are for the birds.



  Show full PR text    Sprint Brings 4G LTE to customers in Hutchinson and McPherson, Kan.  Starting today, customers in Hutchinson and McPherson will benefit from the power and value of Sprint's high-speed 4G LTE network and Truly Unlimited Data Plans
   OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), October 22, 2012 - Sprint (NYSE:S) today announced that customers in Hutchinson and McPherson will have access to its new high-speed 4G LTE service – bringing faster speeds for mobile gaming, uploading photos, surfing the Web and streaming videos. Continuing its nationwide roll-out of 4G LTE, Sprint recently announced its plans to deliver 4G LTE to an additional 115 cities in the coming months.

   "Customers all over Kansas are eager for 4G LTE, so we are excited to deliver it to these two cities," said Rob Bryant, regional vice president, Sprint. "Sprint's high-speed network combined with winning devices and unlimited data plans make an attractive package for our customers." Sprint also offers 4G LTE service in Kansas City, Lawrence, Manhattan-Junction City, Topeka and Wichita. Current 4G LTE coverage will continue to expand in the coming weeks and months in the Hutchinson and McPherson areas.

   Keeping up with current wireless data usage and looking into the future, Sprint is building an all-new 3G and 4G LTE network as part of a strategy known as Network Vision. This network build-out is expected to improve all aspects of the wireless experience for customers.

   Today, some customers in parts of Chicago, Los Angeles and New York are experiencing better 3G service thanks to the start of the Network Vision program in those areas. Additionally, customers in areas of Baltimore, Boston and Washington, D.C., have been enjoying enhanced 3G performance. As Network Vision continues to rollout across the country, Sprint customers can expect to see significant improvement in their 3G network experience, including expanded coverage, improved network reliability, better voice quality, and faster 3G data speeds.

   Sprint offers a wide selection of 4G LTE smartphones, Truly UnlimitedSM data plans and excellent customer service. Sprint offers a portfolio of 4G LTE-capable devices, which includes powerhouse smartphones such as the packed Samsung Galaxy Victory™ 4G LTE, HTC EVO™ 4G LTE, and the upcoming LG Optimus G™ (coming soon). Customers can sign up for an Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM, which includes unlimited Web, texting and calling to and from any mobile in America while on the Sprint Network, starting at just $79.99 per month for smartphones – a savings of $20 per month versus Verizon's comparable plan with unlimited talk, text and 2GB Web (excludes taxes and surcharges). Customers value Truly Unlimited data, because it's simple and straightforward – no metering, no throttling or overages, and no need to share minutes or data, all while on the Sprint network.

   Additionally, the 2012 American Customer Satisfaction Index ranked Sprint No. 1 among all national carriers in customer satisfaction and most improved, across all 47 industries, during the last four years.

   Sprint introduced its all-new 4G LTE network in July 2012 and currently offers service in 32 cities1. For the most up-to-date details on Sprint's 4G LTE portfolio and rollout, visit www.sprint.com/4GLTE.

 
