
 
Sprint has published a real page turner here -- some 22 pages of the most telling Pre details we've seen to date. It's a very business-centric document, but a lot of the stuff revealed in here applies to each and every user that's buying a Pre since much of the functionality is managed through Palm's owned-and-operated cloud. Follow the break for some of the major takeaways we're seeing.

[Thanks, Mason]





 Sprint expects the Pre to "make many IT managers' standards list," meaning corporate users could potentially choose it in place of a BlackBerry or WinMo device. Despite the fact that the Pre uses a standard micro-USB port for charging, the document warns that "other charging solutions may not work properly." First-party vehicle and travel chargers will be available at or near launch for $31.99 and $34.99, respectively. We certainly wouldn't be surprised if any micro-USB charger worked, but we don't think we'd want to be the first one to test it. Also available at launch will be a clear plastic holster for $24.99, a leather pouch for $39.99, and of course, the Touchstone for $69.99. "Phone covers" are expected shortly after launch for $29.99 each, but we're not sure exactly what those are. Individual plans include 450 minutes for $69.99, 900 for $89.99, and Simply Everything unlimited for $99.99. All three include unlimited data. Employees will have "delayed" availability to ensure that regular customer demand is filled first (this is a pretty common practice with carriers and big boxes, much to the chagrin of said employees). SERO plans are not compatible with the Pre. Sprint pits the Pre against the iPhone 3G, Storm, and G1 in a comparison chart, noting that you'd be paying $149.99, $158.98, and $124.99, respectively, for equivalent plans. Sprint says that the "sealed form factor" of the Pre makes repairs tough and the potential for damage high; therefore, it's an exchange-only phone. No repairs will be attempted on damaged or defective phones. A total of ten flagship stores will be hosting invite-only VIP launch events on June 5. DataViz Documents To Go won't just be available at launch, it'll actually be built into ROM so that Office documents can be viewed right from the start. An edit-capable version will be available later, though it's not clear when. The creation of a Palm Profile is required to use the phone -- there's no way around it. This is a one-time process that can be completed on the phone itself. Users don't need to accept Google's terms of service to use the phone, and if they choose not to, GPS services will not be available. You can sync to multiple Exchange accounts at once. Remote wipe ("kill pill") capability will be available at launch; users simply need to log into their Palm Profile web page to initiate the wipe. Doesn't change the fact that your phone was stolen, though, you poor thing.
 