
 
Sprint has stopped playing coy about one of the worst-leaked devices in recent memory and has at long last made it official. The EVO View 4G is a 7-inch, 1024 x 600 Android tablet with a 1.5GHz processor, 5 megapixel rear- and 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera, a WiMAX radio, and HTC's loving application of Sense for a UI. If all this sounds familiar, it'll be because we're really talking about HTC's Flyer tablet, introduced at last month's MWC, and just like it, the EVO View will also feature the HTC Scribe capacitive stylus. The Evo View 4G will ship with 32GB of storage "this summer." You'll now find the full press release and spec sheet (including a healthy gigabyte of RAM and a 4000mAh battery) after the break, and some preliminary shots below. Full hands-on to come!





Show full PR textHTC EVO View 4GBringing the award-winning EVO experience to a tabletHTC EVO View 4G™ brings the best of the EVO experience to a sleek, easy-to-carry tablet design. As the perfect combination e-reader, media player and portable computing device, HTC EVO View 4G offers a 7-inch 1024 x 600 touchscreen display with pinch-to-zoom for a premium entertainment experience with HD-quality video and rich Web browsing experience. It features two cameras – a 5.0 megapixel auto-focus camera with HD-capable video camcorder and a forward-facing 1.3 megapixel camera. With integrated HD-video (720p) capture and the 4G speeds of HTC EVO View 4G, slow uploads and grainy video are a thing of the past. Using HTC Scribe Technology™, HTC EVO View 4G will offer a new way to interact with a tablet. HTC Scribe introduces the HTC Scribe™ digital pen (sold separately) to the tablet experience and unlocks new capabilities. When combined with Evernote™, a leading notes application and service, the user will have the ability to capture and make notes on Web pages, ebooks, PDF documents and more, in an easy and natural way.PRODUCTIVITY• Android operating system• HTC Scribe Technology enabling enhanced voice-synchronized note taking with the HTC Scribe digital pen using Timemark to capture the audio of a meeting at the same time as written notes• Google mobile services such as Google Search™, Gmail™, Google Maps™ with Navigation, Voice Actions and YouTube™• Corporate email (Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync), personal (POP & IMAP) email and instant messaging• 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot capability, supporting up to eight Wi-Fi enabled devices simultaneously• Android Market™ for access to more than 150,000 useful applications, widgets and games available for download to customize the experience• 4G data speeds (WiMAX) – peak download speeds of more than 10 Mbps; peak upload speeds of 1 Mbps; average download speeds of 3-6 Mbps• 3G data speeds (EVDO Rev A.) – peak download speeds of up to 3.1 Mbps; peak upload speeds of 1.8 Mbps; average download speeds of 600 kbps-1.4 Mbps• Wi-Fi® (802.11 b/g/n)• Integrated GPSENTERTAINMENT• Dual cameras – a 5.0 megapixel auto-focus camera with HD-capable video camcorder and a forward-facing 1.3 megapixel camera – HTC EVO View 4G unleashes the ability to create, stream and watch video or video chat with the Qik mobile app• Blockbuster On Demand® to rent or purchase the hottest new releases on the same day they become available on Blu-ray and DVD• Sprint Zone, Sprint Mobile Wallet, Sprint Football Live, Sprint Family Locator, Sprint Navigation and NASCAR Sprint Cup MobileSM• Media player with 3.5 mm stereo headset jackSPECIFICATIONS1.5GHz Qualcomm® Snapdragon® ProcessorDimensions: 7.7 inches (195.4 mm) x 4.4 inches (112.5 mm) x 0.5 inches (13.2 mm)Weight: 14.88 ounces (421.84 grams)Display: 7-inch (177.8 mm), 1024 x 600 touchscreen display with pinch-to-zoom32GB internal memory, 1GB RAM; microSD slot (supports up to 32GB memory card)
 