
 Sprint announced on Wednesday the availability of its new Direct Connect Now Android app, which brings push-to-talk capabilities to the Kyocera Rise and LG Optimus Elite with support for other devices "coming soon." Compatible with both Nextel and Sprint Direct Connect devices, this free app features group calls for up to 21 people, touchscreen controls, call alert notifications and contact synchronization. While we appreciate this advancement in push-to-talk communication, we can't help but shed a tear reminiscing about the good old days of Boost Mobile's "where you at?" campaign. Please join us as we pour one out and celebrate faded memories of the chirp.



  Show full PR text    Sprint Extends Push-to-Talk Capabilities to More Phones With Downloadable Android Application
  Sprint Direct Connect Now makes handsets – without "the button" – push-to-talk ready
   OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), October 24, 2012 - Sprint (NYSE: S), the industry's push-to-talk pioneer and market leader, today announced the launch of Sprint® Direct Connect® Now, a downloadable Android application that enables push-to-talk capabilities on the Kyocera Rise and additional devices, including the LG Optimus Elite™, coming soon.

   Sprint Direct Connect Now, based on Qualcomm Inc.'s proven push-to-talk technology platform, effectively extends Sprint's growing push-to-talk franchise – with more than 1 million Sprint Direct Connect customers – to a new market of users who want push-to-talk but may not want the Direct Connect "button" that comes with it. Sprint Direct Connect Now can be installed on the Kyocera Rise by accessing the Google Play store and searching for "Sprint Direct Connect Now."

   Sprint Direct Connect Now key features:

   Interoperable with Nextel Direct Connect and Sprint Direct Connect  Group Connect calls up to 21 participants  Call alerts to notify others you want to talk without interrupting  Convenient touchscreen controls  Displays contact image for speaker  Synchronizes contacts with device's address book  Creates favorites for most contacted Direct Connect contacts  "Consumers and businesses alike have a tool in Sprint Direct Connect Now that can help mobilize their lives, their businesses, and their workforces – on select phones other than those in the Sprint Direct Connect portfolio," said Tom Roberts, vice president-Marketing. "At the same time, Sprint Direct Connect Now is the ideal complement to our growing portfolio of rugged, military spec Sprint Direct Connect handsets that our longtime push-to-talk customers have grown accustomed to – especially construction workers, manufacturers and emergency responders."

   "Sprint Direct Connect Now expands access to next-generation push-to-talk functionality," said Michael Wallace, senior vice president and general manager of Qualcomm Internet Services. "This offering, leveraging Qualcomm's IP-based push-to-talk platform, enables functionality and device selection ideal for a broader base of consumers."

   Sprint currently offers rugged Sprint Direct Connect handsets from Kyocera, including the DuraCore, DuraPlus and DuraXT. All three meet military specification 810G for dust, shock, vibration, extreme temperatures, blowing rain and immersion. Each comes with GPS navigation and can access 3G speeds on Sprint's broadband CDMA network.

   The Sprint Direct Connect portfolio also includes the Motorola Admiral, a rugged 3G Android smartphone with touchscreen and QWERTY keyboard that is Wi-Fi-enabled and mobile hotspot capable.

   Another milestone for Sprint Direct Connect

   Sprint Direct Connect Now marks another major milestone for the Sprint push-to-talk franchise. The Sprint Direct Connect launch in October 2011 ushered in the next generation of PTT service from the company that pioneered push-to-talk. The service first offered broadband data capabilities, familiar push-to-talk features, rugged and reliable handsets, and a broadening push-to-talk coverage map.

   Today, Sprint Direct Connect has matured into the industry's push-to-talk gold standard with:

   Triple the square miles of coverage compared to the company's legacy Nextel National Network  Instant call setup time on domestic PTT calls  International coverage to Latin American countries that most frequently use PTT service

 
