
 

Sprint's just announced some more markets for its planned 4G expansion, among them Los Angeles and Miami, plus Cincinnati, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City and St. Louis. That's right: WiMAX is coming to penetrate the Steel Curtain. In addition to the markets previously announced at the end of February (New York, San Francisco, Boston, Denver, Kansas City, Houston, Minneapolis, and Washington, DC), the list is starting to look a lot like that "many markets" we've been promised. While we're still not getting launch dates, it's clear that Sprint's on an aggressive path here -- and an apparently leaked internal email we just got from a tipster confirms that pretty blatantly. Supposedly penned by Joe Whited, the Manager of Corporate Communications at Sprint, the email appears to have been aimed at pumping up Sprint employees based on this morning's announcement: "Let AT&T and Verizon yak about maps and 3G coverage, we're moving forward with what customers really want -- lightening [sic.] fast internet and uncapped 4G service." Fighting words, friends -- and the addition of major markets like Los Angeles and Miami are surely an upping of the game. Full press release is after the break.
 

 Show full PR textSprint 4G Expansion Plans to Stretch Coast-to-Coast from Los Angeles to MiamiSprint extends its lead in making 4G technology a reality for millions of customers by announcing more planned coverage across the countryOVERLAND PARK, Kan., Mar 23, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- On a path to equip an expected 120 million Americans by end of the year with a mobile Internet experience that is turbo-charged, Sprint (NYSE:S) today announced plans to bring 4G technology to several additional markets, including Los Angeles and Miami. With 27 markets already equipped with 4G and more being planned for this year, Sprint is fulfilling its promise to light up major metropolitan areas with speeds that are up to 10 times faster1 than 3G.Newly announced markets that will see 4G in 2010 are Cincinnati, Cleveland, Los Angeles, Miami, Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City and St. Louis. Earlier this year Sprint announced that it planned to launch 4G in Boston, Denver, Kansas City, Houston, Minneapolis, New York, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., in 2010.And unlike "concepts" and "lab tests" from other wireless companies, Sprint is the first national wireless carrier to actually test, launch and market 4G technology. The strength of Sprint 4G lies in its all-IP backbone, common architecture and 4G spectrum depth, which give the company considerable flexibility to ensure that customers have a top mobile experience and the most advanced 4G services available well into the future.With Sprint 4G, the mobile Internet potential is virtually limitless, especially for those using a Sprint 4G-powered product, such as Overdrive(TM) 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot and Sprint 3G/4G USB Modem U301 by Franklin. This year, Sprint plans to introduce several 4G devices, including a single-mode 4G data card, embedded laptops and a 4G phone. Customers can purchase existing Sprint 4G products and plans at select Sprint retail stores, select Best Buy stores and local retailers, through business sales, via Sprint Telesales at 1-800-Sprint-1 or online at www.sprint.com/4G.Sprint is harnessing the power of 4G as the majority shareholder of Clearwire, the independent company that is building the WiMAX network.About Sprint NextelSprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two wireless networks serving more than 48 million customers at the end of the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first and only 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; industry-leading mobile data services; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. The company's customer-focused strategy has led to improved first call resolution and customer care satisfaction scores. For more information, visit www.sprint.com.1"Up to 10x faster" based on download speed comparison of 3G's 600 kbps vs. 4G's 6 Mbps. Industry published 3G avg. speeds (600 kbps-1.7 Mbps); 4G avg. speeds (3-6 Mbps). Actual speeds may vary. Sprint 4G is available in more than 25 markets and counting, and on select devices. See www.sprint.com/4G for details.
 