
   Exactly one month after unveiling this Military 810G-approved ruggedized handset, Sprint's stamping an official release date and price on it. Those of you who don't appreciate delicate swiping-and-tapping will be able to grab Kyocera's new DuraPlus for a mere $70 -- after a $50 mail-in rebate and with the standard two-year signing -- on March 11th. The device is the newest addition to the rugged Dura family, joining the likes of the DuraMax and DuraCore. To give you a quick brain-refresh, the DuraPlus can take a dive down to three feet underwater and stay submerged for about half an hour. It can withstand dust, shock and "extreme temperatures" while also giving you access to those Now Network bits you're so fond of: Direct and Group Connect. Now, be sure to send us those drop test vids if you buy one -- we have all day for that stuff.
 

  Show full PR text  Kyocera DuraPlus Available to Sprint Customers March 11  Kyocera DuraPlus will be available beginning Sunday, March 11 in all Sprint sales channels, including Telesales (1-800-SPRINT1) and Web sales (www.sprint.com), for just $69.99 with a new line or eligible upgrade and two-year service agreement, after a $50 mail-in rebate via reward card1.  Kyocera DuraPlus is the third phone in Kyocera's Dura Series, joining DuraMax and DuraCore in Sprint's Direct Connect® lineup. The Dura Series is as tough as they come and is featured in a new video starring another tough customer, Steve Austin http://bit.ly/yCHFyI.  As the newest Sprint® Direct Connect® device, Kyocera DuraPlus is the first Kyocera Dura Series device in a candy-bar form factor with a flat, stable bottom, ideal for convenient accessibility in vehicle mounts and freestanding operation.   Kyocera Duraplus is certified to Military Standard 810G for resistance to dust, shock, vibration, temperature extremes, humidity, blowing rain and water immersion (up to 30 minutes in up to 1 meter of water). The phone has a powerful embedded LED flashlight with a dedicated button, ideal for finding keys in the dark, navigating a circuit breaker in a power outage or changing a tire on a dark road. Also unique to Kyocera DuraPlus is a dedicated jack allowing you to use the phone with heavy-duty remote speaker microphones (sold separately).   "Kyocera DuraPlus is the ideal device for use in the construction, public safety and utility industries that demand devices that stand up to the toughest work conditions while delivering industry-leading push-to-talk capabilities," said David Owens, vice president – Product Development, Sprint. "This device is a dynamite addition to our Sprint Direct Connect portfolio, and we know our customers will appreciate the benefits of instant communication on a device that can withstand tough environments."   Sprint Direct Connect is a portfolio of push-to-talk services that allow individuals and groups to get more done – quickly and easily with just the push of a button. Among the initial Sprint Direct Connect services: Sprint Direct Connect – Instant, one-to-one push-to-talk calling nationwide on the Sprint network, with any other Direct Connect subscriber. Direct Connect is the core push-to-talk feature and is designed for interoperability across Sprint and Nextel network platforms. Guaranteed Talk Permit – The assurance that when you hear the push-to-talk "chirp," your call was successfully transmitted. Call Alert with Text – Send an audio alert with an optional text message to let another Direct Connect subscriber know you are trying to reach them and why. Group Connect® – Communicate with up to 20 other Sprint Direct Connect subscribers all at once – nationwide, at the push of one button. TeamDCSM – Communicate with up to 200 other Sprint Direct Connect subscribers at the same time nationwide. NextMail® – Send a recorded message to any email worldwide or mobile handset via text message by using the Direct Connect button. Availability Notification – Request the availability status of another push-to-talk member and, if they are busy, request a notification when they are free. One-Touch Direct Connect – Allows quick access to multiple direct connect options.
 