
 Most of the hullabaloo around Sprint's nascent LTE network has focused on the consumer. But, don't worry, the carrier hasn't forgotten about its precious business customers. Today it announced that Data Link and Static IP would be coming to its latest iteration of 4G. For those of you not familiar, Data Link carries a guarantee of 99.9 percent availability -- something craved by enterprise types. And it covers not just handsets and hotspots, but kiosks, sales terminals and can even serve as a backup plan for wired service. The ability to assign a static IP address will also be welcomed by IT departments that need to tightly manage wireless devices. And, just in case you're not covered by the Now Network's LTE just yet, both services are available on 3G as well. For more, check out the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Sprint Launches Data Link and Static IP on its 4G LTE Network
   OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), April 23, 2013 - Sprint (NYSE: S) today announced that Sprint Data Link™ and Static IP networking services now operate over the Sprint 4G LTE network. Both products are compatible with 3G as well as 4G, and include upgrades that make it easier for businesses and government agencies to deploy, manage and extend an enterprise network to modems, tablets and handsets.

   Sprint Data Link enables business networks to reach beyond the limits of a corporate enterprise WAN. Sprint Data Link provides mobile employees and connected devices with access to their mission-critical business information over a private wireless network, separate from the public Internet.

   Sprint Data Link comes with a 99.9% availability service level agreement (SLA) and is supported on a vast array of 3G- and 4G-capable devices including handsets, tablets, laptops, mobile broadband cards, hotspots and M2M embedded modems. Uses range from setting up retail kiosks, seasonal storefronts, temporary offices, lottery terminals and wireline backup to remote monitoring and home healthcare.

   Sprint Static IP assigns the same IP address to a device each time that device authenticates and accesses the Internet. It allows companies to more easily manage remote wireless devices including M2M applications, handsets and tablets. Sprint provides businesses with the ability to purchase a contiguous, sequential range or block of IP addresses, which can ease the deployment of devices and simplicity of firewall configuration.

   "Sprint Data Link and Static IP provide businesses with highly effective tools to deploy and manage wireless devices," said John Dupree-senior vice president of business sales, Sprint. "We are well-positioned to meet the demand for reliable, secure mobile data as our business customers take advantage of new technology, chipsets, devices and applications."

   Sprint Network Vision

   To support the growing need for data, Sprint is rolling out a new 3G/4G network designed to provide faster data speeds, improved quality and easier connectivity. Sprint introduced its all-new 4G LTE network in July 2012 and now offers service in 88 markets. Sprint expects customers to benefit with better wireless signal strength, in-building coverage and fewer drops/blocks. In addition, Sprint smartphone customers also benefit from Truly Unlimited? data, text and calling to any mobile with no metering, no throttling, and no overages, all while on the Sprint network. For the most up-to-date information on Sprint's 4G LTE coverage, please visit www.sprint.com/coverage

   About Sprint

   Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services bringing the freedom of mobility to consumers, businesses and government users. Sprint Nextel served more than 55 million customers at the end of 2012 and is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including the first wireless 4G service from a national carrier in the United States; offering industry-leading mobile data services, leading prepaid brands including Virgin Mobile USA, Boost Mobile, and Assurance Wireless; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and a global Tier 1 Internet backbone. The American Customer Satisfaction Index rated Sprint No. 1 among all national carriers in customer satisfaction and most improved, across all 47 industries, during the last four years. Newsweek ranked Sprint No. 3 in both its 2011 and 2012 Green Rankings, listing it as one of the nation's greenest companies, the highest of any telecommunications company. You can learn more and visit Sprint at www.sprint.com or www.facebook.com/sprint and www.twitter.com/sprint.

 
