
 
We've gotten multiple clandestine clues that Sprint would sell the Xoom -- a calendar entry here, an accessory there -- but there was nary a confirming peep from the Now Network itself. Until today, when it announced that it would join the legion of retailers peddling the Wi-Fi version of Motorola's tablet for $599.99 on May 8th. That's right, the carrier will start selling folks the sweet Honeycomb slate soon enough, but a Xoom sans Sprint cellular data is a bit of a letdown. One question, Mr. Hesse, when will we get one with WiMAX? PR's after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textFirst Tablet Built on Android 3.0, Motorola XOOM Wi-Fi, Available with Sprint on May 8 for $599.99Posted by SeanD. on Apr 28, 2011 4:07:05 PMFirst device to feature Android software built specifically for use on a tablet,delivers a powerful multi-tasking experience, making it easy and fast to surf the Web, watch videos and play games with a PC-like experienceAs the first device to feature Android™ 3.0 (Honeycomb), as well as a 10.1-inch widescreen HD display and 1GHz dual-core processor, Motorola XOOM™ Wi-Fi will be available from Sprint beginning on Sunday, May 8, for $599.99. Android 3.0 is the version of Android designed specifically for tablets and features innovations in widgets, multi-tasking, Web browsing, notifications and customization.With a 1GHz dual-core processor, 1GB of RAM and 10.1-inch widescreen HD display, Motorola XOOM delivers exceptionally fast Web browsing performance and supports a Beta of Adobe® Flash® Player 10.2, downloadable from Android Market™, enabling the delivery of Flash-based Web content, including videos, casual games and rich internet applications.Motorola XOOM also features two cameras, a rear-facing 5-megapixel camera with flash that can capture HD video and a front-facing 2-megapixel camera for Google Talk™ with video chat. Motorola XOOM can also display content on any HDMI®-equipped HDTV (HDMI cable sold separately).With its large touchscreen display, Motorola XOOM makes it easy to stay connected from anywhere using personal and Exchange corporate email. It also offers access to more than 3 million Google eBooks and apps from Android Market, making it an ideal e-reader.Motorola XOOM also features the latest Google™ Mobile services including, Google Maps™ 5.0 with 3D interaction.Additional key features include:Android Market for access to more than 150,000 useful applications, widgets and games available for download to customize the experienceGoogle mobile services such as Google Search™, Gmail™, Google Maps™ with Navigation, Google Calendar, Voice Actions, and YouTube™Corporate email (Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync®), personal (POP & IMAP) email and instant messagingBluetooth® 2.1 + EDRIntegrated GPS1GB internal RAM memory and 32GB onboard user memoryDimensions: 9.8 inches x 6.6 inches x 0.5 inches (249.1mm x 167.8mm x 12.7mm)Weight: 25.74 ounces (730 grams)3250 mAh Lithium-ion batteryMotorola XOOM Wi-Fi will be available through Sprint Direct Ship sales channels, including Sprint Stores, Web sales (www.sprint.com), Telesales (1-800-SPRINT1) and Sprint Business Sales, beginning on Sunday, May 8, for $599.99.Certain features, services and applications are network dependent and may not be available in all areas; additional terms, conditions and/or charges may apply. All features, functionality and other product specifications are subject to change without notice or obligation.
 