
 Today, Sprint expanded its existing LTE coverage for customers in the Chicago metropolitan area. Not stopping at the Windy City, the carrier dropped six more regions into its high-speed bucket: Indianapolis, Indiana; York and Franklin County Pennsylvania; Santa Rosa California, Vallejo, California; Shenandoah County, Virginia and Southern Puerto Rico. These may not be the highly populated areas that some people are craving, but be mindful that some big city folks have encountered phantom 4G with a promise of the real thing coming soon. As Sprint moves forward with its network development plans, hopefully you won't have to wait too much longer before the LTE train makes a stop in your neighborhood.



  Show full PR text   Sprint Expands 4G LTE Network in Chicago Metro Area
  Starting today, more customers in Chicago will benefit from the power and value of Sprint's high-speed 4G LTE network, a comprehensive selection of smartphones and Truly Unlimited data plans
   CHICAGO (BUSINESS WIRE), December 18, 2012 - Sprint (NYSE:S) today announced that more customers in the metropolitan Chicago area will have access to high-speed 4G LTE service – bringing faster speeds for uploading holiday photos, surfing the Web for the best bargains, and streaming homemade winter videos. Sprint continues to show significant progress in the buildout of its all-new 4G LTE network – reaching more customers every day.

   "Now even more Chicagoans can experience 4G LTE on their smartphones, tablets and wireless modems," said Kimberly Green-Kerr, regional vice president-Business Sales, Sprint. "In the Windy City area, customers will find that 4G LTE is available downtown and in more places around the metropolitan area. And, we continue to invest in and make improvements to Sprint's 3G network in the Chicago area so customers can expect to experience fewer dropped and/or blocked calls as they reach out to their friends and family this holiday season."

   Earlier in 2012, Sprint announced the availability of 4G LTE to Illinois customers in Addison, Bolingbrook, Des Plaines, Downers Grove, Kankakee, Waukegan-Lake County, Rockford, Joliet, Naperville, Palatine and Plainfield, along with Gary, Ind.

   "The demand for smartphones continues to increase and therefore a strong network is more important than ever this holiday season," said Kevin Gleason, vice president-Consumer Sales, Sprint. "Our 4G LTE network in the Chicago area will enable our customers to access emails quickly, upload photos and videos, and keep in touch with colleagues while spending time with the family."

   Customers in these new Chicago metro areas will be able to use their smartphones – such as Samsung Galaxy S® III, Samsung Galaxy Victory™ 4G LTE or HTC EVO™ 4G LTE – to share a picture of the front-yard snowman, download a video of the dog knocking over the Christmas tree, or check the Web for sales and bargains with greater speed. When you combine the power of 4G LTE with an Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM, which includes unlimited Web, texting and calling to and from any mobile in America while on the Sprint Network, Sprint becomes the best choice in wireless.

   Sprint's network buildout, known as Network Vision, not only delivers 4G LTE but also is expected to provide 3G customers better wireless signal strength, in-building coverage, and fewer dropped/blocked calls. These 3G improvements are already available to customers in several cities across the country, such as Baltimore, Boston, Los Angeles, New York and Washington, D.C. All Sprint 3G customers in these areas, including the company's prepaid customers on Assurance Wireless, Virgin Mobile and Boost Mobile, can expect to see better coverage and improved network reliability and voice quality once the improvements come to their areas.

   Sprint introduced its all-new 4G LTE network in July 2012 and now offers service in 49 marketsi. For the most up-to-date details on Sprint's 4G LTE portfolio and rollout, please visit www.sprint.com/4GLTE. For detailed 4G LTE maps, providing coverage information right down to the address, please visit www.sprint.com/coverage. Customers are encouraged to check back often, as the maps will be updated when coverage in these markets is enhanced.

  Ring in the Holidays with Sprint 4G LTE: Available in Six New Markets, Including Indianapolis, Santa Rosa, Calif., and Southern Puerto Rico
  Sprint's all-new network brings power, speed and value to more customers
   OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), December 18, 2012 - Today, Sprint (NYSE:S) announced that it is delivering the speed, power and value of its all-new 4G LTE network to customers in six new areas. Customers can use Sprint 4G LTE to send holiday pictures, upload funny home videos, and check social networking sites for friend updates on holiday traditions – all faster than ever before on their Sprint devices. Beginning today, customers in the following cities/counties can access 4G LTE service from Sprint:

   Indianapolis/Carmel, Ind.  Santa Rosa/Petaluma, Calif.  Vallejo/Fairfield, Calif.  Southern Puerto Rico (including Ponce, Coamo and Guayama)  York/Hanover, Pa.  Franklin County, Pa.

   Sprint also enhanced 4G LTE coverage around Shenandoah County, Va., and introduced 4G LTE to the neighboring Page County, Va.  "Just in time for the holidays, we are bringing 4G LTE to even more Sprint customers," said Bob Azzi, senior vice president-Network, Sprint. "We strive to deliver a top-notch network experience, and customers in these newly launched areas will see 4G LTE service get better and better in the weeks and months ahead to reach even more places where they live, work and play. Customers should find Sprint 4G LTE consistent, reliable and fast."

   A strong, robust wireless network is increasingly important as wireless users want to access emails quickly, upload photos/videos to friends and family, and routinely check in with social networks – all on their smartphone. Customers in several new areas will be able to use their smartphones – such as Samsung Galaxy S® III, Samsung Galaxy Victory™ 4G LTE or HTC EVO™ 4G LTE – to share a picture, download a video, or check the Web with greater speed.

   When you combine the power of 4G LTE with an Everything Data plan with Any Mobile, AnytimeSM, which includes unlimited Web, texting and calling to and from any mobile in America while on the Sprint Network, Sprint becomes the best choice in wireless.

   Sprint's network buildout, known as Network Vision, not only brings 4G LTE but should also give 3G customers better wireless signal strength, in-building coverage, and fewer dropped/blocked calls. These 3G improvements are already available to customers in several cities across the country, such as Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Washington, D.C. All Sprint 3G customers in these areas, including the company's prepaid customers on Assurance Wireless, Virgin Mobile and Boost Mobile, can expect to see better coverage, improved network reliability and voice quality once the improvements come to their areas.

   Sprint introduced its all-new 4G LTE network in July 2012 and now offers service in 49 marketsi. For the most up-to-date details on Sprint's 4G LTE portfolio and rollout, please visit www.sprint.com/4GLTE. For detailed 4G LTE maps, providing coverage information right down to the address, please visit www.sprint.com/coverage. Customers are encouraged to check back often, as the maps will be updated when coverage in these markets is enhanced.

 
