
 
 Although Sprint is winding down iDEN services here in the US, it hasn't turned its back on the technology completely. The nation's third largest wireless carrier has announced a new push-to-talk service offering, dubbed International Direct Connect. The $10 monthly add-on will allow Direct Connect push-to-talk users in the US -- utilizing its CDMA network -- to communicate with iDEN PTT users in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru free of charge. Although not explicitly stated, the aforementioned nations are referred to as "initial" markets, implying that more countries will be added to this list at some point in the future. All the details about the business-focused proposition, along with the press sheet, can be found after the break.



  Show full PR text   Sprint extends Sprint Direct Connect internationally
   Sprint's gold-standard, CDMA-based push-to-talk service now connects customers directly with Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Peru and Chile

   OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (BUSINESS WIRE), April 26, 2012 - Sprint today announced the launch of International Direct Connect? on Sprint Direct Connect, Sprint's broadband push-to-talk service on its CDMA network. Initially, users can directly connect – at the press of a button – to iDEN international push-to-talk users in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Peru and Chile. Sprint Direct Connect users can make dialed phone calls to anywhere in the world.

   Pricing for International Direct Connect, is simple, and includes an optional $10 per month unlimited international push-to-talk calling plan. For more information, visit www.sprint.com/sprintdirectconnect.

   "International Direct Connect is very important to a core group of our Sprint Direct Connect customer base," said Uday Patel, director-Business Marketing. "Providing them with broadband voice and data capabilities and, now, international push-to-talk, expands their business and communication opportunities exponentially."

   Sprint's history of push-to-talk leadership has proven to change the game for business customers in industries such as health care, manufacturing, and transportation that need reliable instant access. Now with Sprint Direct Connect, instant access extends to customers seeking to reach across U.S. borders to businesses, friends and family.

   International Sprint Direct Connect marks a major push-to-talk milestone for Sprint. With more than 18 years of expertise, Sprint is the industry leader in push-to-talk. Last year, Sprint launched Sprint Direct Connect – the industry's next generation of push-to-talk service – on its broadband CDMA network. Sprint Direct Connect comes packed with broadband data capabilities, familiar push-to-talk features, rugged and reliable handsets, and a broadening push-to-talk coverage map expected during 2012.

   Over the past six months, Sprint has announced four rugged Sprint Direct Connect handsets catering to push-to-talk users: Kyocera DuraMax, Kyocera DuraCore, Kyocera DuraPlus and the Motorola Admiral™.

   Sprint Direct Connect is powered by Sprint's 3G data network and enhanced push-to-talk platform. Broadband speeds enable customers to experience the latest in technology applications, such as enterprise business productivity applications, social and multimedia support, and even advanced push-to-X capabilities in the future.

   "Our Sprint Direct Connect customers have sought broadband capabilities on a push-to-talk phone for years, and Sprint has delivered," Patel said. "We saw steadily increasing demand for faster data speeds, better and broader coverage, and more applications on push-to-talk devices. Sprint Direct Connect is designed to solve for all three."

 
