

 During Sprint's earnings call, CEO Dan Hesse revealed that Motorola's Photon Q, the company's latest LTE "world phone" is coming "very soon." The Photon Q is believed to be the Android 4.0-running QWERTY-slider you can see in the image above, but now that the company's head has let the cat out of the bag, we expect more details to roll around very shortly.

 Update: Sprint's PR engine has kicked into gear, offering the deep dish on the new handset. It's a super-specced edition of last year's Photon 4G and will indeed offer a QWERTY-sliding experience on Ice Cream Sandwich. Beneath the 4.3-inch ColorBoost display you'll find a 1.5GHz dual-core processor, an 8-megapixel camera and NFC as well as Motorola's Smartactions application to help users extend battery life and anticipate your daily routines. Pricing and availability will be announced within the "next few weeks," but given how excited Dan Hesse sounded, we can't imagine we'll be waiting too long.



  Show full PR text   First Sprint 4G LTE-Enabled Device with Full QWERTY and International Capabilities, Motorola PHOTON™ Q 4G LTE, Coming Soon
  OVERLAND PARK, Kan. & LIBERTYVILLE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sprint (NYSE: S), the only national wireless carrier offering truly unlimited data for all phones while on the Sprint network1, and Motorola Mobility today announce Motorola PHOTON Q™ 4G LTE, the next generation of last summer's popular Motorola PHOTON™ 4G. The new device will boast a five-row, PC-like QWERTY keyboard, international capabilities and a generous 4.3-inch ColorBoost™ display, as well as the ability to operate on Sprint's new lightning-fast 4G LTE network2.

   "Motorola PHOTON Q offers a class-leading keyboard and an amazing big screen so you can see and do more with your smartphone."

   Pricing and availability for Motorola PHOTON Q will be announced within the next few weeks. Customers seeking additional information can visit www.sprint.com/photonq.

   "Motorola PHOTON Q will be the first 4G LTE device with a QWERTY keyboard and world phone capabilities to join the Sprint line-up," said David Owens, vice president - Product Development, Sprint. "We want to make sure our 4G LTE handset portfolio has the full complement of choices for our customers. Adding a product with both a physical keyboard and world mode makes this a great addition to the Sprint family of devices. This is a dynamic smartphone that customers will really enjoy using and we are pleased to have Motorola as part of our 4G LTE device portfolio."

   Motorola PHOTON Q equips customers with the best of both worlds to communicate – a virtual keyboard for quick texts and a slide out PC-like QWERTY keyboard for double-thumb efficiency. Each laser-cut key is outlined in LED lights so users can see what they're doing, even in the dark. It also has a dedicated number row for maximum typing efficiency and accuracy.

   "When we talk to people who love their QWERTY smartphones, it's evident this segment is passionate about their keyboards," said Mark Shockley, senior vice president, Go-to-Market, Motorola Mobility. "Motorola PHOTON Q offers a class-leading keyboard and an amazing big screen so you can see and do more with your smartphone."

   Offering an impressive 4.3-inch ColorBoost™ display, Motorola PHOTON Q offers the largest screen currently available on a 4G LTE QWERTY smartphone. This makes it easy to browse the Web using Google Chrome without enlarging text, look at detail-rich pictures without having to zoom in, and watch a show without straining your eyes. Motorola's exclusive ColorBoost™ display enables colors to be richer and more vibrant than other smartphones on the market. And with scratch-resistant glass and splash-guard coating, Motorola PHOTON Q resists everyday scratches and spills.

   In addition to its technological prowess, Motorola PHOTON Q is the seventh device in the Sprint line-up to receive ULE Platinum Certification, the highest level of environmental performance recognized by sustainable requirements established by UL Environment and Sprint.

   Additional key features on Motorola PHOTON Q include:

   Android™ 4.0.4, Ice Cream Sandwich  1.5 GHz dual-core processor  Rear-facing 8MP camera with 1080p video capture and playback so you can leave your digital camera at home. Plus, those photos can be set to automatically upload to Google+™ so you don't have to worry about accidently deleting them.  Front-facing HD camera for easy Google+™ Hangout video chats or conference calls  Mirror mode when connected with HDMI cable (sold separately) to view images, files and movies on a larger screen, like your TV at home.  Sprint ID, offering an innovative way to personalize an Android smartphone with apps, widgets, ringtones and more all, in a single download  NFC support to share links, apps, YouTube™ clips and more with Android™ Beam

   World Smart with 4G LTE Speeds

   Motorola PHOTON Q is the first Sprint phone to feature SMARTACTIONS™, the free Motorola app that helps extend battery life and intelligently automates routine, everyday tasks so that smartphones can do more for consumers. For example, walking into a meeting, SMARTACTIONS can turn the ringer to silent so an incoming phone call won't interrupt the meeting. If the battery is low, SMARTACTIONS can automatically lower the display lighting to ensure the battery lasts longer.

   Motorola PHOTON Q is Business Ready with full corporate security including remote wipe, pin lock, and data encryption. It is one of several devices available with Sprint Professional Grade, a new designation for select smartphones that deliver enhanced security, device management and Exchange Active Sync capabilities to business users. Click here to learn more about Sprint Professional Grade designation.

   On July 15, Sprint launched 4G LTE in 15 cities including Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Atlanta, Kansas City and Waco, Texas. Sprint today announced that four more cities will soon experience the speed and power of the all-new 4G LTE network. As the first national wireless carrier to introduce 4G service in 2008, Sprint will bring 4G LTE to the following cities before Labor Day:

   Baltimore, MD  Gainesville, GA  Manhattan/Junction City, KS  Sherman-Denison, TX

   Additionally, by the end of 2013, Sprint expects to have largely completed the build-out of its all-new 4G LTE nationwide network – with an enhanced 3G network – covering 250 million people across the United States. The launch of these metropolitan areas demonstrates Sprint's continued commitment to investing in its network through Network Vision. For the most up-to-date details on Sprint's 4G LTE portfolio and rollout, please visit www.sprint.com/4GLTE.

 
