
 

Kids lacking the imagination to bring their own toys to life now have the option of letting a games console do it for them. Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure has teleported into stores, boxed with three toy figures and a 'portal device' that brings them to life in-game. The bundle totals up at $70, and Activision is billing it as the "first true cross-platform game", with the toys playing nice across Wii, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, 3DS and iOS versions. The statuettes, which connect to the portal peripheral through embedded RFID tags, also store game data across platforms. The business plan presumably involves groups of kids investing in Spyro's latest yarn and swapping characters amongst themselves, while holding onto their own precious in-game achievements. If your little brother has trouble trading with friends who couldn't care less about the antics of lava-belching monsters, they can always can stump up an extra $8 for new figures. Click 'Read more' for some explanatory cartoon violence.
      

 

   			Show full PR text  Comprehensive Marketing Program to Demonstrate The Unique Benefits Of Bringing Toys to Life Via Co-Op Advertising 			SANTA MONICA, Calif., Oct. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Activision Publishing, Inc. (Nasdaq: ATVI) today announced a global marketing partnership with Toys"R"Us to launch its landmark new video game, Skylanders Spyro's Adventure™, debuting at North American retail on Sunday, October 16th. This revolutionary title breathes new life into interactive entertainment by allowing kids to bring a vast collection of physical toys to life in-game. Place one of over 30 different characters onto the magical Portal of Power-yours or a friend's-and they are teleported to a vibrant game-world, all customizations and powers intact. The marketing plan for this novel game experience includes a national co-op advertising campaign, exclusive toy/adventure pack releases, first-to-play opportunities and interactive game displays at over 1200 Toys"R"Us stores around the world. 			"Toys"R"Us has been an avid fan and eager supporter of the Skylanders Spyro's Adventure concept from its inception," said Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing. "This partnership signals our shared belief that the brand is literally a game-changer, transforming children's play in both the physical and digital realms. For the first time ever, kids will be able to bring their toys to life in a video game, and we've developed a slate of exclusive in-store experiences and merchandise to showcase this phenomenon to Toys"R"Us consumers worldwide." 			"We're thrilled to partner with Activision and make Toys"R"Us the retail launchpad for Skylanders Spyro's Adventure," said Jerry Storch, Chairman and CEO, Toys"R"Us, Inc. "We believe that the product line will be one of this holiday's hottest gifts and we can't wait to offer customers a one-of-a-kind way to discover Skylanders at our stores." 			Activision and Toys"R"Us will unveil this genre-busting Skylanders Spyro's Adventure on October 8, 2011, with the roll-out of full game demos and interactive game kiosks in over 1200 retail locations across the globe. Following the game's U.S. launch on October 16th, players can purchase Toys"R"Us exclusives like three Skylanders Legendary characters, which feature accompanying in-game skins and power-ups. Additionally, the retailer will be the only place to purchase the Skylanders Spyro's Adventure Darklight Crypt Adventure Pack in its first thirty days on the market, from October 16 through November 15, 2011. 			In Skylanders Spyro's Adventure, kids take on the role of a powerful Portal Master, leader of over 30 different characters, including the beloved purple dragon Spyro. Each of these creatures has been cast out of the mystical worlds they are charged to protect by the sinister Portal Master Kaos, and frozen in our world as toys. Skylanders Spyro's Adventure players will embark on a magical journey; treasure hunting, solving puzzles and doing battle with fantastic, otherworldly enemies in a bid to bring the frozen guardians back to life and safely reunite them with their homelands. 			Skylanders Spyro's Adventure is developed by Toys For Bob, an Activision studio located in Novato, California. The game is rated E10+ by the ESRB. For more information, visit www.skylandersgame.com 
 