
Square Enix just announced that Deus Ex: The Fall will come to mobile devices later this summer. This is the first title of the Deus Ex series to be released on smartphones and tablets, and the initial installment will cost $6.99 (€5.99). The RPG is set in 2027, the same time frame as the console-based Deus Ex: Human Revolution, and it incorporates characters from James Swallows' novel, Deus Ex: Icarus Effect. We don't have a precise launch date just yet, but Square Enix will have the game on hand at E3 next week. Check out the trailer below the break.



  Show full PR textSQUARE ENIX ANNOUNCES DEUS EX: THE FALLThe DEUS EX series continues on mobile and tablet devices
London (5th June, 2013) – Square Enix Ltd., the publisher of SQUARE ENIX® interactive entertainment products in Europe and other PAL territories, today announced DEUS EX: THE FALL™, the new instalment of the award winning DEUS EX® series, coming soon to mobile and tablet devices.
DEUS EX: THE FALL is set in 2027– a golden era for science, technology and human augmentation, but also a time of great social divide and global conspiracy. Powerful corporations have seized control from governments and command the drug supply needed by augmented humans to survive. In this chaos Ben Saxon, a former British SAS Mercenary who underwent physical augmentation, is desperate for the truth behind the drug conspiracy. Betrayed by his private military employers, the Tyrants, not only is his own life at risk, but for all augmented humans, time is running out...
Developed by Square Enix's Mobile division in Europe, in collaboration with the original DEUS EX: HUMAN REVOLUTION® team at Eidos-Montréal and N-Fusion, DEUS EX: THE FALL is a story driven action-RPG and the first DEUS EX in the series to be released on mobile and tablet devices. The game includes never before seen characters from the novel published by Random House, DEUS EX: THE ICARUS EFFECT, picking up directly where the book finishes.
"We're really excited to continue the DEUS EX series on mobile and start a new journey", said Jean-François Dugas, Executive Game Director at Eidos-Montréal. "The team has done an incredible job creating a whole new story and controls for intuitive touch screen gameplay, whilst staying true to the DEUS EX universe. Players can expect exploration, action, hacking, stealth, social enhancers, player choice and consequence- the full DEUS EX experience."
"Smart devices are central to Square Enix's platform strategy and we approach it with the same attention as our boxed and digital releases. DEUS EX: THE FALL is going to be testament to our commitment in delivering high quality entertainment on mobile and tablet devices," said Antony Douglas, General Manager of Square Enix Mobile.
Priced at $6.99/£4.99/5.99€, the first instalment of the mobile series will be available this summer.
DEUS EX: THE FALL will be playable at the Square Enix booth at this year's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in the South Hall #1647.

