
 
 While a roster of competitors are trying to get their foot in the mobile payments door, Square's busy getting a foothold in retail stores. With Walgreens, Staples and FedEx Office locations now carrying the credit card reader, it's available at more than 20,000 physical shops throughout the US -- joining Apple, Best Buy, OfficeMax, Radio Shack, Target, UPS and Wal-Mart. Bringing it home from a brick and mortar establishment will set you back $9.95, but Square's sweetening the pot with a $10 rebate for new users. However, if your entrepreneurial snail mail-loving heart desires, you can still have one mailed to you by signing up online. Eager to start swiping plastic? Lookout below for the full press release.



  Show full PR text   Square Card Reader Now in More Than 20,000 Retail Locations  Nationwide  New locations include Walgreens, Staples Inc. and FedEx Office®
  SAN FRANCISCO – June 4, 2012 – Square, the company revolutionizing  everyday transactions between buyers and sellers, today announced that its  card reader is available at more than 20,000 retail locations nationwide,  including Walgreens, Staples Inc., and FedEx Office stores. The Square Card  Reader enables anyone to accept credit card payments on their mobile  device.
  "Accepting credit cards should be as easy as buying supplies at your local  store," said Jeffrey Kolovson, head of Retail Distribution at Square. "We are  working with leading retailers including Walgreens, Staples, and FedEx Office  to give business owners convenient access to the Square Card Reader, the  easiest way to accept credit card payments and grow their business."
  The Square card reader is now available in more than 7,000 Walgreens  stores, 1,500 Staples stores, and 1,500 FedEx Office stores.
  Launched in 2010, the Square Card Reader plugs into the headphone jack of  an iPhone, iPad, or Android device and enables anyone to take credit card  payments. Over one million individuals and businesses have signed up with  Square, which is processing payments at an annualized rate of over $5 billion.
  Square currently offers Square Card Reader, Square Register, and Pay with  Square. Square Card Reader takes minutes to set up and enables anyone to  accept payments anytime. Square Register serves as a full point-of-sale  system for businesses to accept payments, track inventory, and share menu  and location information. Pay with Square enables individuals to explore and  discover nearby merchants, browse menus, and pay with their name.
  Square has expanded Card Reader presence to meet demand for the product  through retail distribution chains, including Apple, Best Buy, OfficeMax, Radio  Shack, Target, UPS, and Wal-Mart. Visit www.squareup.com/retail for a map  of where the Square Card Reader is sold.
  The Square Card Reader's suggested retail price is $9.95, with a $10 rebate  upon signup for new users.
 
