
We know just a few things for certain about Davey Wreden's follow-up to The Stanley Parable:



It's called The Beginner's Guide
It's a "narrative video game" for PC and Mac
It launches on October 1st

Aside from a few equally vague screenshots, that's about it. But, considering the massive success of The Stanley Parable, that might be all The Beginner's Guide needs to generate a ton of hype (and sales).



The Stanley Parable was a breakout success when it hit PCs in late 2013 -- it picked up a number of accolades and within a year developers Wreden and William Pugh had sold 1 million copies of the game. The Stanley Parable is an odd, darkly humorous romp through a nondescript office building, starring a knowledgable narrator and Stanley, employee #427. It's a game about choice, futility and the oddities of game design.

In early 2014, Wreden, The Stanley Parable's writer and designer, penned an introspective, emotional comic about falling into depression after receiving a torrent of praise and awards over the previous months. In an interview with The New Yorker around the same time, Wreden said he was looking ahead in his career and mulling over the details of his next game. "It's intimidating to think that we have enough time and resources to do whatever we want," he said.

It appears that a handful of Wreden's fellow developers have given The Beginner's Guide a go, and early comments suggest it's just as much of a trip as The Stanley Parable.


New game by Stanley Parable's @HelloCakebread, just announced: http://t.co/x7cZrNj0Or I've played it and lemme tell you, it is *wild*.

— Douglas Wilson (@doougle) September 29, 2015I played The Beginners Guide a few times during its dev, and it's a very special game, a very strange game, really. It's hard to describe.

— Rami Ismail (@tha_rami) September 29, 2015Also can attest: When I finished playing the first time it felt like multiple parts of my brain had blue-screened https://t.co/O7JiLTJAvc
— Sven Bergström (@___discovery) September 29, 2015
