
 Sure, you can certainly snag one of those shiny new Amazon slates straight from the source, but if that famed, speedy shipping isn't your style, then a trip to the nearest Staples would be recommended. The "That Was Easy" retailer announced earlier it's now inviting all parties interested in picking up an all-new, 7-inch Kindle Fire HD, a revamped Kindle Fire or that $69 Kindle to visit its brick-and-mortar stores -- where, starting today, folks will be able to buy any of the aforementioned devices. While these Kindles can be found listed on the Staples website (see below), the company didn't mention whether it actually plans to sell them online -- perhaps they're just there in case you're in need of a little bit of guidance.



  Show full PR text   STAPLES WELCOMES THE NEW KINDLE FIRE, KINDLE FIRE HD AND KINDLE WI-FI TO STORES THIS FRIDAY
   Customers to Experience All-New Kindles in Staples Stores Nationwide

   What: Starting September 14, Staples will carry three new Kindle devices in store. These will include the Kindle e-ink with special offers, a smaller and faster version for the reduced price of $69, the Kindle Fire 7" and Kindle Fire HD 7" 16 GB.

   Staples interactive displays allow customers to experience and learn more about the selection of Kindles. Additionally, Staples offers an amazing assortment of Kindle accessories.

   The new selection of Kindle available at Staples stores includes: § NEW Kindle Fire HD 7" in 16GB: ($199/Wi-Fi)

   • World's most advanced tablet; 1280x800 HD display with polarizing filter and anti-glare technology for rich color and deep contrast from any viewing angle, exclusive Dolby audio and dual-driver stereo speakers for immersive, virtual surround sound, world's first tablet with dual-band, dual-antenna Wi-Fi for faster downloads and streaming

   NEW Kindle Fire 7": ($159/Wi-Fi)  • New – 40% faster performance, twice the memory, longer battery life. A 7-inch  color touchscreen tablet that gives users access to 22 million movies, TV shows, songs, magazines, apps and books. Customers can access thousands of popular apps and games via the Amazon App store. Features ultra-fast web browsing and free cloud storage for Amazon content

   NEW Kindle Wi-Fi: ($69 with special offers)  • All-new Kindle with 6" display, new darker, hand-tuned fonts for easier reading,  faster page turns, and downloads books in 60 seconds with built-in Wi-Fi.  Additionally, the new Kindle Paperwhite Wi-FI ($119) and 3G ($179) are currently available for pre-sale. Amazon's 6" Paperwhite display features patented built-in light, 2GB internal memory and holds up to 1,100 books. Built-in Wi-FI lets you download books in less than 60 seconds.

   Staples full suite of technology products and services includes the latest computers, e-readers, tablets and smart phones. Staples certified EasyTech associates are highly trained, and able to assist customers in selecting the best technology solutions for their needs.

 
