
 

A long time ago, in a boardroom far, far away... a designer (flanked by marketing execs) pitched an idea for a set of Star Wars: The Old Republic branded peripherals, and the CEO of Razer told his troopers to "make it so." Or, at least that's how we imagine it happened. In addition to mixing up his sci-fi references, whoever approved this gaming keyboard, mouse, and headset also abandoned any notion of subtlety. All three are slathered in interchangeable Sith or Jedi insignias, bright LEDs, and a texture not unlike the exterior of a Star Destroyer. The most ostentatious is easily the keyboard, which sports both a multitouch screen and two rows of adaptive buttons over an LCD (à la the Switchblade handheld). The keyboard will run you $200, while the mouse or headset will cost $130 when they launch alongside The Old Republic later this year. Check out the gallery below and the PR after the break.

Update: We just got our first glimpse of the new peripherals, and it sounds like Razer actually put some thought into the keyboard and headphones here -- while the mouse is just a jagged, Imperial-flavored wireless Naga MMO rodent, the headsets look fairly sweet, and Razer tells us their garish LED lighting apparently syncs with The Old Republic to throw signals on your shoulders to warn you of approaching enemies. Razer also has grand plans for that LCD-equipped keyboard, telling us those adaptive keys will automatically switch function based on signals from the game itself, and that multitouch LCD trackpad can display a variety of things and be used to program macros. Last but not least, you'll get some serious geek cred when you switch the keyboard's backlight off, because the only thing physically printed on each key are the letters of Star Wars' Aurebesh alphabet.





Sean Hollister contributed to this report. 		Show full PR text  The Battle Between The Empire and The Republic Gets Fiercer With Razer™ 		Tuesday, 07 June 2011 		FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 		THE BATTLE BETWEEN THE EMPIRE AND THE REPUBLIC GETS FIERCER WITH RAZER™ 		Razer™, BioWare™, and LucasArts™, announce a suite of MMO gaming peripherals designed for Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ 		Carlsbad, Calif. – June 7th, 2011 – Razer™, the world's leading high-end precision gaming brand, is proud to send your Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ gaming experience into hyperspace with the release of a licensed Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ product line, expected to launch in conjunction with the hotly anticipated title. In collaboration with BioWare and LucasArts, this collection of gaming weaponry will equip you to win, whether you're carrying out the work of the Dark Sith lords or righteously defending the people of the Galactic Republic. 		"As fans of Star Wars™ ourselves, we are absolutely thrilled for the chance to create a product line for Star Wars™: The Old Republic™. The result is a spectacular collection of the highest grade peripherals that is a tribute to the franchise, its fans and gamers alike," said Robert "RazerGuy" Krakoff, President, Razer USA. "And whether you're using our revolutionary new keyboard with the world's first LCD touch-panel, or the multi-award winning MMO gaming mouse styled in the Star Wars™ universe with a twelve-button thumb grid, it goes without saying, we equip gamers to win." 		Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ is being developed by BioWare, creators of the critically-acclaimed Star Wars™: The Knights of the Old Republic™. With this product line by Razer, gamers can fearlessly dive into the game armed with unparalleled competition-grade gaming technology fully decked in aesthetics that evoke the Star Wars™ universe. All peripherals come with the ability to interchange Galactic Republic and Sith Empire faction symbols to showcase your allegiance with pride. 		"We want gamers to fully immerse themselves in the expansive universe of The Old Republic™, and that extends to the peripherals they use," said Rob Cowles, Senior Product Marketing Manager, LucasArts. "When we began development of the peripherals with Razer, our goal was to not only compliment game play but also create products that feel like a part of the Star Wars™ universe. Everyone wants an Aurebesh keyboard---right?" 		The Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Keyboard is a revolutionary first for gaming technology. It features a full-color multi-touch LCD panel with a row of adaptive tactile keys above that can cycle through skills, hotkeys and macros with matching graphics from the game for maximum competitive efficiency. These adaptive tactile keys were introduced as an unprecedented new concept technology by Razer at CES 2011 and are now available to gamers worldwide for the first time through this keyboard. 		The Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ product line also includes a wireless gaming mouse with a twelve button thumb-grid for more skills at your fingertips, a dual-sided mouse mat for precise swiping, and a 5.1 surround sound headset for total comfort and immersive positional audio. Arm yourself with the entire line-up and your domination into the far reaches of the galaxy will be effortless. 		To find out more about the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Peripherals by Razer visit http://www.razerzone.com/swtor 		About the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Keyboard by Razer 		SWTOR Gaming Keyboard Designed By Razer 		A first for the world of gaming technology, the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Keyboard by Razer features a full-color highly sensitive multi-touch LCD panel, and incorporates ten adaptive tactile keys, providing more room for easily accessible skills, hotkeys, and macros. Plus, you can convert the entire keyboard from alpha-numeric to Aurebesh! 		The interchangeable gold backlit faction symbols let you showcase your allegiance with the Galactic Republic or the Sith Empire. The Force is with you in this ultimate tool for intergalactic domination. 		Product features: 		Touch-sensitive LCD track-panel for better control and efficient skills management		Ten dynamic adaptive tactile keys for customizable controls		Gold backlit keys with slim key caps for faster actuation and shorter travel distance		Fully programmable keys and on-the-fly macro recording		Adjustable multi-color LED (Up to 16 million colors)		1000Hz Ultrapolling/1ms response time		Braided 7 foot USB cable 		Price: US $199.99 / EU €199.99 		Availability:		Razerzone.com – At Game Launch		Worldwide – At Game Launch 		About the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Mouse by Razer 		SWTOR Gaming Mouse Designed By Razer 		Wield the Force with the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Mouse by Razer, featuring gaming-grade wireless technology for complete swiping freedom and a fully programmable twelve button MMO thumb-grid for more skills at your fingertips. It also comes with interchangeable faction symbols and multi-color lighting so you can annihilate all those who oppose you with pride and in style. 		Product features: 		17 fully programmable MMO-optimized buttons (including 12 button thumb grid)		Wired/wireless dual mode capability		Interchangeable gold-backlit faction panels		Charging dock (also functions as a wireless receiver unit)		Adjustable multi-color LED (Up to 16 million colors)		5600dpi Razer precision 3.5G laser sensor		1000Hz Ultrapolling/1ms response time 		Price: US $129.99 / EU €129.99 		Availability:		Razerzone.com – At Game Launch		Worldwide – At Game Launch 		About the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Mouse Mat by Razer 		SWTOR Gaming Mouse Mat Designed By Razer 		Every war has two sides, and to be victorious, you'll have to choose. With the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Mouse Mat by Razer, experience enhanced swiping and unparalleled precision thanks to performance-grade tracking surfaces on both sides. One represents the might of the Sith Empire, the other the splendor of the Galactic Republic, so you'll always be gaming under the right banner with pride. 		Product features: 		Dual-sided mouse mat to display different faction choices		Performance-grade hard surfaces for smoother mouse swiping		Non-slip, anti-reflective, abrasion-resistant hard coating 		Price: US $49.99 / EU €49.99 		Availability:		Razerzone.com – At Game Launch		Worldwide – At Game Launch 		About the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Headset by Razer 		SWTOR Gaming Headset Designed By Razer 		With the Star Wars™: The Old Republic™ Gaming Headset by Razer, your total immersion into the game is complete. Featuring 5.1 surround sound so you can hear everything around you in absolute clarity. With positional audio, get the tactical aural advantage to prevent backstabs and react to enemy attacks no matter where you hear them. It comes with interchangeable Sith Empire and Galactic Republic faction symbols to emblazon your headset with the symbol of your allegiance. 		Product features: 		5.1 surround sound headset for positional audio		Circumaural design with 50mm driver units		Flexible boom microphone		Interchangeable faction panels		Adjustable multi-color LED (Up to 16 million colors)		Volume and mic control buttons on the headset		Adjustable headband structure for optimal comfort 		Price: US $129.99 / EU €129.99 		Availability:		Razerzone.com – At Game Launch		Worldwide – At Game Launch 		About BioWare: 		BioWare develops high quality console, PC and online role-playing games, focused on rich stories, unforgettable characters and vast worlds to discover. Since 1995, BioWare has created some of the world's most critically acclaimed titles, including Baldur's Gate™, Neverwinter Nights™, Star Wars®: Knights of the Old Republic™, Jade Empire™, Mass Effect™ and Dragon Age™. BioWare operates in Edmonton (Alberta, Canada), Montreal (Quebec), Austin (Texas), Fairfax (Virginia) and Galway (Ireland). Currently announced projects at BioWare include the ongoing downloadable content for Dragon Age II, Mass Effect 3 and Star Wars®: The Old Republic™. In 2008, BioWare was acquired by Electronic Arts, a leading global interactive entertainment publisher. 		For more information on BioWare, visit www.bioware.com or follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/biofeed. To join the millions of fans already registered on our community, go to http://social.bioware.com. 		About LucasArts: 		LucasArts is a leading publisher and developer of interactive entertainment software for videogame console systems and personal computers. The company was founded in 1982 by filmmaker George Lucas to provide an interactive element to his vision of a state-of-the-art, multifaceted entertainment company. 		Now poised to realize George Lucas' vision of the potential for video games as an interactive medium, LucasArts continues to introduce new heroes for the next generation of gamers. 		About the Razer Group: 		Razer™ isn't just the world's leading brand for elite gaming products. We perpetually define competitive gaming technology with our research and development labs and offices in seven cities across the globe. Founded in 1998, in Carlsbad, California, Razer's innovations in precision, ergonomics, and interfacing combine with a distinct aesthetic design that gives gamers the edge. We live by our motto: For Gamers. By Gamers.™ 		For more information, please visit www.razerzone.com
 