
 
This might not be the "most impressive" Star Wars announcement you were looking for. Not that it's a bad thing the complete saga will be released on Blu-ray in September, and there was no mention of any exclusivity shenanigans, but despite making this the least disappointing thing that has happened to the series in a decade or so forgive us for being slightly underwhelmed. Fans will appreciate the promised 30 hours of special features -- or wait for Red Letter Media to recut them into a careful dissection of everything wrong about the prequels -- but the ability to buy the two trilogies individually for $44.99 ($69.99 MSRP) is definitely appreciated. You can queue your $89.99 ($139 MSRP) preorder on Amazon right now while you check out video of the announce featuring Lord Vader himself, including a peek at the trailer embedded after the break.

Update: Check out the trailer directly, after the break!






 Show full PR textThe most anticipated Blu-ray release ever -- the Star Wars Saga -- emerges from light speed this September 2011. For the first time, all six of George Lucas' epic films (Episodes I-VI) are united in one complete set. Fans worldwide are able to pre-order now with online retailers.Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment will release Star Wars in three distinct sets to meet the needs of every Star Wars fan:* Star Wars: The Complete Saga on Blu-ray (9-disc Set includes all six films)* Star Wars: Prequel Blu-ray Trilogy (3-disc set includes Episodes I-III)* Star Wars: Original Blu-ray Trilogy (3-disc set includes Episodes IV-VI) Star Wars: The Complete Saga on Blu-ray will feature all six live-action Star Wars feature films utilizing the highest possible picture and audio presentation, along with three additional discs and more than 30 hours of extensive special features including never-before-seen deleted and alternate scenes, an exploration of the exclusive Star Wars archives, and much more.Star Wars: The Complete Saga on Blu-ray will be available for $139.99 US/$179.99 CAN and the Star Wars: Trilogy Sets for $69.99 US/89.99 CAN. Pricing for each set will vary by international territory.Flanked by a legion of his finest Imperial stormtroopers, Darth Vader himself joined Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment President Mike Dunn at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) to announce the release, vowing "The forces of the Empire will be at your disposal to assure the success of this endeavor.""The Star Wars Saga is the most anticipated Blu-ray collection since the launch of the high-def format," Dunn said. "The epic franchise pioneered sound and visual presentation in theaters and is perfectly suited to do it again in the home, with a viewing experience only possible with Blu-ray.""With all six episodes available for the first time in one collection, this is a great way for families and home audiences to experience the complete Saga from start to finish," said Doug Yates, Vice President of Marketing, Online, Distribution, Lucasfilm Ltd. "And with the quality of high-definition, Blu-ray provides the most immersive home experience possible.""The Star Wars franchise has been the most anticipated Blu-ray release by Amazon's customers," said Bill Carr, Vice President of Music and Video at Amazon.com. "We think that Star Wars will be incredibly popular with our customers, and we expect pre-orders to be very strong."Pre-order Star Wars: The Complete Saga on Blu-ray and the Star Wars: Trilogy Sets at Amazon.com today!
 