
 
Implementations of dynamicHD on Blu-ray and HD DVD discs so far have been some of the best examples of the potential BD-Live holds that we keep hearing about, but rarely see. For those Star Trek fans that picked up TOS box set this week, it not only ties them into the www.cbs-bdlive.com website, but also brings home interviews, behind the scenes looks and other highlights from FEDCON in Europe that is going on from today until May 3. Next up to tie Internet downloads into the disc based experience? CSI: Crime Scene Investigation The First Season hitting May 12. You can check out the website to see who is watching right now and where, set up watching parties and share quizzes. Imagion AG demoed a lot of these features for us on HD DVD during CES '08, and some got a peek at them on Terminator 2: Ultimate HD Edition, check out the official press release after the break and let us know if this is enough to change your opinion on BD-Live.
      

 

Star Trek®: The Original Series – Season One, Now Available On Blu-Ray For The First Time Ever,  Gives Fans Exclusive Event Coverage Via BD-Live Fans Get BD Live Access To Daily Reports From "Fedcon,"  Europe's Largest Star Trek Convention Taking Place In Bonn, Germany From May 1st To May 3rd  Owners of STAR TREK®: THE ORIGINAL SERIES on Blu-ray will be able to access daily reports from FEDCON, Europe's largest STAR TREK convention, for direct download from the disc's BD-Live portal. Apart from the additional information and exclusive videos and trailers provided via BD-Live, videos of the highlights at FEDCON will be available for download.  For the first time ever, CBS Home Entertainment will have teams onsite at FEDCON, filming behind-the-scenes footage, talent interviews and more which will then be made available daily for direct download.  The convention in Germany features appearances from many stars of the STAR TREK universe including Nichelle Nichols (Captain Uhura) from the classic STAR TREK series. More than 5,000 fans will get together in Bonn to celebrate their favorite series over the weekend. All fans are also invited to post their private pictures and comments at CBS's new website dedicated to BD-Live at: www.cbs-bdlive.com  The groundbreaking first season of STAR TREK: THE ORIGINAL SERIES on  Blu-ray, released on April 28 from CBS Home Entertainment and Paramount Home Entertainment, boasts superior picture and pristine audio for the best possible home viewing experience. The Blu-ray seven disc set includes all 29 first season episodes and loads of special features.

       

 