

The iPad is no stranger to nostalgia-filled gaming sessions, and today Apple's platform is welcoming yet another popular OG title into its hefty ranks. More specifically, we're referring to Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, a game which will surely bring a great deal of excitement to those who were avid fans of the original BioWare RPG back in the day. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is up for grabs now, but be prepared to pay a slight premium for it, since the near-2GB App Store download costs a cool 10 bucks. But hey, not too bad if you'd like to use an iPad to show your custom-made character what life was like before the Galactic Empire even existed.



Show full PR textSTAR WARS: KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLIC NOW ON IPAD
May 30, 2013

Get ready to choose the light side or dark side...with the convenience of a touch screen: Aspyr Media today announced that Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is available now on the App Store exclusively for iPad to commemorate the groundbreaking game's upcoming 10th anniversary.

Developed for the PC and Xbox by BioWare, the original Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is widely considered one of the greatest role-playing games of all time and has received over 40 Game of the Year awards. Brought to iPad by leading Mac games developer Aspyr, the release also serves as a tribute to Star Wars fans around the world for their unwavering support and passion for the franchise.

"Being able to bring one of the most beloved Star Wars games to iPad for such a momentous event is an incredible honor," said Elizabeth Howard, Aspyr's vice president of publishing. "We have a long history at Aspyr of bringing the best games to Apple platforms, and as bona fide fans of the original release, we've worked to ensure that Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic for iPad lives up to its prodigious reputation."

In Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, players are immersed in an epic saga that takes place 4,000 years before the Galactic Empire -- a time when Jedi and Sith numbered in the thousands. The game features deep character customization, and branching storylines that lets players choose their alignment with the Force and change the outcome of the narrative in real time.

This first-ever mobile release brings the full Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic experience exclusively to the iPad. With hours upon hours of gameplay, the classic RPG includes user-interface enhancements for the touch-screen environment.

For more information on Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic for iPad, visit www.aspyr.com.


