

Boy, it sure likes Sony did something right slimmin' down (and slightly cripplin') that new PS3 of theirs. And sure, considering that the British picked up PlayStation 3 purchases a whopping 999%, maybe a Stateside retail bump of a "mere" 300% (for the first week after the price cut) is small potatoes. Or maybe we're just growing jaded. If this isn't great, good news enough for Sony, check it: as of August, according to a survey by GamePlan Insights, five of consumers' top 10 most-wanted games are on PS3 (including Gran Turismo 5, Final Fantasy XIII, God of War III, Assassin's Creed 2, and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2). For more exciting facts, figures, and details, check out the PR after the break.

[Via Joystiq]
 

PlayStation 3 Only Does 'Everything'On September 1, the new 120GB PlayStation 3 hit retail stores, an incredible entertainment value for consumers at the new price point of $299. Our top retailers have reported a 300% lift in PS3 hardware sales and an increase of 140% in total hardware revenue across the PlayStation portfolio when comparing the first week of September to the week before the $299 price adjustment. Concurrently, the launch of a new PS3 marketing campaign, "It Only Does Everything," will continue to drive consumer education and awareness to the expansive PS3 benefits and features throughout the holiday season. The launch of PSPgo on October 1 will continue to fuel consumer appetite for entertainment content and those eager to take the PlayStation experience on the go. PSP owners will have access to a tremendous library of movies, TV shows, comics, and exclusive games, such as LittleBigPlanet PSP, SOCOM: U.S Navy SEALs Fireteam Bravo 3, Jak and Daxter: The Lost Frontier, Final Fantasy Dissidia, Madden NFL 10 and many more.And the best is yet to come. According to the August OTX industry survey of the launches that gamers want to buy most, 5 of the top 10 titles were on the PS3, including God of War III, Final Fantasy XIII, Gran Turismo 5, and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 -- more than any other console. SCEA is gearing up for one of the best content line ups in its history with some of the most anticipated releases launching in October with UNCHARTED 2: Among Thieves and Ratchet & Clank Future: A Crack in Time. With more than 25 exclusive titles slated through the holiday and into early next year, these games are just the tip of the iceberg.No other entertainment device is better positioned for this holiday.
 