
 Valve Software's celebrating the official launch of TV-based "Big Picture Mode" today, which enables Steam users to play PC games on their televisions with a user interface designed around the experience. As a result of the celebration, "over thirty" games are seeing prices slashed by as much as 75 percent through December 10th -- those games, as you might expect, are geared toward controller-based gamers. Should you wish to get in on the Big Picture phenomenon now that it's out of beta, all you've gotta do is sign into Steam with a PC or Mac connected to your television and click the "Enable Big Picture Mode" icon in the upper right hand corner. Not sure if it's for you? Take a gander at our hands-on from back in September to get an idea of how the service stacks up.



  Show full PR text    Steam Big Picture Available Now   One-Week Steam Sale on Big Picture Friendly Games   December 3, 2012 -- Valve today announced the public release of Big Picture, Steam's new mode that lets gamers access all of their favorite Steam games on a television from the comfort of their sofa. Big Picture has been designed to be used with a traditional gamepad, while also fully supporting keyboard and mouse input.   To celebrate the public launch of Big Picture, over thirty controller-friendly games will be on sale from now until December 10, with savings up to 75% off.   Access to the complete Steam store is included, as is the Steam Community. Big Picture is available worldwide in over twenty languages, including German, French, Russian, Korean, and Portuguese.   Gamers' existing games are all available in Big Picture. In addition to having the complete library of Steam games, each user's cloud files, Steam Workshop content, account information and preferences will be accessible automatically in the new mode.   Steam gamers may easily experience Big Picture on their televisions by connecting their PC or Mac, typically with a single HDMI cable. Big Picture also includes a new web browser designed for televisions and game controllers. It is accessible from anywhere within the Big Picture UI, and even while playing Steam games on a TV. It supports Big Picture's new method of typing with a gamepad, which is useful for entering URLs, filling out forms, chatting, and other functions.   For more information, please visit http://www.steampowered.com/bigpicture.

 
