

 This time last year, SteelSeries showed us a headset and mouse meant for Diablo III, but at E3 2012, the company showed us a bunch of goodies. The highlight is the inaugural SteelSeries cordless offering, aptly named the World of Warcraft wireless mouse, which sports a themed skin and glowing white runes and logo on the palmrest (at least that's the plan, the prototype unit we saw didn't light up). Similarly, the charging base is studded in true Azeroth style and ringed in blue runes to let you know when it's powered up, plus it can be connected to your computer via microUSB if you want to play and charge simultaneously. It's PC and Mac compatible, comes with 11 programmable buttons, and once you've given it 60 minutes to fill its tank, you'll get up to 16 hours of continuous, intensive game play. It's set for a release in the latter half of this year and will cost $129.




  Show full PR text   STEELSERIES ANNOUNCES WORLD OF WARCRAFT® WIRELESS MOUSE
   Rechargeable, Wireless MMO Mouse Features Docking Station, Wired Option and In-Game Set-up to Bind All 11 Buttons, Store Unlimited Game Profiles

   LOS ANGELES – E3 – June 4, 2012 –SteelSeries, the leading global manufacturer of professional gaming peripherals, today announced the SteelSeries World of Warcraft® Wireless Mouse, co-designed with Blizzard Entertainment. Evoking some of the most iconic images from Blizzard's massively multiplayer online role-playing game, the new Wireless Mouse brings players an ergonomic, 11-button layout, with illumination and pulsation options that help immerse players in the game. The SteelSeries Engine software guides players through an easy, in-game integration set-up with drag and drop functionality of World of Warcraft commands, full button remapping, macro creation and the ability to save an unlimited number of game profiles.

   "We brought to market the first MMO gaming mouse more than three years ago with Blizzard, and since that product launch, we've been working to improve and perfect what the MMO community has wanted and asked for – from the size and button shape to the hardware and wireless functionality. The World of Warcraft Wireless Mouse not only answers players requests, but we're confident that it will impress players by arming them with state of the art hardware features and an exceptional user experience," said Bruce Hawver, SteelSeries CEO.

   Dark stone-gray in color, the mouse sports a translucent, subtly illuminated World of Warcraft world map background and the swirling Maelstrom design behind the rune ring and World of Warcraft logo. Its silver, matte finish on each of the 11 ergonomically placed buttons is made with a rubberized, soft-touch coating that is hand-sweat resistant on the sides of the mouse, providing users with a comfortable grip for long raiding sessions. The technology for the new mouse is premium-quality with pro-grade switches and a laser sensor that reaches up to 8,200 CPI. In addition to its color design and hardware functionality, players will immediately notice enhanced features including:

   • Large, oversized top buttons for a more comfortable reach  • Distinct modification on each of the left side buttons for more accurate clicks  • Smooth ticking scroll wheel

   The player's precision and control will be enhanced with the ability to assign all 11-buttons and multiple macros from directly within the World of Warcraft game interface. In addition to in-game support, the intuitive drag & drop interface of SteelSeries Engine software empowers Windows® and Mac® users to:

   • Program all buttons with more than 130 preset game commands  • Create custom macros and/or use the in-game macro scripting language

   The sleek docking station features a matching rune design with white illumination along the outer rim; it operates as both the charger and receiver, which powers the World of Warcraft Wireless Mouse and is compatible with both Windows® and Mac®. For convenience, the mouse can also be wired by plugging it directly into the computer and the battery will charge while it's connected and in use.

   Technical specifications include:  • Frames Per Second: 12,000  • Counts Per Inch: 8,200  • Lift distance: 2mm – 5mm  • Battery type: Lithium Ion  • Wireless battery life: 16 hours  • Charge time: estimated 1 hour from low to full charge  • Compatible with all current MMO titles  • 6.5ft cable with mini-USB and USB

   The World of Warcraft Wireless Mouse will be available in Q3 2012 on the SteelSeries Web Shop and in select retail locations for $129.99 / €129.99. For additional product information please visit http://steelseries.com/g/world-of-warcraft. Be sure to follow SteelSeries on both Facebook and Twitter to stay up to date on product availability, contests and news.

  STEELSERIES ANNOUNCES PERIPHERALS FOR COUNTER-STRIKE®: GLOBAL OFFENSIVE AND DOTA™ 2
   Premium-Quality Headset, Mice and Surfaces Incorporate Superior Technology Features and Original Designs for Each Game

   LOS ANGELES – E3 – June 4, 2012 – SteelSeries, the leading global manufacturer of gaming peripherals, today announced co-licensed product line-ups for Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive and Dota™ 2, which are anticipated Valve games targeted for release later this year. Created in collaboration with Valve Corporation, the peripherals for Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive include a co-branded SteelSeries Siberia v2 Headset, SteelSeries Kana Gaming Mouse and SteelSeries QcK mousepad.

   In addition, SteelSeries is also introducing the SteelSeries Dota™ 2 Limited Edition Mouse Bundle. With a matte black, rubberized finish and sporting the red Dota 2 logo, the mouse is optimized and perfected with the help of professional gaming teams including the award-winning Dota International team, Natus Vincere. The bundle will include the optical, 6-button mouse, the Dota 2 branded SteelSeries QcK Mini mousepad, and an exclusive Dota 2 in-game item.

   SteelSeries CMO, Kim Rom said, "We worked with the professional teams that are playing and winning in Counter-Strike and Dota tournaments and with them, identified peripheral features and technologies that make their experience and performance better. We've chosen and perfected exactly the right product mix and are excited to bring them to market with their respective games."

   SteelSeries Siberia v2 Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive Headset

   Clear sound and communication in Counter-Strike can mean the difference between victory and failure for your game and team. The SteelSeries Siberia v2 Counter-Strike: Global Offensive Headset isolates atmospheric noise with sound-dampening foam and leather ear cushions, while its over-the-head suspension design makes the headset comfortable and lightweight. The headset's camouflage color featured on the earcups and headband mimics the game theme. Its 50mm driver units pump out an impressive soundscape while the retractable, uni-directional microphone picks up and outputs loud and clear communication. The SteelSeries Siberia v2 Counter-Strike: Global Offensive Headset will be $99.99 / €99.99 MSRP.

   The headset also features:

   • An in-line volume and microphone mute control  • 3m / 9.8ft black rubber cord with 3.5mm connections

   SteelSeries Kana Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive Mouse and QcK Mousepad  The ambidextrous SteelSeries Kana Counter-Strike: Global Offensive Gaming Mouse features a total of 6 buttons including two XL-sized side buttons which allow for easy-reach and quick, rapid-fire. Its optical sensor has impressive speeds of 1,600 -3,200 DCPI and its compatibility with the SteelSeries Engine allows the user to create an unlimited amount of player profiles and settings. Encased in a camouflage design with matte finish and the Counter-Strike: Global Offensive logo, the mouse features a white illuminated scroll wheel with up to 4 levels of pulsation options and a CPI Toggle button to switch between high and low CPI settings. The SteelSeries Kana Counter-Strike: Global Offensive Mouse will be $59.99 / €59.99 MSRP.

   The mouse also features:

   • XL-size high-performance UPE material feet for a smooth, consistent glide  • 2m / 6.5ft double-braided nylon cord

   The SteelSeries Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive QcK Mousepad has a non-slip rubber base to keep from moving and an optimized texture surface for a smooth and consistent glide. The mousepad will feature the Counter-Strike: Global Offensive logo from the game and will be $14.99 / €14.99 MSRP.

   SteelSeries Kana Dota™ 2 Edition Bundle

   Defend the Ancient Fortresses with an optimized, ambidextrous mouse and 6 programmable buttons that can be quickly remapped and configured via SteelSeries' Engine software. The mouse has an optical sensor with impressive speeds of 1,600 -3,200 DCPI and is co-branded with a matte black finish, the red Dota 2 game logo and an illuminated scroll wheel with up to 4 levels of pulsation. It is also equipped with XL-size high-performance UPE material feet for a smooth, consistent glide and a 2m / 6.5ft double-braided nylon cord.

   The SteelSeries Kana Dota 2 Edition Bundle will be priced at $64.99 / €64.99 MSRP and will also include:

   • A SteelSeries QcK Mini that features a high-quality cloth surface with Dota 2 logo  • A full version of the game and an exclusive Dota 2 in-game item, Kantusa the Script Sword

   The co-licensed peripherals for both Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive and Dota™ 2 will become available with the anticipated game launches later this year.

   For more information about these products as well as all of SteelSeries' E3 product announcements please visit, http://SteelSeries.com/e3. Be sure to follow SteelSeries and Valve on Facebook at http://facebook.com/steelseries and http://facebook.com/valve. You can also find more information about Valve and the upcoming Dota™ 2 and Counter-Strike®: Global Offensive title releases please visit http://www.valvesoftware.com.

   STEELSERIES ANNOUNCES GUILD WARS 2® PERIPHERALS LINE-UP  Headset, Mouse, Keyboard and Mousepads Provide Players with Enhanced Gameplay and an Immersive Guild Wars 2 Experience  LOS ANGELES – E3 – June 4, 2012 – SteelSeries, the leading global manufacturer of gaming peripherals, in partnership with ArenaNet, the world's premier developer of massively multiplayer online games (MMOs), today announced a new line-up of gaming peripherals for Guild Wars 2.

   Created in collaboration with ArenaNet, the line-up includes the Guild Wars 2® Gaming Headset, a slim profile, on-ear headset design that delivers a quality, immersive audio experience, and the Guild Wars 2® Gaming Mouse, an ambidextrous mouse that features seven programmable buttons, red illumination, and industry-leading technology. Both products are highlighted by the distinctive look of the Guild Wars 2 logo. The Guild Wars 2® QcK Mousepads are available in three designs, including the stylized dragon logo and the heroes Logan Thackeray and Eir Stegalkin. The Guild Wars 2® Gaming Keyboard rounds out the product line-up with an entirely new design that features SteelSeries Engine software for ease of use and advanced functionality as well as game-specific shortcuts; additional details about the keyboard will be unveiled later this year.

   "Choosing the right peripherals partner for the Guild Wars 2 family of products was incredibly important. Making the decision to go with SteelSeries was about more than just choosing the best looking designs, but also about choosing a team whose products enhance the game experience and is recognized for delivering premium quality peripherals to gamers," said Randall Price, ArenaNet SVP of Global Business. "We're ecstatic about the upcoming release of Guild Wars 2 and excited to work with SteelSeries to bring these co-branded products to Guild Wars fans."

   "We're incredibly proud of this product line-up and are excited to have worked on their design with the ArenaNet team," said Kim Rom, SteelSeries CMO. "These peripherals are based on some of the best technology available and will offer players an immersive and overall enhanced experience from their first clicks into Tyria to their entirely new journey through the game."

  Guild Wars 2® Gaming Headset – $99.99 / €99.99  The Guild Wars 2 Headset is a slim-profile, on-ear design featuring red ear cushions made of a mesh, SNDBlock material that delivers superbly engineered in-game sound via 40mm driver units. Its matte white headband and glossy white, red, and black logo design on the outer earcups exemplify the iconic Guild Wars 2 look and feel. Built for portability and ease of use, its travel-friendly design allows the earcups to fold inward and lay flat when wearing the headset around the neck; it also collapses at the earcup hangers for quick and compact storage. The headset includes a red 3.5mm PC cable connection with an in-line, omni-directional microphone and mute controls for gaming and online chat. For maximum flexibility, the Guild Wars 2 Headset also offers 2 input jacks – one on each side of the headset – which allows for two user options: to choose which side the microphone cable can be plugged into, and the ability to "daisy chain" or plug in another headset so that multiple users can listen to the game at once.

  The Guild Wars 2® Gaming Mouse – $69.99 / €69.99  The design aesthetics of the Guild Wars 2® Gaming Mouse were as important to the designers as the hardware features. Its rubberized soft-touch coating is hand-sweat resistant, which allows for exceptional grip and comfort during long battles. The dynamic white, red, and black dragon icon is synonymous with the game, evoking the artistry of the Guild Wars 2 in-game world. Red illumination and up to 4 different levels of pulsation options can be adjusted at the scroll wheel, CPI toggle light and the Guild Wars 2 logo for a custom user experience.

   With best-in-class hardware switches, a pro-grade laser sensor ranging up to 5,700 CPI, the Guild Wars 2 Mouse is designed to deliver players the best in gaming performance. Its ambidextrous, all-grip design includes 7 programmable buttons, all of which can be completely customized with SteelSeries Engine software. The software provides users with the ability to create macros and utilize pre-defined profiles for Guild Wars 2 as well as create and store an unlimited amount of profiles within the SteelSeries Engine.

   The Guild Wars 2 Mouse also features:  • XL-size high-performance UPE material feet for a smooth, consistent glide  • 2m / 6.5ft red rubber cord

  Guild Wars 2® QcK Mousepads – $14.99 / €14.99  The Guild Wars 2 QcK Mousepads have non-slip rubber bases to keep from moving and optimized texture surfaces for a smooth and consistent glide. The SteelSeries QcK Guild Wars 2 Logo Editionfeatures the red, white, and black dragon logo while the SteelSeries QcK Guild Wars 2 Logan Edition and the SteelSeries QcK Guild Wars 2 Eir Edition each feature an image of the iconic human guardian and norn ranger heroes from the game.

  Guild Wars 2® Gaming Keyboard  The premium Guild Wars 2 branded keyboard will be released later this year. More details about the keyboard design as well as hardware and software features will be release closer to its availability.

   For more details of the full product line-up of SteelSeries' Guild Wars® 2 Peripherals please visit http://steelseries.com/guildwars2 and be sure to follow SteelSeries' social media communities on Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr for upcoming Guild Wars 2 contests and peripherals giveaways leading up to game launch.

 
 
