



Yes, yes, this post is whereall the action's gonna happen for today's live Stevenote-keynote coverage. Bookmark it, refresh it, do your thing --just be sure and come back some time around 9:00AM Pacific / 12:00PM Eastern.10:13AM EST -We are currently 27th and 28th in line next to reporters from Kansai Digital Press.11:41AM - Big surprise, we're still waiting in line. They're keeping us in the Media Corral for themoment, but we'll probably be granted entry in the very near future...11:53 AM - Ok, we'removing in, we'll be taking our seats in a moment.

11:59 AM - Notthat we need to tell you, but they're obviously running a little bit late.12:01 PM - Well,looks like we're all settled in. We've got our crack team on the case: Engadget keynote sharpshooter and bestest buddyPaul Boutin on keys, Editor-in-Chief Peter Rojas and Engadget Splunker PatrickMcGovern, Jr. on snaps, and Managing Editor Ryan Block editing and posting.

12:04 PM - What's that sound? It's the sound of everyone trying to connect to the Wi-Finetwork. The one that's not on.

12:07 PM - The lights are going down,STEEEEEVE takes the stage.12:08 PM - "Good morning and welcome to Macworld. We've gota lot of great stuff for you today."


[Top photo by Patrick McGovern, Jr.]



12:09 PM - He's going to do the usual retail update. 26 million visitors to apple stores duringthe holiday quarter - as if everyone in New York state went. First billion dollar quarter for retail stores.12:09 PM - Peter Oppenheimer CFO said he has to tell revenue for the whole company if he's going todo that. Last quarter it was $5.7 billion, a record.  12:12 PM -"How many [iPods] did we sell last quarter? Some of the estimates were getting astronomical - 8 million, 9million. I'm really pleased to announce that last quarter we sold 14 million iPods .. that is over a hundred everyminute, 24/7 throughout the quarter. And it still wasn't enough. We've now sold over 42 million iPods -- as you can seethe curve is going up again"12:14 PM - "We have sold on iTunes over 850 millionsongs. We are well on our way to hitting a billion in the next weeks. That is over a billion songs a year run rate. Ourmarket share continues to be very strong - 83 percent. As you know one of the newest things on iPods is TV shows. Sincewe launched on October 12th we have sold over 8 million videos. For the first time last week we added some sports. Forthe first time with ABC and ESPN we put up some Bowl games."12:15 PM - "The RoseBowl is the #1 video now on iTunes. Today we're putting up some great new content, Saturday Night Live. This is somestuff that I've personally wanted to see from day one."12:16 PM - Video: John Belushiin Samurai Delicatessen. The Coneheads At Home. (these are playing on an iPod screen.) The Blue Brothers get a round ofcheers.12:16 PM - "We're also introducing a new accessory for your iPod today, whichis a remote control - it's also an FM tuner."12:18 PM - "And last, I want togive an update on Chrysler. For those of you that missed it at the Detroit Auto Show, Chrysler is the first Americanmanufacture to offer iPod integration on their models. In 2006 over 40% of the cars sold in 2006 will offer iPodintegration." 12:19 PM - "The lastthing I've got is a new ad I wanted to show you, a new iPod ad. At our December event we were so lucky to have WyntonMarsalis come and play for us ... " Marsalis ad plays -- a tasteful blue version of the Eminem-style ad. Hugeapplause from the oldsters in the house.12:19PM - "That's what we're up to in music.BUT ... It's Macworld. So we're gonna spend the rest of the day talking about the Mac." He's recapping Aperture.Aperture promo video.12:22 PM - Heinz Kluemeier onscreen now showing what he does withAperture.12:23 PM - A pro football photographer (missed his name) explains that for a gamehe shoots 1,000 pictures and will probably stop shooting JPEGs now. "Stanley Kubrick would be jealous."12:25 PM - "Now another thing I want to talk about is widgets. There are now TONS ofwidgets. There are now over 1500 widgets available for OS X Tiger."12:25 PM -"We've got a new Google widget so you don't have to go to Safari. We've got a new front end to Address Book. We'vegot a new widget just in time for ski season with snow conditions. We've got a new calendar ..." Also shows ESPNscoreboard.12:25 PM - "We've got anew release of Mac OS X Tiger ... 10.4.4 ... you can download it today, it's got all these new widgets."12:26 PM - "Now, I'd like to talk about iLife." He's recapping what iLife is. "Today,we're introducing the next revision, iLife '06, and it's a giant release."12:27 PM -"Scrolls like butter" (laughter) Full-screen editing mode with slide-in and overlaid controls.12:29 PM - 1-Click effects. One click to get back to original. Antique photo effect (color isfaded.) "Hit the center button, boom, you're back to the original. The quality [of photo books] is dramaticallybetter. We've added calendars, so you can make your own calendars."

12:30 PM -"Something incredibly new: Photocasting. This is Podcasting for photos."
12:31PM - "Wouldn't it be great if every time I updated a photo album, people subscribed to it would get thelatest photos?" 

12:32 PM - It works through .Mac. You can set a password. "Wheneverthere's a change, those changes will get downloaded right into their subscription album. They can make their cards withthem, they can set their desktop pictures with them... We use industry standard RSS, so anyone can subscribe - you don'teven need a Mac."

12:33 PM - He's going to give a demo. One-line explanation: Imaginegrandparents who have their screen saver set to be photos of the grandchildren. Every time the parents update thealbum, gramma's slide show automatically starts showing the new pix.12:40 PM - "Next upis iMovie. Last year we added HD, and boy was that a good idea .. the prices of cameras are continuing to drop. For thisyear we're adding something called Animated Themes. I'll just show you." More important: Export to iPod, VideoPodcasts.

12:41 PM - He's doing a demo of animated themes. Imagine iPhoto themes with the KenBurns effect on them, etc.12:43 PM - Video demo of the Ockenfels' Italian Vacation to thetune of the Italian pop song "Americano." We heartily recommend the Brian Setzerversion.

12:45 PM - "Next up, iDVD. We've added Widescreen Menus now .. enough of us havewidescreen TVs. We've got something new called Magic iDVD."

12:46 PM - "In theinterest of time I'm not going to demo it today." But they support 3rd-party burners.

12:47PM - "Garage Band: We have added a podcast authoring studio." It has: Artwork track, 200royalty-free sound effects, 100 jingles, automatic ducking for audio (which lowers the background music whenever you'respeaking and raises it whenever you stop,) and a speech enhancer. You can use iChat for remote interviews. Steve's goingto create a podcast.

 12:48 PM - "Hi, I'mSteve and welcome to my weekly podcast, Super-Secret Apple Rumors." (huge laughs)  "I've got some prettygood sources inside Apple, and the next iPod is going to be HUGE, an 8-pounder with a 10-inch screen ... See you nextweek."

12:54 PM - Demo done. "We want to share these things ... increasingly, we wantto share them over the Internet ... increasingly, a lot of us want to build a web site. So today we are introducing asixth app into the iLife suite to let us do exactly that. To share photos ... video podcasts ... music ... blogs ... wecall this new app iWeb." Isn't that name, um, a bit recursive?

12:55 PM - Slide of a simple2x2 matrix: "Easy/Hard" vs "Ugly/Beautiful" Hmm, what quadrant will iWeb be in? Features:Apple-designed templates, iLife media browser, online photo albums, blogs, podcasts, 1-click publishing. He showssample pages than can be created in a few seconds.

12:56 PM - It's published through .Mac,natch. "Looks great in Firefox. Any RSS reader can subscribe to your blog."

12:59 PM- Demo. People laugh and clap when songs he posts to his site are auto-linked to the iTunes store.

1:01PM - "Now I'm going to make a blog, so I'm going to pick a blog page. " The template has a big photoacross the top with the title overlaid, like Scripting News.

1:02 PM - "I've got a podcastsomebody made that I can drop right in ... Let me tell you something else that's really cool. I'm going to back toGarage Band ..."

1:03 PM - He clicks Send Podcast to iWeb and it gets auto-bundled. Dialogbox: Do you want to put it into a blog or a podcast? Click. The blog is updated instantly with the right XML/HTML. Hehits Publish. Taskbar "Uploading to Mac ... Photos ... About Me ... Podcasts ... " It takes about as long asbooting OS X on our old 12-incher. 

1:03 PM - He's selecting iPhotos in full-screen mode to aphotocast. "Pretty cool." (Applause)

1:05 PM - "So, we built a website in a fewminutes here that's got four pages, my photo album, podcasts, and my blog ... this is what iWeb is about.. Rich mediato share with all of your family." Same $79 price as before. "In addition we have a $99 family pack that letsyou put it onto 5 computers.

1:06 PM - "I'm pleased to report that we have crossed over amillion subscribers to .Mac"

1:07 PM - "There's one other product i want to tell youabout today, we have a new version of iWork" Features: 3D charts, advanced image editing - masking etc.,reflections, freeform shapes, tables (with calculation), new themes and templates. "I don't have time to talkabout it today, but go check it out."

1:08 PM - Also $79 or $99 for family pack. Free30-day trial. "Now, let's talk about the computer systems themselves..." 1:07 PM- "The biggest news this year, of course, is we announced that we were going to shift to using Intel processors inMacs. We announced that by June of '06 we would be shipping ... "

1:09 PM - "I wantedto give you an update today - how are we doing?" 
 1:10 PM- An Intel clean-room-suit guy walks out of a cloud of fog with a 12" silicon wafer and says, "Steve, I wantto report that Intel's ready. " Takes off his his helmet -- it's Paul Otellini, Intel CEO.

1:10PM - Steve: "Well, I can report that Apple's ready, too"

1:11 PM -"We've worked nights, weekends to make this happen in record time. [to Paul] I want to thankyou..."

1:12 PM - Boilerplate keynote act here except for when Paul quotes Bob Noyes, theforgotten Intel co-founder, "Don't be encumbered by history." They shake hands. We've got the camera lockedand loaded.

1:12 PM - "So ... today we are gonna roll out the first Mac with an Intelprocessor."
1:13 PM - "Without any morefanfare, it is the iMac."  It looks the same as it does now.

1:14 PM - He's recappinghow great the iMac is. He's quoting future Engadget writer Walt Mossberg, "It's the gold standard of desktopPCs."
1:14 PM - "We're going to put an Intel processor inside an iMac. We'regoing to offer it in the same sizes, 17 and 20-inch. We're going to offer it in the same award winning design. We'regoing to offer it with the same features. We're going to offer it for the same prices. So what'sdifferent?"

1:14 PM - "We are building in ... the new Intel Core Duo. Eachof these processors is faster than the G5, and there's two of 'em."

1:16 PM - Chart ofspecs: SPECint_rate2000 of 32.6, that's 3.2x faster than old iMac. SPECfp_rate2000: 27.1 for a 2.1x boost. Every iMachas now got dual processors.

1:17 PM - "Mac OS X Tiger 10.4.2 is running entirely natively- not just the operating system but all the applications." He's been using it for the entire demo allmorning.

1:17 PM - Pro applications (Final Cut, Aperture, Logic Pro) will be available inMarch. If you've got a current version you can upgrade for $49.

1:19 PM - Roz Ho from Microsoftis coming on to say MS Office will be available, we presume.

1:20 PM - Microsoft has committedto a minimum 5 years of delivering Office for Macs.

1:23 PM - Steve is back onstage."Rosetta is going to be a great bridge until all the apps are universal." Demo time. The iMac runs more likea G5 PowerMac. We're getting all buyer's remorseful about our year-old system at home, as we're sure are a few otherpeeps out there right now.

1:24 PM - Photoshop demo. "The Performance of Photoshop inRosetta isn't going to be powerful enough for a professional ... it's fast enough for those of us who use itoccasionally." He does some compositing on King Kong stills. Safari demo. It's a LOT faster, praise thegods.

1:26 PM - "They are shipping today. We are going to be transitioning our entireproduct line this year." This is huge.1:28 PM - "We made an ad just to letpeople know what we're doing, and I'd like to premiere it for you now." Ad voiceover: "The Intel chip. Foryears it's been trapped inside PCs. Dutifully performing dull little tasks." Whoa, easy there Mr.Condescension!1:28 PM - Video of Intel white-suiters inserting chip into Mac as if it werea big space launch.1:28 PM - "One more thing..."1:28PM - "You know, there's been this pesky little problem with PowerBooks..."1:29PM - "We've been trying to shoehorn a G5 into a PowerBook. We've tried everything. We've consulted every[slide of the pope, huge laughs] ..." Steve's going to explain the enigmatic Performance per Watt metric.
1:30 PM - PowerPC: 0.23rating for performance per watt. Core Duo: 1.05, more than four times better. "Today we are introducing ... theMacBook Pro"1:31 PM - "It's a new name because we're kinda done with power, and we wantthe Mac name in our products." The same dual-processor as the iMac in every model. "This is hard to believe:4-5x faster than the PowerBook G5. These things are screamers."
 1:32 PM - SPECint_rate2000 leaps from 6.7 to 30.3 - SPECfp_rate2000 leaps above5x.

1:33 PM - 15.4-inch display is as bright as Cinema Display and there's an iSight camera ontop.

1:33 PM - He's going to demo "video conferencing to go."

1:34PM - Apple's head of marketing and perpetual keynote fall guy Phil Schiller appears on iChat ... and he'sstanding in the aisle next to us! He does a 360 swoop of the audience, which looks great onscreen -- like he's on amerry-go-round.

1:35 PM - "We also got the IR sensor and the Apple remote .. we've gotFront Row built right in ... Another really cool feature. We call this new feature MagSafe."

1:36PM - "How many of you have ever had your notebook go flying off your desktop when someone caught the cordin their foot?" Millions of hands around the world just raised.
1:36PM - "The power adapter is magnetically held in. When the cord gets yanked it just pulls right off. Thiswill safe us a lot of hassle with having to fix your notebooks. Patent pending!" Always thinking of yourself,Steve, but reader J points out that fondue pots had something like this back in the Duo days.
1:36PM - "One inch thin, 5.6 pounds." Backlit keyboard with ambient light sensor, scrolling trackpad,sudden motion sensor. DVI video out for 30-inch monitors.
1:38 PM - $19991.67 Code Duo, 512 MB RAM, 80GB, 4x superdrive, Aiprort Extreme. $2499 for the fully loaded model.

1:38PM - Shipping in February. "If you want one I suggest you get yourorder in early."

1:39 PM - "If you'd like, I could show you that Intel ad onemore time." It's been trapped inside PCs. Dutifully performing dull little tasks...

1:41PM - Steve has us give a round of applause to Apple and Intel employees. Notes that it'll be Apple'sanniversary this coming April Fool's Day.  "We thought that was funny at the time ... Thirty years making thebest personal computers in the world."

Hey Jason, have you got more of those AOL supply requisition forms?We'll be right over!

Text: Paul BoutinPhotos: Peter Rojas and Patrick McGovern, Jr.Editing: RyanBlock

[Big thanks to Marc Cherki from Le Figaro for giving us elbow room to work!]


