
 

We just got some very, very sad news. Steve Jobs has passed away. As confirmed on Apple's site, Mr. Jobs has died at the age of 56 after recently stepping down from the position of CEO and naming Tim Cook his successor. Steve has had a profound effect on the world of technology, both at Apple and through his many other endeavors. Our thoughts go out to his family.

Update: All Things D has posted a memo sent out by Tim Cook to Apple employees stating that there will be an internal celebration to honor Steve's life soon. Those words can be found after the break, along with statements from Apple's Board of Directors, his family, and Bill Gates.
      

 
Tim Cook:  		Team, 		I have some very sad news to share with all of you. Steve passed away earlier today. 		Apple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the world has lost an amazing human being. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor. Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built, and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple. 		We are planning a celebration of Steve's extraordinary life for Apple employees that will take place soon. If you would like to share your thoughts, memories and condolences in the interim, you can simply email rememberingsteve@apple.com. 		No words can adequately express our sadness at Steve's death or our gratitude for the opportunity to work with him. We will honor his memory by dedicating ourselves to continuing the work he loved so much. 		Tim

Apple Board of Directors: 		We are deeply saddened to announce that Steve Jobs passed away today.

 		Steve's brilliance, passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and improve all of our lives. The world is immeasurably better because of Steve.

 		His greatest love was for his wife, Laurene, and his family. Our hearts go out to them and to all who were touched by his extraordinary gifts.

Steve Jobs' family today made the following statement regarding his death:  		Steve died peacefully today surrounded by his family. 		In his public life, Steve was known as a visionary; in his private life, he cherished his family. We are thankful to the many people who have shared their wishes and prayers during the last year of Steve's illness; a website will be provided for those who wish to offer tributes and memories. 		We are grateful for the support and kindness of those who share our feelings for Steve. We know many of you will mourn with us, and we ask that you respect our privacy during our time of grief.

Bill Gates: 		I'm truly saddened to learn of Steve Jobs' death. Melinda and I extend our sincere condolences to his family and friends, and to everyone Steve has touched through his work. 		Steve and I first met nearly 30 years ago, and have been colleagues, competitors and friends over the course of more than half our lives. 		The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many generations to come. 		For those of us lucky enough to get to work with him, it's been an insanely great honor. I will miss Steve immensely.


