
 

It's hard to believe, but with the show still six months away, we're already getting bombarded with CES-related e-mail. We do have one piece of intriguing news to report at this early stage of the game: Steve Ballmer is set to kick off the festivities with the preshow keynote on January 9th and it's a safe bet the presentation will be loaded with Windows 8 goodness. Now, what exactly we'll see when the reliably excitable Microsoft CEO takes the stage is still a mystery, but WinRumors' little birdies have been whispering about a public beta of the upcoming OS and demos of both Intel- and ARM-based tablets -- predictable, but still exciting prospects. Check out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer to Deliver Preshow Keynote Address at the 2012 International CES 		Arlington, Va., July 6, 2011 – The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)® announced today that Steve Ballmer, Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft Corporation, will deliver a preshow keynote address at the 2012 International CES®. Owned and produced by CEA, the 2012 International CES, the world's largest consumer technology tradeshow, is scheduled January 10-13, 2012, in Las Vegas, Nevada. 		"We are pleased to welcome Microsoft back to the CES keynote stage," said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO, CEA. "From mobile to desktop to gaming and beyond, Microsoft has a significant impact on all aspects of the consumer technology industry, and Steve Ballmer's keynote is a great way to kick off the exciting 2012 International CES. We are excited to hear Microsoft's latest initiatives and Ballmer's vision for where consumer technology is heading." 		Ballmer's preshow keynote address is slated for 6:30 p.m., Monday, January 9, in The Venetian. Microsoft has used the CES keynote stage in previous years to unveil innovative new products, including the original Xbox and Avatar Kinect. 		The full line-up of 2012 International CES keynote addresses will be announced in coming months. 		The 2012 International CES will feature more than 2,700 global technology companies unveiling the latest consumer technology products and services across 15 major product categories including the latest in audio, automotive electronics, connected home technologies, digital imaging, electronic gaming, entertainment/content and more. For more information on the 2012 International CES, visit CESweb.org. 		About CEA		The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) is the preeminent trade association promoting growth in the $186 billion U.S. consumer electronics industry. More than 2,000 companies enjoy the benefits of CEA membership, including legislative advocacy, market research, technical training and education, industry promotion, standards development and the fostering of business and strategic relationships. CEA also owns and produces the International CES – The Global Stage for Innovation. All profits from CES are reinvested into CEA's industry services. Find CEA online at www.CE.org and www.Innovation-Movement.com.
 