
Multiple analyst groups recently gave us a look at second quarter smartphone market share by the manufacturer. Today, Strategy Analytics is breaking down that market share by platform -- and it's clear that Google is still on a roll. Android jumped 10 points year-over-year to reach almost 80 percent of the world smartphone market during the spring quarter, hitting a record high. Some of this rise came at the expense of Apple, which dipped three points, but most of the casualties were in the "others" category led by BlackBerry and Nokia's soon-to-vanish Symbian. Microsoft can claim a small victory, though. Windows Phone climbed slightly to 3.9 percent of the market in Q2, giving it a level of influence not seen in three years. While we're not necessarily looking at the new status quo for the smartphone industry, it's clear that the days of neck and neck competition are behind us.



Show full PR textStrategy Analytics: Android Captures Record 80 Percent Share of Global Smartphone Shipments in Q2 2013
BOSTON, Aug. 1, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- According to the latest research from Strategy Analytics, global smartphone shipments grew 47 percent annually to reach 230 million units in the second quarter of 2013. Android captured a record 80 percent share all smartphone volumes worldwide, while Microsoft solidified its position in third place.
Scott Bicheno, Senior Analyst at Strategy Analytics, said, "Global smartphone shipments grew 47 percent annually from 156.5 million units in Q2 2012 to 229.6 million in Q2 2013. Growth was driven by strong demand for Android models across all price-tiers in developed and developing markets, such as the US, China and Brazil. Android now accounts for an impressive 8 in 10 of all smartphones shipped on the planet."
Neil Mawston, Executive Director at Strategy Analytics, added, "The Android operating system captured a record 80 percent share of all smartphones shipped worldwide in the second quarter of 2013. Competitive licensing costs, numerous hardware partners and a large apps store continue to be among the main drivers of Android's success. Apple iOS reached 14 percent global smartphone share in the quarter, its lowest level since Q2 2010. Microsoft slotted into third position with 4 percent share, reaching its highest level in the global smartphone market for three years."
Linda Sui, Analyst at Strategy Analytics, added, "Microsoft is making steady progress in the smartphone market due to strong support from Nokia. However, we believe Microsoft's WP8 platform still needs to improve in at least two areas before it truly takes off. First, the license fee charged to smartphone makers for WP8 must be more competitive to compete with Android in lower price-bands. And second, Microsoft must dramatically accelerate its support for advanced technologies, such as octo-core chipsets, because WP8 continues to lag behind Android in the premium smartphone category."
The full report, Android Captures Record 80 Percent Share of Global Smartphone Shipments in Q2 2013, is published by the Strategy Analytics Wireless Smartphone Strategies (WSS) service, details of which can be found here: http://tinyurl.com/bps9qhr.

