
 Minnesota-based rapid manufacturing / rapid prototyping company Stratasys today announced that its has completed its merger with Iron Man / concert flute 3D printer, Objet. Combined, the new $3 billion company is home to the FDM, PolyJet and Solidscape Drop-on-Demand prototyping technologies. The companies have promised to "grow awareness of 3D printing for rapid prototyping and production." Hopefully that means we be getting a lot more of these things, as well.



  Show full PR text   Stratasys and Objet Complete Merger
  Stratasys, Inc. (NASDAQ: SSYS) and Objet Ltd. today announced the completion of their merger, forming a leader in 3D printing and direct digital manufacturing. The combined company will trade on the NASDAQ stock exchange as Stratasys Ltd. ("Stratasys") under the symbol SSYS beginning December 3, 2012. Based on the closing price of Stratasys, Inc. stock on November 30, 2012, the market capitalization of the new company will be approximately $3.0 billion.
  Stratasys boasts an impressive portfolio of 3D printing and direct digital manufacturing solutions, with systems that produce parts with a wide range of capabilities and materials. The company will offer three leading technologies: FDM® for functional prototypes and production parts; inkjet-based PolyJet® for prototyping parts with high feature detail and fine surface finish; and Solidscape® Drop-on-Demand ("DoD") thermoplastic ink-jetting technology for complex wax patterns for investment casting of finished parts. With more than 260 channel partners around the world, Stratasys can leverage the extensive geographic reach of its marketing and sales organization to serve customers and grow awareness of 3D printing for rapid prototyping and production. In addition, Stratasys will have a world-class R&D team focused on developing new consumables and systems.
  David Reis, chief executive officer of Stratasys, stated, "We are excited to move forward as one company and deliver the benefits this combination creates for our shareholders, our customers and our employees. Stratasys is now uniquely positioned to offer a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products and technologies, and we have the scale, team and financial strength to achieve our goals. I look forward to working closely with the board of directors, our senior management team and all of our employees to ensure a seamless transition as we continue to deliver advanced solutions to our customers worldwide."
  "We are pleased to announce the successful completion of this merger," said Scott Crump, full-time executive chairman of Stratasys. "With our breadth of products, commitment to innovation, and outstanding, service-focused team, we will be well positioned to address customer needs across the entire 3D design and manufacturing spectrum. The combined company has a deep well of talent and a strong board and management team to lead us successfully as we continue to pave a new way forward for the 3D printing industry."
 
