
 

We don't recall seeing Stream TV's Elocity 3T autostereoscopic 3D TV on shelves after our CES demo last year, but to be fair, we don't get out much. Not to worry however, as the company will be back at CES 2012, this time touting Ultra-D "next generation 3D without glasses display technology" that it claims will surpass all 3D experiences to date. Lofty claims, but it's also banking on its tech for realtime 2D-to-3D conversion of any video content, with plans for the brand to reach TVs, converter boxes, tablets, PCs and more. Check out the press release after the break to drink in more hype, we'll be in line to see what's real at its press conference January 9th.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Stream TV Networks, Inc. Prepares to Launch Groundbreaking 3D Without Glasses Product Line at CES 2012  		Proprietary Ultra-D technology surpasses all available 3D viewing experiences 		PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 22, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Stream TV Networks, Inc. announced today that it will unveil its new Ultra-D technology at CES 2012. Ultra-D is a next generation 3D without glasses display technology that surpasses all 3D viewing experiences offered to date. 		Developed by Stream TV Networks, Inc., the producer of the eLocity brand of mobile tablets launched first in 2010, the Ultra-D technology is strictly proprietary and leverages custom hardware, middleware techniques and software algorithms to create unprecedentedautostereoscopic 3D imagery. This technology will provide consumers with access tounlimited 3D content by enabling real-time conversion of: 		2D content into 3D autostereoscopic (without glasses)		3D stereoscopic content (with glasses) to 3D autostereoscopic (without glasses) 		The Ultra-D technology thus supports the immediate adoption of 3D consumer hardware despite limited availability of 3D content. Real-time conversion of 2D to 3D and 3D with glasses to 3D without glasses works seamlessly with various content formats including Blu-ray, DVD, PC gaming, Internet, cable and satellite content. 		Another key differentiator of the Ultra-D technology enables customization of the 3D effect to address individual differences in spatial perception and the varying impact of 3D rendering on viewer comfort. The technology allows users to increase or decrease the real-time 3D rendering effect, adjusting for variance in content quality and source as well as personal preference so that consumers can use all Ultra-D products to achieve the optimal 3D picture every time. 		"We are extremely proud of what we have been able to accomplish with our Ultra-D technology. It is capable of creating a significant shift in the way people view media, comparable to the transition from black and white to color TV," said Mathu Rajan, CEO of Stream TV Networks, Inc. "Our ultimate goal was to create a solution that addresses existing concerns impeding the adoption of 3D-consumer aversion to expensive glasses, viewer discomfort, variance in individual vision and preference and the slow creation of 3D content. It seemed we were aiming for the impossible but we've made it possible and will be sharing these hard-won achievements with consumers in 2012. Ultra-D is the next generation 3D technology designed to replace 3D with glasses and win preference over 2D devices." 		The Ultra-D brand includes 3D-enabling products in the following categories: 		TVs		Converter Boxes		Tablets		Desktop All-in-One PCs		Gaming		Laptops		Digital Signage		Mobile Phones		Digital Picture Frames 		More information on the Ultra-D product line will become available for the first time to members of the press at the Ultra-D Launch Press Conference at 8:30 am on January 9, 2012 at CES 2012. Additional demos can be scheduled by appointment at Stream TV Networks, Inc.'s CES booth #14815 in the Central Hall of LVCC during the tradeshow. 		Stream TV's mission is to bring to market innovative products featuring state-of-the-art technology designed to enhance consumer experience and simplify their digital lifestyle. Its line of consumer products stands to take the media viewing experience to new levels through high end displays and graphics technologies. 		Please direct all sales and general inquiries to contact@streamtvnetworks.com. Press inquiries should be directed to esther@southardinc.com or janina@southardinc.com. 		ABOUT STREAM TV NETWORKS, INC:		Stream TV Networks, Inc. is a Philadelphia-based new media company founded in 2009 to serve a consumer market seeking enhanced entertainment and communications experiences through superior quality devices with unlimited accessibility. Through its brands, Stream TV Networks, Inc. intends to reshape the current media landscape by releasing computer-enabled devices that create an environment where on-demand access to content is available anytime and anywhere, where interactive user feedback is standard, and where creative participation and community formation around media content is nurtured. The company's mission is to redefine "new media" so that it reaches its true dynamic potential and real-time interactive relationship with the media consumer.
 