
 There's no news on the DirecTiVo, Cox or Comcast TiVo fronts, but it appears Suddenlink is following RCN as the latest domestic provider to offer the company's DVRs to its customers, complete with access to its video on-demand offerings. TiVo Premiere DVRs (with the Flash-based new UI instead of the old one currently on RCN boxes) should roll out at some point in "certain markets" in the fourth quarter with multi-room features, with expanded deployments in 2011, including the development of a "whole home solution" next year. Of course, a retail box may still be in your future if you prefer Amazon and Netflix movie access to cable VOD (including Blockbuster) since the press release only mentions interactive apps from YouTube, Pandora, Rhapsody and Fandango. No word on price either, but frankly we're more interested in that whole home setup -- even with this, overseas dealings and link up with Best Buy's Insignia brand we're just not ready for the idea of TiVo moving beyond DVRs.
      

 

Show full PR textSuddenlink & TiVo Announce Strategic Distribution AgreementSuddenlink to Deploy TiVo Premiere Set-Top Boxes as a Multi-Room DVR & Non-DVR Solution in Key MarketsSAINT LOUIS, MO and ALVISO, CA, Jul 08, 2010 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) --Suddenlink Communications, the eighth largest cable broadband company in the United States, and TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and a leader in advanced television services, including digital video recorders (DVRs), have entered into a strategic relationship for Suddenlink to distribute co-branded, TiVo Premiere DVRs as well as non-DVR set-top boxes.TiVo Premiere is TiVo's latest generation set-top box that unifies linear television, DVR functionality, video on demand, and Internet delivered video into a single experience -- all framed in an elegant, high definition user interface based on Adobe Flash technology. Suddenlink plans to begin deploying the TiVo set-top boxes to its customers later this year, including a multi-room DVR solution developed by TiVo. Suddenlink and TiVo also intend to collaborate on the development of a next generation "whole home" solution for deployment by Suddenlink in 2011.Jerry Kent, CEO of Suddenlink, stated, "We reviewed a number of alternatives to find the best way to offer a full suite of linear television, VOD, and broadband delivered content to every room in our customers' homes. We found that TiVo, by way of its best-in-class user experience, its leading consumer feature set, and rapid time to market is a very compelling answer. TiVo will be a significant part of our future plans which will redefine our subscriber proposition with 100% digital video including features like remote DVR programming, universal search with cable VOD, and access to interactive applications like YouTube, Pandora, Rhapsody, and Fandango."Kent added: "We are especially excited about the speed and efficiency with which we can deploy a next generation product with TiVo. TiVo has modified its retail DVRs to operate with our video on demand systems, giving us the ability, in a matter of months, to deploy an incredibly robust software environment, together with a less expensive set-top box. We believe this is a great example of how the cable industry can work with retail device manufacturers on innovative solutions that benefit consumers."Tom Rogers, President and CEO of TiVo, stated, "Suddenlink is cementing its leadership role in the US cable industry by embracing a solution showcasing the unique capabilities that cable operators can deliver when broadband and digital television are intelligently integrated in one box, with one user interface, one remote control, and one universal search experience. This effort builds on other successful TiVo distribution partnerships which have also leveraged TiVo Premiere as an MSO provisioned platform. We have created a truly revolutionary approach for cable operators who seek an experience to set their service apart without requiring major investments in middleware and expensive set-top boxes."Suddenlink expects to launch TiVo DVRs in certain markets in fourth quarter 2010 and will look to significantly expand deployment in 2011.Suddenlink Communications (www.suddenlink.com) is among the 10 largest cable broadband companies in the United States, supporting the information, communication and entertainment demands of approximately 1.3 million residential customers and thousands of commercial customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas, West Virginia, and elsewhere. Suddenlink simplifies its customers' lives through one call for support, one connection, and one bill for TV, Internet, phone, and other services.About TiVo Inc. Founded in 1997, TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO) developed the first commercially available digital video recorder (DVR). TiVo offers the TiVo service and TiVo DVRs directly to consumers online at www.tivo.com and through third-party retailers. TiVo also distributes its technology and services through solutions tailored for cable, satellite, and broadcasting companies. Since its founding, TiVo has evolved into the ultimate single solution media center by combining its patented DVR technologies and universal cable box capabilities with the ability to aggregate, search, and deliver millions of pieces of broadband, cable, and broadcast content directly to the television. An economical, one-stop-shop for in-home entertainment, TiVo's intuitive functionality and ease of use puts viewers in control by enabling them to effortlessly navigate the best digital entertainment content available through one box, with one remote, and one user interface, delivering the most dynamic user experience on the market today. TiVo also continues to weave itself into the fabric of the media industry by providing interactive advertising solutions and audience research and measurement ratings services to the television industry. www.tivo.com
 