
 
While the rest of the country isbusy tapping kegs, adjusting HD antennas, and licking the first bits of Doritos grease from their fingers, we'resequestered in a TV-free zone determined to bring you every last little bit of tech surrounding the Big Game, fromnetworked surveillance to super-slo-mo cams to t-shirt cannons. We already took youstep-by-step through the home theater gear you should have to watch the game in style (and we're sure you wentright out and dropped ten grand at our urging), so now it's time to take a look at what kind of gear the folks inDetroit will be using to keep everything safe, smooth, and wired (or wireless). We'll see what it takes to navigate theRF jungle that is Ford Field today, how the Feds are testing a brand-new "smart" sensor network, and what kindof shiny equipment ABC brings to the biggest TV event of the year.
      

 

In order to provide the stadium with adequatewireless coverage, the NFL brought in Motorola and Sprint to make sure WiFi, 3G, and voice networks would workunhindered with tens of thousands of people sending and receiving data simultaneously. Before they could install thefirst surge protector, the ad hoc IT team needed to draw up an "RF map" of the environment to figure out howto maximize resources while minimizing interference. Moto engineers installed a total of 48 Ethernet switch-linked,dual-radio, tri-mode 802.11 WiAP-200 access points, half in the stadium itself and half in surrounding venues, routingtraffic through Comcast fiber. For its part, Sprint beefed up EV-DO at Ford and for Detroit in general, and added 500base radios to its existing in-stadium infrastructure to handle the anticipated spike in radio traffic. Sprint also ranphysical lines out to the security and ticket booths at the perimeter of the event, creating an entirely separate WLAN,because of the several-hundred-foot distance from the stadium itself.Besides the WiFi and cellular networksthat the press, staff, and public will be enjoying, another private network will also envelop Ford Field whose usage anddata is restricted to the numerous law enforcement agencies monitoring the event both on- and off-site. While theDetroit Police Department is technically in charge of security, the Feds and Michigan National Guard will have all thegood toys, including an integrated, autonomous stationary and mobile sensor network. Besides the biological, chemical,and nuclear material sensors located throughout the facilities, National Guard personnel will be carrying concealeddetectors that transmit their readings and GPS coordinates to a central location. This sensor coordination is madepossible by Distributed Instruments LLC, which uses Transducer Data Exchange Protocol (TDXP) for plug-and-play sensorcompatibility on top of the open-source OSGi Service Platform. Sony and OQO handhelds will also be used by severaldozen Guards during the game for communications and keeping track of the data flow.No securityregimen would be complete without a plethora of cameras watching everyone's every move, so of course the Super Bowlwill sport the usual array of visible mounted cams along with miniature cams hidden on roaming personnel and evenpavement cams to monitor the underside of vehicles (no more sneaking into the game Cape Fear-style, it seems). As we reported earlier, allof these security cameras will transmit their feeds to surveillance vans, where software and hardware from IntrepidDefense & Security Systems will render 3D holographic views from the footage. As you might expect, everyoneentering the game will be subject to patdowns, metal detectors, and dog-sniffing, and all 16,000 people working at thegame were subjected to criminal background checks (so if you don't see some of your favorite players today, you'll knowwhy).Along with theunprecedented surveillance of everything going on surrounding the game, the coverage of the 'Bowl itself will be themost extensive in history. ABC has decided to go all high-def this year, filming exclusively in 720p and editingon-the-fly with Final Cut Pro and five Avid Symphony systems. Twenty Thompson Grass Valley LDK 6000 mk II Worldcamstationary cameras with Canon lenses will surround the field, some with optical image stabilization and a few with 100xzooms. Two wireless HD cams (pictured) will also debut this year, along with Sony's 180fps 3x Super SloMo camera and tworobotic goal line cams; the usual dual-operator SkyCam, goalpost cams, and Steadicams will also get in on the action.Another interesting tech-first this year is theimplementation of DNA-infused game balls, which use a drop of the synthetic stuff that glows green under a specificlaser frequency, to prevent counterfeiting. Since about 120 balls will be used during the game, and each ball is worthover $1000 just for having seen some play time in the 'Bowl, there is apparently a strong incentive to pass off fakeballs as the real deal. Thus, the DNA slipped into the balls is "heavily encrypted," with aone-in-33-trillion chance of randomly duplicating the exact sequence.Once the game is over, fans at thestadium can vote for the MVP at Superbowl.com on their cellphones, and Sprint Power Vision subscribers with the NFLMobile package (which also broadcasts all pre-game press conferences) can catch clips and highlights. Plus, everyonecan watchthose oh-so-entertaining Super Bowl commercials over-and-over on their PCs or wirelessly on their mobiles. We hope you enjoy the game as much as we enjoy working on Super Bowl Sunday, and we'd just like to remind younot to forget your receipt tomorrow when you go to return the 60-inch plasma that you bought yesterday.Read- DailyWireless: Super Bowl WirelessRead- Unstrung: Case Study: The Super BowlRead- HD Issues: Super Bowl XL Ready to Go in DetroitRead- Computerworld: Super Bowl security to use sensor fusion to fight WMD threats [Via Slashdot]Read-L.A. Times: NFL Makes This a Brand New Ball Game [Via Slashdot]

       

 