
 
Whoa, Nelly! ThinkFlood won't like this... not one bit. If you'll recall, the RedEye universal remote dongle was well received, as a simple 3.5mm adapter added IR beaming to Apple's slate of iDevices. But now, Mashed Pixel has taken the integration one step further, seamlessly embedding an Infrared emitter into a case. Simply pop the Surc around your iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS or iPhone 4, download the (free) accompanying app and start programming. Before long, you'll be dictating your home entertainment setup sans any external accessories, and heck, you may even improve your phone's reception all the while. The only downside to this approach compared to ThinkFlood's is that the iPad is obviously not supported, and once you upgrade to the iPhone 5, your trusty IR case becomes a glorified paperweight. If you're kosher with that, though, you can get your pre-order in now for $69.95, with initial shipments expected to make their way out in Q1 2011.





Show full PR textMASHED PIXEL UNVEILS SURC© AT CESTHE UNIVERSAL LEARNING REMOTE CONTROL THAT ENABLES USERS TO CONTROL INFRARED-ENABLED DEVICES ANYTIME, ANYWHERECES (Booth #4037) LAS VEGAS- December 15, 2010 – Mashed Pixel today announced the launch of, Surc©, a patent-pending easy-to-use universal learning remote control (URC) that provides users with anywhere, anytime control over InfraRed (IR)-enabled electronic devices and appliances.Launching at CES 2011, Surc combines in a sleek case a revolutionary IR-connector and a free companion mobile app (downloadable from iTunes App Store) that turn any iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS and iPhone 3G into a true URC with excellent working range and built-in Micro USB connection for easy charging and synching without having to remove the case.Highly customizable, Surc lets users personalize their remote control from the buttons to the layout, look and feel, and create their own mobile lifestyle experience. Additionally, Surc can learn the codes from virtually any of the users' IR-remote controls and store them or download them from its extensive database, which removes the need for the users to pair many of their remotes. Users can also control what they watch on their television through the Surc built-in TV Program Guide. "Surc addresses the growing consumer demand for smart devices that fit their needs for more interactivity and connectivity within the connected home and while they are on the go," said Daphna Kalman, President and CEO of Mashed Pixel. "We designed Surc to be a centralized, personalized gateway that allows quality interaction between multiple content delivery platforms and the users, while simplifying their daily mobile lifestyle experience." Surc's other key features include:• InfraRed Communication – No WiFi or multiple receivers are required. Users can control most IR-connected devices and appliances, regardless of their location.• Apple Compatibility – Surc uses the latest Apple-approved chip technology. As part of the Apple Made for iPod/iPhone program, Surc is compatible with iPhone 4, 3GS and 3G - soon compatible with iPad and iPod Touch 3rd generation. • 20 Grams of Sleek Design – Surc's sleek, light case allows users to hold the device naturally in their hand. It also includes a Micro USB cable so users don't have to remove it to charge and sync their iPhone. • Join the Surc Community – Users can join Getsurc.com to be part of the online Surc community, where they will be able to improve their user experience by sharing their tips and expertise and get help from other users. They can also share, search and import customized remotes from other Surc users and are encouraged to provide feedback and suggest ideas that would help improve Surc.Surc is accepting orders for delivery in the first quarter of 2011 www.getsurc.com. MSRP for Surc will be $69.95 USD.# # #About Mashed PixelHarnessing smart device technology and web 2.0-application development, Mashed Pixel's team of seasoned engineers, designers and developers is dedicated to creating an integrated suite of highly-customizable devices and user-friendly applications for smartphones and smart devices that fit into consumers' mobile lifestyle. Headquartered in Washington, DC, with offices in Haifa, Israel, Mashed Pixel was founded in 2009. For more information about Mashed Pixel and its innovative online and smartphone devices and applications, please visit http://www.mashedpixel.com.
 