
  Samsung's SUR40 has been a long time coming. The 40-inch next-gen Surface was unveiled at CES 2011, but it's only just now starting to ship, following the 2012 edition of that gadget show. It finally went up for pre-order in mid-November for $8,400, but at the time we still had no clear date for shipments. Those of you waiting impatiently to get your table-PC can rest easy however, as the AMD-based Win7 machine should already be en route to your doorstep -- provided you coughed up the cash one of course. We guess it was just a matter of finally getting that sensor-in-pixel tech worked out. Head on after the break for the full PR.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Now Shipping, Samsung SUR40 For Microsoft Surface Dazzles Retailers at National Retail Federation (NRF) Conference 2012  New PixelSenseTM Technology Enables SUR40 to See and Respond to Touch and Objects, Creating New Possibilities for Interactive Displays in a Variety of Settings NRF 101st Annual Convention & Expo  RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Samsung Electronics America Inc., a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Corporation and the number one worldwide brand of professional commercial display LCD products, is demonstrating its digital solutions leadership at a showcase event featuring the Samsung SUR40 for Microsoft Surface and a variety of applications from development partners at the National Retail Federation (NRF) conference, being held Jan. 16 and 17 at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York in Room 1A17 (on Level One of the convention center).  "Both retailers and consumers are adapting to ever-evolving ways of interacting with information and merchandise and have expressed a desire for technology that delivers information in an engaging and visually dynamic way"  Available now through Samsung channel and reseller partners, a CES Best of Innovations 2012 award-winner, the Samsung-Microsoft collaboration incorporates Microsoft Surface 2.0 software and touch technology into an interactive and engaging 40-inch Full HD LCD that can be used horizontally as a table, mounted vertically on a wall or embedded in other fixtures and furniture.  "Both retailers and consumers are adapting to ever-evolving ways of interacting with information and merchandise and have expressed a desire for technology that delivers information in an engaging and visually dynamic way," said Todd Bouman, vice president of product marketing for Samsung Electronics America, Enterprise Business Division. "With the availability of the Samsung SUR40 for Microsoft Surface, Samsung is energizing the retail space and anticipates an all-new approach to customer engagement."  Superior Screen, Smart Device  The Samsung SUR40 is an interactive, collaborative multi-touch device, offering a thin, 4-inch profile and a large screen size. It integrates Samsung's LCD panel capability with touch technology, combining Microsoft's massive multi-touch and object recognition software to maximize the performance of a brand new type of touch screen technology – PixelSense.  Microsoft's PixelSense technology – which gives LCD panels the power to see without the use of cameras – and the Microsoft Surface 2.0 software, the premier touch-first experience for end users, have been combined with Samsung's display leadership to create an industry-changing information display device. The new SUR40 makes it possible for people to share, collaborate and explore together using a large, thin display. Not only can the SUR40 recognize fingers and hands, but it can also detect other objects placed on the screen supporting up to 50 points of contact at one time.  The SUR40 features a 40-inch Full HD 1080p (1920x1080) LCD LED panel combined with one of the world's largest piece of Gorilla protection glass for optimized screen durability and to protect from external shock and liquid ingress. It provides highly accurate touch interaction from multiple people at the same time and superior object recognition as each pixel has a camera element. Its natural interaction enables users to 'grab' digital information with their hands and interact with content through touch and gesture.  The SUR40 also provides developers with the opportunity to build apps that are specialized to vertical user-case scenarios as diverse as hospitality, retail, public sector, professional services, healthcare and finance to name a few. It offers a rich sound experience and can connect to a wide range of peripherals such as bar code scanners, cameras and printers through WiFi (802.11.n), Bluetooth or Ethernet connections to create a seamless digital entertainment environment. Surface 2.0 developers will showcase several never-before-seen solutions for the new device at NRF this week, with an emphasis on innovative retail experiences.  Major consumer brands and other technology partners such as FUJIFILM, Industrial Color, Le Métier de Beauté and Pepsico Beverages Canada have near-term plans to use the Samsung SUR40 to support immersive retail scenarios, professional tools and/or marketing efforts.  "The Samsung SUR40 for Microsoft Surface is an intelligent, specialized device, that can deliver highly-customized, engaging experiences for retailers and their customers," said Somanna Palacanda, director, Microsoft Surface. "We're eager to see the impact this innovative technology will have on a variety of industries and to continue to learn about and address customer needs."  Availability and Pricing  Shipments to customers will begin in January 2012. Estimated Street Pricing for the SUR40 for Microsoft Surface for U.S. customers will start at $8,400 (display only) and $9,049 (tabletop unit with matching stand). Pricing for other countries and/or regions may differ.  For more information or to find out how to order, call 1-866-SAM-4BIZ or visit samsung.com/business.  Key Specs: Samsung SUR40 for Microsoft Surface Audio Out  HDMI / stereo RCA / SPDIF / (2) 3.5mm audio out jacks Brightness 300 CD/m2 Communications 1GB Ethernet/802.11/BT Contrast Ratio 2000:1 CPU AMD Athlon X2 245e 2.9GHz Dual Core Display Resolution Full HD 1080p 1920x1080 / 16:9 ratio GPU AMD Radeon HD 6750 1GB GDDRS HDD 320GB  HDMI In / HDMI Out Yes I/O Ports 4 USB, SD Card Reader Operating System  Windows 7 Professional for Embedded Systems 64-bit Operating Temp. Max ambient 30C Panel Size 40" Diagonal Protection Glass Gorilla Glass RAM 4 GB DDR3 RAM System Management Tools DMFT DASH Support  Weight – with std. legs 50.4 kg / 111.1 lbs  Weight – standalone 36.8 kg / 81.1 lbs   About Samsung Electronics America Enterprise Business Division  Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), based in Ridgefield Park, NJ, is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. The company markets a broad range of award-winning consumer electronics, information systems, and home appliance products, as well as oversees all of Samsung's North American operations including Samsung Telecommunications America, LP, Samsung Semiconductor Inc., Samsung Electronics Canada, Inc. and Samsung Electronics Mexico, Inc. Samsung is committed to serving the needs of consumers ranging from the home user to the Fortune 500 elite while supporting the valued channel partners who serve our customers. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com/business or call 1-866-SAM-4BIZ.  About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2010 consolidated sales of US$135.8 billion. Employing approximately 190,500 people in 206 offices across 68 countries, the company operates two separate organizations to coordinate its nine independent business units: Digital Media & Communications, comprising Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, and Digital Imaging; and Device Solutions, consisting of Memory, System LSI and LCD. Recognized for its industry-leading performance across a range of economic, environmental and social criteria, Samsung Electronics was named the world's most sustainable technology company in the 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information, please visit www.samsung.com.
 