
 Clumsy wannabe sawbones: warm up your hammers and hatchets, because Surgeon Simulator has arrived on Steam. The infamous game challenges players to save patients' lives with an array of coarse tools and an apparent case of the DTs, and was prototyped in a mere 48 hours during the Global Game Jam back in January. After being greenlit by Steam, it'll be up for grabs later today at £6.99 (about $11) with extra features like a "fiendishly difficult ambulance mode" that brings extra quarts of gore, along with new operations like a kidney or brain transplant and a new soundtrack and visuals. There's a lineup of desperate patients -- they'd have to be -- waiting at the source link and the video after the break.



 
  Show full PR text   DO YOU HAVE THE GUTS TO PLAY?
  2013 Global Game Jam and YouTube sensation, releases this evening on Steam
  London, 19th April 2013 - Bossa Studios today announces Surgeon Simulator 2013 is available to buy from this evening on Steam at a price of £6.99 or equivalent.

   Surgeon Simulator 2013 is a darkly humorous over-the-top operation sim game where players become Nigel Burke, an ordinary guy taking life into his own shaky hands, performing life-saving surgical manoeuvres on passive patients.

   The original prototype – developed in just 48 hours at the 2013 Global Game Jam in January – challenged players to complete a heart transplant using a combination of keyboard and mouse actions, armed only with an arsenal of clumsy and inappropriate tools and a hapless hand that was diabolical to control.

   The full Steam version comes with additional features, operations and environments. From carrying out terrifying transplants in theatre – to surgical procedures in the back of an ambulance - Surgeon Simulator 2013 is not for the faint hearted.

   Surgeon Simulator Key Features:

   ● New full game based on the internet sensation 48hr prototype

   ● Brand new features including the fiendishly difficult ambulance mode

   ● More operations including double kidney transplant and brain transplant

   ● Tonnes of Easter eggs to discover

   ● New visuals and a pumping new soundtrack

  About Bossa Studios
   London-based Bossa Studios is led by a team of veterans from the worlds of gaming and entertainment. Proud creators of BAFTA-winning Monstermind, and the BAFTA-nominated Merlin: The Game, Bossa Studios has revolutionised the social gaming market. Its achievements of developing and publishing innovative games resulted in it being awarded the Develop Excellence Award for best 'New Studio' in 2012. As part of Shine Group, the Studio is also developing new transmedia experiences.

 
