
 


	Looking to step your game up when capturing surfing footage from atop your longboard? Swann is aiming to lend a helping hand with its newfangled Freestyle HD wearable video camera. This offering is the company's first that sports a detachable 1.5-inch LCD viewer for taking a peek at your 1080p video capture in real-time -- which you can capture at up to 30 fps. You'll also be able to snap eight megapixel JPEGs should you so choose with 3x digital zoom at your disposal. Waterproof at depths up to 65 feet, the Freestyle HD can be helmet-mounted, attached to your favorite fixed-gear or the roof of your rally car via the three included mounting brackets. The camera will connect directly to an HDTV for viewing, or you can hop over to a PC via a microSD card or USB transfer. You can expect 2.5-hour battery life and a $279 price tag to boot -- too bad that flight to the southern hemisphere isn't nearly as affordable.




 		Show full PR text  Swann Releases Swann Freestyle HD - 1080p High Definition Wearable Video Camera with LCD Viewer 		7 Nov 2011 		Santa Fe Springs, Calif. – Swann, a global leader in security monitoring solutions, proudly debuts its first high definition wearable video camera with a detachable LCD viewer: Swann Freestyle HD. Whether capturing 1080p video with up to 3x digital zoom or snapping JPEG images with its 8MP camera, Swann Freestyle HD lets you capture stunning hands-free video and share it with the world. 		Housed in a sturdy case that is waterproof up to 65', Swann Freestyle HD can be worn on the body or mounted to bikes, cars, helmets, skateboards and more via a range of included interchangeable mounts and brackets. In addition, the Swann Freestyle HD can be used as a standard point & shoot camera, featuring both single shot and rapid fire picture taking. Video is shot in stunning professional-grade 1080p HD (1920 x 1080 pixels), boasting 30 fps, 3x digital zoom and stereo audio. Swann has also included a wireless remote control that lets users operate the camera while it's mounted and out of arms reach. 		Real-time viewing is made possible by the detachable 1.5" LCD screen, so you immediately see if you've captured the shot. Swann Freestyle HD also allows you to watch your footage afterwards on an HDTV via an HDMI cable or you can transfer your recording to the computer via a MicroSD card or the included USB cable for editing or sharing on social media networks. The Lithium-ion battery is also rechargeable via USB, giving users up to 2.5 hours of recording time per charge. 		"The immense popularity of action sports and online video sharing helped make our earlier model, the Swann SportsCam™, a huge success, but now we've taken our customer's feedback and greatly improved upon that design," remarked Guy Pithie, Swann VP of Sales. "Swann Freestyle HD boasts an impressive feature set, including a LCD viewing screen, full 1080p recording and a dual function camera and video recorder. These features paired with the rugged dependability our customers have come to expect from Swann products make the Swann Freestyle HD what we believe to be one of the best sports action video cameras on the market." 		Accessories Included 		-Freestyle HD Wearable Video Camera		-LCD Screen		-Waterproof Case		-Remote Control		-Carry Pouch		-Helmet Mounting Bracket		-Universal L Shaped Mounting Bracket		-Universal Low Profile Mounting Bracket		-Connector Tray Bracket Accessory		-2 Flat Adhesive Mounting Pad		-Curved Adhesive Mounting Pad		-AV Out Cable		-USB Cable		-Power Adapter		-Instructions Manual & CD 		Swann's Freestyle HD has a MSRP of $279.99 and is available for purchase at BestBuy.com, Tiger Direct, Fry's, London Drugs or visit Swann.com for a full list of retailers. 		For more information on Swann's Freestyle HD, please contact PR Representative Brian Metcalf at (305) 576-1171 x11 or at brianmetcalf@maxborgesagency.com or go to www.swann.com.
 