
 
We've seen IP cams before, inexpensive ones like the DCS-930L from D-Link that get the job done with no frills, rather fancier ones like the Logitech Alert system that offer a premium feel -- at a premium cost. But nothing quite like this. It's the Swann DVR4-2600, a system that comes with four separate cameras, each offering a "high resolution" VGA that are about 10 years past a time when VGA could reasonably be called "high resolution." They do, at least, offer 65 feet worth of night vision and all-weather functionality. There's also a 500GB DVR included that can be connected directly to a TV or accessed remotely from a plethora of mobile apps covering everything from Android and iOS to Windows Mobile 6 and Symbian. You can get e-mails whenever your prisoners guests move and, the pièce de résistance, the kit includes four theft deterrent stickers. If those don't keep the crooks away, maybe the rottweiler* will. Full details in the PR below.



*Rottweiler not included. 


Show full PR textSwann's New DVR4-2600 Kit compatible with iPhone, Android, Blackberry, Windows Mobile 6, Symbian Phones & moreDVR4-2600 with 500GB HDD & 4x PRO 580 high resolution cameras now features remote viewing on a variety of smartphonesSanta Fe Springs, Calif. - (February 17, 2011) – Swann Security, the global leader in security monitoring solutions, proudly releases a new DVR kit that features remote viewing on a variety of smartphones, expanded hard drive capacity, remote control, a mouse and higher resolution cameras. Debuted at the 2011 International CES, this all-in-one DVR kit includes all of the equipment and software necessary to easily install a surveillance system.For the first time ever, Swann offers a DVR that allows users to view live video remotely using a number of 3G-enabled smartphones. Now you can see what's happening at your home or business live at any hour on your phone. Supported smartphones include iPhone, BlackBerry, Android, Windows Mobile 6 and Symbian as well as the iPad tablet. This new DVR kit also boasts a huge 500GB hard drive capable of recording up to 30 days of non-stop video from 4 cameras simultaneously (depending on settings, longer with motion detection). It also has convenient controls clickable using a mouse and remote control, and is packaged with Swann's new state-of-the-art PRO-580 color cameras.Smartphone viewing is very easy to set up. Once the DVR and cameras are installed at the premises you wish to monitor, simply download the free 'SwannView' app from the iPhone AppStore or from www.swann.com/swannview and load to your iPhone or iPad.If you have a Blackberry, Android, Windows Mobile 6 or Symbian Smartphone, you can load the 'SwannView' app from the supplied CD or download fromwww.swann.com/swannview. Once the app is installed on your Smartphone, put the DVR's IP address into the browser and in less than a minute you can view video from all 4 cameras live onscreen."This is a flagship product for Swann in 2011. It brings together video surveillance with phone connectivity and convenience as never before. We are very excited to have launched it and it had a great response from our live demos at CES", commented Jeremy Stewart, VP Global Marketing, Swann Communications.The DVR4-2600 is also available without cameras and in 8 and 16 channel versions for larger premises requiring additional cameras. It's a great example of advanced security made easy.DVR4-2600• 500GB Hard Drive that can record continuously from 4 cameras for up to 30 days+• Remote viewing via iPhone, BlackBerry, Android, Windows Mobile, Symbian and more*• Email notification: sends an email when there is motion• Remote control & mouse for convenient control• Motion triggered recording saves time & hard drive space• H.264 recording for high quality video & maximum storage capacity• USB port for easy back up & transfer of incident footage to PC• Easily connects to TV or LCD monitor using VGA output+depending on settings, longer with motion detection*Note trademarks are properties of their respective ownersPRO 580 Cameras• Each kit includes 4 color cameras• High resolution – 480 TV lines video• Night vision can see up to 65 feet• All-weather aluminum casing for indoor/outdoor applications• Easily mountable & cable threaded through mounting bracket for extra protectionWhat's in the box• DVR4-2600• 500GB Hard Drive (installed)• Remote Control (with batteries)• PRO-580 Cameras x 4• BNC Cables 60ft / 18m x 4• Mouse• Ethernet Cable• BNC to RCA Video Cable• Software CD• Power Adapter• Operating Instructions• Theft Deterrent Stickers x 4Swann's DVR4-2600 kit with 4 Cameras has an MSRP of $449 and will be available for purchase from March through Swann's network of retailers.For more information on the DVR4-2600 kit, please contact PR Representative Brian Metcalf at (305) 576-1171 x11 or at brianmetcalf@maxborgesagency.com or go to www.swann.com.About SwannSwann is a global leader in security monitoring solutions and I.T. peripherals targeting consumers through retail channels. Swann's sustained growth and success has been based on designing and developing surveillance technology that is innovative yet cost effective.The company's products are mainly do-it-yourself (DIY) with easy-to-follow 'plug-and-play' instructions, full after-sale technical support and retail-friendly product packaging aimed at home, office and small-to-medium retail users.For customers needing more high-tech solutions, Swann is at the forefront of the latest international trends including wireless connectivity, professional quality CCTV cameras with infrared night vision, digital video recording with motion detection and networkability, web surveillance and remote notification.Swann was founded in 1988 by David Swann in Melbourne, Australia and now has offices in the USA, Canada, Australia, the UK, China and Hong Kong with distribution partners around the globe.Swann's reseller network includes some of the world's largest retailers and distributors including Fry's Electronics, RadioShack, Brandsmart USA, Canadian Tire, Maplin Electronics, and Dick Smith.Web: www.swann.comMedia Contact:Brian MetcalfMax Borges Agency(305) 576-1171 x 11brianmetcalf@maxborgesagency.com
 