
 
Apple's iPod nano and the Sony Ericsson LiveView may have disappointed as wrist computers, but our Dick Tracy dream soldiers on, to the point where we found ourselves taking another look at that most dubious of converged devices: the watch phone. There, we discovered the Rebel, the latest creation from UK manufacturer Swap, a quad-band GSM wrist unit with a 1.46-inch color touchscreen and a built-in camera for both video and stills. It may look like a sterile medical wristband, but that silicone strap actually hides a USB port on one end, the better to let you transfer your MP3s and MP4 video to its paltry 2GB of expandable microSD storage. The watch also does FM radio, beams audio to your Bluetooth headset and comes with the typical smattering of basic apps. Still, there's not a lot for the asking price of £189 (about $300) so you'd best be head over heels in love with the design. PR after the break, more images at our source link.
      

 

Show full PR textsWaP triumphs in the fashion stakes with the RebelThe sWaP Rebel is an affordable mobile phone watch available in an array of daring coloursLondon, 7th December 2010 – sWaP (smart Watch and Phone), the leader and innovator of mobile watch phone technology, today announces the latest addition to its extensive range of desirable mobile phones and mobile phone watches - the sWaP Rebel. The fashionably stylish and affordable mobile phone watch features a 1.46" TFT colour touch-screen, comes with a mini-stylus and is available in an array of eye-catching colours to ensure there is a choice for all users this Christmas. The sWaP Rebel has quad-band functionality, enabling users to make and receive calls and SMS in high clarity. It is available from Harrods, Amazon, IWantOneOfThose.com, F.Hinds and Buymobilephones.net for £189.99.The Rebel is available in a variety of colours to co-ordinate with any outfit, activity or mood.There are three vibrant colours - orange, pink and lime green - as well as subtle black and white models. The body is produced from a soft, silica rubber gel with a smooth, matt finish. The durable rubber construction ensures that the Rebel is ideal for day-to-day activities, such as travelling and sporting pursuits.This mobile phone watch features a unique in-built USB port located at one end of the watch strap and a stainless steel buckle at the other, eliminating the requirement for additional cables. The convenient plug-and-play functionality enables users to connect straight to a laptop or PC for instant charge and sync to transfer any data (such as sound clips, music, pictures or videos) while with friends, at home or travelling.As with all current sWaP products, the Rebel is not network restricted, operating across all networks (except '3'). The watch offers quad-band connectivity and allows users to make and receive calls in high clarity, whether through the in-built speakerphone, wired earphones or pairing a headset via Bluetooth.The Rebel is an impressively lightweight 65g and measures a compact 205.0 x 45.5 x 17.52mm. It features a 240mAh lithium-ion polymer battery, providing users with up to 85 hours of stand-by time and up to 160 minutes of talk time. The sWaP Rebel takes just two hours to fully charge and arrives with sWaP's own earphones to allow listening to music on the go. The Rebel features a 2GB micro SD card as standard, which is expandable to 8GB, enabling users to store all contacts, music, movies and pictures with ease, while leaving plenty of memory for future use or simply storing various files as a portable storage drive.There is a good selection of additional features, including 25 ring-tones (as well as the option to upload five of personal choice), video and still camera, voice activation, FM Radio, MP3 music and MP4 video player, seven profile settings (including flight mode), a speakerphone and stop watch. The Rebel also includes a mini stylus, which is neatly contained within the side of the device to help assist with dialling and text. Other day-to-day functions include a calendar, alarm, calculator, to-do list and WAP internet connection.The Rebel is not fixed to any contract or limited to specific network providers, allowing users to take full advantage of the flexibility in receiving and making calls with either their existing SIM cards or by purchasing a Pay As You Go SIM.Price and AvailabilityThe sWaP Rebel is priced at £189.99 (including VAT) and is available from Harrods, Amazon, IWantOneOfThose.com, F.Hinds and Buymobilephones.net.For a full list of stockists, visit www.s-w-a-p.co.uk.
 