
 The Swype keyboard has already evolved several times since it debuted a few years ago, adding Dragon Dictation for voice texts and later introducing personalized dictionaries and culturally relevant "hotwords." The latest update to the the beta introduces Swype Living Language, which is meant to further personalize your keyboard by analyzing your texts and providing predictions based on your most-used words -- provided you opt in, of course. There's also an editing feature that flags potentially incorrect words and suggests likely alternatives (think "ged morning" vs. "good morning"). In addition to making texts more accurate, the goal is to track trending words, not just globally but also based on location -- you know the word "CES" is gonna blow up in Vegas this week, for instance. That information will make for some interesting statistics in the future, but for now you can download the Swype beta for Android via the source link and see how accurate the feature is for you.



  Show full PR text   Nuance Unveils Swype Living Language  Nuance Innovates Crowd Sourcing for the Keyboard; Swype Living Language Learns from Users around the Globe   Burlington, MA and Las Vegas (CES 2013) – January 7, 2013 – Nuance Communications Inc. (NASDAQ: NUAN) today announced a further evolution of intuitive and intelligent keyboards with the launch of Swype Living Language. An evolution of the Hotwords technology announced in September, Swype Living Language uses crowdsourcing to analyze new words and phrases in real-time, continuously updating our language dictionaries.   The Swype keyboard has undergone a rapid transformation in the last year. In addition to integrating the power of Dragon voice recognition, Swype has also been augmented by integrating with personalized, intelligent dictionaries that learn and adapt to the words and phrases that people use most. Now, Swype Living Language allows people who opt-in to share and receive trending words and phrases in real-time, creating an up-to-date, crowd-sourced language model. The result is a predictive input experience that is incredibly simple and fast, with relevant, trending words and phrases supported as you swype, write, speak or tap.   Swype now also features Smart Editor, which analyzes an entire sentence, flagging any potential errors for a quick fix and update, including suggesting the most likely alternatives based on contextual analysis.   Swype has also expanded dictation capabilities and now supports Dragon Dictation in a dozen new languages including Catalan, Croatian, Czech, Greek, Hebrew, Malay, Romanian, Slovak, Turkish, Thai, Vietnamese, and Ukrainian.   "Swype continues to be the best keyboard in the industry, leading the way with innovations that really work and that people really use – and Swype Living Language is yet another example," said Aaron Sheedy, vice president, text input, Nuance Mobile. "By leveraging the cloud and crowd-sourcing input from around the world, Swype provides users with a device that further humanizes interactions through touch-and changes the way our increasingly dynamic language is learned and used."  Availability  Download the Swype Beta for Android to any Android device including those with Swype preloaded, by simply visiting http://beta.swype.com. Nuance's Swype Living Language keyboard is compatible with the Swype Platform which is available for OEMs supporting the Android Platform as well as via an SDK for other operating systems.   Swype is a part of Nuance's portfolio of voice, touch and natural language understanding innovations that are defining a new generation of intelligent systems and personal assistant technologies, which include Dragon NaturallySpeaking, Dragon Dictate for Mac, Dragon Assistant for Intel-inspired Ultrabooks, Dragon Dictation, Dragon Go!, Dragon Mobile Assistant, Dragon Drive!, Dragon TV, Dragon ID, and Dragon Voicemail to Text. With Nuance technology, people experience more humanized interactions with the world's best phones, tablets, computers, cars, TVs, apps and services from leading manufacturers and operators. To learn more visit www.nuancemobilelife.com.
 
