
 When we attend a trade show, we typically spend an entire week jumping from one exhibition hall to the next, surrounded by thousands of suit-clad corporate execs. That's the case at MWC in Barcelona, IFA in Berlin and CEATEC in Japan -- at SXSW in Austin, however, bars, tents, parking lots and even single-family homes host manufacturers large and small, and instead of starched button-downs and cufflinks, attendees sport t-shirts and tattoos. People are friendly, the weather is fantastic and there's live music and hot food at every turn -- we have to admit, we're in love, and we're devastated that it's time to leave.

 At traditional mega-shows, we arrive with clear expectations and even a list of products to check out. We didn't quite know what would come of SXSW. What we found were insanely awesome products like the Roli Seaboard digital piano and Leap Motion, paired with presentations from industry legends like Elon Musk and Al Gore. We also had a chance to take a closer look at Google Glass, and, after an awesome night at our very first Engadget+gdgt event, we even caught a free ride home in a Tesla Model S. It was a week we'll never forget, and, thanks to the power of the internet, you've had a chance to join in on the fun, even if you're thousands of miles from Central Texas.
 Our content-packed event page is the place to be for anything and everything gadget at SXSW, but we're happy to share a recap of sorts here as well. Join us past the break to relive the magic that was South by Southwest Interactive 2013.




 Hands-ons  Memoto lapel camera turns your life into one big photoblog  Roli's Seaboard piano may redefine the way you play  Ube WiFi Smart Dimmer to receive customized gesture control  TI shows off LaunchPad-based prototype mouse  Gigabot is a huge consumer 3D printer awaiting your Kickstarter dollars  GE's Barista Bots are exactly what SXSW needs: coffee-printing robotic arms  Necomimi cat ears' creators branch out into brain-controlled headphones  Palm Top Theater turns your iPhone into a mini-3D display  Google shows off hacked speaking shoe at SXSW  OpenPool transforms billiards with a Kinect camera-controlled light show  Multimorphic shows off modular, open-source P3 Pinball machine at SXSW News, interviews and more  AMC launches Yeah! movie service  Google shows off Glass apps: New York Times, Gmail, Path and more  Sonos' speaker-building, light-showing, neon-couching SXSW house  Tesla gives Uber a Model S boost at SXSW, so come on and take a free ride  Xi3 starts Piston pre-orders: buy an early Steambox for under $1,000  MakerBot unveils prototype Digitizer Desktop 3D Scanner  The Engadget Interview: Wes Craven and Joe Swanberg  The Engadget Interview: Leap Motion CEO Michael Buckwald  The Engadget Interview: BlackBerry developer evangelist Tom Anderson  The Engadget Interview: Bre Pettis talks MakerBot's Digitizer 3D Scanner  We're Live at Google's SXSW Glass panel  We're live at SXSW's Al Gore on The Future panel  We're live at Elon Musk's SXSW keynote  We're live at SXSW's Leap Motion panel  Live from MakerBot's SXSW Keynote  We're live at Virtual Reality: The Holy Grail of Gaming panel  Catch our Leap Motion, Elon Musk and Al Gore liveblogs today! Embedded interviews Michael Buckwald, CEO, Leap Motion
 
 Bre Pettis, CEO, MakerBot
 
 Tom Anderson, BlackBerry Developer Evangelist
 
 Wes Craven, film director
 
 Joe Swanberg, actor and filmmaker
 

