
 

Look, we recognize that touchscreens have come a long way in the last few years, but there's always room for improvement. Thankfully, Synaptics agrees and is rolling out an update to its ClearPad capacitive panels. At the heart of the improved system is a technology called SignalClarity, which boosts signal-to-noise ratio for better accuracy and finger separation. The new tech will not only lead to a better touchscreen experience, but it could also help drive down costs since manufacturers would be free to use lower cost components that might normally interfere with a capacitive panel. It'll be a little bit before the next-gen ClearPad makes is debut in a consumer product and chances are you won't see Synaptic brand emblazoned across the packaging of your next smartphone. That's ok though, we know it's in there working hard to keep our fingers happy. Check out the PR after the break for more details.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Synaptics Introduces Highest Performing ClearPad Touch Solutions with SignalClarityTM Technology 		Synaptics Design Studio 4 offers mobile OEMs a comprehensive touch solution that enables flexible customer engagements 		Santa Clara, CA – Jan. 3, 2012 – Synaptics Inc. (NASDAQ: SYNA), a leading developer of human interface solutions for mobile computing, communications and entertainment devices, today announced that Design Studio™4 (DS4), Synaptics' ClearPad™ development solution embedded with patented SignalClarityTM Technology, is available for customer engagements. Synaptics DS4 offers the most advanced and comprehensive touch system in the market and accelerates the ClearPadTM development cycle by empowering customers to evaluate the performance, optimize their touch experience, and efficiently implement their custom ClearPadTM sensor solution. SignalClarityTM Technology drives improved tracking accuracy, finger separation, and environmental and electrical noise robustness, for an unmatched user experience. Synaptics combines industry-leading ASICs with DS4 and SignalClarityTM Technology to offer a complete capacitive touch sensor solution. 		SignalClarityTM Technology provides a dramatic improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio for greatly enhanced touch detection and noise immunity. The best-in-class performance, in presence of noise, enables Mobile OEMs to support inexpensive chargers, work with multiple display types, and enable system designers to optimize the touch experience to deliver their product to market quickly. The SignalClarityTM technology works with multiple display configurations including discrete sensors, sensor-on-lens, on-cell, and in-cell stackup solutions. 		Synaptics has leveraged their industry-leading system-level engineering expertise, gained by delivering over one billion devices to the market, to develop the industry's most complete touch solution with advanced tuning capabilities including performance in the presence of noise, production test support, industry's first wireless debug support, diagnostics and sensor tools. With DS4, customers are enabled with a flexible engagement model and can leverage Synaptics global technical support team to help design a custom ClearPadTM solution that differentiates their product in the marketplace. 		Synaptics DS4 includes the addition of powerful built-in performance diagnostic and test capabilities which were developed by leveraging the company's highly successful history as the industry first ClearPad touch solution provider. The rich array of diagnostic views and performance evaluation tools help provide immediate feedback on potential design configurations resulting in faster time-to-market and greater flexibility in the development of custom ClearPadTM solutions. The built-in test capabilities provides custom generated production test limits and customer accessible test logs which further expands Synaptics' best-in-class mass production capabilities. 		"The addition of SignalClarityTM technology and DS4 are great examples of our ability to offer complete capacitive touch solutions to our customers," said Kevin Barber, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Synaptics. "Synaptics DS4 allows our customers to efficiently integrate our industry leading combination of ClearPadTM touch sensors, firmware and software to quickly deliver leading edge solutions to the marketplace." 		For up to the minute Synaptics news, follow @SynaCorp on Twitter. For more information on Synaptics' products and solutions please visit www.synaptics.com . 		About Synaptics 		Synaptics (NASDAQ: SYNA) is a leading developer of human interface solutions for the mobile computing, communications, and entertainment industries. The company creates interface solutions for a variety of devices including notebook PCs, PC peripherals, tablets, and mobile phones. The TouchPad™, Synaptics' flagship product, is integrated into a majority of today's notebook computers. Consumer electronics and computing manufacturers use Synaptics' solutions to enrich the interaction between humans and intelligent devices through improved usability, functionality, and industrial design. The company is headquartered in Santa Clara, California. www.synaptics.com. 		# # # 		Synaptics, ClearPad, Design Studio and the Synaptics logo are trademarks of Synaptics in the United States and/or other countries. All other marks are the property of their respective owners.
 