
 

Sure, rumors and scuttlebutt clued is in that T-Mobile might be seeing a pair of slates landing sometime this year, but we loves us some confirmation. The magenta network just announced that the T-Mobile SpringBoard with Google and the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 are primed to launch just soon enough for you to shove some HSPA+ holiday cheer into your relatives' oversized stockings. The SpringBoard looks very much like the dressed up MediaPad we expected, replete with a 1.2GHz dual-core processor, 5 megapixel rear-facing 720p camera and an SD card slot for up to 32GB of expandable memory -- not to mention a 7-inch capacitive touch display, and a 1.3 megapixel camera upfront. The Galaxy Tab 10.1 is the same Samsung slate we already know and love, but dressed in T-Mobile's not-quite-4G HSPA+ style. In fact, both tablets sport HSPA+ compatibility and run Android 3.2. There's no official word on price yet (although that MediaPad was rumored to hover at about $200 on contract), but the press release promises these slabs will drop sometime before the holiday season. Oh, that PR? Just hit the "read more" button below.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  T-Mobile Advances Portfolio of 4G Tablets With T-Mobile SpringBoard With Google and Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 		The ultra-mobile T-Mobile SpringBoard and ultra-thin Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 will deliver premium on-the-go entertainment and multimedia experiences 		BELLEVUE, Wash. - Oct. 10, 2011 - T-Mobile USA, Inc. today unveiled two new 4G* Android™ 3.2 (Honeycomb) tablets, enhancing its growing tablet business and portfolio of high-speed mobile broadband devices. The T-Mobile® SpringBoard™ with Google™ and Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 will enable customers to enjoy their home Web and entertainment experiences virtually anywhere. 		"Our customers expect the ability to access and share content on the go at 4G speeds, so we've created a 4G tablet portfolio of 7-, 9- and 10-inch tablets with their busy, highly mobile lives in mind," said Jeremy Korst, vice president of mobile broadband and emerging devices, T-Mobile USA. "The T-Mobile SpringBoard with Google and Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 are the perfect evolution of T-Mobile's tablet portfolio, providing consumers with the right choice of tablet to easily look up a recipe at the grocery store, update social media sites on the bus or stream movies and music in the back seat of the car." 		T-Mobile SpringBoard With Google 		The 4G-enabled T-Mobile SpringBoard is one of T-Mobile's most affordable tablets, offering a premium mobile entertainment and rich Web experience that won't break the bank. Featuring a stunning 7-inch HD multi-touch display, the ultra-portable T-Mobile SpringBoard can fit comfortably into a coat pocket, briefcase or purse, making it easy to carry with you while running errands, hopping on an airplane or waiting at the doctor's office. Manufactured by Huawei, the T-Mobile SpringBoard is powered by a 1.2 GHz dual-core mobile processor and offers a variety of preloaded entertainment applications, including access to thousands of movies and TV shows via BLOCKBUSTER on Demand®, Netflix® and T-Mobile TV. The SpringBoard also offers high-speed Web browsing with support for Adobe® Flash® Player, as well as access to services and applications including Blio® eReader, MobileLife® Family Organizer powered by Cozi, Slacker Radio and TeleNav GPS Navigator™, a personal GPS navigation and local search application that provides turn-by-turn voice and on-screen driving directions. 		The T-Mobile SpringBoard is also the perfect device for capturing and sharing moments with friends and family while on the go. Equipped with a 5 megapixel rear-facing camera and video recorder with 720p for HD video capture, as well as a 1.3 megapixel front-facing camera, customers can easily capture images and video and share with loved ones. In addition, with an SD card slot that accommodates up to 32GB of expandable memory, it's easy to save movies, music, photos, documents and more so customers can have easy access to everything they need. 		Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 		T-Mobile also unveiled the ultra-thin, 4G-capable Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1. Weighing just 1.24 pounds and featuring a spectacular 10.1-inch HD touchscreen display for a widescreen viewing experience, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 is one of the thinnest and lightest 10-inch tablets on the market. T-Mobile's Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 comes equipped with preinstalled content and applications, including T-Mobile TV, Qello®, Samsung Media Hub, Asphalt 6: Adrenaline HD demo, SIM City Deluxe demo, Blio® eReader and Zinio®. 		With a 1 GHz dual-core NVIDIA® Tegra™ 2 processor and full Adobe Flash Player support, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 offers a high-end mobile entertainment experience, making it quick and seamless to browse rich Web content, multitask and play games. 		Availability 		The T-Mobile SpringBoard with Google and Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 will be available in time for the holidays at T-Mobile retail stores and at http://www.t-mobile.com. 		*T-Mobile's HSPA+ 4G network not available everywhere. See coverage details at http://www.t-mobile.com.
 