
  While beans were vaguely spilled ahead of its official launch, T-Mobile UK today unveiled its latest attempt to differentiate itself from the competitive world of British carriers with a new no-holds-barred tariff. From the network that previously nixed its fair use policy around this time last year, the Full Monty offers up truly -- yes, truly; we checked -- unlimited data alongside unlimited cross network calls and text messages. While the entry-level £36 contract limits calls to 2,000 per month, unlimited calling starts at £41 per month, reaching the dizzying heights of £61 if you're shopping for the latest iPhone. New phones will similarly be absorbed into what is now T-Mob's premier contract. It'll join mobile carrier Three, which was previously the only other major operator to offer unlimited data. Alongside the above package, which includes tethering, T-Mobile phones will also nab access to BT Openzone, the UK's largest WiFi hotspot network.When the Fully Monty launches on February 1st, it'll be accompanied by a new Android and iOS app that adds one-click connectivity to those WiFi networks. The deal isn't available SIM-only, although T-Mobile UK's Head of Propositions, Ben Fritsch, told us that the new deal is pitched at users looking to take the smartphone plunge. Its existing collection of tariffs will also see a similar refresh -- but there's no details on those just yet. American readers can gaze with envy at the full release below.






  Show full PR text  T-Mobile launches The Full Monty – the UK's first plan to offer unlimited calls, texts and internet  No fair use restrictions apply to internet, calls or text messages Plan offers UK customers market leading value for money Unique to T-Mobile, this plan is a landmark for the mobile industry Available on all phones in the T-Mobile range – including iPhone, Android and BlackBerry  London, UK: 30 January 2012 - T-Mobile today announces the launch of The Full Monty, a ground-breaking new mobile phone plan that offers consumers the freedom to make unlimited calls, send unlimited texts, and use as much mobile internet as they want – with no fair use restrictions. The first of its kind for the UK, The Full Monty plan offers unbeatable value and is available from 1 February through T-Mobile stores, online shop, telesales and in-direct partners.  Customers signing up to The Full Monty 24 month plan will not only have the reassurance that there are no caps on their calls1, texts and internet, they will also have access to unlimited WiFi2, and can use their mobile internet for whatever they like - including tethering (using a smartphone as an internet connection for a laptop or tablet), streaming and downloading.  The Full Monty plan offers four simple price brackets, each of which offer a great range of free high-end smartphones:  iPhone 4S 16GB (£99 upfront fee) iPhone 4 8GB (free) Samsung Galaxy SII (free) HTC Sensation XE (free)  iPhone 4S 16GB (£29 upfront fee) BlackBerry 99003 (free)  iPhone 4S 16GB (free)  iPhone 4S 32Gb (free) iPhone 4S 64GB (£29 upfront fee)   What's more, further to the 'big 3G switch-on' last year, customers signing up to The Full Monty plan will be joining the 28 million T-Mobile and Orange customers who can already benefit from the widest 3G network in the UK, and faster internet and data speeds in more places for no extra cost, thanks to the sharing of 3G signals from both networks.  Ben Fritsch, Head of Propositions, T-Mobile UK , comments: "Over the past two years, we've seen a rise in mobile internet use of over 250%, which reflects the consumer trend of being 'always on' wherever they are. However, consumers also still want to retain a more personal level of communication by calling or sending a text.  The Full Monty has been designed for customers who want the peace of mind that there are absolutely no limits placed on their allowances, whilst also knowing they're getting market leading value for money. We believe our Pay Monthly portfolio offers plans to suit anyone's needs, all at accessible prices – and we're really proud to be the first to offer a plan like The Full Monty in the UK".  For more information and to sign up to The Full Monty plan, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.t-mobile.co.uk/TheFullMonty" www.t-mobile.co.uk/TheFullMonty. -Ends-
 