
 
Looking a bit like a myTouch 3G Slide sans slide, the newly-announced myTouch -- yes, just "myTouch" -- is the latest addition to the consumer-centric side of T-Mobile's Android lineup, featuring a 3.8-inch WVGA display, 5 megapixel primary camera with 720p capture, and a next-gen MSM8255 Snapdragon core running at 1GHz. Notice how we said "primary camera"? Yep, it's true: the myTouch features a second, front-facing cam as well, becoming just the second phone from T-Mobile (and one of the first in the States, of course) to offer video calling. Looks like it'll be supported over both WiFi and 3G using Qik and Yahoo Messenger, so you'll be able to see the beautiful faces of your EVO-sporting friends from afar. Like the G2, it's got full support for T-Mobile's up-and-coming HSPA+ network along with 802.11n and Android 2.2 out of the box. We don't have pricing or a launch date yet, but we're told it'll be available "in time for the holidays" in your choice of four scintillating colors: white, black, plum, and red. Follow the break for the full press release.
      

 

Show full PR textNew T-Mobile myTouch Delivers High-Definition Video Connections and Lightning Fast 4G SpeedsNew myTouch to Take Advantage of T-Mobile's New Super-Fast HSPA+ Network Now Reaching More Than 65 MarketsBELLEVUE, Wash. - October 4, 2010 - T-Mobile USA, Inc. today announced a new addition to its exclusive line of Android™-powered T-Mobile® myTouch® smartphones and the continued expansion of its new super-fast HSPA+ mobile broadband network. Built with families in mind, the newest T-Mobile myTouch helps solve the challenges of staying physically and emotionally connected by sharing photos and video with the HD Camcorder, spontaneous face-to-face conversations through Video Chat and the ability to reach 4G speeds on T-Mobile's new network, which is now available in more cities across the country.1Unlike other video-calling solutions on the market that only work through Wi-Fi, Video Chat on the new myTouch enables customers to connect with loved ones spontaneously from practically anywhere through T-Mobile's network or Wi-Fi. With the myTouch's front-facing camera paired with Video Chat, customers can hold video conversations with friends and family who have a new T-Mobile myTouch, other compatible mobile device or capable PC. Customers can even see who is available to chat through presence information integrated into the myTouch's address book."Taking advantage of the 4G speeds on T-Mobile's HSPA+ network, the new myTouch delivers a faster and more compelling experience than most competing smartphones on the market," said Andrew Sherrard, vice president, product development, T-Mobile USA. "Our continued focus to build innovative new features and personalized services truly makes myTouch unique."Designed specifically to deliver 4G speeds on T-Mobile's rapidly expanding HSPA+ network, the new myTouch will offer customers blazing fast access to websites, applications, videos, downloads and more. T-Mobile's HSPA+ network is the most pervasive mobile broadband network in the country, offering 4G speeds in more than 65 major metropolitan areas.With its latest expansion, T-Mobile's HSPA+ footprint now includes Biloxi and Gulfport, Miss.; Denver, Colo.; Huntsville, Ala.; Knoxville, Tenn.; Myrtle Beach, S.C.; Norfolk, Va.; Omaha, Neb.; Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz.; Salt Lake City, Utah; San Francisco, San Jose, Oakland and Sacramento, Calif.; and West Palm Beach, Fla. T-Mobile expects to reach 100 major metropolitan areas and 200 million people in 2010.Families also can share moments in high-definition (HD) with the myTouch's high-quality HD Camcorder with Screen Share, which allows customers to share or broadcast HD video and pictures they've captured. With a few touches of the screen, customers can share their photo albums, videos and movies wirelessly with a compatible HDTV or other DLNA device. The new phone also includes three exclusive myTouch features: Genius Button™, powered by Dragon Dictation from Nuance, which lets customers call, text, e-mail or access the internet with a simple voice command; Faves Gallery™ , which offers shortcuts to one's most-contacted family and friends; and myModes, which creates customized home screens for work and home.Designed by HTC exclusively for T-Mobile, the new myTouch features a brilliant 3.8-inch WVGA touch-screen display with virtual keyboard and Swype® for easy text input. The thin and sleek device also comes with a blazing fast second-generation Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ 1GHz MSM8255 processor optimized for speed and graphic performance, a 5-megapixel camera, a preinstalled 8 GB microSD memory card, and an integrated media player that brings together favorite music, video and internet radio under one set of controls. Powered by Android 2.2, the myTouch offers a rich mobile Web experience and access to more than 80,000 applications on Android Market™ from games to location-based social networks to on-the-go shopping and more. The new device also features preloaded HD games, including "Rock Band," "Asphalt 5" and "Monopoly."The new T-Mobile myTouch is expected to be available in time for the holidays, exclusively fromT-Mobile USA in four colors - white, black, plum or red. Customers can visit http://mytouch.t-mobile.com for more information.T-Mobile now offers 4G speeds on the new myTouch and the T-Mobile G2™, as well as the webConnect Rocket™ 2.0 and Rocket laptop sticks. In addition, customers located in new HSPA+ locations can benefit from faster speeds on their existing 3G smartphones - including popular devices, such as the myTouch 3G Slide.2# # #1 Based on 4G speeds currently available to mobile device users in the U.S. Device has theoretical capability of 14.4 Mbps. HSPA+ coverage is rapidly expanding, but it is not currently available everywhere. For more details on where T-Mobile network coverage is available, please visit http://www.t-mobile.com/coverage.2 Improved speeds vary, due in part to device capabilities.T-Mobile and the magenta color are registered trademarks of Deutsche Telekom AG. stick together and myTouch are registered trademarks, and Genius Button, Faves Gallery, G2 and webConnect Rocket are trademarks of T-Mobile USA. Google, Android, and Android Market are trademarks of Google Inc. Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Inc. Snapdragon is a trademark of Qualcomm Inc. All other company and product names may be trademarks of the companies with which they are associated.About T-Mobile USA, Inc.Based in Bellevue, Wash., T-Mobile USA, Inc. is the U.S. wireless operation of Deutsche Telekom AG. By the end of the second quarter of 2010, approximately 130 million mobile customers were served by the mobile communication segments of the Deutsche Telekom group - 33.6 million by T-Mobile USA - all via a common technology platform based on GSM and UMTS, the world's most widely used digital wireless standards. T-Mobile USA's innovative wireless products and services help empower people to connect to those who matter most. Multiple independent research studies continue to rank T-Mobile among the highest in numerous regions throughout the U.S. in wireless customer care and call quality. For more information, please visit http://www.T-Mobile.com. T-Mobile is a federally registered trademark of Deutsche Telekom AG.Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect the current views of Deutsche Telekom management with respect to future events. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "project" and "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore you should not place too much reliance on them. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond Deutsche Telekom's control, including, without limitation, those factors set forth in "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" contained in Deutsche Telekom's annual report. If these or other risks and uncertainties materialize, or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, Deutsche Telekom's actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. Deutsche Telekom does not intend or assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 