
 

Faux-G or 4G -- whatever you choose to call it, T-Mobile's sprinkling more of that mobile might to its subs across the nation. The carrier's just expanded the footprint of its 42Mbps flavor of HSPA+ to an additional 11 cities, letting proud owners of its newborn Amaze 4G and Galaxy S II variant enjoy battery-slurping high speeds in a total of 163 markets. Magenta's sprightly, albeit lesser 21Mbps network has also gotten a shot of Miracle-Gro, now branching out to nine more spots for a total of 208 locations. You can peep the full list of new markets after the break, as well as the requisite boastful PR.
      

 

HSPA+ 42 		Bend, Medford and Corvallis, Oregon 		Benton Harbor, Michigan 		Bloomington, Champaign–Urbana and Springfield, Illinois 		Columbus, Georgia 		Hagerstown, Maryland 		Montgomery, Alabama 		Yuba City, CaliforniaHSPA+ 21 		Corvallis, Oregon 		Decatur and Peoria, Illinois 		Evansville, Indiana 		Holland and Kalamazoo, Michigan 		Santa Barbara and Yuba City, California 		Show full PR text  America's Largest 4G Network Expands to Cover More Locations 		T-Mobile's 4G network is now twice as fast in 163 markets and		available in 208 markets nationwide 		BELLEVUE, Wash. - Nov. 16, 2011 - T-Mobile USA, Inc. today announced the company has doubled the speed of its 4G network in 11 additional markets, offering faster 4G (HSPA+ 42) to nearly 180 million Americans in 163 markets. In addition, T-Mobile expanded the reach of its nationwide 4G (HSPA+ 21) network to 9 additional markets, now covering 208 markets across the country and reaching more than 200 million people. 		T-Mobile continues to expand and enhance its 4G network, providing customers with a rich mobile data experience whether they're at home or on the go. Offering compelling 4G network speeds across a broad lineup of devices including smartphones, tablets, mobile hotspots and more, America's Largest 4G Network makes it possible for customers to stay connected in new and exciting ways virtually anywhere their busy lives take them. 		"Our customers are taking full advantage of these faster 4G connections through services such as streaming video and audio. In fact, these services now account for more than half of the 4G device usage on our network," said Neville Ray, chief technology officer, T-Mobile USA.		"T-Mobile is committed to delivering a fast, reliable network experience to our customers ― paired with compelling and affordable 4G devices, applications and services ― that can keep up with and enrich the busy lives of our customers." 		T-Mobile's portfolio of more than 25 4G devices gives customers access to the content they need and desire almost instantly, whether downloading large files or streaming the latest episode of their favorite TV shows. In addition to a full portfolio of 4G devices, the company recently introduced its first smartphones capable of taking advantage of T-Mobile's faster 4G (HSPA+ 42) network ― the Samsung Galaxy STM II and HTC AmazeTM 4G. With the introduction of these two smartphones, customers can now access rich Web content on their smartphones at speeds faster than the average home Internet connection, with average download speeds approaching 8 Mbps and peak speeds around 20 Mbps on T-Mobile's 4G network. The company also recently introduced the T-Mobile Sonic™ 4G Mobile HotSpot, T-Mobile's fastest mobile hotspot, providing access to T-Mobile's 4G (HSPA+ 42) network for up to five Wi-Fi enabled devices including iPads*, tablets, music players, gaming consoles, laptops, cameras and e-readers, among other devices, all from virtually anywhere. 		T-Mobile 4G markets where HPSA+ 42 service is launching today:		Bend, Medford and Corvallis, Ore.; Benton Harbor, Mich.; Bloomington, Champaign–Urbana and Springfield, Ill.; Columbus, Ga.; Hagerstown, Md.; Montgomery, Ala; Yuba City, Calif. 		T-Mobile 4G markets where HSPA+ 21 service is launching today:		Corvallis, Ore.; Decatur and Peoria, Ill.; Evansville, Ind.; Holland and Kalamazoo, Mich.; Santa Barbara, Calif; State College, Pa.; Yuba City, Calif.
 