
 


True to its promise of bringing 42Mbps service to 150 million Americans by mid-year, T-Mobile will double its 4G speed in 56 additional markets today -- thereby surpassing its self-imposed goal (and leaving the door open for greater ambitions). Of course, the Category 20 Rocket 3.0 USB modem is currently the only way to experience this brisk performance, but the magenta-clad carrier seems intent to bring a 42Mbps HSDPA smartphone to market by year's end, or much sooner. Cities such as Ann Arbor, Baltimore, Boise, Boston, Charlotte, Hartford, Indianapolis, Minneapolis, and Washington D.C., may count themselves among the fortunate, where T-Mo-packing citizens should benefit from the network's newly increased capacity and reliability, whether or not they're wielding ZTE's stick. A complete list of cities is included in the PR just beyond the break.
 

 		Show full PR text  T-Mobile's Faster 4G Network Now Available in More Locations 		America's Largest 4G Network™ is now twice as fast in more than 150 markets, available to more than 170 million Americans 		BELLEVUE, Wash. - July 13, 2011 - Today, T-Mobile USA, Inc. announced that the company is doubling the speed of its 4G network in 56 additional markets, to reach more than 170 million people in 152 markets. T-Mobile customers now have access to T-Mobile's faster 4G network in markets including Baltimore; Boston; Charlotte, N.C.; Hartford and New Haven, Conn.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Lancaster, Pa.; Minneapolis, Minn.; Providence, R.I.; and Washington, D.C., among several others. For a full list of new markets where T-Mobile's HSPA+ 42 4G network is available, see below. 		In addition to T-Mobile customers experiencing speeds twice as fast as T-Mobile's current 4G network on compatible devices, customers also will enjoy increased network capacity and reliability. Offering a compelling 4G experience across a broad lineup of devices, America's Largest 4G Network™ allows customers to stay connected in new and innovative ways in more places than ever before. From downloading files to streaming video or surfing the latest social networking sites, T-Mobile's faster network provides a richer-than-ever mobile data experience, with anytime high-speed access to the data and information customers need and desire. 		"America's Largest 4G Network is now faster than ever and continues to deliver a fast and reliable broadband experience in more places than any other carrier," said Neville Ray, chief technology officer, T-Mobile USA. "Video streaming on T-Mobile's network has more than tripled over the last year, and consumer demand for access to rich mobile content from anywhere continues to grow. T-Mobile is now supplying more than 170 million Americans with lightning-fast HSPA+ 42 speeds to feed that explosive demand." 		T-Mobile's portfolio of 4G products gives customers ultra-fast access to the content they want at home or on the go. The company recently introduced the T-Mobile Rocket™ 3.0 laptop stick, its first HSPA+ 42-capable device, offering average download speeds on its HSPA+ 42 network approaching 10 Mbps, with peak speeds of 27 Mbps. T-Mobile also continues to expand its 4G device lineup with innovative 4G handsets such as the new HTC Sensation™ 4G and the upcoming T-Mobile myTouch® 4G Slide. In the last year, T-Mobile has launched more than a dozen 4G-capable smartphones, tablets and mobile broadband products, and the company expects to launch its first HSPA+ 42 smartphone later this year. 		T-Mobile 4G markets where 42Mbps service is launching today:		Allentown, Pa.; Anderson, S.C.; Asheville, N.C.; Ann Arbor, Mich.; Baltimore, Md.; Barnstable, Mass.; Bellingham, Wash.; Bloomington, Ind.; Boise, Idaho; Boston, Mass.; Bremerton, Wash.; Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, Conn.; Brunswick, Ga.; Carson City, Nev.; Charlotte, N.C.; Charlottesville, Va.; Chico, Calif.; Coeur d'Alene, Idaho; Eugene, Ore.; Flagstaff, Ariz.; Flint, Mich.; Greensboro, N.C.; Greenville, S.C.; Harrisburg, Pa.; Hartford, Conn.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Knoxville, Tenn.; Lafayette, Ind.; Lancaster, Pa.; Laredo, Texas; Lynchburg, Va.; Manchester, N.H.; Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn.; New Haven, Conn.; Ogden, Utah; Providence; R.I.; Provo, Utah; Raleigh-Cary, N.C.; Redding, Calif.; Reno-Sparks, Nev.; Richmond, Va.; Roanoke, Va.; Rockford, Ill.; Salem, Ore.; Scranton-Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Spartanburg, S.C.; State College, Pa.; Tallahassee, Fla.; Terre Haute, Ind.; Tucson, Ariz.; Washington, D.C.; Wichita Falls, Texas; Winchester, Va.; Winston-Salem, N.C.; Worcester, Mass.; and York, Pa.
 