
 T-Mobile was set to have its own splashy product unveiling today in New York City, but a certain Sandy put the kibosh on that. Now that Google's let its trio of updated Nexus products out of the bag, Magenta's ready to give us pricing and availability for the Nexus 4, HTC 8X and Lumia 810 which are set to hit the carrier's shelves this November 14th. Both Google's and Microsoft's (signature) flagships will be available for $199 on a two-year plan, while Nokia's lower-end WP8 handset will go for $149 with the same contract duration. Also, joining the crowded launch lineup that day is Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 for $349 with a two-year agreement. As for the newly HSPA+ capable Nexus 7, well, you'll be able to snag that refreshed slate on Google Play just one day later. Of course, T-Mo hasn't forgotten about its value-minded sub base, offering up LG's Optimus L9 on the 31st of this month at an affordable $79 on contract. So if it's options you wanted this holiday season, Magenta's doling them out in spades. Hit up the break for the official PR.



  Show full PR text   Smartphone Powerhouses, Exclusive Gaming Experiences and Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data – All for T-Mobile Customers This Holiday
   T-Mobile brings amazing 4G experiences to consumers this holiday with Windows Phone 8, Android smartphones and exclusive gaming services

   BELLEVUE, Wash. - Oct. 29, 2012 - Continuing to deliver on choice, value and amazing 4G experiences this holiday, T-Mobile USA, Inc. today unveiled its full lineup of smartphones, tablets and innovative services for the upcoming season. Featuring the latest cutting-edge products and services, T-Mobile's portfolio offers the newest Windows Phone 8 devices, including the Nokia Lumia 810 and the Windows Phone 8X by HTC; the Google Nexus 4 with T-Mobile as a premier launch partner; and the Samsung Galaxy Note II featuring premium gaming experiences from world-class partners such as EA and MOGA™. Combined with T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, T-Mobile's portfolio is providing its customers with the devices, innovative services and 4G experiences they desire this holiday.

   "At T-Mobile, we recognize that consumers want to choose the device that best fits their lifestyle. Whether they are new to the smartphone market, love entertainment and movies, or enjoy playing games on their device, T-Mobile's product lineup provides the latest, cutting-edge products to choose from," said Brad Duea, senior vice president, product management, T-Mobile USA. "When you combine these products with our innovative applications, exclusive gaming partnerships and a truly Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, our customers have the best choice and value in the industry for their wireless service."

   Windows Phone 8

   T-Mobile will have two Windows Phone 8 devices - the Nokia Lumia 810 and the Windows Phone 8X by HTC.

   The Nokia Lumia 810 is an exclusive to T-Mobile and offers access to T-Mobile's fastest 4G network (HSPA+42), an enhanced camera with Carl Zeiss optics for crisp photographs, impactful design, integrated wireless charging via swappable back covers, navigation features and high-performance – all in a simple silhouette.

   With the Lumia 810, users can capture, share and relive life's moments with new camera features such as Cinemagraph, a lens that creates animated GIFs, as well as panorama settings and Group Shoot, which allows the customer to choose the best faces and smiles from a burst of photos and stitch them together to produce the perfect group shot.

   The Windows Phone 8X by HTC is a premium Windows Phone 8 device that packs a punch with a beautiful 4.3-inch HD-resolution super LCD 2 screen, a powerful dual-core processor and fast speeds running on T-Mobile's HSPA+42 network. Customers will enjoy the feel of the pure unibody design in California Blue, access to Windows Phone's Live Tiles, immersive studio-quality sound with Beats Audio™ and incredible camera capabilities of the Windows Phone 8X by HTC.

   Both devices are powered by the new Windows Phone 8 operating system, making it easy for users to personalize their device and experiences and always stay connected to friends and family. Taking advantage of the only truly Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, on a nationwide 4G network, T-Mobile customers will see a superior value with T-Mobile's lineup of Windows Phone 8 devices.

   Latest Android™ Devices

   T-Mobile will continue its history of providing customers with the best Android devices available, including two of the newest options: the Nexus 4 and Nexus 7.

   The Nexus 4 is the latest device in the Google Nexus lineup, and T-Mobile will be the premier U.S. launch partner. With cutting-edge hardware designed collaboratively by LG and Google, favorite Google Apps, and the latest version of Android, Nexus 4 puts the best of Google in the palm of a customer's hand. And, with access to T-Mobile's fastest 4G (HSPA+42) network, T-Mobile is again giving its customers the best choice of devices. Nexus 4 comes with a high-performance 8MP camera and takes stunning Photo Sphere images to capture every detail of the world. The all-new camera lets customers quickly view and edit photos with powerful new tools, and share favorite shots in a snap. When combined with T-Mobile's Value plans or T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, the Nexus 4 gives consumers a top-notch Android experience.

   With a stunning 7-inch display, powerful quad-core processor and all-day battery life, Nexus 7 was built to bring the best of Google in a slim, portable device. With a vibrant, 1280x800 high-resolution display, Nexus 7 brings apps, games, books and movies to life in stunning clarity. Over 1 million pixels in your hand means text is sharper, HD movies are more vivid and gameplay is smooth and dynamic. All of this is protected under scratch-resistant Corning™ Gorilla Glass and designed for the whole family to pass around and enjoy. Nexus 7 was built by ASUS and comes with a NVIDIA® Tegra® 3 quad-core processor so everything is faster: Pages load quickly, gameplay is smooth and responsive, and running multiple apps is a breeze.

   T-Mobile also recently announced the Samsung Galaxy Note II, giving customers a powerful all-in-one device with a 5.5-inch HD Super AMOLED® screen and a speedy 1.6 GHz quad-core, Samsung Exynos processor that are perfect for gaming, productivity, entertainment and more.

   For the value-conscious shopper, T-Mobile will offer the LG Optimus L9. Featuring a gorgeous 4.5-inch qHD Corning® Gorilla® Glass 2 display and equipped with a long-lasting 2150 mAh battery, users can listen to music, explore the Internet or chat with friends and family for hours with just one charge.

   Further, T-Mobile will continue to offer the Samsung Galaxy S® III and Samsung Galaxy S® Relay™ 4G, rounding out a complete portfolio of powerful Android smartphones.

   Innovative Gaming Experiences

   Only T-Mobile provides its customers with access to the most innovative and compelling gaming experiences made possible with the exclusive content, devices and accessories gamers want paired with T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan. T-Mobile customers now can realize truly unlimited 4G gaming experiences - without having to worry about surprise bills or overage fees.

   T-Mobile will be the first U.S. carrier to preload EA's Need For Speed™ Most Wanted game on the Galaxy Note II, including four free events. In addition, this T-Mobile exclusive version of the Need for Speed™ Most Wanted game on the Galaxy Note II will be optimized to interact with a MOGA™ mobile gaming system, bringing an immersive, console-quality gaming experience to the palms of T-Mobile customers' hands.

   Further, T-Mobile will offer a new social gaming destination which will directly connect customers to Zynga games right from their device's homescreen. The Zynga games destination will feature With Friends games, is preloaded on the Samsung Galaxy Note II and LG Optimus L9, and will be accessible via the Bonus Apps widget on several other Android devices this month.

   The Best Entertainment Value

   T-Mobile is bringing innovative entertainment applications and services to its holiday devices. The Galaxy S III and Galaxy Note II enable T-Mobile customers to bring their entertainment to the big screen by wirelessly sharing content, such as games, movies and TV shows on their smartphone, to any HDMI-capable TV via the AllShare Cast feature and AllShare Cast Wireless Hub accessory.

   Additionally, only at T-Mobile, new and existing owners of the Samsung Galaxy S III will receive "Marvel's The Avengers" – the number 1 movie of the year and 3rd biggest release of all time – as a virtual preload, available for download in the Samsung Media Hub. Taking advantage of T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, customers can download unlimited video content, such as "Marvel's The Avengers," on our nationwide 4G network without having to worry about data caps, speed limits or overages.

   T-Mobile is also excited to partner with Samsung to deliver the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1, a high-powered, premium entertainment device. Running Android 4.0 and powered by a 1.5 GHz dual-core processor with access to T-Mobile's fast 4G (HSPA+ 42) network, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 is the ideal device for customers who want to stay connected and entertained wherever and whenever.

   Pricing and Availability

   Information about devices and services can be found at the embedded links below or www.T-Mobile.com. Full pricing and availability information is expected as follows:

   · Windows Phone 8

   o Nokia Lumia 810:

   § Expected to be available on 11/14

   § Value Plan: $99.99 down payment after a $50 mail-in rebate card and 20 equal payments of $20 per month with a two year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans.

   § Classic Plan: $149.99 after a $50 mail-in-rebate card and with a two-year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   o Windows Phone 8X by HTC:

   § Expected to be available on 11/14

   § Value Plan: $149.99 down payment after a $50 mail-in rebate card and 20 equal payments of $20 per month with a two year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   § Classic Plan: $199.99 after a $50 mail-in-rebate card and with a two-year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   · Android

   o Google Nexus 4:

   § Available via Google Play on 10/29 and in select T-Mobile retail stores and online starting 11/14

   § Value Plan: $199.99 out of pocket down payment and 20 equal payments of $20 per month with a two year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   § Classic Plan: $199.99 with a two-year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   o Google Nexus 7:

   § Available with T-Mobile service via Google Play starting 11/5

   o Samsung Galaxy Note II:

   § Currently available online and in retail stores

   § Value Plan: $249.99 out of pocket down payment and 20 equal payments of $20 per month with a two year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   § Classic Plan: $369.99 with a two-year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   o LG Optimus L9:

   § Expected to be available online and in retail stores starting 10/31

   § Value Plan: $49.99 out of pocket down payment and 20 equal payments of $15 per month with a two year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   § Classic Plan: $79.99 after a $50 mail-in-rebate card with a two-year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   o Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1:

   § Expected to be available starting 11/14 online and in retail stores

   § Value Mobile Broadband Plan: $199.99 out of pocket down payment and 20 equal payments of $15 per month with a two year service agreement on qualifying voice and data plans

   § Classic Plan: $349.99 after a $50 mail-in-rebate card with a two year service agreement on qualifying mobile broadband data plans

   o Samsung Galaxy S III:

   § Currently available online and in retail stores. For more information, visit: http://galaxy-s.t-mobile.com/samsung-galaxy-s3

   · Accessories

   o The AllShare Cast Wireless Hub accessory is currently available in T-Mobile retail stores and at www.T-Mobile.com for $99.99.

   o The MOGA™ Mobile Gaming System will be available at www.T-Mobile.com on 10/31 for $49.99 and will be in select T-Mobile retail stores on 11/14.

 
