
If your carrier preference is tinged magenta, you'll be able to get Samsung's latest hardware combo October 2nd. The Galaxy Note 3 will cost $199 down plus $21 a month for 24 months on T-Mobile's Simple Choice plan, while the Galaxy Gear smartwatch carries its standard price of $299. Pre-orders aren't open yet, but you can sign up for an alert right here -- those who get on the list before the 15th will be registered to win a Note 3 / Galaxy Gear set for free.



 Show full PR textInnovation, Style and a New Mobile Experience Coming to T-Mobile
Samsung Galaxy Gear(TM) and Samsung Galaxy Note® 3 launching October 2
BELLEVUE, Wash. - September 5, 2013 - Are you ready for the next big thing? T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: TMUS) will launch Samsung's first wearable experience, Galaxy Gear(TM), and the Samsung Galaxy Note® 3 nationwide October 2. Paired with the Galaxy Note 3, Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch introduces an entirely new type of mobile experience by intelligently connecting and sharing everyday moments with quick glance notifications, hands-free calling, music control and an array of innovative features.

"The next generation of Samsung Galaxy products are pushing the boundaries of mobile innovation and how people manage and enjoy their lives," said Jason Young, vice president of product marketing for T-Mobile US. "T-Mobile is pushing boundaries too. Only America's Un-carrier offers the latest Samsung innovation with the boldest offers in wireless - no annual service contracts, unlimited data on a nationwide 4G network and the freedom to upgrade affordably when you want, not when you're told with JUMP!(TM)"

Pairing a dramatically simple unlimited plan with premium Galaxy devices isn't anything without a blazing fast network. T-Mobile is delivering 4G LTE at a breakneck pace - reaching 167 million people across the U.S. in 116 metropolitan areas as of early-August. The company continues to make rapid progress towards its goal of reaching 200 million people by the end of the year.

The Galaxy Note 3 will be available for $199.99 down with 24 equal monthly device payments of $21.00[1] with T-Mobile's Simple Choice Plan and Samsung's Galaxy Gear will cost $299.99 (plus taxes and fees). To be the first to know when T-Mobile will start taking orders online for the Galaxy Note 3, customers can sign up for alerts at https://explore.t-mobile.com/samsung-galaxy-note-3. Those who register before September 15 will automatically be entered into a sweepstakes for a chance to win a free Galaxy Note 3 and a companion Galaxy Gear[2].Samsung, Galaxy, Galaxy Note, Galaxy S, Super AMOLED, and S Voice are all trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Other company names, product names and marks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners and may be trademarks or registered trademarks.

About T-Mobile US, Inc.:As America's Un-carrier, T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: "TMUS") is redefining the way consumers and businesses buy wireless services through leading product and service innovation. The company's advanced nationwide 4G and 4G LTE network delivers outstanding wireless experiences for customers who are unwilling to compromise on quality and value. Based in Bellevue, Wash., T-Mobile US operates its flagship brands, T-Mobile and MetroPCS. It currently serves approximately 44 million wireless subscribers and provides products and services through 70,000 points of distribution. For more information, please visit: http://www.t-mobile.com.


