
Zero dollars down, Simple Choice and Jump? T-Mobile must be downright crazy! Either that, or it's a carrier struggling to make a serious impact on a market dominated by two juggernauts -- juggernauts who also came out with early upgrade plans of their own within a week of Jump's debut. T-Mobile's "back at it," according to its press material, dropping the entry price on a slew of devices down to zero, effectively spreading out the payments over 24 months. All told, the promotion includes smartphones, tablets and hotspots, and is open to folks who are "well-qualified" (check your credit statements if you have any questions on that front). The deal starts tomorrow and runs for a "limited time." Unsurprisingly, there's also some fine print attached (e.g., the 32GB and 64GB iPhone 5 isn't covered). The carrier's site can break down all of that for you, and there's also more info to be had in a press release after the break.



Show full PR textT-Mobile Promotes Unprecedented Deal This Summer - Zero Dollars Down for All Devices
In time for back-to-school, T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: TMUS) will drive an unparalleled promotion this summer, dropping the upfront price on its entire lineup of devices in stores nationwide to zero dollars down. With this promotion, new and existing well-qualified consumers and small business customers will get affordable and hassle-free access to the latest 4G LTE smartphones, tablets, mobile hotspots and feature phones at the upfront price of $0 down with monthly device payments[1].
This limited-time promotion is available starting tomorrow, July 27, 2013. In addition to the promotion, customers also can take advantage of T-Mobile's groundbreaking upgrade program, JUMP!(TM), which enables them to sign up to upgrade their phones when they want, up to twice a year as soon as six months from enrollment.
"The number of reasons not to switch to T-Mobile this summer is ZERO," said John Legere, president and chief executive officer, T-Mobile US. "This is a fantastic offer and we're making it easier than ever for customers to get the latest amazing devices. Adding Zero Down in addition to JUMP!, and Simple Choice with no contract is all about making wireless work for consumers and shaking up this industry."

