
 

Samsung might have already announced T-Mobile's variant of the Galaxy S II, but here at Mobilize the carrier's gone and revealed all the nitty-gritty details. We can now confirm that the 4.52-inch smartphone wields a dual-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S3 processor clocked at 1.5GHz, eschewing Sammy's 1.2GHz Exynos found on its other stateside brethren. And much like the just announced Amaze 4G, it'll be one of the first phones to take advantage of the carrier's 42Mbps HSPA+ and T-Mobile TV functionality. The TouchWiz-covered, Gingerbread 2.3.5-sportin' superphone can be yours on October 10th for $229.99 (after a $50 mail in rebate) from Deutsche Telekom's website, or in stores and select dealers on the 12th. Stay tuned for an impending hands-on -- you can bide time by eying the PR after the break, or having a look at the gallery below.

Keep up with our Mobilize 2011 coverage here! 





  		Show full PR text  T-Mobile Unveils Its Fastest Smartphones: HTC Amaze 4G and Samsung Galaxy S II   T-Mobile USA CMO Cole Brodman details consumer adoption of 4G technology and unveils next-generation 4G devices  SAN FRANCISCO and BELLEVUE, Wash. - Sept. 26, 2011 - Today at GigaOm Mobilize 2011, T-Mobile USA Chief Marketing Officer Cole Brodman outlined the company's ongoing efforts to fuel consumer adoption of mobile data through increased speeds of America's Largest 4G Network®, rate plans that make mobile data more affordable, and new devices that take advantage of the company's faster 4G network and value. 		Unveiled during the T-Mobile keynote address at Mobilize 2011, the HTC AmazeTM 4G and Samsung Galaxy STM II will be T-Mobile's fastest smartphones and the first smartphones to take advantage of T-Mobile's faster 4G (HSPA+ 42) network technology. The new smartphones will allow customers to browse the Web faster than on the average home Internet and are showing average download speeds approaching 8 Mbps with peak speeds around 20 Mbps on T-Mobile's 4G network1. Both smartpthones are expected to be available next month. 		In addition, T-Mobile today announced the T-Mobile® SonicTM 4G Mobile HotSpot, the company's fastest 4G (HSPA+ 42) mobile hotspot, providing customers with access to T-Mobile's fastest 4G speeds on up to five Wi-Fi enabled devices. America's Largest 4G Network, which is now faster than ever with the 4G technology of HSPA+ 42, reaches more than 170 million Americans in more than 150 markets throughout the United States. 		"These new products unlock the full potential of our faster 4G network and deliver the best experience yet for watching video, surfing the Web, and creating and sharing content on the go," said Cole Brodman, chief marketing officer, T-Mobile USA. "A 4G connection delivers a much improved experience, which entices consumers to do more with the devices they carry. We've seen that first hand; customers with 4G devices on our network consume roughly three times as much data compared as those with 3G devices. Smartphone buyers are increasingly looking for built-in 4G capability, and we're offering what we believe is the best 4G product portfolio in the industry."  HTC Amaze 4G		Exclusively available from T-Mobile, the HTC Amaze 4G features the most advanced camera experience of any smartphone and is the latest in T-Mobile's family of advanced camera smartphones. The HTC Amaze 4G is equipped with an 8-megapixel camera and 1080p HD video recorder, a backside illuminated sensor for improved low light performance, zero shutter lag and a dual LED flash, as well as advanced digital camera features, including:  - SmartShot, which captures five photos and creates the best shot using clear faces with smiles and no blinking.  - PerfectPics, which is a separate album in the gallery created by scoring and filtering the best photos to the surface. PerfectPics prioritizes photos by using criteria such as important calendar events, the presence of faces, and overall picture quality.  - Additional innovative camera features first introduced on the T-Mobile myTouch® 4G Slide such as SweepShotTM, ClearShot HDR and BurstShot. 		The HTC Amaze 4G also enables high quality video recording with a full HD 1080p camcorder and an embedded video editor. Customers can instantly capture quality photos and videos with a dedicated camera button and T-Mobile's first direct-to-camcorder button. Sharing photos is easy with one-touch access to post to Facebook®, Picasa® or Flickr® - all at 4G speeds.		The device runs on AndroidTM 2.3.4, features a Qualcomm® SnapdragonTM S3 Processor with a 1.5 GHz dual core CPUs, and offers the HTC Sense user experience. With support for T-Mobile TV, HTC Watch and additional apps and services, the HTC Amaze 4G is excellent at keeping customers informed, connected and entertained using its gorgeous 4.3-inch qHD super LCD multi-touch display. The powerful handset will also include NFC capabilities for wireless searching, information sharing and, in the future, mobile payments.  Samsung Galaxy S II		T-Mobile today also revealed additional details about the T-Mobile Samsung Galaxy S II smartphone. Powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon S3 Processor with 1.5 GHz dual CPUs, running on Android 2.3.5 (Gingerbread) and NFC enabled, the Galaxy S II will offer T-Mobile customers speedy access to their favorite movies, TV shows, websites, games, applications and more. 		The smartphone also acts as a mobile entertainment center with quick and easy access to thousands of premium movies and TV shows through Netflix®, T-Mobile TV in Mobile HD2, Samsung Media Hub and YouTube®. The Galaxy S II rich entertainment features and experience are further enhanced with a 4.52-inch Super AMOLED Plus touch screen -the largest screen available on a T-Mobile smartphone. With DLNA compatibility and HDMI out, this media powerhouse also offers the ability to view content on a compatible HD TV.  T-Mobile Sonic 4G Mobile HotSpot		The Sonic 4G Mobile HotSpot is T-Mobile's fastest mobile hotspot, providing access to T-Mobile's 4G (HSPA+ 42) network for up to five Wi-Fi enabled devices including iPads, music players, gaming consoles, laptops, cameras and eReaders, among other devices, all from virtually anywhere. Manufactured by Huawei, this sleek and ultra-portable on-the-go network hub weighs just 3.88 ounces, making it easy to slip into a pocket, backpack or purse. Whether staying connected on the go with colleagues and clients or providing a family Internet hub at a vacation spot or in the car, the T-Mobile Sonic 4G Mobile HotSpot is a device that uniquely complements the company's existing lineup of mobile broadband devices on America's Largest 4G network. 		As an added benefit, the Sonic 4G Mobile HotSpot comes equipped with an SD card slot that accommodates up to 32GB of expandable memory, enabling customers to share and save photos, documents, videos and more with their family and friends also connected to the Mobile HotSpot. The Sonic 4G also features an OLED display to show signal strength, number of devices connected, number of unread text messages, connectivity to the internet, battery level and network connection type.  Availability		The HTC Amaze 4G and Galaxy S II are expected to be available in an exclusive online pre-sale via www.T-Mobile.com beginning Oct. 10 and are expected to be available at T-Mobile retail stores and select dealers nationwide starting Oct. 12. The HTC Amaze 4G is expected to cost $259.99 after a $50 mail-in-rebate card with a two-year service agreement and qualifying Classic voice and data plan. The Galaxy S II is expected to cost $229.99 after a $50 mail-in-rebate card with a two-year service agreement and qualifying Classic voice and data plan.		The T-Mobile Sonic 4G Mobile HotSpot is expected to be available in October at T-Mobile retail stores and online at www.T-Mobile.com. 		T-Mobile's HSPA+ 4G network, including increased speeds, not available everywhere. See coverage details at http://www.t-mobile.com. 		1 Based on average download speeds on T-Mobile's 4G HSPA+ 42 Mbps network in four major markets.		2 Mobile HD TV can deliver a bit rate of 800kbps and 16:9 resolution; the bit rate and resolution you experience will vary based on many factors, e.g., programming, network connection, and device.  About T-Mobile USA		Based in Bellevue, Wash., T-Mobile USA, Inc. is the U.S. wireless operation of Deutsche Telekom AG. By the end of the second quarter of 2011, approximately 128 million mobile customers were served by the mobile communication segments of the Deutsche Telekom group - 33.6 million by T-Mobile USA - all via a common technology platform based on GSM and UMTS and additionally HSPA+ 21/HSPA+ 42. T-Mobile USA's innovative wireless products and services help empower people to connect to those who matter most. Multiple independent research studies continue to rank T-Mobile USA among the highest in numerous regions throughout the U.S. in wireless customer care and call quality. For more information, please visit http://www.T-Mobile.com. T-Mobile is a federally registered trademark of Deutsche Telekom AG. For further information on Deutsche Telekom, please visit www.telekom.de/investor- relations. 		For more information about T-Mobile's 4G products, please visit http://www.t-mobile.com.
 