
 T-Mobile's LTE rollout has been a long time coming, but as of today that network is finally live. At an event in New York City, the carrier made its initial batch of LTE cities official -- seven markets in total. Now, subscribers in Baltimore, MD; Kansas City, KS; Houston, TX; Las Vegas, NV; Phoenix, AZ; San Jose, CA and Washington D.C. will be among the first to take advantage of the UnCarrier's fully-fledged 4G network and its newly revised unlimited talk, text and data plans. As for New York City, a market many assumed would make this first LTE round, CEO John Legere says that's coming soon, mostly likely by early summer. Speeds on this new network, as we saw demoed just a little over a week ago, should range between 10 to 20Mbps down and 8 to 12 Mbps up -- at least, during this intro phase -- with a fallback onto HSPA+ when LTE isn't present. When T-Mobile gets around to repurposing that MetroPCS spectrum it's so close to acquiring, expect to see even more robust LTE speeds and wider coverage across its footprint.

 To kick off adoption of this nascent network, T-Mobile's offering up a pretty attractive portfolio of handsets and high-end ones, at that. So Magenta subs or prospective carrier-switchers looking to sign up for T-Mobile's LTE can choose from the HTC One, Samsung Galaxy S 4, iPhone 5, Galaxy Note II and BlackBerry Z10 -- that latter two of which are currently available. And now that the UnCarrier's removed the contract chains we've all come to know and loathe, subscribers can opt to snag one of these handsets outright with an accompanying Simple Choice plan. If you're excited by all of this change or just want to see it laid out in the company's official terms, head past the break for official PR.



  Show full PR text    T-Mobile Makes Bold "Un-carrier" Moves  Announces radically simple unlimited plan; axes contracts, unbundles cost of plan and device with lowest upfront costs, lights up 4G LTE network

   New York, N.Y. - Mar. 26, 2013  2013-03-26 11:35:20

   T-Mobile has been talking the talk; now it's walking the walk. The company, known for its "Un-carrier" attitude, today announced a series of moves to address consumer frustration with the unnecessary cost and complexity of wireless.

   The moves include radically simplifying its lineup of consumer rate plans to one incredibly affordable plan for unlimited talk, text and Web; ensuring that customers never have to sign another annual service contract through T-Mobile retail outlets; and enabling customers to get the most popular smartphones whenever they want for the lowest upfront cost. T-Mobile also debuted its blazing fast 4G LTE network service in seven major metropolitan areas.

   "These bold moves serve notice that T-Mobile is canceling its membership in the out-of-touch wireless club," said John Legere, president and CEO of T-Mobile USA, Inc. "This is an industry filled with ridiculously confusing contracts, limits on how much data you can use or when you can upgrade, and monthly bills that make little sense. As America's Un-carrier, we are changing all of that and bringing common sense to wireless."

   Un-Restricted, Un-Limited

   Central to today's announcement is a radically simple approach to consumer rate plans - the Simple Choice Plan. A break from industry norms, the Simple Choice Plan eliminates restrictive annual contracts, taking pain and confusion out of the wireless experience.

   What could be simpler than one consumer rate plan?

   Simple Choice asks customers two basic questions: How many lines do you need, and how much high-speed data would you like? Customers start with one line at $50 per month for unlimited talk, text and Web with 500MB of high-speed data. Customers can add a second phone line for $30 per month, and each additional line is just $10 per month. They can also add 2 GB of high-speed data for $10 per month more per line. Unlimited 4G data is only $20 more per month per line. No caps. No overages. Just simple value.

   Also, because T-Mobile is the only major U.S. wireless company to stop requiring consumers to sign annual service contracts, customers have far more flexibility with how they buy and use wireless devices. Traditionally, getting a good deal on a new phone has meant agreeing to an expensive service for two years. Upgrades typically weren't allowed (without significant upfront costs) until contracts expired, and it was often difficult to ascertain the true value of a device offer because it was tied to a long-term annual contract.

   With T-Mobile's un-restricted approach, customers can purchase great devices, pay for them in affordable, interest-free monthly installments, and upgrade anytime they like - not just when their carrier says it's okay. Customers can even use their own unlocked device. Monthly statements are easy to understand since the price stays constant from month to month, and the device cost is clear and unmistakable.

   Customers can find more information about T-Mobile's Simple Choice Plan at nationwide T-Mobile retail stores, on http://www.T-Mobile.com, and through select dealers and national retail stores.

   Un-Beatable Prices on LTE Devices

   In tandem with the debut of its 4G LTE network service, T-Mobile also announced today that it will have several 4G LTE-capable devices available, including Samsung Galaxy S 4, BlackBerry Z10, HTC One, T-Mobile Sonic 2.0 Mobile HotSpot LTE and Samsung Galaxy Note II.

   Samsung Galaxy S® 4 is the next generation of Samsung's popular Galaxy line of smartphones. Exact pricing and timing of availability have not been announced, but the Galaxy S 4 will be available in the second quarter of this year.

   BlackBerry® Z10 is T-Mobile's first 4G LTE touchscreen smartphone featuring the redesigned, re-engineered BlackBerry® 10 platform, which continuously adapts to users' needs. Starting today, the fastest and most advanced BlackBerry smartphone yet is available for qualifying customers for $99.99 down with 24 equal monthly payments of $18 for well-qualified buyers OAC. The BlackBerry Z10 is available through all T-Mobile channels. For more information about T-Mobile's Z10, please visit Media Kit.

   HTC One® is the first T-Mobile 4G LTE smartphone featuring new HTC Sense™ innovations, including HTC BlinkFeed,™ HTC Zoe™ and HTC BoomSound™. Wrapped in a sleek full metal body, the HTC One will be available later this spring in all T-Mobile channels. For more information about HTC One, please visit Media Kit.

   Samsung Galaxy Note® II. Current users of the popular Samsung Galaxy Note II can now take advantage of T-Mobile's 4G LTE network via an over-the-air software update. For more information about this update and for complete download instructions, customers can visit T-Mobile's support page at http://support.t-mobile.com/docs/DOC-4962. For more information about the Samsung Galaxy Note II, please visit Media Kit.

   T-Mobile Sonic 2.0 Mobile HotSpot LTE is the first 4G LTE mobile hotspot from T-Mobile, providing simple and affordable on-the-go access to the Internet for up to eight devices. The T-Mobile Sonic 2.0 Mobile HotSpot LTE is available for $29.99 down with 24 equal monthly payments of $5 for well-qualified buyers OAC beginning today. It will be sold through all T-Mobile channels. For more information about the mobile hotspot, please visit Media Kit.

   Un-Congested 4G Network

   T-Mobile is moving at breakneck speed to expand the capabilities of its network.

   Today, T-Mobile launched its state-of-the-art 4G LTE network in seven major metropolitan areas, including Baltimore; Houston; Kansas City; Las Vegas; Phoenix; San Jose, Calif.; and Washington, D.C. The advanced 4G LTE network is expected to reach 100 million Americans by midyear and 200 million by the end of 2013.

   T-Mobile is deploying the latest LTE technology, paving the way to LTE Advanced. T-Mobile's 4G LTE deployment will complement its existing nationwide 4G network - which third-party tests show rivals or beats existing LTE networks - creating what T-Mobile expects to be the fastest 4G combination in the United States. T-Mobile 4G LTE devices will automatically and seamlessly transition to T-Mobile's nationwide 4G where LTE has not yet launched.

   T-Mobile Launches Un-carrier with Wild West Commercial

   To underscore its Un-carrier attitude, T-Mobile today unveiled a new tagline, "T-Mobile un-leash." In tandem, the company will roll out a new nationwide advertising campaign, beginning with a television commercial tomorrow that plays off the Western film genre. The new commercial features a group of four cowboys in black hats riding into a dusty town to the terror of its residents. As three of the cowboys tell town folk they're going to have to "do what we say," the fourth, representing T-Mobile, switches to a magenta-colored hat and rides in another direction, saying he "just doesn't want to do this anymore." The 60-second ad spot closes with one cowboy musing "I'm gonna miss the guy" while our hero simply states "Oh, I'll be around."

 
