
 T-Mobile announced on Monday that it will exclusively offer the Nokia Lumia 810 in the United States. Set to be available "in the coming weeks," the 810 features a 4.3-inch OLED WVGA Clear Black display, an 8-megapixel Carl Zeiss optics rear-facing camera, a 1.2-megapixel Skype HD-certified front-facing shooter, Windows Phone 8 and support for T-Mobile's HSPA+ faux 4G network. If those specs sound a little familiar, they should -- the 810 seems quite a bit similar to the already announced 820. There are some details absent from this release, however, including CPU, storage, RAM and pricing, but we expect this to be remedied in the coming days. Now that T-Mobile and Ma Bell have called dibs on some of Nokia's first wave of Windows Phone 8 devices, we're left to wonder if America's other two major wireless carriers will soon get with the program.



  Show full PR text    T-Mobile and Nokia Introduce the Nokia Lumia 810   An exclusive T-Mobile device, the Nokia Lumia 810, coupled with T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data, gives customers a truly unlimited Windows Phone 8 experience   BELLEVUE, Wash. - Oct. 8, 2012 - T-Mobile USA, Inc. and Nokia today announced the upcoming availability of the Nokia Lumia 810 - an exclusive to T-Mobile. The new Windows Phone 8 smartphone offers an enhanced camera, simple design and integrated navigation features. Combined with the only unlimited nationwide 4G data plan, T-Mobile customers will see a superior value with the Lumia 810, the latest addition to T-Mobile's expanding lineup of Windows devices.   "We're providing our customers with a unique Windows Phone 8 experience by offering an exclusive device paired with our Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan and a comprehensive set of enhanced features," said Andrew Morrison, vice president of product management, T-Mobile USA. "The Nokia Lumia 810 gives customers speedy, 4G access to T-Mobile's nationwide network and the content and features they want, whenever they need it. From navigation tools to an enhanced camera, the Lumia 810 provides a great value and a high-quality experience."   "The Nokia Lumia 810 features a sleek design and high-quality hardware, combined with the efficient and intuitive Windows Phone 8 operating system," said Olivier Puech, President, Nokia Americas. "When combined with applications such as Nokia Drive and Nokia City Lens, the Lumia 810 ensures that T-Mobile customers are getting the best experience possible out of their smartphone."   Sleek Unibody Design and State-of-the-Art Wireless Charging  Featuring a 4.3-inch OLED WVGA Clear Black display, the Lumia 810 offers high-end performance in a compact package. The new smartphone is powered by Windows Phone 8, making it easy for users to personalize their device and experiences and always stay connected to friends and family. T-Mobile will offer exchangeable shells in cyan and black, which will allow the device to take advantage of Nokia's convenient and innovative wireless charging solution.   New High-End Camera Features to Capture and Share Quality Photos  With an 8-megapixel camera engineered with Carl Zeiss optics, the Lumia 810 takes crisper and sharper pictures, bringing memories to life. The device also features a new 1.2-megapixel Skype HD certified front-facing camera, providing a high-quality mobile video chat experience. With the Lumia 810, users can capture, share and relive life's moments with new camera features such as Cinemagraph, a lens that creates animated GIFs, as well as panorama settings and Group Shoot, which allows the customer to choose the best faces and smiles from a burst of photos and stitch them together to produce the perfect group shot.   Enhanced Navigation Experience  The Lumia 810 also comes with new and enhanced navigation features including Nokia City Lens, which overlays information about restaurants, shops, hotels and more on the surfaces of buildings, providing a new augmented reality experience. The smartphone also provides a comprehensive, integrated mapping experience through new enhancements to Nokia Drive, a voice-guided, turn-by-turn navigation system, as well as through Nokia Transit, which provides directions to a location using public transportation.   Easier Entertainment  The Lumia 810 also comes with Nokia Music, which features playlists that are curated by an expert team of global and regional musicologists, spanning a wide spectrum of music genres. Completely advertisement-free, and requiring no registration or subscription, Nokia Music allows consumers to enjoy the songs of their favorite artists without disruption. Nokia Music can also be enjoyed offline so consumers can listen to their favorite playlists anytime, anywhere.   Availability

   The Nokia Lumia 810 is expected to be available in the coming weeks. For more information on T-Mobile's devices, visit http://www.t-mobile.com/. For more information on T-Mobile's Unlimited Value and Monthly4G plans, see: http://family.t-mobile.com/phone-plans.

 
