
 


	We were already expecting to see the WiFi-only version of the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus make its American debut on November 13th, but it may be worth waiting an extra three days if you'd like to have some good old-fashioned HSPA+ connectivity on T-Mobile. Indeed, the carrier announced its 4G-ified iteration of the tablet will be ready for your purchase on November 16th for a $250 down payment after a mail-in rebate and with a two-year contract. Oh, and that's not the only fine print: you'll need to shell out twenty monthly interest-free payments of $10 in addition to your normal data plan. To sum up the specs, the seven-inch tablet has Android 3.2 preinstalled, runs on a 1.2GHz Exynos CPU, has 16GB of internal storage and takes advantage of a 3MP rear-facing camera and 2MP front-facing cam for video chat. Still intrigued? Read on through the press release to learn more about your potential Tab life.
 

 		Show full PR text  T-Mobile Completes Holiday 4G Tablet Portfolio With the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 7.0 Plus 		T-Mobile's newest ultra-mobile 4G tablet delivers a rich entertainment experience anywhere on America's Largest 4G Network.   		BELLEVUE, Wash. - Nov. 8, 2011 - T-Mobile USA, Inc. today unveiled the ultra-mobile Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 7.0 Plus, the latest to join the company's portfolio of 7-, 9- and 10-inch 4G-enabled* tablets. Featuring a brilliant 7-inch multitouch display and weighing just 0.77 lbs., less than a can of soda, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus is one of the thinnest and lightest 7-inch tablets on the market, making it easy to watch popular TV shows and movies, download full-color magazines, compete in multi-player gaming and more – all while on the go.   		"Consumers want a selection of affordable, highly mobile tablets that can deliver the content they want virtually anywhere they go," said Jeremy Korst, vice president of mobile broadband and emerging devices, T-Mobile USA. "The Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus is a perfectly sized, ultra-thin and lightweight 4G tablet that easily fits in a coat pocket or purse and delivers a rich on-the-go entertainment experience."   		Offering a premium, ultra-mobile entertainment experience, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus from T-Mobile comes with a variety of pre-installed premium content, including the Samsung Media Hub so customers can rent or purchase movies and purchase TV programs and share that content on up to five compatible devices on the same account. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus also comes pre-loaded with WildTangent®, so customers can play premium games for free, as well as rent or purchase games.   		The Android™ 3.2 (Honeycomb) Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus is equipped with a 1.2 GHz dual-core processor, 16 GB of internal memory and a micro SD card slot that supports up to an additional 32 GB of expandable memory for easy storage of documents, movies, books and more. In addition, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus makes it quick and easy to browse rich Web content with support for Adobe® Flash® Player and read books and magazines though services like Zinio®, which offers more than 5,000 full color magazines to browse, and Blio® eReader, which shows eBooks in full color on the brilliant 7-inch screen.   		Equipped with a 3-megapixel rear-facing camera with flash for photo, and Mobile HD video capture and playback in 720p** as well as a 2-megapixel front-facing camera which can be used to connect with friends and family via Video Chat, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus makes it possible to connect and share life's most important moments while on the go.   		Availability 		The Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus will join the recently announced T-Mobile® SpringBoard™ with Google™ and Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1, as well as the T-Mobile G-Slate™ with Google, to offer an affordable and compelling portfolio of 7-, 9- and 10-inch 4G tablets with down payments ranging from $179.99 to $399.99***.   		Beginning Nov. 16, customers can purchase the T-Mobile SpringBoard for a $179.99 down payment and the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus for a $249.99 down payment at T-Mobile retail stores. Each require a $50 mail-in rebate, with a T-Mobile Value Mobile Broadband plan, two-year service agreement, and 20 interest free monthly payments of $10 on approved credit. Overage-free Mobile Broadband Value plans start at $29.99 per month, and T-Mobile postpaid voice customers enjoy $10 off their monthly mobile broadband service. For more information, visit http://mobile-broadband.t-mobile.com/tablets.   		*T-Mobile's HSPA+ 4G network not available everywhere. See coverage details at http://www.t-mobile.com. 4G used in connection with the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus product refers to the fact that the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus is designed with HSPA+ technology. 		**Playback on device limited to WSVGA (1024x600) 		***After mail-in rebate card with a T-Mobile Value Mobile Broadband plan, two year service agreement and 20 interest free monthly payments of $10 on approved credit.
 