
T-Mobile has been slowly inching closer to closing its acquisition deal with MetroPCS, and the day for inking that contract is finally here. Less than a week after MetroPCS shareholders approved the merger, which would give them a total cash payment of $1.5 billion, the deal is done, and T-Mo is a publicly traded company. In addition to giving Deutsche Telekom a 74 percent stake in the new company, the deal will bring nine million new prepaid customers to T-Mobile. According to the Uncarrier's President and CEO, the network would "continue our legacy of marketplace innovation by tearing up the old playbook and rewriting the rules of wireless to benefit consumers." T-Mobile plans to keep the MetroPCS brand, holding on to its retail outlets too, pitching to different demographics with the two carriers, according to AllThingsD. MetroPCS broke the news to its customers first through Facebook, although Big Magenta followed swiftly with the official press release -- you'll find that right after the break.



Show full PR textT-Mobile and MetroPCS Combination Complete-Wireless Revolution Just Beginning
T-Mobile US to Ring NYSE Opening Bell as Trading Begins Today Under Ticker "TMUS"

BONN, Germany & BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May. 1, 2013-- Deutsche Telekom AG (XETRA: DTE; "Deutsche Telekom") and T-Mobile US, Inc. today announced the completion of the combination of T-Mobile USA, Inc. and MetroPCS Communications, Inc., uniting two wireless innovators with one common vision: to bring wireless consumers exciting new choices while delivering an exceptional experience. The combined company, T-Mobile US, Inc., will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange today under the ticker "TMUS.""The combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS creates an even stronger disruptive force in the U.S. wireless market," said John Legere, President & Chief Executive Officer of T-Mobile US, Inc. "Together, as America's Un-carrier, we'll continue our legacy of marketplace innovation by tearing up the old playbook and rewriting the rules of wireless to benefit consumers."

As previously announced, the Board of Directors of the combined company will have 11 members, including two directors of MetroPCS who will continue with the combined company. Tim Höttges, currently Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Telekom, will serve as Chairman of the Board.

"By uniting T-Mobile and MetroPCS, we have created a dynamic new player in the wireless industry that has the right strategy and management team in place to compete successfully in today's marketplace," said Mr. Höttges. "We look forward to realizing the tremendous potential of the new T-Mobile."

A few facts about America's Un-carrier:2012 combined entity results would have reflected $24.8 billion of revenue, $6.4 billion of adjusted EBITDA1, $3.7 billion of capital expenditures (excluding spectrum purchases)2, and $2.7 billion of free cash flow3.Approximately 43 million subscribers as of March 31, 2013, two exceptionally strong brands, and 70,000 customer touch points.A wider choice of outstanding wireless devices, including iPhone, offered through simple, affordable rate plans for unlimited talk, text, and Web – with no restrictive annual service contracts required.

The combined company's total PoP coverage is 301 million, of which 283 million are covered by owned network. 228 million are currently served with 4G and 200 million are expected to be covered with 4G LTE by the end of 2013.

An enhanced spectrum position that will provide greater network coverage and deeper 4G LTE coverage in key markets across the country. Combining the two companies' spectrum provides a path to at least 20+20 MHz of 4G LTE in approximately 90% of the top 25 metro areas in 2014 and beyond.

Target five-year (2012 – 2017) compounded annual growth rates in the range of 3% – 5% for revenues, 7% – 10% for EBITDA, and 15% – 20% for free cash flow.Projected cost synergies of $6 – $7 billion (net present value4), with additional potential upside from the focused geographic expansion of the MetroPCS brand.


