
T-Mobile's Moon Shot? Might as well Jump. The magenta-minded carrier has taken the wraps off of Jump (plus exclamation mark, if you choose), a system that lets customers upgrade their handsets up to twice a year -- a plan clearly targeted toward gadget obsessives (and the fickle). As CEO John Legere put it -- it can stand for either "Just Upgrade My Phone" or "John Upgrade My Phone." Also included in the $10 (per phone, plus applicable taxes and other fees) a month deal is a total protection plan that helps out with malfunctions, damage, thefts and loss of handsets. Those interested are able to enroll as soon as six months after joining up. After that time, subscribers can trade in a working, eligible phone to a T-Mobile store. Equipment Installment Program fees will be eliminated, and they'll be able to buy a new phone for a new customer upfront price.


As for availability? According to the fine print on the press release below (after the, wait for it, jump) the plan (which kicks in on Sunday), "may not be available in all locations." Surely your local T-Mobile representative has more information on that front. More info below, along with some ads featuring none other than SNL's Bill Hader. And if you're so inclined, click through the source link to jump on board.



Show full PR textT-Mobile Announces Boldest Moves Yet as America's Un-carrier
T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: TMUS) isn't resting after turning the industry upside down with its "Un-carrier" approach to wireless earlier this year. It's picking up the pace and continuing to revolutionize wireless for consumers.
At an event in New York today, America's Un-carrier announced a groundbreaking new program, JUMP!™, which enables people to upgrade their phones when they want, up to twice a year as soon as six months from enrollment.
"At some point, big wireless companies made a decision for you that you should have to wait two years to get a new phone for a fair price. That's 730 days of waiting. 730 days of watching new phones come out that you can't have. Or having to live with a cracked screen or an outdated camera," said John Legere, president and CEO of T-Mobile US. "We say two years is just too long to wait. Today, we're changing all that with the launch of JUMP! Now, customers never have to worry about being stuck with the wrong phone. And, yes - it's really as good as it sounds."



