
 

Fellow road warriors, we bring you good news: starting today, T-Mobile customers across 55 markets -- including Chicago, Detroit, Honolulu, Pittsburgh, Miami, and many more -- will have immediate access to a faster HSPA+ "4G" network. This means anyone with compatible devices can achieve theoretical download speeds of up to a whopping 42Mbps, as opposed to just 21Mbps from the good ol' days. But of course, only time will tell whether this upgrade will deliver its promise -- you may recall that even AT&T's LTE demo last week delivered "realistic" download speeds of up to just 28.9Mbps, when in theory it should be capable of hitting up to 100Mbps.

Anyhow, if you want to soldier on and be a guinea pig an early adopter, then help yourself to ZTE's Rocket 3.0 USB modem stick starting tomorrow -- the entry price is $99.99 after a $50 mail in rebate, but tied to a two-year broadband plan of 2GB or higher; or you can opt for the contract-free price of $199.99. Hit the press release after the break for the full list of activated markets.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  America's Largest 4G Network Now Twice as Fast in More Than 50 New Markets 		T-Mobile Rocket 3.0, the company's first 42Mbps-capable product, available starting tomorrow, delivers a lightning-fast mobile broadband experience 		BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Today, T-Mobile USA, Inc. announced it is doubling the speed of its 4G network in more than 50 markets to achieve theoretical peak download speeds of up to 42 megabits per second (Mbps). T-Mobile customers in 55 markets will now have access to increased 4G network speed, capacity and reliability. These markets include Atlanta, Ga.; Chicago, Ill.; Denver, Colo.; Detroit, Mich.; Dallas and Houston, Texas; Los Angeles, Calif.; Miami, Fla.; New Orleans, La.; Phoenix, Ariz.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Portland, Ore.; and San Francisco, Calif., among others. 		In addition, T-Mobile's first 42 Mbps-capable 4G product, the T-Mobile Rocket® 3.0 laptop stick, will be available for purchase beginning tomorrow, May 25. The Rocket 3.0, manufactured by ZTE, is designed to take advantage of T-Mobile's faster 4G network speeds. Capable of speeds twice as fast as T-Mobile's previous 4G devices, customers in 42Mbps coverage are expected to experience more consistent 4G speeds when creating and sharing mobile content, streaming and connecting through mobile video, and participating in multiplayer gaming. 		"We are continuing the aggressive expansion of America's Largest 4G Network™, and also doubling our speeds in more than 50 markets this month," said Neville Ray, chief technology officer, T-Mobile USA. "While customers with existing 3G and 4G devices will benefit from our continued network enhancements, new devices like the new Rocket 3.0 laptop stick will enable customers to reap the benefits of even faster 4G speeds." 		Providing customers with a blazing fast Internet connection on almost any laptop while on the go, the T-Mobile Rocket 3.0 is equipped with a convenient rotating swivel USB form factor, and three changeable faceplates in cobalt blue, dark violet and matte black. The Rocket 3.0 will be available at select T-Mobile retail stores and online at www.T-Mobile.com tomorrow for $99.99 after a $50 mail in rebate, with a qualifying mobile broadband plan on a two-year service agreement1. Postpaid monthly plans start at $29.99, and customers with a qualifying voice line of service with T-Mobile receive a 20 percent discount. Customers can also purchase the T-Mobile Rocket 3.0 without an annual contract for $199.99. For more information about the T-Mobile Rocket 3.0, including pricing and plan details, visit www.t-mobile.com/broadbandgoesmobile. 		As T-Mobile's 4G network continues to expand and get faster, the company's portfolio of 4G products is also growing. T-Mobile currently offers a dozen 4G-capable devices spanning smartphones, tablets and mobile broadband products that give customers access to America's Largest 4G Network. The company has announced plans to deliver a total of 25 4G-capable devices in 2011. 		T-Mobile's 4G network already reaches more than 200 million Americans in 170 markets. By midyear, T-Mobile expects that more than 150 million Americans will have access to increased 4G speeds as T-Mobile upgrades its 4G network. A list of new markets where the new faster speeds are available can be found below. 		T-Mobile 4G markets where 42Mbps service is launching today: 		Albany, Ga.; Athens, Ga.; Atlanta, Ga.; Auburn, Ala.; Augusta, Ga.; Austin, Texas; Bentonville, Ark.; Boulder, Colo.; Chattanooga, Tenn.; Chicago, Ill.; Dallas, Texas; Deltona-Daytona Beach-Ormond Beach, Fla.; Denver, Colo.; Detroit, Mich.; Durham, N.C.; El Paso, Texas; Fort Collins, Colo.; Gainesville, Fla.; Gainesville, Ga.; Greeley, Colo.; Honolulu, Hawaii; Houston, Texas; Jacksonville, Fla.; Long Island, N.Y.; Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, Calif.; Macon, Ga.; Mayaguez, Puerto Rico; Miami, Fla.; New Orleans, La.; Oklahoma City, Okla.; Olympia, Wash.; Omaha, Neb.; Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, Calif.; Phoenix, Ariz.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Ponce, Puerto Rico; Portland, Ore.; Salinas, Calif.; San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, Calif.; San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, Calif.; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Santa Cruz-Watsonville, Calif.; Santa Rosa-Petaluma, Calif.; Savannah, Ga.; Seattle, Wash.; Spokane, Wash.; Tampa, Fla.; Tulsa, Okla.; Valdosta, Ga.; Vallejo-Fairfield, Calif.; Warner Robins, Ga.; and Wichita, Kan. 		T-Mobile's HSPA+ 4G network is not available everywhere. See coverage details at T-Mobile.com. 		1. Mail-in rebate card requires qualifying T-Mobile voice line and enrollment in EasyPay. Pricing and discount offers are subject to change.
 