
 
 If the "unlimited" data currently offered by T-Mobile that gets its speeds throttled down all too soon has failed to satisfy, there may be relief on the way. TMoNews has obtained pictures of a flyer indicating the carrier will introduce a new Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data add-on ($30 for Classic talk and text customers, $20 for Value) that allows for actually unlimited usage of 4G data. There is of course always a fly in the ointment, and in this case it's that it doesn't alow for Smartphone Mobile Hotspot usage, so if you're hoping for official tethering support you'll need one of the other packages. The materials suggest it plans to upsell current 2GB package subscribers by pointing out the can get an unlimited and uncapped experience for just $10 more per month. We'll have to wait and see if this comes true (along with all the other highly anticipated September 5th reveals) but if it does, would it be enough for you to switch to the remaining major carrier that doesn't directly offer LTE (yet) or the iPhone?

 Update: In a quick turnaround, this has just gone from rumor to officially confirmed. Check the press release after the break for the details, but it's all just as we'd heard.



  Show full PR text    T-Mobile Unleashes Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data  Starting Sept. 5, T-Mobile will be the only carrier with a nationwide 4G network to offer unlimited nationwide 4G data

   BELLEVUE, Wash., Aug 22, 2012 (BUSINESS WIRE) -- T-Mobile USA, Inc., today announced an industry first -- a truly Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan. Featuring no data caps, speed limits or bill shock, as well as fast, dependable nationwide 4G coverage, T-Mobile's new Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan offers the ultimate worry-free experience. The new plan is designed to satisfy both data-hungry customers who want to experience all their smartphones are capable of and those wanting the peace of mind of never having to keep track of their data usage.

   Today's smartphones offer amazing experiences, and consumers are increasingly relying on them for everything from navigation, entertainment and shopping to just staying connected. With the introduction of the Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, T-Mobile(R) is the only U.S. carrier to empower customers to do what they want, when they want, with their smartphones by making fast, nationwide 4G data accessible for everyone -- without limits and at a great value.

   "We're big believers in customer-driven innovation, and our Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan is the answer to customers who are frustrated by the cost, complexity and congested networks of our competitors," said Kevin McLaughlin, vice president, marketing, T-Mobile USA. "Consumers want the freedom of unlimited 4G data. Our bold move to be the only wireless carrier to offer an Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan reinforces our value leadership and capitalizes on the strength of our nationwide 4G network."

   For customers seeking an unlimited experience on their smartphones, T-Mobile offers several ways for new and existing customers to take advantage of its Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan. New customers can purchase any smartphone in T-Mobile's robust lineup of innovative devices or bring their own compatible smartphone and have access to a worry-free unlimited data experience on T-Mobile's fast nationwide 4G network. Current T-Mobile customers on Classic or Value plans can simply upgrade their existing service by adding an Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan.

   The Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan will cost $20 per month when added to a Value voice and text plan or $30 per month when added to a Classic voice and text plan. For example, a single line Value plan with unlimited talk and text combined with unlimited nationwide 4G data will cost $69.99 or a single line Classic plan with unlimited talk, unlimited text and unlimited nationwide 4G data will cost $89.99.

   Available starting Sept. 5, T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan will provide smartphone customers with uncompromised, dependable access to data on the blazing-fast speeds of T-Mobile's nationwide 4G network. The Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan will be available at T-Mobile retail stores, on http://www.T-Mobile.com/unlimited-data-plan and through select dealers and national retail stores.

 
