
 Dreams can come true, folks: T-Mobile and Apple have entered an agreement and will be launching products beginning next year. The announcement was posted (nearly as an afterthought, oddly enough) as part of a press release in which Deutsche Telekom spelled out its financial plans through 2015, while COO Rene Obermann also made the announcement in an investors conference. While the two companies have not explicitly given specifics on which Apple devices we can expect to see in a retail store near you, we wouldn't be surprised to see new products from Cupertino hitting the shelves around the same time as the fourth-largest US carrier's LTE launch in 2013.

 T-Mobile has made no secret of the fact that it has long been interested in carrying Apple products, as several executives have made mention of it. The company already boasts over a million unlocked iPhones in use on its network, which is currently undergoing an expansive 3G refarming effort on iPhone-friendly (amongst other quad-band phones, of course) 1900MHz frequencies. We've reached out to T-Mobile and Apple for comment and will update this post as we hear more. For now, check out the press release in all its glory below.

 Update: PCMag's Sascha Segan reports that T-Mobile CEO John Legere "is implying that the carrier will launch an as-yet-unannounced iPhone model."

 Update 2: We pinged Apple for additional comment, and while a spokesperson was pleased to "confirm the news," they couldn't add "additional details."

 Update 3: We also reached out to T-Mobile and were told that additional details would be given at a later date.



  Show full PR text    Deutsche Telekom steps up investment in growth in 2014 and adjusts dividend planning to 50 euro cents
   Dec 06, 2012

   Ad hoc notification from Deutsche Telekom in accordance with ยง 15 of the Securities Trading Act (WpHG)

   The Board of Management of Deutsche Telekom today approved the financial planning for the Group for the years 2013 through 2015. The relevant committees of the Supervisory Board, the General and Finance Committees, then addressed the plans and formulated a recommendation for the Supervisory Board to approve them at its next meeting.

   The plans are for the Group to increase its capital expenditure considerably over the next three years (including expenditure following the closing of the business combination of MetroPCS with T-Mobile USA, which is expected in the first half of 2013). Capital expenditure (excluding spectrum investment) of EUR 9.8 billion is scheduled for 2013 compared with an expected total of EUR 8.3 billion in the current year. The increased level of capital expenditure is intended to generate year-on-year growth both in revenue and adjusted EBITDA as soon as 2014. To create a basis for comparison, MetroPCS is assumed to be included for the full 2013 financial year based on a pro forma calculation.

   The dividend for the 2013 and 2014 financial years is to be adjusted to these plans, with a payment of 50 euro cents per dividend-bearing share planned for both years. The plans for dividend payments are subject to approval by the relevant bodies and the fulfillment of other legal requirements.

   The higher investment volume is to be used to roll out the broadband infrastructure in Germany and the United States in particular. In the mobile communications network, this will be done using the state-of-the-art technology LTE. Around EUR 6 billion is earmarked for rolling out the broadband infrastructure in the German fixed network with optical fiber and vectoring between 2013 and 2020. In addition, T-Mobile USA has entered into an agreement with Apple to bring products to market together in 2013.

   Expected development of revenue in the operating segments and the Group.

   Deutsche Telekom expects its revenues in the Germany segment to stabilize in 2014. The Europe segment is expected to record organic growth again in 2014, i.e., without the impact of regulatory decisions, exchange rate effects and exceptional state measures such as the imposition of additional taxes. The U.S. business is to return to growth in the planning period. The activities of the Digital Business Unit are expected to generate double-digit growth rates until 2015. Deutsche Telekom expects T-Systems to generate profitable revenue growth in its business with customers outside the Deutsche Telekom Group.

   Deutsche Telekom therefore expects the Group to generate additional revenue in 2014 compared with the prior year (including MetroPCS on a comparable basis).

   Expected development of adjusted EBITDA in the Group for 2013 and 2014.

   The forecast for the Group in its current structure is for adjusted EBITDA of around EUR 17.4 billion in 2013 (forecast for 2012: around EUR 18 billion). Based on a pro forma calculation that assumes inclusion of MetroPCS for the entire financial year 2013, adjusted EBITDA would amount to around EUR 18.4 billion. Deutsche Telekom is planning a year-on-year increase in adjusted EBITDA in 2014 (including MetroPCS on a comparable basis).

   Expected development of free cash flow in the Group for 2013 through 2015.

   The Group's free cash flow is expected to decrease to around EUR 5 billion in 2013 (scheduled figure for 2012: around EUR 6 billion), primarily as a result of the increased capital expenditure and the systematic implementation of the Challenger strategy in the U.S. market, including the agreement with Apple. The Group's free cash flow is expected to be around EUR 6 billion in 2015 (including MetroPCS).

   Dividend planning for 2013 and 2014.

   Subject to approval by the relevant bodies and the fulfillment of other legal requirements, a dividend of 50 euro cents per dividend-bearing share is to be paid for each of the financial years 2013 and 2014. The Company also plans to offer shareholders the option of receiving payment in the form of shares (dividend in kind). Both forms of payment are tax-free for domestic shareholders.

   Planning for key financial indicators.

   The ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA from 2013 through 2015 is to remain within the range of 2.0 to 2.5 as in the previous three years. The equity ratio is also scheduled to remain in the same range as for the previous period of 25 to 35 percent.

   Deutsche Telekom continues to manage its liquidity reserve such that at least capital market maturities for the forthcoming 24 months are covered at any given time. Closely linked to this is the approach of a balanced maturities profile.

 
