
 
T-Mobile and LG have decided not to sit still in the shadow of Motorola and Verizon's high-powered 4G Honeycomb tablet partnership and have just announced their intention to introduce the T-Mobile G-Slate. Few details are known at present other than those headline-grabbing 4G (or pseudo-4G) capabilities and Android 3.0 operating system. This is probably the exact same tablet that LG is hosting an event for tomorrow. Jump past the break for some video conferencing, browser, and e-reading demos in awesome, fluid, streamable video. Hey, even if you don't care for either T-Mobile or LG, this is a pretty nice exposition of the Honeycomb interface.
      

 

Show full PR textT-Mobile and LG Mobile Phones Announce Their First 4G Android 3.0 Powered Tablet - T-Mobile G-Slate With GoogleT-Mobile G-Slate by LG Is Set to Launch in the Coming Months on America's Largest 4G NetworkLAS VEGAS - Jan. 5, 2011 - Today at 2011 International CES, T-Mobile USA, Inc. and LG Mobile Phones announced the upcoming Android™ Honeycomb-powered T-Mobile® G-Slate™ with Google™, by LG. Expected to be available in coming months, the G-Slate will be the first 4G tablet from the two companies powered by Android 3.0 (Honeycomb), the upcoming version of Google's Android platform optimized for tablets."T-Mobile is proud to add a new milestone in the evolution of the Android platform with our first 4G tablet powered by Android 3.0," said Cole Brodman, chief marketing officer, T-Mobile USA. "The T-Mobile G-Slate with Google will build on our rich history of Android innovation and leadership and deliver deep integration with Google services.""LG is dedicated to continuing its role as an innovation leader and is thrilled to announce its entry into the tablet marketplace with the G-Slate," said Jeff Hwang, president of LG Mobile Phones. "Streamlining everyday tasks and enhancing entertainment with blazing fast 4G speed, the T-Mobile G-Slate by LG will deliver the latest in Android technology and provide users with an advanced tablet experience."The T-Mobile G-Slate will be among the first 4G tablets to fully benefit from the tablet-optimized Android 3.0 platform, which was designed from the ground up for devices with larger screen sizes and addresses the unique aspects of tablet use cases and form factors. The Honeycomb user experience improves on Android favorites such as widgets, multi-tasking, browsing, notifications and customization. It will also feature the latest Google Mobile innovations including Google Maps™ 5.0 with 3D interaction, collection of more than 3 million eBooks and Google Talk™ with video and voice chat.Additional product details will be disclosed at a later date.
 