
       
While we'd secretly hoped we'd see the T-Mobile Dash before September was out, we've gotten hold of some internal T-Mobile documentation that tells us October 16 is the date. We've always been told not to look a gift horse in the mouth (whatever that means) so we're going to keep our mouths shut and just thank the good folks at T-Mobile for seeing fit to launch HTC's Q-munching Excalibur at all. Keep reading for a transcript of their "Selling Aid" cheat sheet for the Dash -- something tells us it'll pretty much sell itself, but kudos to T-Mob for making sure their peeps are properly informed![Thanks, anonymous tipster]
      

 

Introducing T-Mobile Dash The exclusive T-Mobile Dash is a sleek Smartphone with a full QWERTY keyboard that brings e-mail and familiar Outlook right to your phone. Using Microsoft Office Outlook Mobile ®, T-Mobile Dash delivers important information and e-mail on the go. Now you can have your Outlook calendar and contacts up to date and always with you. Easily check e-mail and access Internet information virtually anywhere with T-Mobile's EDGE network or blazing fast T-Mobile HotSpot wireless broadband. As a bonus, T-Mobile Dash supports myFaves rate plans, which allow customers to choose their top 5 contacts and make or receive unlimited phone calls for one low price. Availability T-Mobile Dash launches in all markets on October 16th 2006. Audience The T-Mobile Dash is an excellent choice for family-focused working individuals who are trying to master a busy life. They do a lot of personal and work e-mail from their computer and desire a way of doing this e-mail and using Outlook from a mobile phone. They are brand-conscious, tech-savvy individuals who rely on various organizational tools (phone, PDA, home calendar, home/work computer, etc.). They've thought of making the transition to a "converged device," but worry that these devices may be too bulky, too difficult to use or too focused on business applications to meet their personal needs. Key Selling Points • Sleek Device Sleek Smartphone with a full keyboard • Familiar and Easy-To-Use Messaging Options T-Mobile Dash has the most familiar communication and organization features (personal e-mail and Outlook), plus the ability to share and view pictures, video, and other large attachments. • Best Value Data Plan, including high speed Wi-Fi UNLIMITED access to e-mail, Internet and T-Mobile HotSpot Wi-Fi service on T-Mobile's powerful nationwide data network for $29.99/month when added to a T-Mobile voice plan. Key Sales Considerations • Perfect handset for customers who want the convenience and access of a Smartphone without the bulk of a converged device like the MDA, and who don't need or want the ability to edit e-mail attachments or use character recognition.• To get the most out of the T-Mobile Dash, use the T-Mobile Total Internet Plan for general GPRS and Wi-Fi data service.• Using the T-Mobile Dash with myFaves requires the separate myFaves plan.

       

 