
 Remember when T-Mobile announced that it would begin carrying Apple products sometime this year? It looks like today's the day we finally get more information. As we've been expecting, the fourth-largest carrier is now ready to officially offer the iPhone after years of inviting customers to bring an unlocked model onto its network. (Update: see our hands-on here!) The iPhone 5 will be available in retail stores and online starting April 12th, but you'll be able to pre-order one beginning April 5th. Additionally, the iPhone 4S and 4 will be coming to "select markets," though we haven't seen details on which markets or when they'll be offered.

 What about pricing? You can grab the iPhone 5 for $100 down and pay the rest in $20 monthly installments for the next two years; the 4S will be $70 down (with the same $20 installments) and the 4 will be $15 down with $15 monthly payments. No doubt, this move will make its forthcoming LTE launch even more enticing, but that's not all: T-Mobile CEO John Legere stated on stage that his company's version of the iPhone 5 will support AWS HSPA+ in addition to LTE. HD Voice is also offered on this particular model.

 We also learned that despite the network's use of the "UnCarrier" brand, its version of the iPhone 5 will be locked to T-Mobile until the phone is completely paid off.

 Stay updated on T-Mobile's announcements with our liveblog!


   Show full PR text   T-Mobile Un-leashes iPhone 5 With Incredible New Pricing and No Annual Contracts  Becomes first major wireless company to eliminate service contracts; debuts 4G LTE network in seven major metropolitan areas
    New York, N.Y. - Mar. 26, 2013   Consumers will have a new affordable, unrestricted and hassle-free way to buy an iPhone 5 when T-Mobile USA, Inc. begins offering the revolutionary phone on Friday, April 12.   T-Mobile announced today that qualifying customers can get an iPhone 5 for $99.99 down, plus monthly payments. T-Mobile is the only major U.S. wireless company to offer iPhone 5 with no annual service contract plus unlimited talk, text and Web on a screaming-fast nationwide 4G network. And because there are no annual contracts, customers make the decision when to upgrade their devices - not the carrier.   "This is an important day for people who love their iPhone but can't stand the pain other carriers put them through to own one," said John Legere, president and CEO of T-Mobile USA. "We feel their pain. I've felt the pain. So we're rewriting the rules of wireless to provide a radically simple, affordable iPhone 5 experience - on an extremely powerful network."   iPhone 5 is the thinnest and lightest iPhone ever, completely redesigned to feature a stunning 4-inch Retina display, an Apple-designed A6 chip for blazing fast performance and ultrafast wireless technology1 - all while delivering even better battery life.2 iPhone 5 comes with iOS 6, the world's most advanced mobile operating system with over 200 new features, including Shared Photo Streams, Facebook integration, all-new Maps app and Passbook organization, and even more Siri features and languages.   With compatibility on T-Mobile's 4G network, iPhone 5 customers will enjoy a consistently outstanding wireless experience, seamlessly connecting to both T-Mobile's existing nationwide 4G and growing 4G LTE networks. Today, the company launched 4G LTE service in seven major metropolitan areas, including Baltimore; Houston; Kansas City; Las Vegas; Phoenix; San Jose, Calif.; and Washington, D.C. T-Mobile's 4G LTE network is expected to reach 100 million people by mid-year and 200 million nationwide by the end of 2013. The company's 4G HSPA+ network reaches 225 million people in 229 metropolitan areas.   In addition to a great 4G network experience, T-Mobile offers iPhone 5 customers one of the simplest and most competitive consumer rate plans in the industry. Rather than providing a dizzying number of consumer rate plans, T-Mobile is offering iPhone 5 with just one.   T-Mobile's new Simple Choice Plan starts with a base rate of $50 per month for unlimited talk, text and Web with 500MB of 4G data.3 Consumers can add 2GB of 4G data for $10 per month per line or get unlimited 4G data for an additional $20 per month per line. Customers can add a second phone line for $30 per month, and each additional line is just $10 per month. There are no caps and no overages.   Additional Benefits  In addition to the Simple Choice Plan's reasonable terms and powerful nationwide network, iPhone 5 customers can take advantage of several free premium benefits from T-Mobile, including:  HD Voice - delivering nationwide crystal-clear high-definition calling and significantly reduced background noise. T-Mobile is the only U.S. carrier offering nationwide HD Voice for iPhone 5.  T-Mobile Smartphone Mobile HotSpot for on-the-go tethering Internet access. Through Simple Choice, T-Mobile offers an additional 500MB of 4G data for tethering, enabling customers to tether from their iPads, Macs and other devices.  Talk and surf at the same time - without limits. Through T-Mobile's Simple Choice Plan, customers can opt for totally unlimited 4G data on a nationwide network, something no other major U.S. wireless company offers for iPhone 5.   Pricing & Availability  iPhone 5 will be available for qualifying customers with T-Mobile's Simple Choice Plan for $99.99 down and $20 per month for 24 months. Qualifying customers can get iPhone 4S through the Simple Choice Plan for $69.99 down and $20 per month for 24 months. iPhone 4 will be available for qualifying customers through the Simple Choice Plan for $14.99 down and $15 per month for 24 months. Financing is available on approval of credit online and in participating locations. iPhone 4S and iPhone 4 will be available in select markets. iPhone 5 will be available nationwide on Friday, April 12, at T-Mobile retail stores and through select dealers and national retail stores, as well as online at http://www.T-Mobile.com. Customers can pre-order iPhone 5 beginning Friday, April 5. For more information, visit the pre-registration page.   1 Network speeds are dependent on carrier networks, check with your carrier for details.  2 Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors. Actual results vary.  3 4G network connection required for 4G speeds; all data use applies to allotment. Once rate plan allotment of high-speed data has been consumed, customers will experience reduced Web speeds without overage charges for the remainder of the billing cycle. Unlimited 4G data is available for an additional $20 per month.

 
