
 It was increasingly probable T-Mobile would expand its truly unlimited data to no-contract plans, and it's using CES to get a little more attention now that it's official. Starting January 9th, Monthly4G fans can pay $70 a month to get throttling-free internet access as well as unfettered calling and voice. They just need to have bought a supporting device outright to qualify. T-Mobile knows that might not be enough for those used to subsidized device prices: to sweeten the pot, it's cutting the off-contract price of an LG Optimus L9 to $200 for the foreseeable future. Although we'd naturally opt for slightly more powerful hardware, we could easily see more than a few converts when both the plan and the phone cost that much less than usual.



  Show full PR text   T-Mobile Shakes Up the Wireless Industry by Expanding Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data to No-Annual-Contract Customers
  T-Mobile levels the playing field for the customer as demand for unlimited 4G data plans continues to grow
  LAS VEGAS - Jan. 8, 2013 - Today at the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), T-Mobile USA, Inc. announced an industry first - its popular Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan will be available with no annual contract starting tomorrow, Jan. 9. T-Mobile is the only U.S. carrier to offer an unlimited, nationwide, 4G data plan on a fast, dependable, nationwide, 4G network, giving customers the ultimate worry-free experience with no data caps, overages or bill shock.
  "As the 'Uncarrier,' we're doing the unthinkable," said John Legere, president and chief executive officer of T-Mobile USA. "We're directly confronting the frustrations of American consumers fed up with the cost, complexity and congested networks of our competitors. Our Unlimited 4G Data plan means 4G speeds, no caps and no overages on a smoking-fast, nationwide, 4G network. What this means is simply that T-Mobile customers are going to be able to enjoy everything a 4G smartphone is actually designed to do without limits and without a term contract."   Consumers today are demanding more choice and flexibility in how they purchase wireless, along with the freedom to take advantage of everything their 4G smartphone has to offer without having to keep track of their data usage. Since its introduction in September, T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan is by far the most popular plan choice among T-Mobile customers. In fact, nearly half (46 percent) of new customers opted for the new data plan in December 2012.
  "Simply put, consumers want their data to be blazing fast, without limits and without overages," said Mike Sievert, chief marketing officer, T-Mobile USA. "With our new Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan, that's exactly what we're giving them, and for the first time, we're offering it without an annual contract. Other carriers want to lock customers in; we're going to earn our customers' business with an amazing 4G experience every day."
  Wireless data usage on T-Mobile's nationwide 4G network continues to grow as consumers increasingly step up to a fast and unlimited experience on the latest 4G devices. In total,  T-Mobile customers stream 32 million songs and visit Facebook 1.8 billion times per day.  T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan helps these customers power a variety of 4G experiences - from on-the-go gaming to streaming music and video - all without limits on its 4G network.
  Beginning Jan. 9, T-Mobile's Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan will be available with no annual contract for $70 per month online at www.t-mobile.com, at T-Mobile retail stores or through select dealers and national retail stores.
  To kick off the Unlimited Nationwide 4G Data plan with no annual contract, T-Mobile will have a new offer on one of its latest smartphones. Starting Jan. 9, the LG Optimus L9 will be available for $199.99 with no annual contract. Featuring a stylish design and a stunning 4.5-inch qHD touch screen, the Optimus L9 on T-Mobile's nationwide 4G data network delivers amazing 4G experiences, including streaming movies, searching the Web, online gaming and more.
  For more information regarding T-Mobile's lineup of no-annual-contract smartphones, visit http://prepaid-phones.t-mobile.com/.
 
