
 
Tale of Tales' upcoming narrative-driven game Sunset received its first official set of screenshots today. Announced in March 2014, the exploration game stars Angela Burnes, a housekeeper of a secluded philanthropist, set in a lone 1970's apartment. The Path and Fatale developer noted that the screens are "still work in progress and even though they do not represent the final beauty of the game, they say a lot about what is going to make the penthouse a spectacular environment to explore."

Players will scope out the apartment to learn more about Burnes' employer when the game arrives this spring on PC, Mac and Linux. As seen in the gallery below, Tale of Tales said it "pushed the colour scheme to its saturation point with the tones of the evening sky, chic lighting from designer lamps and dramatic shadows" to make the game "feel real," yet stylized. Sunset earned $67,636 on Kickstarter in July and will feature a soundtrack from Journey's Grammy-nominated composer, Austin Wintory. The developer discussed the ways it is "trying something different" with Joystiq following its funding campaign.

[Image: Tale of Tales]





Show full PR textTale of Tales release first official batch of screenshots for SunsetHappy 2015! With a new year comes the first official batch of screenshots for Sunset. After the game's announcement in May last year and a successful Kickstarter campaign in June, Tale of Tales are excited to give you the first real glimpse into Gabriel Ortega's luxurious, albeit, mysterious apartment.Auriea Harvey, one half of Tale of Tales elaborates, "These shots are still work in progress and even though they do not represent the final beauty of the game, they say a lot about what is going to make the penthouse a spectacular environment to explore. Rather than try to make a photo-real environment we've stuck to our artistic strengths. All Tale of Tales games have a really subtle stylisation that may not look real but once you are in these environments, they feel real. To pull off this effect in Sunset we've pushed the colour scheme to its saturation point with the tones of the evening sky, chic lighting from designer lamps and dramatic shadows."Sunset is a narrative-driven first-person game that takes place in a single apartment in a fictional South American city in the early 1970s. The story teaser trailer can be found here. Other Tale of Tales games include The Endless Forest, The Path, Fatale and, more recently, Bientôt l'été and the IGF Nuovo Award-winning Luxuria Superbia.Please use the link above to download the zip, and of course if you fancy having a chat with the developer to discover more about what the player can explore within those walls, just hit that button at the top.About SunsetIn Sunset, the player is cast as Angela Burnes, a housekeeper working in a fictional South American city. Taking place in a single apartment, through weekly visits over the course of year in the early 1970s, the game simply asks you to go about your duties for your employer, the wealthy Gabriel Ortega. But it also lets you feed your curiosity by exploring Ortega's home and, ultimately, discovering his role in the revolution that takes hold of the country.FeaturesA first-person narrative-focused game with decisions that impact the storyNo fail state - this isn't a game you can win or lose, only influenceAnywhere from 90 minutes to six hours of gameplay, depending on your approachSoundtrack by the award-winning Austin Wintory (Journey, The Banner Saga, Monaco)Achieved a whopping 270% of its funding goal on Kickstarter!
 