
 

Back when we first laid eyes on Tango, the startup was sticking strictly to mobile, serving up free video calls over 3G, 4G, and WiFi to both iOS and Android devices (with front-facing cameras, of course). Now the company's thinking big -- quite literally -- with the announcement that it plans to bring its video calling service to PCs sometime later this summer. As of now, it looks as if this will be a Windows-only affair, and will remain free of charge -- as before, you won't need to register to get your videophone on. We've yet to see Tango at work on the big screen, but from what we gather from the press stills, the desktop edition will bring a bit of the old Apple to your PC. Full PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  TANGO ANNOUNCES ITS FREE VIDEO SERVICE ON THE PC		BRINGING THE MOBILE EXPERIENCE TO THE DESKTOP 		Leading Video Communications Company Closes $42 Million Series B Financing 		FORTUNE BRAINSTORM TECH – ASPEN, Colorado. – July 20, 2011 – Tango, the leader in mobile video communications, today announced that its free video calling service will be available for PCs later this summer. 		This is the third major platform launch for the company in nine months and will accelerate its already massive growth. Currently, Tango has 18 million members in 190 countries using the service to connect with their family and friends over 3G, 4G, and Wi-Fi. The first public demo of Tango for the PC will happen at the FORTUNE Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen, Colorado. 		"We have an incredible opportunity ahead of us and we are growing at an unprecedented rate," said Uri Raz, cofounder and CEO of Tango. "There are 1.5 billion PCs in use worldwide and 95 percent of the world's computers run Windows. With this launch, we are well positioned to reach our goal of 100 million customers by this time next year." 		People will be able to Tango between Windows PC, iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS, iPod touch, iPad, and hundreds of Android phones and tablets. The new PC product is mobile-centric with the same look and feel as Tango on the phone. It's simple to register. There is no log in or password, just type in your mobile number and you are done. Tango will automatically find people you know, and makes inviting friends and family a breeze. 		"Introducing a free video communication service for a large number of mobile devices, along with a PC version, in under a year speaks to the dedication of our team of more than 50 engineers in the U.S. and China who continue to deliver products that our users demand," said Eric Setton, cofounder and CTO of Tango. "Our goal is to offer a video communications service that's available on as many devices and platforms as possible, with more to come in the following weeks."  Tango Raises $42 Million Series B Round		Tango is also announcing that it has closed $42 million in its Series B round of funding, which will enable the company to deliver faster on its product roadmap. The investment was led by Draper Fisher Jurvetson, the first investors in Skype, and a venture capital vehicle led by noted investors Len Blavatnik and Alex Zubillaga. These investors have a deep understanding of the communications space and how to build and maintain great consumer brands that appeal to a mass audience internationally. They will help Tango continue its trajectory as the leader in mobile video communications. 		"Tango is exceptional not only because it marries a significant technological evolution with real market demand, but also because it is powered by the kind of authentic entrepreneurial drive that is required to succeed as a business," said Alex Zubillaga. "Uri and Eric have built Tango on a real-world vision of what it takes for a start-up to achieve its greatest goals – and the Tango team has the capability to get it done." 		Tango has seen explosive growth since its launch on September 30, 2010, adding one million new people to the service every two weeks. Eighteen million people in 190 countries currently use Tango to make free mobile video calls wherever they are. Tango leads the mobile video calling industry, supporting hundreds of phones and tablets today and moving quickly to make the service available on all platforms. 		Tango for the PC will be available as a free download later this summer www.tango.me.
 