
If you're yearning for a super high res HDTV and the usual suspects' products are just a bit too pricey, there's a new challenger about to join: China's TCL. Its fall lineup of televisions leads with a 50-inch 4K model (shown above) due in September priced at just $999. It joins Seiki as a Chinese manufacturer bringing budget priced Ultra HD panels to the US with this 120Hz edge lit LED model that packs 4 HDMI inputs with MHL support. If the 7E504D's 3,840 x 2,160 resolution screen isn't a must-have for you, it does have some more traditional HDTVs on the way in the form of its 5510 series.


They include 40-, 46- and 55-inch 1080p models, priced at $399, $499 and $799, respectively. The largest one includes built-in WiFi with Smart TV features including Netflix, YouTube and Yahoo Apps, and all go on sale in August. So far, reviews of the Seiki UHDTVs have suggested resolution isn't everything even at these prices (and especially at this screen size) -- we'll be waiting to see if TCL's scaling, contrast, motion processing and other qualities can match up with the big guys. 




Show full PR textTCL ANNOUNCES 50" 4K ULTRA-HIGH DEFINITION LED TV FOR $999 AND FLAGSHIP 5510 LED HDTV SERIES FOR US MARKET
TCL Delivers High Quality, Premium LED HDTVs with Advanced Technology at Aggressive Pricing

Corona, Calif., July 25, 2013 - TCL (The Creative Life), the third largest TV brand in the world, announced their fall product line-up for the US headlined by the 50" edge-lit LED 4K Ultra HD TV launching in September aggressively priced at $999 MSRP and their flagship 5510 LED HDTV series which will be available for sale in August, with 40", 46", and 55" models.

One of the fastest-growing manufacturers in the industry, TCL is already the leading television brand in China and their global expansion has elevated them to the third largest HDTV brand in the world. TCL USA launched in the US in 2011 and is committed to providing US consumers with quality products featuring the latest technology at a great value. TCL's manufacturing expertise, vertically integrated supply chain, and state-of-the-art China Star panel factory allow them to make the latest technology with leading edge design ultra-affordable for the US consumer.

"Our mission is to deliver high quality HDTVs with advanced technologies and premium design at an aggressive price to establish the TCL brand in the US," said Michelle Mao, President, TCL USA. "Similar to what the market saw a dozen years ago with the introduction of HDTVs, 4K UHD TVs are priced so high today that most consumers cannot afford them. As one of the world's largest TV brands, TCL is able to change that, so we are launching our 50" 4K TV at a $999 MSRP to allow more consumers to enjoy the stunning picture quality and enhanced resolution of UHD TVs. While other brands see the introduction of 4K as an opportunity to make large margins – we see it as an opportunity to demonstrate to US consumers the combination of advanced technology and great value we've been delivering across the world for over 30 years."

50" Edge LED 4K Ultra HD TV

Launching in September, TCL's 50" LED Ultra HD TV features next-generation 4K technology and combines stunning 3840x2160 resolution with SRS TruSurroundHD sound to provide consumers with a true home theater experience. The 50" 4K LED UHD TV brings spectacular picture quality with four times the resolution of Full HD (1080p). TCL's 4K TV will upscale all of your favorite HD content - TV shows, sporting events, and movies (both Blu-rays & DVDs) to 4K to provide enhanced picture quality with sharper detail and contrast. The advanced 120Hz CMI (Clear Motion Index) refresh rate displays fast motion sports and action scenes with clarity and smoothness The 5,000,000:1 dynamic contrast ratio provides brilliant color and contrast. It features an ultra-thin bezel with a modern gunmetal gray finish, housed in a sophisticated slim frame design. Four HDMI® inputs allow users to connect to satellite or cable, DVD/Blu-ray players, gaming consoles, and other devices at the same time. As an MHL (Mobile High-Definition Link) enabled TV, users can effortlessly connect smart phones or tablets to the TV to display content while simultaneously charging the device.

In addition to the TCL 50" LED 4K Ultra HD TV, TCL is unveiling its flagship 5510 series for the US in August, which extends from 40" to 55" and combines the best design elements with high quality, premium products at an everyday low price point.

5510: 40" & 46"

Enjoy The Creative Life with TCL's 40" ($399 MSRP) and 46" ($499 MSRP) 5510 models - both are 1080p, 120Hz CMI, edge-lit LED HDTVs. These models offer a slim frame design with a modern gun metal gray finish, and sit atop an elegant glass base. With full high definition (1080p) resolution and a 3,500,000:1 dynamic contrast ratio, they offer brilliant color and contrast. The advanced 120Hz CMI (Clear Motion Index) refresh rate displays fast motion sports and action scenes with clarity and smoothness. Three HDMI® inputs allow users to connect to satellite or cable, DVD/Blu-ray players, and gaming consoles or other devices at the same time. These MHL (Mobile High-Definition Link) enabled TVs allow users to effortlessly connect smart phones or tablets to the TV to display content while simultaneously charging the device.

5510: 55" Smart TV

The 55" Smart TV for $799 MSRP is the 5510 series' top of the line model featuring 1080p resolution, 120Hz CMI, edge-lit LED display, and built-in Wi-Fi. With the touch of your remote, instantly stream your favorite movies and TV shows and get the latest news, sports, and weather updates with Netflix, YouTube, and Yahoo Apps. It delivers a complete home theater experience with its Smart TV capabilities, premium picture quality, and large display. Featuring an ultra-thin bezel with a modern gunmetal gray finish, it delivers more picture in a sophisticated slim frame design, perfect for your home theater. Whether wall mounted like a piece of art or sitting on its elegant glass base, this flat screen LED HDTV features Full High Definition (1080p) resolution and a 5,000,000:1 dynamic contrast ratio for brilliant color and contrast. Similar to the 40" and 46", the 55" offers an advanced 120Hz CMI (Clear Motion Index) refresh rate. The 55" model offers four HDMI® inputs allowing users to connect to satellite or cable, DVD/Blu-ray players, gaming console, and other devices. Exceeding ENERGY STAR® 6.0 Guidelines, this TV's low energy usage ensures that the planet and your wallet will be better off. Color Your World with superior performance and design backed by an industry-leading 2 year limited manufacturer's warranty.

For more information about TCL, please visit http://www.tclusa.com/ or follow us online on Twitter (@TCLUSA), Facebook (http://www.facebook.com/TCLUSA), Instagram (http://www.instagram.com/tcl_usa), and YouTube (http://www.youtube.com/user/TCLTheCreativeLife).

# # #


