
Google just announced it will be upgrading Google TV units to Android 4.2 Jelly Bean, and China's TCL has announced it will have the first 4K TV built on the platform. We got a look at TCL's custom-skinned MoVo Google TV platform and 4K TVs separately at CES (pictured above, and in the gallery) so it only makes sense they'll be combining the two. Part of TCL's MoVo customizations include a motion sensor to recognize each user and personalize offerings based on their habits. Called Personal Box Office (PBO) or "Lazy TV" searches the available content and makes a recommendation without the need for a remote or even voice command. The press release indicates it will be available "later this year" although whether that includes a US release like Seiki's 50-inch Ultra HD set remains to be seen. According to the company it's being demonstrated at Google I/O this week, we'll see if we can get some hands-on time tomorrow.




Show full PR textTCL Unveiled MoVo UD
The World's First 4K Smart TV with Google TV Software
HONG KONG, May 16, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Limited ("TCL Multimedia" or "the Group", HKSE stock code: 01070) is pleased to announce that the Group's new 4K Ultra High Definition TV will be available for customers with the latest Google TV software. MoVo UD, TCL's 4K Smart TV with Google TV, was demoed at the 2013 Google I/O conference.

MoVo UD is 4K by 2K ultra high definition TV and will be available for customers later this year. MoVo UD will be powered by the new version of Google TV with the latest Android 4.2.2 that was unveiled at the 2013 Google I/O. The device will have applications and features including Google Voice Search, Chrome, Google Play and YouTube.

Mr. Zhao Zhongyao, Chief Executive Officer of TCL Multimedia, said, "The core value of TCL brand is to introduce innovation and creativity into life, bringing the ultimate pleasure to consumers. Looking ahead, TCL will continue to enhance its core competence by capitalizing its cutting edge product technologies and innovations."

About TCL Multimedia

Headquartered in China, TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Limited (HKSE stock code: 01070) is one of the leading players in the global TV industry. TCL Multimedia is engaged in the R&D, manufacturing and distribution of consumer electronic products comprising television and audio visual products. Its ultimate holding company is TCL Corporation. According to the latest DisplaySearch report, the Group's global LCD TV market share increased from 4.8% in 2011 to 5.8% in 2012, and thereby lifted its ranking to No.4. The Group has ranked No.1 in the PRC LCD TV market with a market share of 18.0%.


