
 Chinese manufacturer TCL has a rather significant showing at CES 2013, with a number of TVs and TV-related products. We're not sure if we'll be seeing any of these debut in the US, but among them were a 110-inch "China Star" 3D 4K TV that's got a brand tie-in with Iron Man 3, and its MoVo Google TV product. Its Google TV set-top box is powered by the same Marvell Armada 1500 SoC as many others, but features a custom skin and uses facial recognition to provide personalized experiences for every family member. It seemed to run equally to other Google TVs, although we wonder if that custom skin may slow down the pace of future updates. Also on display in the booth are TCL's iCE Screen that debuted last year, and its super thin V101 Blade TV. There's more details on the products in the press release after the break, as well as some in person pics (including the 36+ sq ft China Star and accompanying costumed Iron Man) in the gallery.




  Show full PR text   TCL Debuts MoVo with Google TV; Partners on Marvel's "Iron Man 3"
  MoVo Product Recognizes User's Identity and Tailors Viewing Experience
  Manufacturer Also Unveils New Alcatel ONE TOUCH Smartphones, Tablets & WiFi Device
   LAS VEGAS, Nev., Jan 8, 2013 – Today at the 2013 Consumer Electronics Show, TCL, the largest television manufacturer in China and seventh biggest mobile device maker in the world, debuted a wide range of products for U.S. consumers including TCL MoVo with Google TV, a new technology that automatically recognizes individual family members and tailors the viewing experience to their preferences. The company also announced that TCL products, including the HD China Star 3D TV, will be featured in the upcoming film, Marvel's "Iron Man 3," and introduced new smartphones, tablets and a WiFi device they'll sell in the U.S. under their Alcatel ONE TOUCH brand.

   "TCL is poised and ready to show U.S. consumers the most advanced technologies we are bringing to millions of other homes around the world," said Dongsheng Li, chairman of TCL Corporation. "Now that we've established ourselves through online sales with leading U.S. retailers like Amazon, Best-Buy and Costco, we're focused on increasing our in-store presence and kicking off a new global marketing campaign. The partnership with Marvel Studios on Marvel's "Iron Man 3" is one example of how we'll share our products with U.S. consumers in 2013."

   Powered by the award-winning Marvell® ARMADA® 1500 series system-on-chip platform, TCL is among the first to offer both a Smart TV and set-top box with the latest Google TV platform. MoVo incorporates Google TV's advances, including Voice Search and PrimeTime, an application that will search over 100,000 movies and television episodes across multiple video services including Google Play. With TCL's Personal Box Office (PBO) technology, family members just need to press the power button and personally-tailored, commercial-free content streams from the MoVo set.

   "By leveraging Marvell's award-winning technology and the most current Google TV platform, TCL will deliver innovative Smart TV solutions on a global scale that incorporate voice recognition, advanced multimedia search and discovery, and the very best Marvell has to offer in video, sound and connectivity, all at an affordable price. Our work with TCL and Google delivers game-changing entertainment experiences for consumers around the world that will drive the Smart TV market forward at a rapid pace," said Weili Dai, Co-Founder of Marvell. "Marvell is very proud to see our innovation, commitment, and hard work with Google and our partner companies lead to the milestone of TCL's new Smart TV product with the most current Google TV platform. Google and Marvell share a passion for improving the way the world enjoys entertainment, and we are thrilled to see companies such as TCL, and many others to follow, leverage this opportunity to the fullest in their newest TVs and devices."

   In addition to the TCL MoVo with Google TV, TCL is showcasing a variety of smartphones, tablets and televisions at their CES booth (#9825 in the LVCC Central Hall) under the TCL and Alcatel ONE TOUCH brands.

   TCL Branded Products

   The iCE SCREEN™ is a multi-touch, extremely lightweight (13 lbs) TV that offers users a tablet-like experience, instant access to social media and Google Play, and a host of intelligent cloud applications to help aid in the enjoyment of games, music and photos, as well as movies and TV shows. Users can orient the 24-inch screen on its side for TV viewing then pop it upright to create a virtual jukebox or arcade.

   Already honored with a 2013 iF Design award, the TCL V101™ is a uniquely-designed smart TV with a front panel between the screen and speaker mesh to give it a stylish, modern look. Packed with a quality display and sound system in an 11.5mm side profile, the V101 also has a WiFi speaker embedded in the stand to enhance sound quality.

   With over 36 square feet of screen real estate, the 110-inch Ultra HD China Star 3D TV™ is not only big, it's heroic. Tony Stark's Smart TV choice in the next installment of Marvel Studio's blockbuster franchise, Marvel's "Iron Man 3," the Ultra HD China Star 3D TV™ features active 3D technology, multi-touch, intelligent and dynamic backlight, and an ultra-high brightness of 800 nits. Marvel's "Iron Man 3" releases in theaters May 3, 2013.

   Alcatel ONE TOUCH Branded Products

   TCL is debuting three new Alcatel ONE TOUCH smartphones at CES this year: an ultra-light smartphone with a 4.7" IPS display called the ONE TOUCH Idol™; the thinnest smartphone yet at 6.45 mm, the ONE TOUCH Idol Ultra™; and the first phone to feature the MediaTek MT6589 quad-core chipset, the ONE TOUCH SCRIBE HD™.

   Also announced at CES were a WiFi 4G LTE internet key called ONE TOUCH Link W800™, the ONE TOUCH EVO7 HD™, a WiFi 7 inch tablet that can be upgraded to 3G /4G connectivity thanks to removable a 3G/4G module, and two other tablet models: the ONE TOUCH TAB7 HD™ and the ONE TOUCH TAB8 HD™.

   About TCL

   Founded in 1981, TCL is one of the largest consumer electronics enterprises in China with a global presence. TCL Corporation has three listed companies: TCL Corporation (SZ.000100), TCL Multimedia (HK.1070) and TCL Communication (HK.2618). Currently, TCL Corporation has set up four business units – TCL Multimedia Holdings, TCL Communication Holdings, China Star Optoelectronics Technology and TCL Home Appliances Group, as well as six business groups – System Technology Unit, Techne Group, Emerging Business Group, Investment Group, Logistic & Service Group and Real Estate Group. TCL employs more than 60,000 people and has more than 40 sales offices around the world, as well as 15 R&D centers, spread across China, United States, France, and Singapore, and 20 manufacturing bases and selling products under TCL, Thomson, and Alcatel ONE TOUCH brands. In 2011, TCL Corporation achieved global sales of RMB 60.834 billion, and reach the TCL LCD TV ranking 5th globally. In 2012, the brand value of TCL had exceeded RMB 58.326 billion, continuing to hold the No. 1 TV brand position in China today. In Dec, 2012, TCL announced that they expect to exceed 15 million LCD/LED TV shipments in 2013, thus entering the list of the world's first tier of TV manufacturers. For more information visit www.tcl.com.

   About ALCATEL ONE TOUCH

   ALCATEL ONE TOUCH is a brand within TCL Communication, an international multicultural company which designs, develops, and markets globally a growing range of mobile and Internet devices. One of the fastest growing of the world's top ten mobile phone manufacturers, TCL Communication makes access to mobile technology simple, designing their products around individual's lifestyles, enabling the end users to do more. TCL Communication is a public company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (2618.HK) and part of TCL Corporation one of the largest consumer electronics companies in the world. For more information, please visit www.alcatelonetouch.com.

   About Marvell Technology Group

   Marvell Technology Group (NASDAQ: MRVL) is a world leader in the development of storage, communications and consumer silicon solutions. Technology Group's diverse product portfolio includes switching, transceiver, communications controller, wireless and storage solutions that power the entire communications infrastructure, including enterprise, metro, home and storage networking. For more information, visit www.marvell.com.

   About Marvel Entertainment

   Marvel Entertainment, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company, is one of the world's most prominent character-based entertainment companies, built on a proven library of over 8,000 characters featured in a variety of media over seventy years. Marvel utilizes its character franchises in entertainment, licensing and publishing. For more information visit www.marvel.com.

   About Marvel's "Iron Man 3"

   Marvel's "Iron Man 3" pits brash-but-brilliant industrialist Tony Stark/Iron Man against an enemy whose reach knows no bounds. When Stark finds his personal world destroyed at his enemy's hands, he embarks on a harrowing quest to find those responsible. This journey, at every turn, will test his mettle. With his back against the wall, Stark is left to survive by his own devices, relying on his ingenuity and instincts to protect those closest to him. As he fights his way back, Stark discovers the answer to the question that has secretly haunted him: does the man make the suit or does the suit make the man?

   Starring Robert Downey Jr., Gwyneth Paltrow, Don Cheadle, Guy Pearce, Rebecca Hall, Stephanie Szostak, James Badge Dale with Jon Favreau and Ben Kingsley, Marvel's "Iron Man 3" is directed by Shane Black from a screenplay by Drew Pearce & Shane Black and is based on Marvel's iconic Super Hero Iron Man, who first appeared on the pages of "Tales of Suspense" (#39) in 1963 and had his solo comic book debut with "The Invincible Iron Man" (#1) in May of 1968.

   Marvel's "Iron Man 3" is presented by Marvel Studios in association with Paramount Pictures and DMG Entertainment. Marvel Studios' President Kevin Feige is producing and Jon Favreau, Louis D'Esposito, Charles Newirth, Victoria Alonso, Stephen Broussard, Alan Fine, Stan Lee and Dan Mintz are executive producers. The film releases May 3, 2013, and is distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures.

   ###

 
