
 
 TDK's Boombox rocked minds and windows alike with its modern take on a retro classic. Buoyed by its success, the cassette-maker of old is back with new audio hardware at IFA. Three devices, again on the speaker front. First up is the Boombox Wireless, which is a similar, but updated, design from the original and features not only streaming sans cables via Bluetooth, a rechargeable battery, too. If you don't want to cut the cord completely, there's a 3.5mm aux input, USB slot for charging plus an FM radio and headphone output. Next up is the Wireless Weatherproof Speaker, which despite being described as "rugged" and boasting an IP 64 weather compliant design, looks like any regular device. It, too, has Bluetooth streaming and built-in battery, along with 3.5mm input and built-in microphone. If these two were all looking a little bit oblong, then the curious Wireless Charging Cube might be for you. Yep, it's Bluetooth streaming again, but also plonk your Qi induction compatible device on top, and it'll juice that while you jam (there's a non wireless charging / charger version also.) How much do these slabs of sound cost? The Boombox is $399, the Wireless Weatherproof is $250 while the Wireless Charging Cube is $399. Not a peep on availability at this time, we'll connect you up though, once we get it.



  Show full PR text   EVOLUTION OF TDK LIFE ON RECORD AUDIO LINE ARRIVES WITH WIRELESS SPEAKER PRODUCTS THAT FUSE HIGH FIDELITY SOUND WITH UNIVERSAL FLEXIBILITY AND MOBILITY
   New TDK Life On Record Speakers Offer Easy, Wireless Connection with Bluetooth-Enabled Mobile Music Devices

   Oakdale, Minn. - August 30, 2012 - TDK Life on Record (NYSE: IMN) today announced the addition of four new wireless speaker products to round out its premium audio line. These new products mark the next evolution of the TDK Life on Record audio portfolio, creating an ecosystem of products that give consumers high-fidelity audio with universal input flexibility and portability in all areas of their lives. Building on the success of its initial audio line launch in 2010 and highlighted by its proprietary "Signature Sound" and sleek designs, the new TDK Life on Record products now integrate Bluetooth® technology to deliver a truly wireless audio experience. Now, audiophiles are free to utilize their mobile devices in any way they choose and still easily play music -- no docking required -- all without sacrificing audio quality.

   Debuting at the prestigious IFA trade show in Berlin in September and available in the U.S. in October, the new line features a Wireless Weatherproof Speaker, Wireless Boombox, Wireless Sound Cube and Wireless Charging Speaker. All four of the new wireless audio products were created to offer an easy connection with Bluetooth A2DP enabled mobile devices in a wide variety of locations and settings. The new line builds upon the high quality of the initial TDK Life on Record audio products with clean, striking designs carefully crafted to make bold visual statements, while delivering high-performance audio. These new additions have already won a 2012 silver "IDEA" design excellence award from the Industrial Designers Society of America.

   When used with a Bluetooth AAC enabled device, the products utilize AAC codec technology to deliver superior quality and near-lossless audio. The AAC technology in the TDK Life on Record line removes a layer of compression typically found in Bluetooth-enabled audio devices, giving the listener the truest sound possible. The universal input flexibility also allows users to be more social with their music, sharing music no matter what mobile device they use.

   "With the new audio line, we've continued to deliver on hi-fi audio quality and connectivity, while making it as easy as possible for music lovers to listen to their favorite tracks," said Imation's Toshi Hokari, Executive Director, Global Product Management, Audio & Video Information. "The new products allow listeners to always stay connected to the content that lives on their hand-held devices while enjoying the superior audio quality they've come to expect from TDK Life on Record products."

   Signature Sound, authentic across all genres  "Signature Sound" was developed and mastered by TDK Life on Record's Audio Research Lab to deliver pure, authentic sound with no artificial tuning. This provides the listener with the truest sound reproduction without "cranking the bass," and distorting experience. Signature Sound gives discerning music fans the chance to enjoy an exceptional listening experience across all music genres, experiencing a true-to-performance acoustic experience.

   TDK Life on Record Wireless Boombox  High Fidelity Sound that's Exceptionally Portable Thanks to a Built-In Rechargeable Battery  The TDK Life on Record Wireless Boombox gives consumers flexibility along with high fidelity sound in a bold, striking design. Use it wherever you want to hear top quality audio -- at home, at a party, at the park -- thanks to a built-in rechargeable battery.

   Features include:  • Wireless audio streaming - Bluetooth version 2.1 with AAC  • Wireless power – built-in rechargeable battery  • 2.1 stereo configuration  • FM radio  • Remote control  • 3.5 mm stereo auxiliary input  • Adjustable bass and treble equalization  • USB device charging port  • Headphone output jack  • Integrated carrying handle  • US MSRP - $399.95

   TDK Life on Record Wireless Sound Cube  Listen To Music from Your Mobile Device At Home, with Your Device in Your Pocket  The TDK Life on Record Wireless Sound Cube is made for the home, delivering the best in audio quality while freeing you from having to dock your mobile device in order to enjoy your music. And all with in a bold, striking design that looks great in any room.

   Features include:  • Wireless audio streaming - Bluetooth version 2.1 with AAC  • 2.1 stereo configuration  • Switchable full range driver configuration  • Adjustable bass and treble equalization  • 3.5 mm stereo auxiliary input  • Remote control  • USB device charging port  • Integrated carrying handle  • US MSRP - $299.95

   TDK Life on Record Wireless Weatherproof Speaker  Compact, Rugged Speaker Allows You to Bring Your Music Anywhere, No Matter the Conditions  The TDK Life on Record Wireless Weatherproof speaker is rugged, allowing you to leave your mobile device in your pocket and bring your music anywhere, anytime - regardless of what Mother Nature throws at you.

   Features include:  • Wireless audio streaming - Bluetooth version 2.1 with AAC  • Wireless power – built-in rechargeable battery  • Weatherized design: IP 64 compliant  • Integrated microphone  • 2.1 stereo configuration  • Integrated tilt-back stand  • 3.5 mm stereo auxiliary input  • USB device charging port  • US MSRP - $249.95

   TDK Life on Record Wireless Charging Cube  Charging Ease for Home or Office - No Dock Required  The TDK Life on Record Wireless Charging Cube provides cable-free charging for the home or office, with the high fidelity sound TDK Life on Record consumers have come to expect. Simply place your Qi compatible mobile device on top of the cube and it charges your device while playing your music. Need to quickly run to a meeting? Whether you're leaving from your home or office, just grab your device and go. No need to unplug or remove from a dock.

   Features include:  • Wireless charging - Qi induction charging pad built into the top surface  • Wireless audio streaming - Bluetooth version 2.1 with AAC  • Wireless power – built-in rechargeable battery  • 2.1 stereo configuration  • Adjustable treble and bass  • 3.5 mm stereo auxiliary input  • USB device charging only port  • Weatherized design: IPX3 compliant  • US MSRP - $399.95

 
