
 
Remember TDK's retro-tastic triple ghettoblaster? It's here at CES 2011's Digital Experience along with a smaller two-speaker unit that's much the same thing, a pair of headphones with an in-line equalizer, a classic turntable, and what TDK's calling the "Stereo Cube." We'll head back real soon to give them a full test, but what we know right now is that this particular stereo is large, heavy and -- in more ways than one -- loud. See some snapshots below, and find prices and details after the break.





Show full PR textTDK LIFE ON RECORD DEBUTS LINE OF BOLD, PREMIUM AUDIO EQUIPMENT BUILDING ON LEGENDARY AUDIO LEGACY Global Audio Brand Unveils Hi-Fidelity Boomboxes, Belt-Drive Turntables and Headphones Oakdale, MN – January 7, 2011 – TDK Life on Record, a portfolio brand of Imation Corp. (NYSE: IMN), today announced the launch of a new premium line of audio equipment featuring two- and three-speaker Boomboxes; a 360-degree Sound Cube; two Belt-Drive Turntables; and audiophile-quality Headphones. Each product embodies hi-fidelity sound and combines clean, striking designs with precision performance to enhance the music experience. This new line of premium audio equipment from TDK Life on Record blends the warm experience of analog with the precision and convenience of digital technology. The integration of a unique visual equalizer – a "visual heartbeat" – brings the music to life, driving the listening experience by creating a strong visual connection with the music. Featuring generous controls and fine tuning features, the products let listeners control and customize their listening experience. "In designing our new line of TDK Life on Record audio products, we focused on what people love about analog products – the warmth of sound – and merged that with modern digital technology. The result is a unique line that combines premium sound quality with bold designs and crafted finishes," said Steve Swenson, Global Brand Manager for TDK Life on Record. "Music should be a social and cultural connector, bringing people together, and our new line of products does just that." The new lineup of TDK Life on Record audio products, available in Spring 2011, includes: Boomboxes TDK Life on Record brings this original music culture icon back to life - combining dynamic sound performance, bold designs and premium surfaces. An innovative equalizer gives the music a visual heartbeat, while touch-sensitive buttons and generous controls deliver simple and intuitive interaction. Digital data streaming allows premium audio decoding and playback while charging Apple iPod and iPhone devices. Three-Speaker Boombox A dedicated, high excursion 6-inch subwoofer driver and two 6-inch coaxial drivers deliver dynamic, full range sound and a striking, retro look. Two-Speaker Boombox Two powerful six-inch coaxial drivers deliver balanced, full range sound while the integrated handle and tailored shoulder strap make the boombox easily portable. Inputs for both two- and three-speaker Boomboxes include USB, 3.5mm and auxiliary ports for connections to an iPod, iPhone, smartphone or USB flash drive. Users can also plug in a guitar or microphone and mix with other music sources. Sound Cube Two powerful coaxial drivers deliver space-filling sound in a unique, compact design. An innovative equalizer gives the music a visual heartbeat, while simple, rotary dials allow for control over the music source, volume and tone. Digital data streaming allows premium audio decoding and playback while charging Apple iPod and iPhone devices. Inputs include USB, 3.5mm and auxiliary ports for connections to an iPod, iPhone, smartphone or USB flash drive. Users can also plug in a guitar or microphone and mix with other music sources. Belt-Drive Turntables These advanced belt-drive turntables support both 33 1/3 and 45 RPM playback speeds while the "floating" design isolates the platter and needle from external vibrations. The integrated optical feedback circuit ensures consistent playback by continually monitoring the speed and automatically adjusting for any variation as the innovative visual equalizer embedded in the gloss black surface gives the music a visual heartbeat. The uniquely designed and crafted tone arm with integrated surface lighting gives the freedom to use almost any stylus and cartridge from standard to truly premium through a universal connection. The USB Belt-Drive Turntable also includes an integrated pre-amp, USB output and included software that allows for the opportunity to import and convert tracks to a PC in MP3 format. Headphones High Fidelity Headphones deliver a truly personal listening experience. On-ear volume and mute controls are always within reach, and allow users to dynamically control the audio output from the headset itself. The In-line equalizer with visible display delivers a unique music visual while allowing the user to adjust bass and treble levels separately. High performance 50mm drivers ensure amazing sound clarity and range. Superior materials and craftsmanship make these headphones look as good as they sound. U.S. Pricing: $499 - 3 Speaker Boombox $399 - 2 Speaker Boombox $299 - Sound Cube $399 - USB Belt-Drive Turntable $299 – Belt-Drive Turntable $249 - Headphones
 