
 

Need more stuff to attach to your smartphone? Good news: Ten One Design managed to shrink down those stick-on iPad joysticks we played with back at CES, bringing the Fling's screen-cluttering gaming action to the iPhone, iPod touch, and Android devices. The new Fling Mini monopolizes a good deal of its designated phone's display real estate -- and then some -- pushing its way well into the bezel of many handsets. You can pre-order the suction cup controllers now at $24.95 for a pack of two -- five bucks less than their older siblings. They're set to start shipping next month and will no doubt get some good, slightly-obscured face time at E3.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Ten One Design Reveals Fling mini Game Controller at E3 Expo 			Montclair, NJ (June 3, 2011) – Ten One Design, creators of the first capacitive touch-screen stylus for the iPhone, iPod touch, and iPad, has announced the "mini" version of its revolutionary tactile game controller – Fling mini. 			Expanding on the success of the Fling for iPad announced at this year's CES, the mini controller adheres to any smartphone on top of the directional pad of any applicable game to deliver ultimate control and superb response for full gaming immersion. 			Fling mini's unique spiral design creates actual physical resistance so gamers are assured of greater directional control. It works with any iPhone or iPod touch game with a directional pad, or virtual joystick, including Meteor Blitz, Aralon: Sword and Shadow, Super Mega Worm, Robokill, Blade of Betrayal and Dink Smallwood, to name a few. 			Similar to Fling for iPad, to use Fling mini, launch the game of your choice and secure Fling mini's center control over the game's directional pad. Then simply place your thumb on the center control to navigate easily through the game. 			The translucent and flexible design provides an unrestricted view of all on-screen action. Plus, the suction cups allow simple attachment and detachment for spontaneous gaming sessions. 			The included microfiber bag is ideal for on-the-go storage and doubles as the perfect screen cleaning cloth to eliminate unwanted smudges and fingerprints. 			Available in Ninja, the 2-pack Fling mini is available for pre-order now for just $24.95 at www.tenonedesign.com. 
 