
 
Tesla is touting the world's biggest center console for its upcoming Model S today: a titanic 17-inch touchscreen display powered by NVIDIA's Tegra chip. Infotainment, climate control and navigation will all be managed using the vast dashboard dominator, while NVIDIA's hardware will also take responsibility for keeping the 12.3-inch instrument cluster LCD updated. Considering the Model S, like the Roadster before it, is an all-electric vehicle, you'd expect energy efficiency to be a pretty important consideration in the choice of infotainment system and Tesla points that out as a key advantage of Tegra, describing it as "power-stingy." Another motor company hooking up with NVIDIA is BMW, who promises that all of its upcoming models for 2011 will benefit from Green Team GPUs powering their iDrive navigation and information systems. We don't know what exact GPUs will be used, but a "visually rich" next-gen UI is being promised, stretching out to a 1280 x 600 resolution. You'll find both press releases after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTesla Motors' Model S to Feature NVIDIA Tegra Processors Power-Stingy Tegra to Run All-Electric Sedan's Infotainment, Navigation, Instrument-Cluster SystemsLAS VEGAS, NV -- (Marketwire) -- 01/04/2011 -- CES 2011 ­-- NVIDIA announced today that NVIDIA® Tegra™ processors will power the infotainment, navigation and instrument-cluster systems in the Tesla Model S, the first sedan built from the ground up as an electric vehicle. Built around the driver, the Model S is the premium sedan, evolved. Its infotainment system features a 17-inch touch-screen center console -- the largest display ever in a car -- providing vivid 3D graphics. In addition to its unrivaled graphics capability, the Tegra processor provides exceptional energy efficiency, a critically important feature for electric cars. One processor will be used to power the infotainment and navigation systems, and another for the instrument cluster.The infotainment and navigation systems feature:* 17-inch high resolution display, the largest display ever in a car* Responsive touchscreen with a fully intuitive user interface* Connected navigation with live traffic, points of interest and weather* Touchscreen-based climate-control systemThe all-digital instrument cluster features:* Ultra high-resolution, driver-friendly 12.3" LCD display* Advanced 3D graphics providing data about the vehicleCES 2011 attendees will be able to view the Model S outside the Las Vegas Convention Center in the Central Plaza, booth # CP7.Visit NVIDIA's booth in South Hall 3, booth # 31431 to learn about how NVIDIA is working with Tesla Motors to bring visual computing to tomorrow's cars.Quotes:*"Model S is designed for performance-oriented efficiency. NVIDIA allows us to use the highest graphics with the lowest energy use."- JB Straubel, chief technology officer at Tesla Motors *"The Model S is a modern marvel -- a blend of beauty, performance and efficiency. Tegra's combination of graphics power and energy efficiency make it a perfect match for the Model S."- Dan Vivoli, senior vice president at NVIDIA About TegraNVIDIA Tegra is the world's first mobile superchip, with eight dedicated computing cores. These include the ARM Cortex-A9 CPU, the world's only ultra-low power NVIDIA GeForce® GPU and the world's first mobile 1080p HD video processor. These features enable it to offer extremely realistic 3D graphics and advanced multimedia functionality and premium-quality accelerated user interfaces. Its auto-grade version has undergone specific testing for the automotive market and passed the industry-standard AEC-100 qualification for reliability, adhering to certain operating temperature ranges. It also offers a complete toolset for engineers to quickly build visually-appealing user interfaces.Show full PR textNVIDIA GPUs to Be the Infotainment Centerpiece Across BMW's Next-Generation of CarsFrom the 7 Series to the Mini Cooper, NVIDIA Powers BMW State-of-the-Art Graphics, Enabling Focus on Safer, More Enjoyable DrivingLAS VEGAS, NV -- (Marketwire) -- 01/04/2011 -- CES 2011 -- BMW of North America and NVIDIA today announced a partnership that puts NVIDIA® GPUs in navigation and vehicle-information systems across all next-generation BMW cars worldwide.NVIDIA GPUs will power BMW's in-car navigation systems to deliver vivid graphics with detailed terrain models, landmarks and a stunning new interface. NVIDIA processors will be found throughout BMW's range of models, including the 7-Series, 5-Series, 3-Series, Mini Cooper line and X-Series of sports activity vehicles.BMW's iDrive will feature high resolution visuals, real-time traffic reporting and navigation information. iDrive is the intelligent control concept that makes it intuitively simple to use a BMW's in-car features. Its ability to clearly show the most relevant details and make anticipatory decisions to assist the driver will allow BMW owners to drive more safely and focus on the joy of driving.Highlights / Key Facts:* Powered by NVIDIA GPUs, the BMW iDrive system provides:o Visually rich, next-generation user interfaceo Advanced state-of-the-art graphics for navigation and vehicle-information systemso High resolution display (1280x600)o Fast user-interface response time* At CES 2011, see a sneak preview of the BMW 5-Series, showcasing the very latest graphics technologies at NVIDIA's outdoor exhibit -- Central Plaza booth # CP7. Quotes:*"A year ago we had a vision to deliver the most advanced intuitive state-of-the-art navigation system. In our quest for superior graphics performance, no one came close to what NVIDIA brings to the table. Our partnership represents the beginning of an exciting new phase for BMW drivers."- Elmar Frickenstein, Executive Vice President Electrics/Electronics and Driving Experience Environment at BMW*"BMW has built their reputation on creating the ultimate driving experience. They are taking that to an entirely new level with NVIDIA GPUs."- Dan Vivoli, Senior Vice President at NVIDIA
 