
 
 Tesla has wanted to spread its EV wings beyond North America for awhile, and we now know exactly where its European nest will be. Later this month, the automaker plans to open a distribution center in Tilburg, The Netherlands. The hub will serve as a point of assembly for the continent's cars while also handling imports, parts, repairs and training, including for the Model S and Roadster. Tilburg will be put to full use when it starts manufacturing left-hand drive Model S models in March. As long a wait as that might seem, it could lead to fewer headaches and quicker deliveries for Old World drivers who want a truly new ride.



  Show full PR text   Tesla Motors Announces Major European Distribution Center in the Netherlands
  PALO ALTO, California and TILBURG, Netherlands, December 12, 2012 /PRNewswire/ --
  New facility will serve as final Model S assembly point, vehicle distribution hub and regional service center
  As a key step towards beginning worldwide distribution of Model S, Tesla Motors announced today that it will begin operations this month at its new European Distribution Center in Tilburg, Netherlands. This new facility will serve as Tesla's European service and parts headquarters, as well as the final assembly and distribution point for Model S vehicles sold in Europe. General production of European left-hand drive Model S is planned to begin in March 2013.
  Tesla's new 18,900 square meter facility is centrally located to enable efficient, timely and cost effective operations throughout Europe. Starting this month, the new distribution center will begin stocking parts for both the Tesla Roadster and Model S. In addition to parts warehousing, Tesla plans to utilize this facility for vehicle importing operations, final vehicle assembly and distribution, service headquarters, technical training operations, parts remanufacturing, collision repair and more. The new Tesla European Distribution Center will lead to the creation of approximately 50 jobs in the next few years.
  Tesla's decision to locate the new European Distribution Center in Tilburg is the result of almost two years of on-going cooperation between Tesla, BOM Foreign Investments, NFIA (Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency), CBRE Group, Inc. and the City of Tilburg.
 
