
 Tesla's Model S roadster has nabbed Motor Trend's 2013 Car of the Year award, making it the first electric car to garner the prize. The EV was voted in unanimously by the publication's judges while beating out the formidable likes of BMW, Porsche and Lexus. In announcing the award, the editors proclaimed the vehicle to be sporty, efficient, spacious and "as smoothly effortless as a Rolls-Royce." Meanwhile, Tesla's CEO Elon Musk opined that gaining the prize over the gas-burners was a "critical step towards the widespread adoption of sustainable transport." Now all the automaker needs to do is ramp up production and it might start to generate cash as well as awards.



  Show full PR text    Tesla Model S Wins One of Automotive Industry's Highest Honors: Motor Trend 2013 Car of the Year
   Model S Bests a Field of 25 Powerhouse Automotive Brands

  Monday, November 12, 2012 -- Tesla Motors, Inc. (NASDAQ: TSLA)

   Today Model S was named Motor Trend's 2013 Car of the Year, one of the automotive industry's most coveted awards. To take top honors, Model S garnered a unanimous vote from the panel of Motor Trend judges and guest judges, considered among the savviest and toughest critics in the industry. This is the first time in Motor Trend's memory that every judge was in unanimous agreement.

   "Our aspiration with the Model S was to show that an electric car truly can be better than any gasoline car, which is a critical step towards the widespread adoption of sustainable transport," said Elon Musk, Tesla Motors co-founder and CEO. "Nothing illustrates this more clearly than winning Motor Trend's Car of the Year by unanimous decision against a field of exceptional competitors."

   The 2013 field of competition included entries from some of the most historically dominant nameplates. The field was initially narrowed to 11 finalists including the Porsche Boxster, BMW 3-series, Lexus GS, and Subaru BRZ. After extensive track and road testing pushed vehicles to their limits in one of the industry's toughest tests of performance, efficiency, safety and more, the Tesla Model S was awarded top honors.

  About Model S
   Model S is the world's first premium sedan built from the ground up as an electric vehicle and has been engineered to elevate the public's expectations of what a premium sedan can be. At the heart of Model S is the proven Tesla powertrain, delivering both unprecedented range and a thrilling drive experience. With a rigid body structure, nearly 50/50 weight distribution and a remarkably low center of gravity, Model S offers the responsiveness and agility expected from the world's best sports cars while providing the ride quality of a luxury performance sedan.

   Setting the bar for electric driving range, Model S offers 40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery options. All deliver unprecedented range, with the 85 kWh variant achieving an EPA-certified range of 265 miles. All three batteries use automotive-grade lithium-ion cells arranged for optimal energy density, thermal management, and safety.

   Without an internal combustion engine or transmission tunnel, the interior of Model S has more cargo space than any other sedan in its class and includes a second trunk under the hood. The Model S interior features a 17" in-dash touchscreen with Internet capabilities, allowing for streaming radio, web browsing and navigation.

  About Tesla
   Tesla's goal is to accelerate the world's transition to electric mobility with a full range of increasingly affordable electric cars. California-based Tesla designs and manufactures EVs, as well as EV powertrain components for partners such as Toyota and Daimler. Tesla has delivered more than 2,400 Roadsters to customers worldwide. Model S, the world's first premium sedan to be engineered from the ground up as an electric vehicle, began deliveries to U.S. customers in June of this year. Tesla has already received more than 13,000 reservations worldwide for Model S.

   Interested in keeping up with Tesla Motors?  For more information on Tesla Motors and its products, please visit: teslamotors.com  For more information for Tesla Motors investors, please visit: ir.teslamotors.com  For the latest information from Tesla Motors, including press releases and the Tesla blog, please visit: teslamotors.com/press

 
