
 
 Texas Instruments has already shown off some new DLP technology here at CES, shrinking it down and shoving it into phones packed with pico projectors. It's not done, however, as TI has plans to put DLP into next-gen car infotainment and HUD systems. Why the shift into automotive? Well, TI already makes infrared cameras, sensors and other components for cars, and because infotainment systems are becoming de rigeur, DLP based systems are the next logical move for the company. TI thinks DLP is a perfect fit for cars because it delivers higher brightness, wider field of view and better color reproduction than competing display technologies, and it can be used in curved displays. Plus, DLP-based HUD displays can be optimally positioned and changed in size on the fly based on drivers seating positions.

 To power those systems, TI has also announced a new OMAP 5 chip codenamed Jacinto 6 tailor made for automotive applications. It's got two Cortex A15 cores, two Cortex M4 cores and PowerVR SGX-544 graphics to provide ample computing power and electrical efficiency. We won't be seeing DLP in-dash systems in showrooms anytime soon -- Jacinto 6 won't go into production until 2014 -- but TI has brought a few concept systems to CES, and you can see one of them in a demo video after the break. Oh, and we'll be bringing you an in-person look at TI's wares from the show floor later this week, so stay tuned.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


 
  Show full PR text   Texas Instruments DLP® Technology Set To Deliver Greater In-Car Infotainment With New, Innovative Head-Up Display, Center Console And Dashboard Systems
  Range of automotive suppliers and manufacturers showcasing cutting-edge, TI DLP-powered automotive/vehicle display systems throughout CES 2013
   Video & images available at www.DLP.com/CES2013

   LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Today at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Texas Instruments (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) DLP® Products, to carry on TI's longstanding commitment to the automotive industry, has revealed its latest vision for the future of in-car/vehicle infotainment with groundbreaking augmented reality (AR) head-up displays (HUD), digital dashboards, and center console systems enabled by TI DLP technology. These next-generation systems from TI mark TI DLP's first official entry into the automotive industry, and represent a notable shift forward with regards to higher resolution and brightness, expanded field of view, tactile feedback, distraction-reduced functionality, and interior design flexibility that breaks the design barriers of existing technology. Together with a number of automotive suppliers and manufacturers, TI will be demoing some of the new-era systems across the show floor during CES 2013 to offer a glimpse of what drivers and passengers can possibly experience in their cars in as little as a few years.

   Further supporting TI DLP's expansion into the automotive space, Strategy Analytics noted in its automotive electronics report* that through 2018, "High growth application areas (with unit CAAGRs in excess of 50%) include: Pure electric vehicles, head-up displays, drowsiness detection, front LED lighting, stop/start, lane departure warning, and blind spot monitoring."

   "DLP technology has long been known as a leader in digital image quality and intelligent display capabilities across a variety of products and applications," said Kent Novak , senior vice president and general manager, Texas Instruments DLP Products. "For us, the world of in-vehicle infotainment, especially augmented reality head-up displays in the near future, can benefit greatly from what we can do with DLP technology, combined with TI's proven automotive processors, sensors and other products. With our partners, we're delivering the same connected, immersive experiences that consumers expect from smartphones, tablets, gaming systems, and more into the cabins of modern cars and vehicles, but in a less distracting and more usable way."

   With the unique micromirror structure of DLP technology, TI has been able to develop a compact HUD system with higher brightness and clarity amid driving conditions, a much wider field of view and increased color reproduction over other display types. Software-based augmented reality elements, such as navigational indicators, real-time landmark details, or safety warnings, can be shown in relation to real-world objects in view to help keep the driver focused on the road ahead. Additionally, the size of the HUD image can also be adjusted and positioned on the windshield to best match the line of vision depending on their seating position, and thus improve the driver's ability to stay focused and alert.

   For console and dashboard displays, the speed and accuracy of DLP technology, combined with infrared cameras and other TI components, such as the new "Jacinto 6" processor, allow for multipoint, touchscreen interactivity across the entire surface of the console, scalability to any size and shape, including curves, and true tactile comfort and familiarity via integration of physical dials and buttons. Additionally, full-color, high resolution video, animations, and static images to indicate vehicle information, navigation, in-car entertainment, and HVAC controls can be shown simultaneously and even repositioned to best suit the driver and passengers. Additional TI sensors can determine whether it is the driver's or a passenger's hands approaching the console and adjust the images and available functions accordingly for safety.

   All DLP-powered HUD, dashboard, and console setups will be able to display content from whatever software programs and formats that manufacturers may choose, whether proprietary or 3rd party commercial/open source.

   To experience all of these automotive displays firsthand, along with other new and upcoming products and advancements made possible with TI DLP technology, be sure to check us out at the following CES 2013 events, and visit our partners' exhibits throughout the show floor:

   Pepcom's Digital Experience! – Mon. January 7th, 7pm PT

   Texas Instruments DLP demo suite (please email dlantowski@waggeneredstrom.com to set up meeting) – Tue. January 8th through Fri. January 11th

   To access the latest news, videos, images and other digital content from TI DLP during CES, please visit our online press page at DLP.com/CES2013. You can also follow us on Twitter at @TI_DLP, and on YouTube at YouTube.com/DLPTechnology. For the latest on other applications for DLP technology overall, please visit DLP.com.

   Not attending CES? Stay connected with TI:  TI's CES activities  TI on Twitter  TI on Facebook  TI on Google +  *From Strategy Analytics' August 2011 report "Automotive Electronics system Demand Forecast 2009 to 2018," page 4

   __________________________

  Automotive infotainment re-defined: TI's "Jacinto 6" automotive OMAP™ processor paves the way for an unparalleled in-vehicle experience
  New DRA74x processor (code named "Jacinto 6") heightens performance and integrates OMAP architecture for tomorrow's in-vehicle displays, 3D navigation and high-definition multimedia
   LAS VEGAS (January 7, 2013) – Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NASDAQ: TXN) today introduced an automotive OMAP™ processor built to bring unprecedented in-vehicle entertainment and telematics functionality to automobiles. Codenamed "Jacinto 6," the new DRA74x processor builds upon TI's proven OMAP 5 architecture to enable optimized automotive solutions, adding audio, analytics and radio accelerators, along with automobile interfaces and peripherals. Integrating automotive interfaces with the processor architecture can decrease an automotive infotainment customer's electronic bill of materials (BOM) by up to 25% or more, while delivering best-in-class performance capabilities. For more details, visit the Jacinto 6 web page.

   "Today's consumers expect always-on connectedness, with information and entertainment at their fingertips in every environment – at work, at home, at play and on the road," said Curt Moore, general manager of automotive for TI's OMAP product line. "Jacinto 6 links people, their vehicles and the world around them via rich user interfaces, 3D navigation, real-time, high-definition, (HD) video and other interactive capabilities. With TI infotainment processors designed into more than a dozen automobile manufacturers delivering feature-rich infotainment systems, TI is excited to work with our customers to drive automotive infotainment performance to the next level with Jacinto 6."

  DRA74x automotive OMAP processor
   With the OMAP 5 architecture at its foundation – including dual ARM® Cortex™-A15 cores, dual Cortex-M4 cores and multi-Imagination Technologies' POWERVR™ SGX544-MPx graphics cores – the latest DRA74x ("Jacinto 6") processor increases ARM CPU performance up to five times and graphics (GPU) performance close to seven times as compared to the previous "Jacinto 5" offering. It also adds the following elements to the OMAP 5 processor foundation, to address specific automotive-infotainment needs:

    AEC Q100 qualification and wide-temperature support.   Automotive interfaces: 2x CAN, MOST Media Local Bus (MLB), PCIe, Ethernet AVB, 3.3V I/Os.   Optional 680 MHz floating-point VLIW DSP for integration of software defined radio, advanced audio and speech processing.   Multiple high-definition camera and video input ports to enable next-generation surround-view camera and consumer devices.   Robust software ecosystem, including support for QNX, open-source Linux, and Android.   Pre-integration of TI's WiLink™ 8Q wireless automotive connectivity solutions   Infotainment leaders echo support for TI's Automotive OMAP ("Jacinto") processor family 
   With an ecosystem of leading automotive partners, TI is proud to work with industry leaders to engineer the future of in-vehicle capabilities. Many of those ecosystem players leverage TI's "Jacinto" processors and applaud the launch of the latest Jacinto 6 offering:

   The automotive infotainment market has shifted dramatically in the past five years, as cars transform into portable command centers," said Jugal Vijayvargiya, senior vice president of Delphi and president of Delphi Electronics & Safety. "Delphi delivers real-world solutions to drive this shift, with innovative implementations of connectivity technologies, speech recognition, audio streaming and more. We are proud to work with key partners like TI in the process, and look forward to "Jacinto 6" enhancing tomorrow's in-vehicle infotainment experiences."

   "With an estimated 25 million vehicles on the road today featuring HARMAN's audio and infotainment, our team works closely with partners such as TI to redefine the automotive infotainment experience," said Michael Mauser, executive vice president and co-president, infotainment and lifestyle divisions, HARMAN. "As the latest in the line of TI's reliable, scalable OMAP processors, "Jacinto 6" helps us deliver on the promise to bring consumers seamless, feature-rich infotainment capabilities for a safer, more enjoyable ride wherever they may travel."

   "At Panasonic Automotive Systems Company of America, we seek out technology partners such as TI that share our same passion for crafting more exciting, informative driving experiences," said David Taylor, director, research and advanced development, Panasonic Automotive Systems of America. "The launch of "Jacinto 6" is a major step forward for automotive manufacturers hoping to integrate next-generation infotainment capabilities in upcoming vehicles, and we look forward to seeing how "Jacinto 6" transforms the way passengers and drivers experience navigation, multimedia and other interactive capabilities on the road."

   "For more than 10 years, TI and QNX have worked closely to enable innovative, connected automotive solutions, which have changed the way people interact with in-vehicle and carry-in electronics," said Linda Campbell, director of strategic alliances, QNX Software Systems. "Jacinto 6 brings new levels of performance, power, and optimization, enabling us to bring game-changing innovations to model year 2014 vehicles and beyond. We look forward to continued successes with TI and to working together to bring best-in-class, Jacinto-processor-based features to cars across the globe."

  Availability
   The DRA74x "Jacinto 6" processor will sample in mid-2013 and is expected to be available for production by the second half of 2014. As with other OMAP processors, the DRA74x is intended for high-volume automotive manufacturers and is not available through distributors.

  Texas Instruments drives automotive innovation
   TI's state-of-the-art semiconductor products allow manufacturers and system suppliers to deliver world-class features to the automotive market. Our extensive automotive portfolio includes analog power management, interface and signal chain solutions, along with DLP® displays, ADAS and infotainment processors, Hercules™ TMS570 safety microcontrollers and wireless connectivity solutions. Complete with excellent product documentation, TI offers parts that are compliant with the AEC-Q100 and TS16949 standards, along with SafeTI™ products, which also comply with ISO 26262 requirements. Click here to learn more.

 
