
 
 Transport for London and Virgin Media have announced the first 80 London Underground stations that'll receive free WiFi in time for the Olympics. By the end of July, users will be able to surf from the train platform, ticket offices and escalators -- ideal for a few extra rush-hour injuries. The partnership will offer the internet free during the games season before switching to a pay-as-you-go model, with plans to swell the network to 120 by the end of the year. If you'd like to know if your morning commute is about to get some extra connectivity then head past the break for the full list.




       Aldgate East

      Elephant & Castle

      London Bridge

      St Paul's

        Angel

      Embankment

      Manor House

      Stepney Green

        Archway

      Euston

      Mansion House

      Stockwell

        Arsenal

      Euston Square

      Marble Arch

      Stratford

        Barbican

      Finsbury Park

      Marylebone

      Swiss Cottage

        Bayswater

      Goodge Street

      Mile End

      Temple

        Bermondsey

      Green Park

      North Greenwich

      Tottenham Hale

        Bethnal Green

      Hammersmith (District/Picc)

      Old Street

      Tower Hill

        Blackhorse Road

      Heathrow T1-3

      Oval

      Tufnell Park

        Borough

      Heathrow T4

      Oxford Circus

      Vauxhall

        Brixton

      High Street Kensington

      Paddington (Main)

      Victoria

        Caledonian Road

      Highbury & Islington

      Piccadilly Circus

      Walthamstow Central

        Camden Town

      Holborn

      Pimlico

      Warren Street

        Canada Water

      Holland Park

      Queensway

      Warwick Avenue

        Canary Wharf

      Hyde Park Corner

      Regents Park

      Waterloo

        Canning Town

      Kentish Town

      Seven Sisters

      Wembley Central

        Chancery Lane

      Kings Cross/St Pancras

      Southfields

      Wembley Park

        Charing Cross

      Lambeth North

      Southwark

      West Ham

        Clapham North

      Lancaster Gate

      St James Park

      Wimbledon Park

        Covent Garden

      Leicester Square

      St Johns Wood

      Westminster

        Edgware Road (Circle)

      Liverpool Street

   
 
   
 
   
  Show full PR text   First stations named for London Underground WiFi launch
   Customers will soon be able to connect to the internet at Tube stations across the capital  Oxford Circus, Stratford and King's Cross among stations WiFi enabled for free this summer  Service on track for up to 120 stations connected by end of 2012

   London Underground and Virgin Media have named the first London Underground stations that will be WiFi enabled for free this summer. Stations including Oxford Circus, Stratford, Liverpool Street, Leicester Square and King's Cross will be among the first to launch, with around 80 stations WiFi enabled by the end of July 1.

   With the eyes of the world on London this summer, Virgin Media's next generation WiFi service will be made available to all Tube passengers for free throughout the summer. Millions of commuters and visitors to London will be able to get online at Tube stations and find their way around the capital with up-to-the-minute TfL travel information, access social media whilst they wait for their next train on the station platform or browse the web to discover the very best London has to offer this summer.

   Gareth Powell, London Underground's Director of Strategy and Service Development, said: "Our customers will soon be able to connect to the internet for live travel information while they are on the move through stations.

   "Bringing a next generation WiFi service to one of the world's oldest underground transport networks is progressing as planned and the forthcoming service is testing well.

   "The first stations include some of our busiest and most well-known destinations and we're on-track for a successful launch this summer – all delivered at no additional cost to fare payers or tax payers."

   Jon James, Executive Director of Broadband at Virgin Media, said: "In partnership with TfL, we've been working around-the-clock to install and test WiFi on London Underground and are about to connect some iconic and world famous Tube stations with a WiFi service London will be proud of."

   Virgin Media and London Underground engineers continue to test and prepare the forthcoming WiFi service, including recent capacity testing at Chancery Lane underground station where hundreds of devices were connected to the station's WiFi service at exactly the same time to reproduce the service experience of a busy Tube train arriving at the station2.

   The new free online portal will offer up-to-the-minute TfL service information including TfL's journey planner and entertainment and news content useful for a commute to work or trip into town.

   Full details of the new service will be confirmed at launch. Stay up-to-date at www.virginmedia.com/wifi.

 
 