
   To explore NVIDIA's booth here at Mobile World Congress is to play a game of duck-duck-goose. For the most part, you'll see the Transformer Prime (the first quad-core tablet, don'tcha know) outputting video and 3D games. But look closely and you'll find something a little less expected. Hidden among all those spun metal Primes is an unannounced Toshiba-made tablet, one with an odd, in-between screen size we haven't seen it use in its Thrive line. Specifically, it's that 7.7-inch prototype we saw at CES, only the fact that it's here at NVIDIA's booth makes us think it would be too late for Toshiba to change its mind and pull the plug on this.  Certainly, it's far enough along that it now has confirmed specs. According to an NVIDIA rep, this has a 7.7-inch, 1280 x 800, Super AMOLED (!) panel, and runs NVIDIA's 1.5GHz Tegra 3 chip. And while NVIDIA isn't exactly broadcasting the name, a quick glance at the settings confirmed its current alias is the AT270, which would certainly make for a logical followup to the AT200. (A quick glance at the settings also confirms it's running ICS -- a vanilla version, at that -- but any self-respecting tech writer would know that instantly.)  It would also seem that Toshiba is feeling pretty confident about the design we saw at CES, because barely anything has changed. For starters, it's thin -- thin on the level of the 10-inch AT200. Which is to say, it's skinny in the wide world of tables, but especially so next to one of those chubby Thrives. The build quality also seems to have improved. Gone is the ridged plastic backing that makes the Thrives so recognizable, and in its place there's... more plastic. Still, it manages to not feel chintzy or poorly made -- think of the kind of finely textured plastic you'll find on the back of any Samsung Galaxy handset. Also on board: dual cameras of unknown resolutions, as well as an exposed microSD slot, volume rocker, 3.5mm headphone jack and USB socket. So there you have it. We've got spy shots below, so you can refuse to be surprised when this thing finally makes it to market.  Zach Lutz contributed to this report. 


