


When Engadget started 10 years ago, flip phones were ubiquitous; Firefox was still the new kid on the block; and EDGE was cutting-edge wireless technology. Clearly, things have changed. There's never been a more exciting time in the consumer electronics industry. Innovation occurs at an astonishing pace; crowdfunding gives anyone with a good idea the means to bring it to fruition; and, hell, we can print functional rocket engine parts now. We live in a magical future, and to best tell you all about it, Engadget needs to evolve. How? I'll get to that, but first, let me introduce myself. I'm Michael Gorman (the bearded fellow seen above in a checkered shirt), your new Editor-in-Chief, and, along with new Executive Editor Christopher Trout, I'm steering the good ship Engadget on its revised course.



Covering an industry as fast-paced and robust as consumer technology, it's easy to get lost in the minutiae. For 10 years, Engadget has been laser-focused on exhaustive coverage of that industry and in the process, we've become the go-to source for "phone gets update" posts and stories that read like a spec sheet. All at the expense of telling you what it all actually means. Today, that changes.

It's not that we're tossing screen resolutions and processor speeds into the bin, but we are going to focus on telling the stories behind those specs. Technology is changing our world in astonishing and sometimes devastating ways, and it's our mission to tell you how and why with the same wit and insight you've come to expect from Engadget. As always, we still want to be your go-to source for info on all the gadgets (new and old), and if you're interested in the nitty-gritty of gadgetry, our database is there to break it all down for you.

It's time to take a step back and look at the big picture. And if you haven't noticed, we're literally dedicated to that mission with the rollout of much larger article images. Not all of the new photos will be so self-serving (promise), but size-wise at least, there's plenty more where that came from.

We're just getting started.

[Image Credit: Will Lipman/AOL]


