
 
Sony Ericsson has just announced the mammoth Xperia Pro Android phone -- a slider device with a full QWERTY keyboard. The device sports a 3.7-inch, 854 x 480 display (which uses the company's Bravia graphics engine technology), runs atop a 1GHz Snapdragon CPU, and is sporting SE's customized build of Gingerbread (Android 2.3). The phone has an 8 megapixel camera with LED flash, 2 megapixel front facing camera, and will be available in silver, red, and black. We're working on getting more info as we type, so stay tuned!



Check out our Sony Ericsson liveblog and read the full press release and specs list after the break!


Specs:Size: 120 x 57 x 13.5 mmWeight: 140 gramsPhone memory: Up to 320MBMemory card support: microSD™, up to 32GBMemory card included: 8GB microSD™Operating system: Google™ Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)Processor: 1 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon™ MSM8255Talk time GSM/GPRS: Up to 6 hrs 55 min*Standby time GSM/GPRS: Up to 430 hrs*Talk time UMTS: Up to 7 hrs*Standby time UMTS: Up to 400 hrs*Music listening time: Up to 31 hrs*Video playback time: Up to 7 hrs 25 min**According to GSM Association Battery Life Measurement Technique. Battery performance may vary depending on network conditions and configurations, and phone usage.NetworksUMTS HSPA 900, 2100 GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900UMTS HSPA 800, 1900, 2100 GSM GPRS/EDGE 850, 900, 1800, 1900 Show full PR textFebruary 13, 2011, Barcelona, Spain – Sony Ericsson today unveils the Xperia™ neo and Xperia™ pro, the newest additions to the new generation of Xperia™ smartphones. Closely following the launch of the Xperia™ arc smartphone earlier this year, these latest smartphones also feature cutting edge technology from Sony and an exceptional multimedia experience on the latest version of the Android™ platform – Gingerbread.As well as best-in-class imaging and display technology from Sony, the Xperia™ pro combines an optimized slide-out keyboard with smart functions to create a fast messaging experience. Featuring an ergonomically crafted keyboard, Sony Ericsson has focused on integrating the hardware with clever messaging functions for a perfect user experience. Xperia™ pro introduces the subtle but fast Type & Send functionality eliminating the need to open a dedicated app for each type of message, and Smart Keyboard that triggers predictive messaging actions automatically when the user slides out the keyboard.Xperia™ pro is also the ideal business phone for Android fans coming complete with a set of professional functions such as syncing your email, calendar and contacts in a secure way and the pre-loaded Office Suite Pro lets consumers view and edit office documents directly on the phone.Steve Walker, Head of Marketing, Sony Ericsson said, "We want to be a leader in Android and with Xperia™ neo and Xperia™ pro, we are now are offering excellent, innovative Android choices for consumers. These latest devices combine stunning design with state-of-the-art Sony technology and a new faster messaging experience on the Xperia™ pro, creating an entertaining smartphone experience."The best of Sony technology once again features in both Xperia™ pro and Xperia™ neo. The Reality Display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine delivers exceptional visual brilliance and a crystal clear image which enhances the overall entertainment experience. Sony's award-winning Exmor R™ for mobile sensor enables the capture of high quality, bright pictures and HD videos even in low light. All pictures and videos can be shared on an HD TV in your living room via the built in HDMI-connector.Xperia™ neo builds on the stunning design language that Sony Ericsson has become known with a unique shape that not only looks good, but is ergonomically designed to fit perfectly in the user's hand, especially when taking pictures.Both smartphones will launch on the latest version of the Android™ platform providing access to Google Mobile Services and the myriad of applications available via the Android market. Xperia™ smartphones add best in class entertainment on top of smartphone fundamentals such as apps, maps, email and fast uncompromised access to the Web with Adobe® Flash® Player to create the most entertaining smartphone experience.Sony Ericsson Xperia™ neo – Key features• Exmor R™. Great stills and videos even in low light• Reality display with Mobile BRAVIA® Engine• Built-in HDMI. Your stills and videos on HD TV• More than 100,000 apps on Android Market• Google™ services. At your serviceThe Sony Ericsson Xperia™ neo will be available in the following colours: Blue Gradient, Red and Silver.Sony Ericsson Xperia™ pro – Key features• Touch phone with perfect slide-out keyboard and smart functions for fast messaging• Synch your email and edit office documents on the go• Sony Mobile BRAVIA® Engine and Exmor R™ for mobile• HDMI. Connect to an HD TV or a projector• Google™ services and more than 100,000 apps on Android Market™The Sony Ericsson Xperia™ pro will be available in the following colours: Black, Red, SilverSony Ericsson Xperia™ neo will be available globally in selected markets from end Q1 and Sony Ericsson Xperia™ pro from end Q2.For further information, images and videos visit www.sonyericsson.com/mwcnews 
 