
Veteran journalist and Engadget correspondent J.D. Lasica cornered TiVO CEO Mike Ramsay in a hallway at the Web 2.0 conference, where the head of the pioneering digital video recorder company talked about TiVo DVD recorders, government meddling in new technologies, and what the future of television holds:   Talk to me about TiVo not as a company, but as an idea. TiVo owners are passionate about their TiVos. Why does the cult of TiVo command such power?  The insider language around this is, Oh my God, we've created a monster. It's apparent we've got this compelling consumer proposition. At the end of the day, it has to do with fact that people are discovering they can be in control of television and, more broadly, can be in control of their home entertainment. It's not until you discover what you can do that you realize how much a slave you were to the old way.   Television has a bad rep, it's kind of broken. When you have 500 channels and there's nothing on, television is definitely broken. I think what TiVo has done is put people back in charge.  And that's a primal, important thing that people like as far as a social trend that's far broader than television. And when you give them that empowerment, they get very excited and love it. And so you get a statement like, 'It's changed my life. I can never go back.' That's a huge motivator for us as a company.



 Do you have any favorite stories or testimonials from people about their TiVos?    We hear all sorts of stories, mostly around kids. The fact you can manage kids' television viewing much moreeffectively. It doesn't get in the way of the family being able to sit down and have a meal together. That's where thelifestyle thing begins to build. When you're a slave to television it screws up your life.  My car has a TiVo license plate, so I get messages under my windshield wipers, people saying, I love TiVo. We get mailfrom people who send us the TiVo remote because their dog chewed it and they want a replacement. And we take these andput them in a trophy case. You get this cross-section of humanity and how they interact with their TiVos.  Do you think TiVo is part of a bigger cultural wave of consumer empowerment?  I know people who react that way. The PC revolution empowered people, it gave them a tool to do things on their owncreatively. They didn't have to go ask permission of anyone. The Internet gave us access to infinite amounts ofcustomized information. Google is an incredible personalization engine for all the information in the world,essentially. TiVo has been about empowering people to be in charge of their own entertainment choices.    We've taken that idea developing over the past 10 or 20 years, and I do think it's caused a social change where peopleexpect if they want to do something or change something, they just go and do it. They don't have to wait in line or askpermission. We're extending that idea into the television world. And we're extending it beyond television because ofthe work we're doing with music and pictures. Our software lets you stream music from your PC to your TiVo to play iton your stereo system, and also the ability to show digital photographs.  What's your vision for Internet television?  For us, it's a natural idea to consider that the DVR idea would be extended beyond broadcast onto broadband. We're inthis space today where the availability of content over the Internet is starting to explode, starting with audiocontent and increasingly going to video content. But there's no real good technology for delivering that to the mostubiquitous UI there is, which is television. We see our role as providing that delivery because we have atelevision-based platform. It's not a PC, it's not a Web browser, it's a true set-top device. The opportunity we likeis the marriage of what TiVo does from a UI standpoint with the availability of content that can be delivered overbroadband. Realistically, five years down the road, when you sit down to watch television, a good chunk of it will comeover broadband.  Is that why you bought Strangeberry?  We haven't really disclosed the underlying technology that we bought from them, but there are certainly elements ofwhat they're doing that are very important to this. They have a unique technology that marries the Internet world tothe television world, and we saw that as extremely valuable. We're integrating that into our core products today.  A high-definition TiVo recently came to market. How is that selling?  It's a DirecTV product with a high-def version of TiVo. I have one at home, it works great. We're believers in highdef, and I think we'll see increasing demand for high-def standalone products. So far, they cannot make enough of them.It's an incredibly popular product.  Will we see TiVo on other kinds of consumer devices in thefuture?  Well, today one of the exciting things is the marriage of DVD recorders and TiVo. Pioneer already has one on themarket. Both Toshiba and Humax are going to be delivering DVD recorders within the next 30 to 60 days. You can doeverything with one remote control: You can play back DVDs, CDs, you can do your TiVo thing or change channels on yourtelevision. You can record anything from television onto the DVD. So it's very useful, and we'll see a much more rapidproliferation of DVD recorders than we've seen to date because the user interface and the TiVo nature of them will bemore appealing.  I've got two TiVos and a DVD recorder already. What will TiVo on a DVD recorder add to the mix?  Oh, it's a whole new cool thing. TiVo's got Now Playing listing all your programs, and you say, I'm traveling to NewYork by plane, so I'll check the ones I want to watch and it'll record those to DVD automatically. You get the DVD, putit in your laptop, and it's got the TiVo UI on it. So it's a trivially simple and powerful way to create a portableversion of TiVo.  Tell me about TiVoToGo, the service that allows TiVo users to send programs to as many as 10 TiVo units withthe same customer account in a secure fashion.  Right. We've established a technology that will allow people to share programs, albeit in a limited sphere likeiTunes, among a community on the same network. We think that will largely be used for people to transfer TV programsonto a laptop so you can take them with you. Getting it out there onto these portable devices like laptops and videoplayers is something consumers really want to do.   We developed a security mechanism around that, submitted it to the FCC under the broadcast flag initiative, and theMotion Picture Association and the NFL went ballistic and lobbied incredibly hard. But guess what? It got approved. TheFCC supported our technology.    Should the FCC be in the business of regulating new technologies like this one?  Definitely not. It's scary when you feel that you have to go to the FCC for permission to do something. So we're notvery comfortable with that. I think the broadcast flag stuff is less onerous than some other things, like the INDUCEAct. That we're much more concerned with because that could lead to prosecution of individuals who inducecopyright infringement. That just opens up a whole can of worms. If you upset consumers enough, they'll become pirates,and that law has the potential to do that.  You'll notice that everything on the table in Washington being pushed by the media companies doesn't target regulartelevision. It's targeted at things like ripping DVDs, how long you can keep movies pay-per-view movies, and soon.  Tell me about the new deal with Netflix.  It's about video rental. Most people these days, at least in this community, are buying music electronically. They'renot buying physical media. And I think the same thing will happen with video. Instead of going to the video store orgetting your Netflix in the mail, it's going to show up in your TiVo. It's a natural. It doesn't matter if it takes aday to get there, because Netflix takes a day anyway. People will get used to having a pipeline where content dripsthrough. The transition to electronic distribution will be complete and we won't be dealing with physical media.  So you'll be competing with services like Movielink and CinemaNow?  Not really. Netflix will be a download, and those other services are streaming. All broadband Internet distributionwill be a download for the foreseeable future. Streaming offers less than television quality. We believe thateverything you deliver to the television has to be TV quality or better—you can't compromise on that. The only way youcan do that in the U.S. today is by download.  How do you navigate the tricky path of pleasing the cable companies, the content companies and yourcustomers?  There's a lot we'd like to do. It's hard to stop innovation, and you could argue that a lot of the restrictivepractices to inhibit innovation have actually stirred innovation. File sharing and the DVR may not have occurred wereit not for the fact people were frustrated about getting access to music or their favorite TV program.  Looking ahead, we have a big interest in broadband and the distribution of television broadcast by satellite or cable.What happens when you can make broadband work with that? The implications for the industry are immense.  But the cable companies would oppose losing their stranglehold over the pipes into the living room, wouldn'tthey?  Nobody can stop us. You do the deals and you get distribution. You don't have to get carriage in the traditionalsense. Anyone can buy bandwidth and deliver their content, and that will have a large impact on the cable and satelliteindustry over the next 10 years.  How are you negotiating your relationship with Hollywood after they essentially put your main competitor outof business?  Our role is to create a great experience for people who want to watch television. ReplayTV crossed a line, and theykind of asked for it, and they were put out of business. There is a business objective we have as a company to have acertain level of support from the industry because that's good for our business. If you get stupid and you go out ofbusiness, that isn't doing the consumer any good.  Where do you see the television landscape five or ten years down the road?  High definition will become more commonplace. Five years from now, you'll be able to get television content overbroadband, whether it's over satellite or cable, and it will be the start of some new and interesting sources ofcontent which has not been available to people to date. And five years from now, the idea of electronic delivery ofvideo rentals will be real. Blockbuster will still be in business, but the idea of getting your video rental overbroadband will have started to happen.

  J.D. Lasica is the author of the upcoming bookDarknet: Remixing the Future of Entertainment.
