
  
Get ready humans, because we have an all new, amazing Engadget Show fresh out of the box. For your viewing pleasure, Josh sits down with Microsoft director Aaron Woodman to chat Windows Phone 7 and demo nearly all of the new devices, including the Dell Venue Pro. Next up, Darren Murph joins the round table for a bunch of demos, including the new MacBook Airs, Palm Pre 2, and more Windows Phone 7. Nilay leads a thorough demo of Google TV via the Logitech Revue and Engadget editors Ben Drawbaugh and Tim Stevens make some unbelievable cameos. We've got highlights from the New York Reader Meetup, plus a Halloween costume contest that quickly gets out of hand. To round it all out, Kris Keyser brings the jams with a rocking set of chiptunes music with visuals from noteNdo. What are you waiting for? Watch it now! Hit up the new video stream after the break!

Hosts: Joshua Topolsky, Nilay Patel, Paul Miller
Special guests: Aaron Woodman, Darren Murph, Ben Drawbaugh, Tim Stevens, Tim Stevens' dog Bowser
Produced and Directed by: Chad Mumm
Executive Producer: Joshua Fruhlinger
Edited by: Danny Madden
Music by: Kris Keyser
Visuals by: noteNdo
Reader Meetup music by: Zen Albatross
Opening titles by: Julien Nantiec

Taped live at The Times Center

Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 014 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 014 (iPod / iPhone / Zune formatted) / The Engadget Show - 014 (Small)

Subscribe to the Show:

[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (M4V).
[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (M4V).
[RSS M4V] Add the Engadget Show feed (M4V) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.






     Jump to:1. Interview with Microsoft's Aaron Woodman2. Dell Venue Pro hands-on!3. Highlights from the Engadget Reader Meetup, NYC4. Josh, Paul, Nilay, and Darren round table discussion5. More Windows Phone 7 device analysis6. Palm Pre 2 and WebOS 2.0 demo7. New Macbook Airs demoed8. Nilay leads a Google TV hands-on with the Logitech Revue9. Things get meta... really, really meta.10.Halloween audience costume contest!11. Live music from Kris Keyser with visuals by noteNdo

 