
  

Well ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again -- the Engadget Show is back in a big way this Saturday, April 24th at 5pm! This time around, we'll have the world renowned roboticist Dr. Dennis Hong on hand for a stirring discussion on robotics -- as well as the progress on our future robot butlers. What's more, GDGT co-founder and Engadget editor emeritus Ryan Block will be joining the round table and our own investigative reporter Rick Karr will be back with a head-scratching report on the war in the music industry over net neutrality. You can also look forward to some fine, fine music from Neil Voss and mind-numbing visuals from NO CARRIER. We'll be streaming the whole thing direct to you via the internet, but we'll also be doing tons of giveaways at the live show only, so make the trek and join us at The Times Center in person. If you're geographically incapable of joining us in New York City, just hit up the stream and tweet comments directly to the show! 

Note: The show time has been moved back an hour, so it will be starting at 6PM! See below for more details.

The Engadget Show is sponsored by Sprint, and will take place at the Times Center, part of The New York Times Building in the heart of New York City at 41st St. between 7th and 8th Avenues (see map after the break). Tickets are -- as always -- free to anyone who would like to attend, but seating is limited, and tickets will be first come, first served... so get there early! Here's all the info you need:

There is no admission fee -- tickets are completely free
The event is all ages
Ticketing will begin at the Times Center at 3:30PM on Saturday, doors will open for seating at 5:30PM, and the show begins at 6PM
You cannot collect tickets for friends or family -- anyone who would like to come must be present to get a ticket
Seating capacity in the Times Center is about 340, and once we're full, we're full
The venue is located at 41st St. between 7th and 8th Avenues in New York City (map after the break)
The show length is around an hour

If you're a member of the media who wishes to attend, please contact us at: engadgetshowmedia [at] engadget [dot] com, and we'll try to accommodate you. All other non-media questions can be sent to: engadgetshow [at] engadget [dot] com.

Sprint is also offering 50 guaranteed tickets to the Engadget Show taping to the first 50 entrants who text "ENGADGET" to 467467 or enter online! Standard text messaging rates apply. Click for the Official Rules and see how to enter online.

Subscribe to the Show:

[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (M4V).
[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (M4V).
[RSS M4V] Add the Engadget Show feed (M4V) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.
      

 


 