
 
Capping literally years of speculation on perhaps the most intensely followed unconfirmed product in Apple's history -- and that's saying a lot -- the iPhone has been announced today. Yeah, we said it: "iPhone," the name the entire free world had all but unanimously christened it from the time it'd been nothing more than a twinkle in Stevie J's eye (comments, Cisco?). Sweet, glorious specs of the 11.6 millimeter device (that's frickin' thin, by the way) include a 3.5-inch 480 x 320 touchscreen display with multi-touch support and a proximity sensor to turn off the screen when it's close to your face, 2 megapixel cam, 4GB or 8 GB of storage, Bluetooth 2.0 with EDR and A2DP, WiFi that automatically engages when in range, and quad-band GSM radio with EDGE. Perhaps most amazingly, though, it somehow runs OS X with support for Widgets, Google Maps, and Safari, and iTunes (of course) with CoverFlow out of the gate. A partnership with Yahoo will allow all iPhone customers to hook up with free push IMAP email. Apple quotes 5 hours of battery life for talk or video, with a full 16 hours in music mode -- no word on standby time yet. In a twisted way, this is one rumor mill we're almost sad to see grind to a halt; after all, when is the next time we're going to have an opportunity to run this picture? The 4GB iPhone will go out the door in the US as a Cingular exclusive for $499 on a two-year contract, 8GB for $599. Ships Stateside in June, Europe in fourth quarter, Asia in 2008.

The review
iPhone review

It goes on sale Friday, June 29th at 6PM!
iPhone on sale 6pm "local time"

More iPhone news and information
To keep up to the minute on all the iPhone news and developments, please go here and here (also available in RSS here and here).

Selected news
Apple lays down iPhone purchase rules -- max 2 per person
iPhone facts from the first reviews
How does the iPhone stack up in total cost?
iPhone rate plans revealed, at-home activation announced
New details about the iPhone
Apple iPhone dock revealed: charges Bluetooth headset too?

More news
YouTube hits Apple TV today, headed for the iPhone as well
Apple announces third-party software details for iPhone
iPhone ain't even an iPod without service
Apple takes you on an iPhone guided tour
AT&T preps landlords for iPhone campers

iPhone sightings
iPhones are arriving at stores, being unpacked
iPhone in the wild: French edition
iPhone spottings, "first hand" claims abound
iPhone spotted in public?

Launch coverage
iPhone multi-city lineblog
Video: Interview with Steve Wozniak!
iPhone first hands-on and unboxing
iPhone splayed for your pleasure
iPhone first hands-on in HD!
iPhone stress test: how did it do?
The Definitive iPhone user interface gallery












 
 