
 

Get ready, because the latest episode of The Engadget Show is coming at you soon. We'll be bringing it to you Friday, August 19th at 6:00PM. Tim Stevens and Brian Heater will be taking you around the world this time out, including a stop by the Ferrari factory in Italy and a trip to Times Square to see how the New York City's landmark giant video displays are getting more interactive. We'll also have our faces rocked by Parts & Labor's Dan Friel in studio, plus all manner of other awesome surprises.

The Engadget Show is sponsored by Sprint and will take place in our intimate NYC studio, so if you want to get in, you'll need to win a ticket in advance. But don't worry, if you can't get there in person we'll have a download up soon after taping.

Sprint is also offering 60 guaranteed tickets to The Engadget Show taping to the first 60 entrants who text "ENGADGET" to 467467 or enter online! Standard text messaging rates apply. Click for the Official Rules and see how to enter online.

If you live outside of the tri-state area (NY, NJ, CT), you can enter online for a chance to win a trip for two to New York City to attend The Engadget Show. Standard text messaging rates apply. Click here to enter.

Here are the details if you win a ticket:


		The event is all ages.

		We'll open doors and begin seating at 5:15pm on August 19th, and the taping begins at 6:00PM. We'll be closing the doors at 5:50PM.

		Winners must pick confirm and print tickets 24 hours before taping begins or risk forfeiting their seat.

		Please bring a photo ID with you to the taping.

		The show length is around an hour.

If you're a member of the media who wishes to attend, please contact us at: engadgetshowmedia [at] engadget [dot] com, and we'll try to accommodate you. All other non-media questions can be sent to: engadgetshow [at] engadget [dot] com.

Subscribe to the Show:

[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (M4V).
[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (M4V).
[RSS M4V] Add the Engadget Show feed (M4V) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically. 
      

 