
 


The Engadget Show is back! Last time it was gaming, this time we go for something with a bit more variety. The show starts with Tim and Brian taking a quick look over some of the month's biggest gadgets, like the Samsung Chromebook Series 5, the HTC EVO 3D, and a pair of new readers: the Barnes & Noble Nook WiFi and the Kobo eReader Touch Edition.

After that it's sledgehammer time, where Brian and Terrence work through some pent-up frustrations by beating the silicon out of a series of durable gadgets, all captured in delicious slow motion. Some survived, some did not. Then, we all learn a lesson as Rick Karr stops by to talk about the (sorry) state of US broadband compared to the rest of the world.

Next, we take it to the streets to ask you what your most important gadgets are before being joined in the studio by the Engadget founder Peter Rojas and Editor Emeritus Ryan Block, the duo behind gdgt, to talk about the gadgets that most affected them in their time at the site and beyond, also taking some questions from eager audience members about, well, gadgety things. Finally, we all get carried deep into the aural environment of Chrome Canyon.

It's a tech-heavy, action-packed show this week that you won't want to miss. So what are you waiting for? Watch it now! The video stream is above, or download the show in HD below!






Hosts: Tim Stevens, Brian Heater
Special guests: Terrence O'Brien, Rick Karr, Peter Rojas, Ryan Block
Producer: Guy Streit
Director: Michelle Stahl
Executive Producers: Joshua Fruhlinger and Michael Rubens
Broadband Segment Producers: Chad Mumm, Rick Karr, and Betsy Rate
Broadband Segment Animation and Editing: Danny Madden
Music and visuals by: Chrome Canyon

Taped live at AOL Studios

Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 022 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 022 (iPod / iPhone / Zune formatted) / The Engadget Show - 022 (Small)

Subscribe to the Show:

[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (MP4).
[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (MP4).
[RSS MP4] Add the Engadget Show feed (MP4) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.
[HD RSS] Get the Engadget Show delivered automatically in HD.
[iPad RSS] Get the Engadget Show in iPad-friendly adaptive format.
      