
  
Get ready humans, because we have an all new, amazing Engadget Show fresh out of the box. For your viewing pleasure, Josh sits down with NASA Chief Technologist Bobby Braun to find out about the next generation of NASA technology. Next, Engadget explains wireless net neutrality with animation and Rick Karr sits down with Columbia law professor and author of The Master Switch, Tim Wu in an interview that you absolutely do not want to miss, with Nilay and Rick breaking it all down afterward on stage. Up next, Josh and Nilay welcome Paul Blomdahl of TAT, The Astonishing Tribe, for a look at some never-before-seen mobile interface concepts... including TAT's upcoming Android skin and some of the most exciting uses of 3D we've ever seen. One lucky audience member walks away with a brand new Parrot AR Drone and Starscream brings the show to a close with a set of mind-bending chiptunes music with visuals from J.Y.K. What are you waiting for? Watch it now! Hit up the new video stream after the break, now with convenient chapter markers! 

Hosts: Joshua Topolsky, Nilay Patel, Rick Karr
Special guests: Bobby Braun, Tim Wu, Paul Blomdahl
Produced and Directed by: Chad Mumm
Executive Producer: Joshua Fruhlinger
Edited by: Danny Madden
Music by: Starscream 
Visuals by: J.Y.K. 
Net Neutrality Animation by: Ornana Films
Opening titles by: Julien Nantiec

Taped live at The Times Center

Download the Show: The Engadget Show - 013 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 013 (iPod / iPhone / Zune formatted)

Subscribe to the Show:

[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (M4V).
[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (M4V).
[RSS M4V] Add the Engadget Show feed (M4V) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.
      

 

 Jump to:1. Interview with NASA's Chief Technologist Bobby Braun2. Engadget Explains wireless net neutrality... with animation3. Rick Karr sits down with net neutrality expert Tim Wu4. Rick and Nilay break down wireless net neutrality onstage5. TAT's Paul Blomdahl shows off never-before-seen mobile UIs from The Astonishing Tribe6. Giveaways!7. Music from Starscream and visuals from J.Y.K.



