
       
We're not really traders here at Engadget, but we decided to indulge our fantasies of Gordon Gekko grandeur and put together a portfolio of tech stocks. To pull this thing together we enlisted a little help from our friends over at Blogging Stocks; we think besides being a barometer for the gadget industry, perhaps the Engadget Index will serve as a look from a different angle into the massive economy of consumer electronics. Read on for more.
      

 

What we're doingWe'll provide updates both monthly and quarter as to the progress and performance of the portfolio. Monthly updates will typically take place on the first of each month, while the quarterly updates will take place on or shortly after the beginning of the new quarter, so as to insure all quarterly reports, information, and adjusted prices can be accounted for.How we're running the Engadget IndexWe "purchased" 1 share of stock from fifty technology companies hand-selected by our editors, at prices dated October 2nd, 2006 -- the first effective date of Q4 2006. Our total investment for the fifty stocks is $1475.16. As time presses on we'll make additions and subtractions to our running list of stocks as necessary. We will, of course, notify you guys whenever the portfolio lineup changes.We will only be tracking publicly listed companies on the major US stock markets: NYSE, Amex, and Nasdaq. Some foreign companies may be tracked, but only those traded publicly in the US (e.g. Deutsche Telekom); we won't be tracking OTC Bulletin Board or Pink Sheets markets, tech mutual funds, or anything of the like.A brief disclaimerWe have very strict rules about owning stocks at Engadget -- namely that outside mutual funds and the like, Engadget editors who own stock in a particular company are expected to abstain from writing about or making editorial decisions about that company. Those at Engadget who participated in the Engadget Index own no stock in any of the companies selected, and no actual stock transactions have taken place in the creation of the Engadget Index. That is to say, this is an entirely fictional portfolio -- only the numbers are real.Please note that this is for edification and reference purposes only, and should in no way be construed as investment advice. Engadget and its parent companies take no responsibility for you losing mad cash on some bum deals (e.g. TiVo). You've been warned!The list AAPL - Apple AMD - AMD AT - Alltel BLS - Bell South CAJ - Canon CHU - China Unicom CREAF - Creative CSCO - Cisco DELL - Dell DISH - Echostar (DISH) DT - Deutsche Telekom DTV - DirecTV EK - Eastman Kodak ERIC - Ericsson FUJIY - FujiFilm GRMN - Garmin GTW - Gateway HIT - Hitachi HPQ - HP INTC - Intel KYO - Kyocera LOGI - Logitech MC - Matsushita (Panasonic) MOT - Motorola MSFT - Microsoft NAPS - Napster NIPNY - NEC NOK - Nokia NTT - Nippon Telegraph & Telephone PALM - Palm PHG - Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (Philips) RIMM - Research in Motion RNWK - Real Networks S - Sprint-Nextel SANYY - Sanyo SI - Siemens SIRI - Sirius SKM - SK Telecom SNDK - Sandisk SNE - Sony STX - Seagate T - AT&T TIVO - TiVo TMS - Thomson (RCA) TXN - Texas Instruments UTSI - UT Starcom VG - Vonage VOD - Vodafone VZ - Verizon XMSR - XMSo, did we forget a good gadget stock? It's still the beginning of the quarter and we can shuffle the list for November. Let us know in the comments! Remember, they should be consumer electronics companies or related firms, and be publicly traded on the US markets listed above. (But before you suggest any to us, here's are a few symbols you might think of suggesting which didn't make the cut this time: ADPT, BRCM, BT, CMCSA, COMS, CVC, DSS, EBAY, ELNK, GOOG, IBM, IOM, MU, NVDA, NWS, Q, TMTA, TWX, VOXX, WDC, and YHOO.)Stay tuned for our first portfolio performance update coming November 1st!

       

 