
  

Attention humans, the Engadget Show will be taping next Thursday, April 21st at 6:00pm! The Engadget dream team of Editor-in-chief Tim Stevens and Managing Editor Darren Murph will be your hosts, sitting down with a very special guest: Engadget founder Peter Rojas, who will help us wade through the increasingly muddy tablet waters. We'll have on hand the new BlackBerry PlayBook, the Motorola Xoom, the Notion Ink Adam, and a few other slates to boot. We'll unfold the Kyocera Echo, take a look at the current status of net neutrality, go for a crazy ride on a militarized scooter, and have a chat with Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally to find out when we'll finally get our flying car. And of course we'll have the usual fun, excitement, giveaways, and surprises!

The Engadget Show is sponsored by Sprint and will take place in a new, more intimate NYC studio this month, so if you want to get in you'll need to win a ticket in advance. But don't worry, if you can't get there in person we'll have a download up soon after taping.

If you want to be one of the lucky ones to meet us in person, Sprint is offering guaranteed tickets to The Engadget Show taping to the first entrants who text "ENGADGET" to 467467 or enter online! Standard text messaging rates apply. Click for the Official Rules and see how to enter online, and as always you don't have to be a Sprint subscriber to enter!

If you live outside of the tri-state area (NY, NJ, CT), you can enter online for a chance to win a trip for two to New York City to attend The Engadget Show. Standard text messaging rates apply. Click here to enter.

Here's all the details if you win a ticket:

The event is all ages
We'll open doors and begin seating at 5:15pm on April 21st, and the taping begins at 6:00PM. We'll be closing the doors at 5:50PM.
Please bring a photo ID with you to claim your ticket
The show length is around an hour

 If you're a member of the media who wishes to attend, please contact us at: engadgetshowmedia [at] engadget [dot] com, and we'll try to accommodate you. All other non-media questions can be sent to: engadgetshow [at] engadget [dot] com.
 
Subscribe to the Show:

[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (M4V).
[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (M4V).
[RSS M4V] Add the Engadget Show feed (M4V) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.  

 