
 


It's another action-packed episode of the Engadget Show! Tim, Brian and Dana start things off by taking a look at the latest devices from RIM and discussing the BlackBerry's future -- or lack thereof -- in the consumer space. Also on the reviews table is the latest in iPhone 5 KIRF technology.

Next up, Tim travels all the way to Italy, to get a tour or Ferrari's factories and discuss what the high performance sports car might look like in the years and decades to come (hint: it will probably be red).

Fusion Garage Founder and CEO Chandra Rathakrishnan pops by the studio to show off the Grid 10 and Grid 4 and discuss why his company deserves another chance. Brian maxes out our travel budget swinging by Times Square to put Engadget's name in lights on some cool new interactive billboards.

Electronic Frontier Foundation staff attorney Julie Samuels pays us a visit to discuss the state of patent law in the US, in the wake of Google's recently announced Motorola acquisition. Also, what the heck is up with the whole Apple / Samsung thing anyway? The show wraps up with a solo, guitar pedal-filled performance by Parts & Labor's Dan Friel.

The video stream of the show is above, and you can also download us in HD below.






Hosts: Tim Stevens, Brian HeaterSpecial guests: Dana Wollman, Chandra Rathakrishnan, Julie SamuelsProducer: Guy StreitDirector: Michelle StahlExecutive Producers: Joshua Fruhlinger, Brian Heater and Michael RubensMusic by: Dan FrielDownload the Show: The Engadget Show - 024 (HD) / The Engadget Show - 024 (iPod / iPhone / Zune formatted) / The Engadget Show - 024 (Small)Subscribe to the Show:[iTunes] Subscribe to the Show directly in iTunes (MP4).[Zune] Subscribe to the Show directly in the Zune Marketplace (MP4).[RSS MP4] Add the Engadget Show feed (MP4) to your RSS aggregator and have it delivered automatically.[HD RSS] Get the Engadget Show delivered automatically in HD.[iPad RSS] Get the Engadget Show in iPad-friendly adaptive format.

       

 