
Didn't have the wherewithal to sit through the three hour stream of this year's annual video game award show/marketing event? Well, we've got you covered right here with all the titles that were announced at The Game Awards. Even better? Unlike the pixely Twitch broadcast of the event, the trailers embedded below are all available in HD -- perfect for throwing to the biggest screen in your house and getting a feel for how the games will look on your PlayStation 4, Wii U or Xbox One. Now, let's get to it, shall we?



Tacoma
It's hard to tell just what's going on here, but Tacoma is the next game from Fullbright -- the company behind 2013's excellent Gone Home. From what we can gather, you play as a lady exploring the Tacoma lunar base in first-person. It's pretty! The game comes out next year and that's pretty much the extent of what's shown in the less-than-60-second teaser.

Dying LightFirst-person parkour with zombies, political unrest and a fairly gorgeous city to run around in? That's what's on tap with Dying Light. It's from the team that brought you Dead Island and the Call of Juarez series on the last generation of hardware, Techland.

Metal Gear OnlineWith how focused the PlayStation 4 is on connected social experiences, you'd be remiss to think that Metal Gear Solid: The Phantom Pain would launch without a multiplayer component. And, naturally, here it is. It's hard to tell how an actual match will play out with humans, but what's shown in Metal Gear Online's debut clip looks pretty nuts: there's a stuffed dog that's used as a distraction, a pilotable bipedal mech/turret that can kick enemies over and boxes for hiding under.Bloodborne&amp;lt;/center&amp;gt;Hey kids, do you like violence? Then Bloodborne, the latest from Dark Souls developer From Software is for you. The new video shows off co-op gameplay, a few new weapons (like fire grenades!) and some fresh new monsters. Oh, and as the name suggests, there is a ton of blood.Hazelight teaserKey members of the team behind last year's touching puzzler Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons have formed their own studio under the guise of Electronic Arts, and wouldn't you know it, they're working on another game where you may or may not control two characters at once. The above video is the dictionary definition of a teaser: there's a bunch of talking about what the game might be like and then a few seconds of game footage where not much happens. In this case, it's two guys sitting in a railroad car as it makes its way down the tracks.No Man's SkyNo Man's Sky is a game that keeps looking better every time we see it. Last night we got a glimpse of even more of its mysterious, randomly generated world. Most notable? An AT-ST-like walker and a crazy walk-through warp portal.Until DawnIf masks instill an overwhelming sense of dread in you, then maybe don't watch the trailer above. Until Dawn pits young ladies against a monstrous mask-wearing psycho with a voice that sounds an awful lot like Jigsaw from the Saw franchise, using gesture controls a la Heavy Rain. Oh, and you're trapped in a house with him at least some of the time.The Order: 1886It's The Order: 1886! As usual it looks super pretty and this time the video starts out with an infiltration from the top of an airship. Seriously.The Witcher 3: Wild HuntPoland's CD Projekt RED's role-playing prowess is on display once again, this time showing off what looks (and sounds) to be the titular Wild Hunt -- an icy ghoul with a wicked set of armor.Zelda Wii UThe big news out of this sneak peek at Zelda for Wii U is that the game is in fact coming out next year. What's more, tucked into the conversation between Shigeru Miyamoto and Eiji Aonuma is news that  Star Fox is going to beat it to store shelves in 2015.King's QuestReady for a nostalgia trip? King's Quest, the classic Sierra adventure game, is back and it's coming to just about every platform you can think of.GodzillaThere's a new Godzilla game! And you fight monsters! And... and... well, there's a real trend here if you haven't noticed: we learn a game exists and see basically nothing else from them. But, hey,  Godzilla Destroy All Monsters Melee on Gamecube was pretty alright, so consider us excited.BeforeDuring the first Xbox's life-cycle there once was a game called B.C.. It was developed by Peter Molyneux and followed a tribe of cavemen as they interacted with their prehistoric surroundings. Tragically, it never came out. Before is not that game, but on paper it sure sounds like it. There's hunting, gathering of supplies, possible changes of the seasons (or maybe an ice age?) and a breaching whale. Oh, and it's absolutely gorgeous.Adr1ftBased on the teaser, Adr1ft is pretty easy to sum up: It's 2013's sci-fi/disaster flick Gravity in video game form. You're stranded above Earth in a destroyed space station and gasping for air. The rest is a mystery.Human ElementPerhaps more than any of the above, there isn't much to say about  The Human Element. It looks like a mashup of Team Fortress, id's Rage and the first Motorstorm. Oh, and the tone of Sunset Overdrive is thrown in for good measure. But what else? Is it a racer? A first-person shooter? That's anyone's guess at this point.

             