
CES wasn't only about crazy gadget news and booth tours – we also scored a second chance to sit down withour new best friend Bill Gates and ask him all about the big announcements he made during his keynote last Wednesday.Read on to find out what he had to say about online video download subscription services, whether or not he was happywith the launch of the Xbox 360, which Xbox 360 games he's been playing, how he still thinks there's time to avoid aformat war between Blu-ray and HD-DVD, why he doesn't think that Apple's switch to Intel chips makes a difference forMicrosoft, and how he is now, finally, a Treo user. Thanks, it's good to sit down with youagain, I hope you're having a good time at CES.Oh, it's always fun.Before westart, I wanted to congratulate you and your wife on being named by Time as their Persons of the Year alongwith Bono. Thank you.First off, I wanted to talk about some of the stuff youtalked about your keynote, specifically Vongo, which is going to be the first of what I presume will be several onlinevideo subscription services that will be announced in the next few months. It's similar to the ToGo services that areavailable already for music, but do you think that online video download subscriptions have a greater chance of beingsuccessful than the rental model has so far been for music? Are customers already used to the idea of renting movies,but it's taking them some time to getting used to the idea of renting music? Yeah, I mean, moviesare a bit different in the sense that it's often that you'll want to see it once, and then having it in a librarywouldn't be that critical to you, whereas with music you're going to want to listen to it many, many times. In fact,you can hear it once on the radio and get that sample, so it's the ongoing use that's the real value there.Video is clearly behind music. It's not as easy today to get your videos on your disk and manage them that way,that's why there's this Managed Copy thing that we do with the HD-DVD guys to make sure that you can always do that.We're getting more of it on the Internet so it's easy to sign up and use, getting the portable devices so it's quickand easy to download; there's a lot of work that we and others are doing, but that's going to be a mainstreamscenario.



So do you think that the rental model for video will be more successful than it will be formusic?Yes, but it won't -- movies will have all the different business models: buy it so you haverights to use it forever, have a subscription service that has a very big library, which is the Vongo approach, so bothala carte, single time usage and broad subscription.How are the movie studios receiving this newmodel of downloading movies? Starz has their collection [with Vongo],so they obviously have some studios on board, but across the board what sort of reception are you getting?Well, of course, in the dialogue with the rights owners, they're very interested in our rights managementsystem, [asking if] there is something that we're doing that is both easy to use and yet makes them have some comfort.And we have that dialogue with the cable industry in terms of being able to connect up, they demanded enough that itwill only be with Vista that we'll be able to meet their requirements, and with Vista Media Center that will be a newfeature that comes along with that.And so Media Center will finally have that CableCard supportthat people have been looking for?Well, we've been working on getting the cable industry toauthorize that for a long time, and so it's only with Vista and a lot of hard work that we're able to meet their needsthere.One of the products you showed off yesterday was the new ToshibaGigabeat S series, which is, I think, the first new Portable Media Center that has come out from a majormanufacturer in a while, almost since the introduction of the Portable Media Center it seems. Are we going to seerevitalization of the platform now that we have these subscription services that are going to be available for it?Well, absolutely it's a case where we definitely pioneered the category, but only by constantinnovation, making the downloading easier, getting the libraries to be bigger, really promoting our hardware partnersand what they're doing there, can we retain leadership in that scenario, which is very important to us. So it's goingto take a fair bit of work. It's more on the interface and content side, but it was amazing to see the device progress.I think we have a good lineup of devices.PlaysForSure works on a variety of different audio-centricdevices, regardless of what sort of operating system, so to speak, they run on, but will there be video subscriptionsavailable for videos that aren't running Portable Media Center? Will there be PlaysForSure for video?Yeah, PlaysForSure is about the rights management and format, so that you know that anything you buy will work on thatsystem. Separate from that is the idea of having a consistent user interface. So with the Portable Media Center we thinkit's great to have both, but if somebody wants just PlaysForSure without our user interface, that's fine, too. Thesimplest thing for the user is to say, okay, I've seen the Media Center menus, I know those, as I take the portabledevice it's exactly that same structure.They won't have to be tethered?No,PlaysForSure is about format rights and format compatibility, whereas our Portable Media Center software is about thatconsistent user interface.One other thingyou talked about yesterday in the keynote was Urge, which was announced lastmonth. I wanted to get a better sense from you of how Urge fits into the overall portable media strategy. How does thisfit into what you're doing with PlaysForSure and the DRM-based subscription services that different companies areoffering?Well, we've always believed in an open platform so that you can have choice of device,choice of where you buy music, what music subscription you go to, and yet you know that those connect up and the userinterface is quite reasonable. Doing that, and still making it very simple to use so you have the best of both worlds,the variety, and the simplicity, that's always a challenge as we tackle these new scenarios. With music,having MTV as a partner is a great thing. We think they can get the word out, do some neat things. We're also doing alot in Messenger to make it so you can share playlists, so you can listen to different things. The next version ofMessenger has music as one of the big breakthrough scenarios.Will there be any integration betweenthese two things?Well, the commitment we have from MTV is to take full advantage of the new MediaPlayer technology, both as it ships in Vista and as we have that Media Player available as a download on XP, so they'rereally the first music service that's actually helped us design those new Media Player capabilities there. One of thethings we're showing is that we actually take the music library database of all the things in the subscription list andbring those down onto the PC -- that's why you can get that super quick easy browsing interface even when you're dealingwith literally millions of tracks.It's automatically pulling down all the metadata? That's right.The last time we sat down the Xbox 360 hadn't been announced yet --- or at leastit hadn't been officially unveiled yet. It's been a couple months now, are you happy with how things have gone sofar?Well, I spent most of my Christmas playing Xbox 360.Whichgames?We played quite a variety. Actually, the Xbox Arcade was a big thing, a lot of the adultswanted to sit down and play for five or ten minutes. It was Hexic or Zuma that were easy for them to learn the rules,get used to the controller. We had some younger kids who were just beating the heck out of me at Project Gotham Racing,Kameo, basketball, Perfect Dark Zero. We have, I think, a dozen titles in total. And the thing that I thought wouldnever happen really did happen to me, where I was standing 12 feet away and I thought, “Oh, they're watching abasketball game,” and then as I walked up I realized, “No, no, they're just playing Xbox 360.” Sothat was a lot of fun. The only problem we've got is we've just got to make them faster, we've actuallyramped up as fast as anybody ever has, but demand is still way ahead of us.There were someshortages this holiday season.The demand was phenomenal, and we did add Celestica as a thirdmanufacturing partner. We think by the time we get to the 4.5 to 5.5 million unit level that the backlog won't be allthat substantial. So obviously it's a good news situation, but we want to meet all the demand.Howmany do you think you'll sell in the first year?The only number we've given publicly is that forthe end of June it'll be 4.5 million to 5.5 million. Then after June, of course, we'll get into another holiday seasonand that should be a very big deal because that will be a holiday season with a pretty unbelievable number of titles.We had about 18 at launch, we'll have 50 by the middle of the year, so as we get into the second half of next yearwe'll go up above 50 there as people learn how to take advantage of the graphics capabilities that much more, bringthat much more depth to it. We'll have poker coming out in the first half of the year, a lot of people excited aboutthat; we'll have new peripherals that we've talked about, the camera will come up; as well some of the connections tothe PC on the communication side so you can text message between PC and Xbox. We'll get some of those things inplace.So there's a lot of things that will make it an even more attractive product and we'll be able tomeet all the demand that's out there. So this will be a big holiday season. We planned Xbox 360 from the beginning as amulti-year cycle, making sure there were no periods of time where there weren't neat new announcements, peripherals,games and those things, and so that's worked well for us. We'll go into a lot of new countries over the next year,we're already in a lot, but we're adding a ton of countries we never went into with the first generation.There's been some speculation about the Xbox 360 as a platform for IPTV. I know IPTV is something I asked youabout back in April, primarily as a platform for set-top boxes and things like that, what do you see as the 360'spotential as a means for delivering video to the home?Well, the Xbox 360 obviously has the abilityto do high definition and that's what makes it such a fantastic extender for the Media Center. That's another thing Iset up, and just the speed of it, the fidelity of it is really better than the previous generation of extenders that wehad.It's rich enough that, yeah, it can do set-top box like things. If you just want a set-top box, [theXbox 360] is somewhat overkill, the graphics power that we've got there is for the world's best games. Now that thecost of the chips in Xbox will be coming down over the next three, four, five years, it could get fairly cheap, but Istill think you'll see dedicated set-top boxes. You can always think of something like the Xbox 360 as a super set-topbox that can do everything the set-top box does, but then have the graphics to do the games as well.Are you ready for Sony later this year?Well, we think so. We've got a lot of things thatthey don't know that we're doing, so we'll keep them on edge a bit. We think that this whole thing has become verysoftware centric; that is, the toolkits that let developers do their best creative work -- that plays to our softwarestrength, as well as the idea of Live, where we had to learn a lot with Xbox 1, and the decision to require broadband,to go with VoIP, but we learned a lot about wanting to put things into the operating system so you can chat even whileyou're playing the games, it's really a level of richness that the games are built on top of that we didn't have thatlast time. We learned how to do that, we learned about contests and spectators, and so this is really a secondgeneration of Live for us. It's very based on software expertise, so it will be interesting to see what Sony does inthat dimension. We also now have a situation where if your friend has already bought an Xbox and you go tobuy something that you want to play with them, it's not like last time where at his house you play his game and at yourhouse you play your game. Now it's all online, you've got your achievements and things, so it will be a fascinatingcompetition.How would you define success for the Xbox 360? What sort of percentage of market sharedo you think you have to have by the end of this year?Well, you know, we're already successful. Imean, we're the hottest product there was at Christmas this year. I don't think there's any doubt we'll have asubstantially higher share in this generation than we had last generation. And it depends on our execution,it depends on Sony's execution. This is a business we're committed to, so we're just going to keep doing our best. Weactually think the size of the market will grow quite a bit because of the idea that we've got music and photocapability, we've got this Arcade thing to appeal to different age groups, and we're going to get a better breadth ofgames this time, so we think the overall total units between us and our competitor will actually be quite a bit biggerthis time around than it was last time, and that's good for all of us.Are we going to see Halo 3launch around the time of the launch of the PS3?No, I have to make sure that any speculation I didabout that is -- it's up to the team when they want to ship that, and they're going to take their time to make that asuper great product. So even we don't know when that will come out. That's one of many games that are just phenomenalthat are in the works, but it's up to the artists to do it when they feel good about it.Youannounced yesterday that the Xbox 360 will have an external HD-DVD drive, and so it seems you've firmly committed tothat platform as opposed to Blu-ray, but do you risk fragmenting the Xbox 360as a platform by introducing an HD DVD drive? Is that going to be an issue for developers if some consumers have aversion of the 360 with an HD-DVD drive and others don't?There's no fragmentation here. Thedevelopers are creating games that run on the DVD-9 format that's in every Xbox, and whatever we do with the drive,they'll all be upwards compatible with that. So that's how the games are written and it's a very clear message thatlets game developers get huge volumes and payback for the big investments that they make.In terms ofmovies, I often say that this is the last format battle there will ever be, because everything is going to go online --you're going to download it. In fact, one of my favorite features on Xbox Live is where you can go and get the HD demosof the games or get HD videos like the making of the Xbox, the making of Titanic, they've got this MissionImpossible 3 thing. It's really cool when you're set up with an HD display, the fact that you can just click and iteither streams or downloads, that's very nice.The thing about HD-DVD that is attractive to Microsoft isthart it's very pro-consumer in letting you copy all movies up onto the hard disk. We hope that if there's an agreementaround any format where things come together, we really believe that it's got to be consumer friendly in that respect,that the way the interactivity is done, the so-called IHD, really supports the kinds of things we think that creativepeople want to do. So the HD-DVD is a peripheral, that's a nice option for our users.It seems likeyou're very firmly behind HD-DVD. Do you want Blu-ray to fail? I think the best thing would be tohave a common standard for the industry that would include great things like Managed Copy. The studios have to bewilling to take that risk to let consumers have that flexibility, otherwise I think they're just making a mistake thatthe next digital format may not get to critical mass at all, no matter which one it is. I also think the interactivity,there should be some alignment around that, but eventually there probably will be some coming together and it's not easyto predict when that will be.It seems like it's too late for a unification of theplatform.No, I don't think so.You don't think it's too late?No, I mean, in consumer electronics there's often been unification. The nice thing is that when you move away from thephysical format it's all just software, so you can render Windows Media, H.264, all the different formats are verystraightforward. As long as you're in the physical media world you get these standards battles, and here all the needsare not being met in our view by anything but HD DVD.A few months ago Apple announced that it wasswitching to Intel for its processors. How does this affect Microsoft?It doesn't really changeanything for us. Apple has always leveraged technologies that the PC industry has driven to critical mass, the busstructures, the graphics cards, the peripherals, the connection networks, things like that, so they're kind of in thePC ecosystem and kind of not. Now they're taking advantage of the Intel chip. The users don't really care what's insidethe machine in terms of the processor.There is a certain irony that we've got a game box that uses the sameprocessor Apple used to use, and now they don't use that. We have compilers that can take Intel code and make PowerPCcode or take PowerPC code and make Intel code, we've got emulators. The flexibilities back and forth between the CPUenvironments is actually pretty high nowadays.Do you worry that they might decide to make theoperating system available to anybody?No, that's fine. In a sense whenever you buy a new machineyou've always had the choice of buying a Mac OS machine versus a Windows OS machine, so it's the same flexibility. Weeven had on the PowerPC this thing called Virtual PC that lets you get Windows capability over on their hardware. So you don't worry about Apple opening things up so an OEM like Sony could offer OS X?Well, the last time Apple went out and licensed their operating system to people they changed their minds andthey bankrupted all the people who had been involved in that, and I don't know if we'll see another round of Appletantalizing people with that or not.I know we're running out of time, so I'm going to ask one lastquick question. Well, I want to ask one quick question about Vista and Photon, which is the new version of WindowsMobile which I got a sneak peak at last month. It seems like usability and aesthetics are finally becoming a biggerpart of the interfaces for the different operating systems. Is that something that you think there is a bigger emphasison now?Well, you've got so much information in the system -- music, photos, e-mail attachments,files. The ability to navigate that in a rich way, using the better displays we've got, the better graphics chips we'vegot, but with a very clean user interface environment, that is absolutely necessary. People are doing more with the PC,there're more scenarios where software is adding value, that you want to leverage a few simple techniques ,so whensomebody goes from TV to photos to spreadsheets they already feel like, okay, I know how to navigate, I know how tosearch, and so a lot of work went into the user interface.Two last questions, ones that I didn'tget to ask the last time around, before I run out of time: Which cellphone do you carry now and what's your portablemusic or media device?Well, recently I've been using this Treo 700w that I think is a greatproduct, Palm has done a good job on that. We've got quite a variety in cell phones with Windows Mobile, more and morepeople backing that, but that's one I've been using recently.And portable media? Or do you just usethe phone?Well, actually I do think the phone is a primary way that that will be done, but in myfamily we've got, I think there's an iRiver, a Zen, quite a bit of variety of PlaysForSure devices.You probably own them all by now! Thanks so much, I appreciate your time.All right,thank you.

       

 