
 After false starting a couple of weeks ago, the Blu-ray trailer for The Dark Knight Rises is back, and Entertainment Weekly has heard from Warner Bros. that December 4th is the official release date. Also on display from EW is this limited edition Bat Cowl packaging which will be available at launch. While there's not a full spec list, extras will include a Batmobile-focused documentary and more than a dozen featurettes about going behind the scenes of the movie with Christopher Nolan and his team. We expect to see more details soon, for now just check out the trailer embedded after the break.

 Update: The press release with all the details and an image of the Blu-ray box art are out, posted by TheHDRoom. While it's not all listed on Amazon yet where the prices will likely be lower, the standard Blu-ray edition has an MSRP of $35.99, while the Bat Cowl Limited Edition's tag is $39.99. Additionally, fans can nab the whole trilogy in the The Dark Knight Trilogy Limited Edition Giftset which has a price of $52.99, although they might want to wait until 2013 when The Dark Knight Trilogy Ultimate Collector's Edition will arrive. Got all that? Check after the break for the list of extras plus the box art for both versions due this year.

 Update 2: Check out the full press release after the break, including word about a The Dark Knight Rises app on iOS as well as Android for newer Samsung Galaxy devices. Already out on iOS as the Gotham City's most wanted app, it will add more photo modification and interactive features, and when the disc is released it will become a second screen app for use during the movie.



  
  
  
    Show full PR text    "This dazzling conclusion...is more than an exceptional superhero movie, it is masterful filmmaking by any standard."

   - Kenneth Turan, Los Angeles Times

   The legend concludes when

  THE DARK KNIGHT RISES
  ARRIVES ONTO BLU-RAYTM COMBO PACK, DVD and DIGITAL DOWNLOAD ON DECEMBER 4 FROM WARNER BROS. HOME ENTERTAINMENT GROUP
   Download the free The Dark Knight Rises app and sync to the Blu-ray disc for a unique interactive experience

   Blu-ray Combo Pack is also available in a limited edition

   Bat Cowl collectible package

   All disc versions feature UltraViolet

   The Dark Knight Trilogy Limited Edition Giftset

   also available on December 4

   Burbank, CA, September 27, 2012 – "The Dark Knight Rises" arrives this holiday season onto Blu-ray Combo Pack, DVD and Digital Download on December 4 from Warner Bros. Home Entertainment Group. In the epic conclusion to filmmaker Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight trilogy, Gotham City is threatened by the masked terrorist Bane, forcing Batman to return from an eight-year absence and fight for his city one more time.

   Also available will be the free "The Dark Knight Rises" app for IOS 5.0 or higher compatible devices including iPhone and iPad, and Samsung Galaxy devices including S2, S3, Note, Nexus and Tab (operating system requirements vary by device). Building upon the already available "TDKR: Gotham City's Most Wanted" app, "The Dark Knight Rises" app will be updated in two phases. The first update, which will be available in late October, will include several interactive activities such as a photo application that will allow users to put themselves into a Tumbler, a video application that will allow users to insert a Tumbler into their personal videos, and more. The second update, which will be available on December 4, will integrate second screen functionality into the app. It will allow users to sync compatible mobile devices with the Blu-ray disc via BD-Live enabled Blu-ray players connected to the same Local Area Network to access exclusive bonus content. The bonus content will include film location information, Gotham City maps, film trivia, photo galleries and "making of" featurettes. In addition, the second screen app controls playback of the film on your TV via Blu-ray player. "The Dark Knight Rises" app will be available through the iTunes store and Google Play.

   "The Dark Knight Rises" will be available on Blu-ray Combo Pack for $35.99 and on single disc DVD for $28.98. The Blu-ray Combo Pack features the film in hi-definition on Blu-ray and in standard definition on DVD. "The Dark Knight Rises" Blu-ray disc takes advantage of the marriage of IMAXÒ and 35mm formats by using the hybrid master to replicate the unique theatrical experience of integrated film formats. Both the Blu-ray Combo Pack and the single disc DVD include UltraViolet which allows consumers to download and instantly stream the standard definition version of the film to a wide range of devices including computers and compatible tablets, smartphones, game consoles, Internet-connected TVs and Blu-ray players.*

   Also available December 4, just in time for holiday gift-giving, Warner Bros. Home Entertainment will release "The Dark Knight Trilogy Limited Edition Giftset," featuring "Batman Begins," "The Dark Knight" and "The Dark Knight Rises" all in one collection. Available on Blu-ray or standard definition DVD, "The Dark Knight Trilogy Limited Edition Giftset" will also include a premium book exclusive to the collection, which takes fans deeper into the epic franchise, as well as existing special features. Warner Bros. Home Entertainment also plans to release "The Dark Knight Trilogy Ultimate Collector's Edition" in 2013.  Leading an all-star international cast, Oscar® winner Christian Bale ("The Fighter") again plays the dual role of Bruce Wayne/Batman. "The Dark Knight Rises" also stars Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle; Tom Hardy as Bane; Oscar® winner Marion Cotillard ("La Vie en Rose") as Miranda Tate; and Joseph Gordon-Levitt as John Blake. Returning to the main cast, Oscar® winner Michael Caine ("The Cider House Rules") plays Alfred; Gary Oldman is Commissioner Gordon; and Oscar® winner Morgan Freeman ("Million Dollar Baby") reprises the role of Lucius Fox.  The screenplay is written by Jonathan Nolan and Christopher Nolan, story by Christopher Nolan & David S. Goyer. The film is produced by Emma Thomas, Christopher Nolan and Charles Roven, who previously teamed on "Batman Begins" and the record-breaking blockbuster "The Dark Knight." The executive producers are Benjamin Melniker; Michael E. Uslan; Kevin De La Noy; Thomas Tull; with Jordan Goldberg serving as co-producer. The film is based upon characters created by Bob Kane and published by DC Comics.  SYNOPSIS

   It has been eight years since Batman vanished into the night, turning, in that instant, from hero to fugitive. Assuming the blame for the death of D.A. Harvey Dent, the Dark Knight sacrificed everything for what he and Commissioner Gordon both hoped was the greater good. For a time the lie worked, as criminal activity in Gotham City was crushed under the weight of the anti-crime Dent Act.

   But everything will change with the arrival of a cunning cat burglar with a mysterious agenda. Far more dangerous, however, is the emergence of Bane, a masked terrorist whose ruthless plans for Gotham drive Bruce out of his self-imposed exile. But even if he dons the cape and cowl again, Batman may be no match for Bane.

   BLU-RAY AND DVD ELEMENTS

   BLU-RAY COMBO PACK:  "THE BATMOBILE" DOCUMENTARY: Witness all five Batmobiles together for the first time in history. Dive deep into every aspect of the most awe-inspiring weapon in Batman's arsenal as you journey through the birth and evolution of this technological marvel and cultural icon. (01:00)  ENDING THE KNIGHT: A comprehensive look into how Director Christopher Nolan and his production team made "The Dark Knight Rises" the epic conclusion to the Dark Knight legend.  Production  The Prologue: High-Altitude Hijacking  Return to the Batcave  Beneath Gotham  The Bat  Batman vs Bane  Armory Accepted  Gameday Destruction  Demolishing a City Street  The Pit  The Chant  The War on Wall Street  Race to the Reactor  Characters  The Journey of Bruce Wayne  Gotham's Reckoning  A Girls Gotta Eat  Reflections  Shadows & Light in Large Format  The End of A Legend  Trailers  Art Galleries  UltraViolet: Instantly stream and download films to compatible devices

   DVD:  The Journey of Bruce Wayne  UltraViolet: Instantly stream and download films to compatible devices

   DIGITAL DISTRIBUTION ELEMENTS

   On December 4, "The Dark Knight Rises" will be available for download from online digital retailers including iTunes, Xbox, PlayStation, Amazon, Vudu and CinemaNow.

   The film is also available digitally starting December 4 in High Definition (HD) VOD and Standard Definition (SD) VOD from cable and satellite providers, and on select gaming consoles.

   ULTRAVIOLET

   *UltraViolet allows you to collect, watch and share movies and TV shows in a whole new way. Available with the purchase of specially marked Blu-ray discs, DVDs and Digital Downloads, UltraViolet lets you create a digital collection of movies and TV shows. Services such as Flixster and VUDU allow you to instantly stream and download UltraViolet content across a wide range of devices including computers and compatible tablets, smartphones, game consoles, Internet-connected TVs and Blu-ray players. Restrictions and limitations apply. Go to ultraviolet.flixster.com/info for details. For more information on compatible devices go to wb.com/ultravioletdevices.

   BASICS

   PRODUCT SRP  Blu-ray Combo Pack $35.99  Single disc Amaray $28.98  Bat Cowl package Blu-ray Combo Pack $39.99  The Dark Knight Trilogy – Blu-ray $52.99  The Dark Knight Trilogy DVD $38.99

   Street Date: December 4, 2012  DVD Languages: English, Latin Spanish, Canadian French  BD Languages: English, Latin Spanish, Canadian French, Brazilian Portuguese  DVD Subtitles: ESDH, Latin Spanish, Parisian French  BD Subtitles: ESDH, Latin Spanish, Parisian French, Brazilian Portuguese  Running Time: 165 minutes  Rating: PG-13 for intense sequences of violence and action, some sensuality and language  Blu-ray – 5.1 DLBY/SURR DTS-HDMA 2.0 DLBY/DGTL  DVD – 5.1 DLBY/SURR 2.0 DLBY/ DGTL

   https://www.facebook.com/thedarkknightrises

   #TheDarkKnightRises

  
