
 Every Thursday Stephen Speicher contributes The Clicker, a weekly opinioncolumn on entertainment and technology: No one can be 100% sure what the written agenda was when thedistinguished gentleman from Wisconsin, Republican Jim Sensenbrenner, and the distinguished gentleman from Michigan,Democrat John Conyers, got together for a bi-partisan game of strange bedfellows. Nor will we know if alcohol wasinvolved. All we know is that on that fateful night they looked into each other’s eyes and decided it wasfinally time to plug each other’s analog holes. Thus was born the Digital Transition Content Security Act of2005 (DTCSA). To be fair – they’re not just looking to plug each other’s holes,they’re looking to plug yours too.So what is the “Analog Hole?”Eversince the birth of digital content-protection there has existed a “loophole” that drivescopyright-proponents nuts: Like it or not, audio-visual content needs to be heard and seen. It seems like an obviouspoint, but it’s been the bane of existence for many a production studio. You see, content owners can place allthe encryption they’d like on the files, but once it hits the analog stage, it’s free for the taking.It started with its most basic form: the guy who took his video camera to the movie theater and sold duplicateson the streets of NYC. Sure, there might have been a hat in the shot and you were a slave to the filmer’s“artistic direction,” but you had the content.Fast forward a couple decades to today and, withthe help of the Internet, analog content duplication has become much more widespread -- or has it? We’ve all been told that the dreaded “Analog Hole” is evil incarnate, but where are the facts to backit up? Sure, there are a lot of files flying around the Internet. You can download just about any episode of any show(provided that you look hard enough), but with few exceptions these shows weren’t captured through the“Analog Hole.” The source for the these shows usually tracks back to one of three places: DVD rips,over-the-air HDTV, and direct-from-digital satellite.
      

 
Accordingly, it wasn’t surprising in 2002 to see a studio such as Warner Bros flirt with the idea ofremoving analog protection from its discs entirely. When faced with paying the 5 cent per DVD Macrovision licensingfee, Warner chose to release Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone sans analog protection. This begs thequestions “Why legislation?” If companies are unwilling to pay minimal fees for protection, why should theybe afforded special rights such as those in the DTCSA?So what is the DTCSA?In a nutshellit’s the “Broadcast Flag” on steroids, but this time it’s for analog signals. The DTCSA makesit illegal for any device to input and convert (or input and output) an analog signal without respecting the“rights-signaling” flags in the analog input stream. Unlike the previously-defeated and ever-resurrecting“Broadcast Flag” which simply governeddevices whose purpose was to receive the flag via the over-the-air ATSC, the DTCSA governs ALL devices capable ofconverting an analog signal to digital. If it inputs an analog video signal, chances are it’s covered by theDTCSA.If the DTCSA goes into effect, you might find yourself asking, “Why are all the VCRs so damnexpensive now? I used to be able to buy a low-cost machine.” Why would prices go up? Because nearly every PVR,VCR, etc. will need to be reengineered. In the case of PVRs (e.g. TiVo) this is simply a nuisance and the priceincrease might only be minimal. However, in the case of legacy products such as VCRs, many companies won’t havethe resources to re-invest in a product that is sustained purely by momentum. This will decrease competition andincrease the cost for those machines still made.What about computers? The bill contains such vague languageas “any analog video input device that converts into digital form an analog video signal that is received in acovered format.” While it’s unlikely to affect giants such as Microsoft, whose Media Center Edition productalready fully complies with the rights-signaling rules in question (much to the annoyance of many users), smallercompanies which might lack the resources to develop DRM protection, signal reinsertion, etc. could find themselves inquite a pickle. It’s also unclear how these rules will be enforced in an open-source environment such as Linux.Who’s liable? Is it the software engineers? Is it video card manufacturers? In a decentralized systems likeopen-source projects (or computers themselves, for that matter) it’s unclear what constitutes a“device” and which entity is responsible for the entire chain being “secure.” Perhaps thelawmakers should start by plugging the holes in this bill.What’s most troubling about the bill,however, isn’t the idiocy of it. Sure, introducing legislation to plug the analog hole is a lot like using acontraceptive after the fact. It ain’t gonna work! But we’re used to idiocy from our lawmakers.What’s troublesome about the bill is that it upsets the natural harmony of DRM.The most compellingargument for DRM is often “It will work for a little while.” Content providers release a new product and,on the other side of the fence, “hackers” work to free the content for “Fair Use.” The resultis that it helps to keep content providers moving forward. For instance, one could argue that movie studios are beingdriven by the ease of DVD-ripping to evolve past DVDs (e.g. to Blu-Ray) in order to incorporate higher levels ofcopyright protection. Likewise, when in a few years that copyright protection is broken, content providerswill need to develop new and even more compelling offerings in order to entice consumers to switch over to a new systemwith even stronger protection schemes still. It’s a natural ebb and flow. By codifying a law that soheavy-handedly gives power to the content providers, legislators are potentially stifling innovation and giving studiosthe ability to rest on their laurels.  If you have comments or suggestionsfor future columns, drop me a line at theclicker@theevilempire.com


