
Each week, the Pipeline looks at the mainstream media, and reports back on it so you
don't have to get ink on your fingers. Here are this week's findings.



If you're a regular visitor to Engadget (and we assume you are), you already know that this week
marked the official launch of the Akimbo IPTV service, and you can catch our
review here. The mainstream media took a look at it as
well, and generally had the same concerns we did: Akimbo's limited programming currently makes the service
less-than-compelling, unless you're really into one of the niche programming categories available via Akimbo. As
Stephen Wildstrom of BusinessWeek sums it up, "Akimbo content is a melange of mainstream programming and channels
designed to appeal to small, highly specialized audiences. ... For people who already have cable, such meager offerings
don't provide much incentive to add Akimbo as well. The appeal lies in supplying something different. Cable and
satellite systems have limited capacity, so every channel has to justify taking up space by appealing to a pretty large
number of viewers. The narrowcasting economics of an IPTV system are different. With unlimited channels, even
programming that appeals to thousands of viewers, rather than millions, can make sense if it sells some subscriptions."
Wildstrom sees the potential of Akimbo to reach underserved viewers, and also sees the Akimbo box eventually vanishing,
to be replaced by a software-based service built into your cable box or DVR. With our TV cabinet already buckling under
the weight of the cable box, DVR, DVD player and other assorted boxes we've forgotten how to use (is that VHS deck
still hooked up?), we couldn't agree more.



David Pogue of The New York Times also checks out Akimbo this week, and sees the potential of theservice ? though he focuses mainly on the limits of the current service: ?Akimbo?s library is laughable. As Akimbo?sWeb site puts it, the list includes AdvenTV, ?the first on-demand Turkish station in the U.S.?; Veg TV, ?vegetariancooking instruction?; and Skyworks, ?helicopter flights over the most spectacular landscapes of Britain.? ... Somecable networks have contributed material, including Turner Classic Movies, CNN, A&E, Cartoon Network, Food Network,the BBC and National Geographic. The selection is limited to a few series from each network, but at least they are notTurkish sitcoms.? Pogue also hits Akimbo for having buggy software and a confusing pricing structure. The former issueshould be addressed by updates later this year; the latter may only be solved by shaking up the content companies andgetting them to agree to a clear and equitable pricing plan (as Pogue says, ?Where?s Steve Jobs when you needhim??).

 Wildstrom - From The Internet ToYour TV
 Pogue - TV?s Future Is Here, but ItNeeds Work
 Also of note:

 Steven Levy of Newsweek takes a look at MusicMagic Mixer, which analyzes your music library andcreates playlists that match your current tastes after you pick just one ?seed? song (a version of the software is alsoavailable built into some audio players, like the EntempoRubato), as well as MoodLogic, which does the same thing, but does it through collaborative filtering rather thanalgorithms. Levy comes away impressed: ?Yes, I know that my enjoyment comes largely because the universe of songs I?mworking from are all self-selected favorites. ... Yet surprisingly often, I get the same satori-esque chills that I didin the days when FM DJs were the oracles of the air.?

 Digital DJs Are Turning the Tables
 Walt Mossberg at The Wall Street Journal follows David Pogue and provides his guide toultralight digicams this week. His picks: the Kodak EasyShare V550 and the Canon PowerShot SD500.

 The Latest Round of Pocket Digital Cameras

