

So yesterday evening we hit up the launch event for the Vaio VGN-T350, Sony's new ultraportable lappy that comes
pretty fully stocked in the wireless department (you may remember this one from about a month ago, when word of it
leaked out courtesy of the FCC). Besides the usual
802.11b/g WiFi, the T350 also comes with Bluetooth (still a rarity in PCs) and—and this is the biggie—built-in cellular
for connecting up to Cingular's
GPRS/EDGE data network.



   The real question is, how badly do you need to have a WAN connection built into your laptop? Most people who need torock GPRS or EDGE or EV-DO on their laptop usually get by with using a wireless laptop card. You lose the integration,but you also don?t have to worry about your laptop feeling obsolete when a newer, faster network is deployed 12 or 18months later (Cingular is already building out their high-speedHSDPA network). The real advantagehere is how seamless the integration is. Cingular?s WAN utility made getting on their EDGE network a snap, and Sony?snew SmartFi technology made switching back and forth between EDGE and WiFi pretty easy. Those two factors alone mightmake it worthwhile for road warriors who want to get online with as little hassle as possible. Cingular is charging $80a month for unlimited data, though there?s a cheaper $50 a month plan that includes 50MB of data. Our other majorquestion: is the laptop SIM locked to Cingular?s network? Could you go overseas and use the T350 with another carrier?snetwork?  The rest of the specs on the T350 are suspiciously similiar to thatVaio T2 we mentioned last month: it?s got a 10.6-inchwidescreen LCD (with XBRITE), a 1.2GHz Pentium M processor, a 60GB hard drive, 512MB of RAM, a double layer DVD+-RWdrive, and a battery life of 9 hours (there?s no way they?re getting that with the EDGE cranked up). Should beavailable in June for about $2200, with silver and burgundy options also available.

  The Vaio VGN-T350 in burgundy.

  The VGN-T350?s SIM card slot.


