
       What was once known as the BlackBerry Stealth, then as the BlackBerry 8100, is now known as the BlackBerry Pearl. That's right, RIM's first cameraphone with media capabilities and external storage is coming to T-Mobile on September 18th. We know you want, nay, need the details, so here you go: it's got a 65k color 240 x 260 display, microSD slot, 64MB internal flash, EDGE data, and will retail for $199 at launch. Seriously, that's not bad at all! What, still don't believe us? Well, not that we've ever led you (too) astray in the past, but click on if you want the full NDA'd press release. What, we can't help it if RIM's peeps can't keep a secret.
      

 

So, ever want to see what an embargoed press release looks like? (Sorry, ours didn't come with images!) Here's what RIM and/or T-Mobile sent to some people -- not us though. Enjoy!THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS UNDER EMBARGO UNTIL SEPTEMBER 18, 2006.   BlackBerry  Pearl from T-Mobile USA – The Best Way to Ring in the Holiday Season   This holiday season, treat that special someone to the BlackBerry® Pearl™ – a cool new BlackBerry that's as perfect for a night on the town as it is for a day in the office.   The BlackBerry Pearl is a very cool, incredibly small, easy-to-use smartphone.  It comes complete with digital camera, multimedia capabilities and expandable memory.  And it, of course, offers the full BlackBerry experience – including email, phone, web browser, text messaging, organizer applications and much more.  This year, give your loved one the gift of freedom – with the BlackBerry Pearl they can do all the things they "have to do" and more of the things they "want to do."[Image] [Image] [Image][Oh, whatever, just go here if you want the images. -Ed.]  Why is the BlackBerry Pearl the ultimate gift for the holidays?·  It's one sweet phone. It delivers premium phone features including Voice Activated Dialing (VAD), polyphonic, mp3 and MIDI ring tones, speakerphone, smart dialing, conference calling, speed dial, call forwarding and Bluetooth® support for hands-free use with headsets and car kits.  ·  It delivers the popular and proven BlackBerry experience users have come to know and love. ·  It is incredibly sleek and exceptionally powerful – small enough to take anywhere and powerful enough to handle all of your communication and information needs.  It's the ultimate combination of brains and beauty.  ·  It is incredibly easy-to-navigate with a new and intuitive trackball navigation system. ·  It is the first BlackBerry to offer a camera with built-in flash and zoom – share pictures with your friends and family right away via email or MMS. ·  It features a large, ultra-bright next generation 240x260 color display that brings more than 65,000 colors to life. Its built-in light sensing technology automatically adjusts screen and keyboard lighting for indoor, outdoor and dark environments to browse the web, view attachments, pictures and video files.  ·  It features a convenient media player – enjoy all the power of BlackBerry and listen to your favorite songs while browsing the web or reading an email.  ·  It supports a MicroSD card allowing for lots of storage space for pictures, audio and video files, along with 64 MB of internal memory. ·  It is optimized for performance and operates on T-Mobile's high-speed EDGE network. It delivers an exceptionally fast performance experience for web browsing and other applications.  ·  It features RIM's popular SureType™ keyboard technology that makes typing amazingly quick and easy on such a small handset.   It's easy to stay on top of important personal and work communications with the ability to access up to ten personal or work email accounts including Yahoo! and Microsoft® Exchange.  The BlackBerry Pearl from T-Mobile USA will be available at T-Mobile retail stores, select authorized dealers, online at  www.t-mobile.com/blackberry , or by calling 1-800-T-MOBILE for $199.
 