
 
The Thermaltake Level 10, arguably the sweetest-looking enclosure to ever hit the mass market, has managed to find a chassis worthy of being called its successor in the shape of the behemoth you see standing before you, the Level 10 GT. It softens the aggressively modular aesthetic of the original, but in exchange delivers a more performance-focused design, replete with three 200mm fans, air filters everywhere you look, a neat little window so you can peek inside your full-sized tower of doom, and enough space to fit the very largest of modern graphics cards. Thermaltake is asking for $280 on its online store and you can order one up today. Video awaits after the break, though we wouldn't skip out on the Flickr gallery below, either.
      

 

Show full PR textThermaltake Announces Immediate Availability of Highly Anticipated Level 10 GT - Performance Gaming Computer CaseCity of Industry, California - February 9, 2011 - Thermaltake, the market's most trusted brand in D.I.Y. computer cases and max-performance power supplies, announced today the immediate availability of the highly anticipated Level 10 GT super gaming full-tower computer case. The Level 10 GT case was introduced during 2011 Consumer Electronic Show (CES) held at Las Vegas, Nevada. Level 10 GT is the successor to the original Level 10, the design collaboration between Thermaltake and BMW Group DesignworksUSA.The case's announcement during 2010 CES attracted high-volume of media coverage and quickly trickled down to the PC enthusiasts and gaming communities with approvals of the Level 10 GT's breakthrough in design and innovative features.Commenting on the Level 10 GT during the CES launch, Overclockersclub, an independent news media had this to say," This year Thermaltake upped the ante in its chassis line up with the introduction of the Level 10 GT chassis at CES. The level 10 was a piece of art in the form of a computer chassis and the level 10 GT takes all of these styling cues and puts them in a chassis that comes with improvements to the airflow through the chassis with the use of 200mm fans in addition to the 140mm rear fan. You get the latest technologies with the addition of USB 3.0 connectivity, hot swap drive bays and a fan speed control built into the switch panel. Like the original Level 10 it's the small things that are not obvious that really make this case, things like the removable fan filters, large directional airflow from the side panel fan and room for the biggest video cards out right now up to 37cm in length. The Level 10 GT is an improvement in form and function for the gamer all at a more appetizing price point.""[Level 10 GT] is a revision of the [Level 10] that is meant to be more affordable ($269 MSRP), but still keep the same styling as the original Level 10. This case has a ton of great features. The first is that there are 5 internal hot-swappable bays, each of these bays can fit 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch drives. These bays are easily removed by pressing in a button on the side and sliding them out. This case is designed to be a gaming case so there is a pull out headphone holder, which is perfect for LAN parties." Commented Bob Buskirk, owner of Thinkcomputers.org.Feature HighlightsUnmatched Cable Management - While many cases on the market claim to have cable management, it simply means those cases have enough room on the opposite side of the case to "hide" the excess cables. With Level 10 GT, users will be amazed at how well the cable management system works. Instead of hiding the cables, users can properly separate cables and channel them through the grooves strategically placed on the back of the case. When adding graphic card or hard drives, users will no longer need to untangle the power cables that had been "hidden" away. All hard drives' power connectors are pre-wired eliminating the need for rerouting. Not only does a properly cable managed computer perform better through improved airflow, but also makes the system neater.Convertible Top-Vent 240mm Water-Cooling Design - With the popularity of performance water-cooling solution for PC, Level 10 GT features a removable top meshed panel with included true 200mm exhaust fan. Should the user wish to integrate 120mm or even 240mm water-cooling, the fan can be easily removed and the water-cooling radiator can be quickly installed. The removable top also enables easy cleaning of the dust build-up on the fan or mesh.Hinged Side-Panel Door with Plug&Play Fan Power - For power users who frequently upgrades graphic cards, memories or simply performing maintenances, the hinged side-panel door design eliminates the hassle of having to awkwardly sliding the side-panel off. In addition, the side-mounted oversized 200mm intake fan's power connector automatically disconnects itself without any user intervention.Hot-swappable Hard Drive Caddies - Want to add additional hard drive to boost your overall storage capacity? Need to take the hard drive out to move large amount of data? With Level 10 GT's true hot-swappable hard drive caddies, user is able to quickly remove the hard drive without having to open up the computer systems and unscrewing it from the hard drive cage. And thanks to Level 10 GT's embedded hot-swap backplane, user can remove the storage hard drive without having to shut-down the system.Â The hard drive caddies also provide native support for all 3.5" and 2.5" SSD. The hot-swappable hard drive caddy design opens up a whole new world of possibilities where power user can enjoy running multiple operating systems simply by swapping the system hard drive to cloning numerous hard drives at any given time.Massive Airflow & Quiet by Design - Building a high-performance gaming rig is not simply putting together the best graphic card(s), CPU, memories or hard drives / SSDs. What's more important is ensuring all the critical components are properly cooled. Being the industry-leading brand in PC thermal management, Thermaltake incorporated not one or two, but rather three true 200mm fans into the Level 10 GT. An additional 140mm TurboFan is also embedded into the back of the case. Each of the 200mm fans can be controlled via the ColorShift control on the top of chassis. ColorShift enables user to take full control over the color LEDs on each fans to match the gaming or working environment. Fan speed control acts as a turbo boost control which users may increase the fan speed to properly exhaust heat build-up during gaming session or to lower the fan speed while working or simply browsing the web.In addition to the features highlighted, Level 10 GT comes standard with every premium features a PC enthusiast or hardcore gamer would want. High-speed data transfer can be achieved with two SuperSpeed USB 3.0 ports on top as well as an eSATA port. Four additional USB 2.0 ports are located on the front bezel. Each intake fans comes with dedicated filter system and can be easily removed for cleaning without having to open the system. Locking systems for both hinged side-panel door and hot-swappable hard drive caddies are embedded to prevent theft when the system is brought to LAN events or public areas. Eight PCI slots to support NVIDIA SLI or AMD CrossFireX multi-graphic card setups. Fully black-powdered interior is perfect for anyone wishing to showcase the impressive components.
 