
 


	Been yearning for more Portal 2-inspired goods from ThinkGeek? Fret not, dear test subject, the company's got some products ways that should satiate your desire for Cave Johnson-approved chachkas. Newly up for grabs are a $15 Aperture Science shower curtain, a $35 motion-sensing plush turret and a $40 Cave Johnson talking portrait -- think Billy Bass, but with a Portal twist. ThinkGeek's also announced a $30 Companion Cube cookie jar (the perfect companion for its Portal cookie cutters) and a $30 PotatOS Science Kit, complete with an insult-spewing "talking GLaDOS module." Sadly, the latter duo don't have an official release date just yet, and are merely listed as "coming soon." Of course, like the cake, they could just be lie. For the sake of science, portal past the break to find a press release with more details.
 

 		Show full PR text 		ThinkGeek Saves Science with New Portal 2 Merchandise 		Fresh from the testing chamber, nine new products based on the popular video game franchise 		Fairfax, VA- December 2, 2011 - ThinkGeek is proud to announce nine new Portal 2 products as part of its licensing agreement with Valve. 		"Saving science might be a bit of a stretch," said Ty Liotta, head of ThinkGeek's GeekLabs custom products development group, "but as fans of Portal 2 we're excited to bring these amazing products to our customers." 		● Aperture Laboratories Shower Curtain - At long last, fans of Aperture Laboratories can put their hands on the product that started it all: military-grade shower curtains. ThinkGeek presents gamers with their very own Aperture Science shower curtain to transform their bathroom into a test chamber. This collectible curtain is available now for $19.99. 		● Portal Companion Cube Cookie Jar - A replica of the Weighted Companion Cube that makes a prominent appearance as an inanimate, but lovable, puzzle solving device in the original Portal. Available soon for $29.99. 		● Portal Cookie Cutters - Of course, a cookie jar without cookies is like an empty test chamber in your soul. So fill up your new Companion Cube Cookie Jar with delicious treats inspired by the "warning signs" featured in the game. The Portal Cookie Cutters feature an all metal construction and come in a collectible Companion Cube tin. Available now for $19.99. 		● Portal Bookends - 4"x5" solid metal bookends to maintain the vertical orientation your impressive collection of science textbooks. One end shows the Portal test subject icon entering through an orange entry portal, while the other end shows him exiting through a blue exit portal. Available now for $29.99. 		● Portal 2 Plush Turret with Sound - A classic character from Portal video game series, this Turret features motion detection, light, sound and vibration. When sensing motion, the Portal 2 Plush Turret reacts with voice and simulated machine gun fire. To "disable" it, you just tip it over like you would in the game. Start assembling your Turret army for just $34.99. 		● Wheatley LED Flashlight - A 2" tall version of the smart talking Wheatley character, simply push a button, and a super-bright LED flashlight emanates from Wheatley's "eye" to illuminate your surroundings. Available now for $19.99. 		● Portal 2 PotatOS Science Kit - Create your own GLaDOS with a PotatOS Science Kit including electronic talking GLaDOS module. You provide the potato and some simple assembly. Even Wheatley could do it. Available soon for $29.99. 		● Portal Turret LED Flashlight with Sound - Standing just 3" tall, this intricately detailed replica of the Turret enemies will light your way with a red LED beam, emanating from the Turret's eye. With a push of the button on the side, you can hear the turret talk, just like in the game. Available now for $24.99. 		● Portal 2 Cave Johnson Talking Portrait - The most amazing man ever, Cave Johnson, founder of Aperture, repeats his famous motivational quotes from Portal 2. Suitable decoration for any room or test chamber in your home. Available now for $39.99. 		Browse all of ThinkGeek's officially licensed Portal products at thinkgeek.com/portal.
 