
 
 More than a few people are upset that Microsoft's latest OS might require booting to Metro -- sorry, the Windows 8 user interface -- no matter little they care for that touch-optimized home screen. Hacks might already exist to revisit the conventional desktop, but Thinix is catering to that inner Luddite on a truly polished level through its just-launched RetroUI. The app skips more than just the sea of tiles: it can lock out certain Metro features altogether and push out to everyone on a network in the event that new UI is just too much for the office to handle. At $5 for every three PCs ($5 per PC in offices), it's a cheap way to pretend that all of Windows 8's changes are under the hood, and there's still a fallback if you've decided to embrace Microsoft's vision after all. Just don't let Steve Ballmer know what you've done.



  Show full PR text   Thinix Unveils RetroUI™ - Automatically return to the Classic Desktop in Windows 8
  MILFORD, Iowa, Sept. 4, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Thinix [thin-iks], a leader in user interface design, managed services, and secure computing, today announced the release of RetroUI™ for Windows 8. RetroUI allows users to bypass the new 'Windows 8 Metro User Interface' (commonly known as the Metro UI). Users simply log in as normal and automatically load into the classic Windows desktop1. Starting at $4.95 for use on up to 3 devices, RetroUI is an affordable solution to users who don't want or need the Metro desktop feature in Windows 8.
  RetroUI for Windows 8 – At a Glance:
  * Automatically bypass the Metro Start screen in Windows 8  * Users see the classic Windows desktop at logon  * Users can return to the Metro desktop as needed  * Does not alter Windows 8 security settings  * Optionally, new Metro features can be disabled/locked-out by RetroUI  * Simple to install and configure  * Enterprise class application; Scalable, Secure, Multilanguage, and works over RDP
  RetroUI for Windows 8 – Getting Back to Business
  RetroUI provides immediate ROI to enterprises deploying Windows 8 on legacy PCs. Users who don't need the clutter or confusion of the Metro desktop can work efficiently with the new Metro features bypassed or disabled by RetroUI.
  "Only specially written Metro-Apps run on the Metro desktop in Windows 8. So, in order to run thousands of ordinary business applications, users need to leave the Metro desktop and run the application from the classic Windows desktop," said Anthony Clark, VP of Business Development at Thinix. "RetroUI eliminates this inefficient back-and-forth problem by providing a way for users to login directly into the classic Windows desktop – skipping over all the unneeded Metro features."
  RetroUI – User Experience
  Once logged in, users see the classic Windows desktop and can use the PC much like they did in Windows XP or Windows 7. Users can return to the Metro desktop and use Metro features as needed. In situations where administrators want to restrict users to the classic Windows desktop RetroUI can be configured to eliminate/lock-out the new Metro features in Windows 8 (Charms Bar, Hot Corners, and Metro Switcher). So, in an enterprise situation, RetroUI can be used to restrict task workers to the classic Windows desktop and fully eliminates complexities associated with the Metro desktop.
  RetroUI – Removing barriers in enterprise adoption of Windows 8
  In Windows 8, Microsoft made the decision to require that all PCs load the Metro desktop after login. This decision has caused many organizations to delay or even cancel a migration to Windows 8 because they do not desire to train users to deal with the Metro User Interface. RetroUI provides a way for these organizations to rapidly move to Windows 8 while allowing users to maintain the traditional look and feel of Windows. The result is an increase in efficiency for users without the need for substantial retraining, and allowing organizations to migrate to Windows 8 without the headaches caused by the new Metro features.
  RetroUI for Windows 8 – Core features:
  * Automatically return to the classic Windows desktop1 after login.  * Supports local and Remote Desktop (RDP) user sessions.  * In multi-monitor configurations all monitors display a classic Windows desktop.  * Optionally, advanced users can completely disable the Metro features in Windows 8.  * Secure architecture doesn't change or modify the underlying security of Windows 8, and does not require users to have administrative permissions.  * Supports command line configuration and licensing for enterprise level deployment.  * No spyware, ads, malware, or gimmicks. RetroUI is trusted and secure.  * Flexible, inexpensive licensing for personal, business, and educational users. A 14-day fully functional trial is available.  * Multi-language support. RetroUI will initially be available in English, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish.
  Availability and Pricing
  RetroUI is immediately available for purchase starting at $4.95 for personal use on up to three computers and RetroUI Pro is available as low as $4.95 per PC for business use. Thinix RetroUI Pro is available with bulk licensing for enterprise applications. A discount of approximately 50% is available for educational and non-profit applications. A 14-day fully functional trial is available.
 
