
 

Sure, it may not have one of those coveted right circle pads, but this Zelda-branded Nintendo 3DS is just dripping in Hyrule awesomeness. The limited edition portable console will be released in Europe to mark the 25th anniversary of Link, Zelda and the rest of the Hyrule crew. The 3DS has a Hyrule emblem and gold-colored decorations on its lid and comes bundled with The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D. It'll hit European shops on the 25th of this month, so start saving up those silver rupees. Press info after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Nintendo announces Limited Edition The Legend of Zelda 25th Anniversary bundle 			8th November 2011 – The Legend of Zelda is regarded as one of the most critically acclaimed video game series of all time. To celebrate its 25th anniversary and to mark this occasion, Nintendo is releasing a special 25th Anniversary limited edition* Nintendo 3DS system, marked with the Hyrule emblem and gold-coloured embellishments. This limited edition system will come bundled exclusively with a copy of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D which was specifically created for the Nintendo 3DS system, and will become available from shops across Europe from 25th November 2011 – just in time for Christmas! 			Fully remastered from the original Nintendo 64 title, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D is packed with stunning 3D graphics and visual delights for fans, both familiar with and new to the franchise. As part of the bundle your copy of the game will contain a special double-sided sleeve: on the front the classic game sleeve design appears, but on the reverse there is a limited edition gold-coloured sleeve. This double-sided sleeve is only available as part of The Legend of Zelda 25th Anniversary bundle. 			Join Link, a heroic young boy, on his quest to save the land of Hyrule from Ganondorf, the Gerudo King of Thieves. Interact with many different characters and battle various enemies while exploring vast landscapes, mythical temples, dungeons, towns and villages - all in 3D! 			What's more, make the most of the new control scheme, completely redesigned to make the best use of the Nintendo 3DS system's capabilities, all of which help you to intuitively guide Link on his journey. 			The game's graphical re-working coupled with the three-dimensional depth provided by Nintendo 3DS breathes new life into this timeless classic. Whether you're a first-time player or a regular visitor to Hyrule, the limited edition Nintendo 3DS system bundled with The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time 3D offers a magical new experience for all to enjoy, from 25th November 2011. 
 