
 
Unlimited data. No, for real this time. While US carriers are tripping over each other to claim the death of uncapped data allowances, the UK's 3G-only network operator is bringing them back like a pair of retro sneakers. Three's grandly titled The One Plan takes all limits and fair usage gotchas away and just lets you suckle bandwidth to your heart's content. And that explicitly includes tethering your phone to your laptop and using it as a 3G modem -- very classy. New and old customers will benefit from this, meaning that if you're already on this plan you're in line for a free upgrade. The offer's effective now and contracts start at £25 a month with a minimum term of one year. We'll be highly impressed if Three's network, never mind this deal, survives a full year of being bashed over the head by iPlayer streams and YouTube uploads, but here's hoping, eh?
 

Show full PR textThree introduces a world without data restrictions on The One PlanNew all-you-can-eat data gives complete peace-of-mind for smartphone usersDecember 15th 2010: London: Mobile network Three has opened up data on its ground-breaking tariff The One Plan.From today Three moves away from a world of data allowances, to give The One Plan customers all-you-can-eat data, challenging the limited offers and additional charges other operators levy on smartphone users.The change is aimed at giving customers peace of mind when it comes to data – so they can surf, email, update, watch, listen or play freely on their smartphone - making the most of all it can do.This is the second time Three has challenged the UK mobile industry with The One Plan.When The One Plan was introduced in July it was designed to be the most competitive offer on the market – giving customers all the calls and texts they need each month for one simple and affordable price, along with 1GB of data.But customers say the fear of incurring unexpected data charges is one of the biggest barriers to really making the most of the new smartphone world. With the advent of high definition videos and games, not to mention apps, maps, social media updates, emails music, video calls and much, much more usage will continue to grow and with it the need for a plan that provides reassurance.So, to ensure our customers continue to experience peace of mind, on the UK's biggest and best network for smartphones, Three has decided to buck the trend and give people all-you-can-eat data on The One Plan.While other operators are restricting the data their customers can use before they get hit with out-of-bundle data charges, on The One Plan all limits have been lifted on the amount of data you can consume on your mobile.Sales and Marketing Director, Marc Allera, said: "The One Plan was already a market-changing offer – we've just made it even better."At Three we've built a network with the scale and scope to meet people's data needs both now and into the future – and with more and more customers choosing to opt for next generation smartphones, this will prove more important than ever.""Everyday thousands of customers buy a smartphone on a two-year contract. The trends clearly show usage grows over time. With its all-you-can-eat data The One Plan will still fit your needs no matter how much data you use.'"We expect to see more people using mobiles than PCs to access the internet by 2015. all-you-can-eat data is designed to remove the possibility of bill shock when you use data, so you can use your smartphone to do everything it was designed for without the worry of cost."The One Plan now offers customer 2,000 any-network minutes, 5,000 Three-to-Three minutes, 5,000 texts and all-you-can-eat data - all from just £25 a month.Three came first in the most recent YouGov Smartphone Mobile Internet Experience report, and the YouGov iPhone survey, as the number one network in the UK for speed and value.Following a £400m project to upgrade and improve Three's 3G network – which was already the biggest in the UK – it now covers more than 97.3% of the UK population.About Three UKThree is a communications company focused on bringing the benefits of the internet to mobile communications. We offer attractive pricing and give our customers the widest choice of ways to stay connected. To do this we've built the UK's biggest high-speed mobile broadband network. Three UK is a member of the HWL group of companies, which include 3G operations in Austria, Denmark, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Macau and Sweden.Three facts about Three:- Three launched the UK's first 3G hi-speed mobile network offering national coverage for calls and texts, and has over 97.3% population coverage for mobile internet services.- Three has more than 6.2 million customers in the UK and the 3 Group has over 28 million worldwide.- Three is the UK market-leader for mobile broadband, and came first in the two most recent YouGov surveys of Mobile Broadband customers. The YouGov Smartphone Mobile Internet Experience Report (SMIX) and iPhone survey results also see Three rated as the best network for speed and value by Smartphone customers using mobile internet, and as the best network for the iPhone.
 