
 
Well, it looks like we could be about to see wireless charging spread to more places than ever before -- Texas Instruments just unveiled its next-generation, Qi-compliant wireless power receiver chip today, which is a full eighty percent smaller than its previous chip. That promises to make it far easier for manufacturers to implement in everything from cellphones to game consoles to digital cameras, and that small size apparently comes without any compromises, with it providing 5W of output power and a 93-percent peak efficiency that's comparable to an AC adapter. Unfortunately, there's no indication as to when we might see any actual devices that use the chip, but those should be coming before too long -- the complete bq51013 wireless power package is now already available for just $3.50 in quantities of 1,000. Full press release is after the break.
 
 

Show full PR textTexas Instruments introduces industry's smallest wireless power receiver chipEasily integrates wireless charging technology into new and existing portable electronicsDALLAS, April, 18, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) (NYSE: TXN) today introduced its next generation of wireless power technology, which is 80-percent smaller than TI's previous receiver chip. The tiny, highly integrated device makes it easy for designers to implement wireless charging in their existing and new designs for portable consumer devices, such as smart phones, gaming systems, digital cameras, and medical and industrial equipment.The bq51013 receiver integrated circuit (IC) combines voltage conditioning and full wireless power control in a small 1.9-mm x 3-mm WCSP package. The new circuit supports up to 5 W of output power, provides up to 93-percent efficient AC/DC power conversion and is the only IC required between the receiver coil and system. For more information or to order samples of the bq51013, visit: www.ti.com/bq51013-pr. "Smartphone and consumer electronics manufacturers are demanding wireless power, and TI is well positioned to help our customers drive widespread adoption of this technology that makes life easier for people on the go to charge their devices," said Sami Kiriaki, senior vice president over TI's Power Management business. "Designers can use the bq51013 to quickly integrate wireless power into existing and new applications with minimal impact to overall solution size."Key features and benefits* Highly integrated and efficient wireless power receiver IC includes full-bridge synchronous rectification, voltage conditioning and wireless power control in a single device.* 1.9-mm x 3-mm WCSP package allows for easy integration with minimal size impact. Device area is 80 percent less than TI's first-generation receiver.* The receiver and its associated bq500110 transmitter IC are Wireless Power Consortium (WPC) Qi-compliant. This compliance ensures interoperability between various charging pads and portable devices.* Built-in protection against voltage, current and temperature fault conditions, assures safe and reliable system operation.* 93-percent peak efficiency reduces thermal rise inside the system while allowing charge rates comparable to an AC adapter. Tools and supportTI offers a variety of tools and support to speed the implementation of wireless power:* bqTESLA150LP Wireless Power Evaluation Kit, which includes the bq51013 receiver and bq500110 transmitter: www.ti.com/bqTESLA150LP-pr* bqTESLA150LP User Guide: www.ti.com/bqTESLA150LP-prAvailability and pricingThe bq51013 wireless power receiver is available now in a 1.9-mm x 3-mm WCSP package, priced at $3.50 in quantities of 1,000.Find out more about TI's wireless power portfolio by visiting the links below:* Visit TI's wireless power solution web page; view wireless power video overview: www.ti.com/wirelesspower-pr* Download bq51013 data sheet or order samples: www.ti.com/bq51013-pr* Download bq500110 data sheet: www.ti.com/bq500110-pr* Ask questions, help solve problems in the Wireless Power forum in the TI E2E™ Community: www.ti.com/wirelesspowerforum-pr* Download the new Power Management Guide: www.ti.com/powerguide-prAbout Texas InstrumentsTexas Instruments semiconductor innovations help 80,000 customers unlock the possibilities of the world as it could be – smarter, safer, greener, healthier and more fun. Our commitment to building a better future is ingrained in everything we do – from the responsible manufacturing of our semiconductors, to caring for our employees, to giving back inside our communities. This is just the beginning of our story. Learn more at www.ti.com.
 