
 

As promised, a Honeycomb compatible version of Time Warner Cable's tablet app has arrived before the return of the NBA. Dubbed TWC TV in its Android iteration, v1.0 includes an integrated guide, the ability to act as a remote control, search TV listings, and schedule DVR recordings. So far it's only promised to operate on the Galaxy Tab 10.1 and Xoom tablets, but the notes indicate it should scale to whatever Honeycomb slate you happen to have handy at the moment. The marquee live TV streaming feature is still on hold waiting for the release of Ice Cream Sandwich, but if what you need is a couch companion instead of a kitchen / bathroom TV screen it's ready to go. Check out the Time Warner blog for more notes or just hit the Android Market link below to download it yourself.
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		November 29, 2011 05:18 PM Eastern Time Time Warner Cable Brings TWC TV™ App to Android Tablets 		NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the launch of the TWC TV™ app for Android tablets. This free feature gives Digital TV customers the ability to program their DVR, add favorite channels and even use their Android tablet as a remote control. The app is available to all customers with set-top boxes or DVRs running the Time Warner Cable "Navigator" interactive program guide. 		Features on TWCTV™ 1.0 for the Android tablet include: 		Interactive Program Guide (IPG) – a complete IPG experience, with 7 days of program listings including full program description		Search – search TV listings by title or episode name		Remote Control of STB – the ability to use the Android tablet as a set-top box remote control, choosing a program from the grid guide and tuning the DVR or set-top box to the selected channel.		DVR Manager – the ability to remotely schedule or change upcoming DVR recordings 		The app has been certified to run on the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 or Motorola Xoom, but is designed to run on any Honeycomb (Android 3.x) tablet. Customers can download TWC TV™ 1.0 from the Android Market, launch it, log in and scroll through the interactive program guide to select preferred programming. 		For more information on the app, please visit the Time Warner Cable Untangled blog at www.twcableuntangled.com.
 