
 

We're still waiting for Time Warner to bring its live TV streaming to Android, but the platform is enjoying some exclusive support today with two new apps. The first is the My TWC account management app which lets subscribers view their services, pay bills, adjust call forwarding and, soon, tap into their voicemail remotely. The other one is a new version of its TWC TV app, reformatted to work on phones even while the TWCable TV app on iOS is still a tablet only affair. iPhone and Android owners alike shouldn't have to wait long for their relief however, as the iPhone edition is slated to arrive in January, and ICS-enabled live TV streaming is still on the roadmap for "early next year." Hit up the corporate blog for the full feature lists and breakdowns, or just head over to the Android Market to install either free app.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Time Warner Cable's TWC TV™ App Now Available on Android Smartphones 		NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the launch of the TWC TV™ app for Android smartphones. The free app allows Digital TV customers to search program listings by title or episode name, browse network schedules, set favorite channels and even program their DVR right from their smartphone. The app is available to video customers at the standard (expanded basic) level or higher, with at least one compatible Navigator set-top box or DVR. Analog (cable ready) customers and those with Motorola set-top boxes or DVRs running iGuide are not supported. 		Features on TWC TV™ 1.0 for the Android smartphone include: 		Interactive Program Guide (IPG) – up to 7 days of TV listings, optimized for display on smartphone screens in one-hour time blocks.		Network Schedule view – Tap on a network logo from the IPG and see the schedule for a specific network		Search – search TV listings by title or episode name		Remote Control of STB – the ability to use the Android smartphone as a set-top box remote control, choosing a program from the grid guide and tuning the DVR or set-top box to the selected channel.		DVR Manager – the ability to remotely schedule or change upcoming DVR recordings 		Customers can download TWC TV™ 1.0 from the Android Market, launch it, log in and scroll through the interactive program guide to select preferred programming, or tap the search icon to find shows by title. 		For more information on the app, please visit the Time Warner Cable Untangled blog at www.twcableuntangled.com.
 