
Many subscribers of Starz and Encore have known the joy of free, on-demand movies for some time now, but customers of Time Warner Cable are more likely accustomed to another feeling -- one of exclusion. Fortunately, that all changes today, as Time Warner now provides access to Starz Play and Encore Play. The services are free to subscribers of the pay channels, and are accessible both over the web and via apps for Android and iOS. As it stands, Starz Play offers access to 400 titles (including 300 movies), while Encore Play offers somewhere in the neighborhood of 900 titles, 300 of which are movies. Signing into Starz Play and Encore Play is simply a matter of plugging in your Time Warner Cable ID, which is used for authentication with the Play system. Naturally, the latest announcement serves as a nice complement to TWC TV, and could also prove itself a worthwhile Plan B for times when Netflix is on the fritz.



Show full PR textTime Warner Cable Launches STARZ PLAY and ENCORE PLAY Authenticated Online Services for Subscribers
Offering Features Over 1,000 Title Selections For Enjoyment Online

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the launch of Starz's authenticated online services, STARZ PLAY and ENCORE PLAY. Customers who subscribe to STARZ and ENCORE can enjoy free and unlimited online access to the more than 1,000 monthly titles at no additional cost.

This easy-to-use online viewing option brings STARZ and ENCORE exclusive original programming and commercial-free movies to subscribers' iPhone, iPad and iPod touch and select Android and other devices including the Kindle Fire, Kindle Fire HD, NOOK HD, NOOK HD+, and the Google Nexus 4, Nexus 7, and Nexus 10. Subscribers can also instantly enjoy these online services on their PCs and Macs by visiting www.starzplay.com or www.encoreplay.com and verifying the premium subscriptions with their Time Warner Cable ID. The free PLAY platform applications are available for free download in the App Store and Amazon Appstore.

"We are excited to further expand our TV Everywhere offerings for our customers with the launch of the online STARZ PLAY and ENCORE PLAY services," said Michael Angus, Time Warner Cable's Senior Vice President and General Manager, Video. "This is another great example of our commitment to expand the number of ways customers can watch their favorite programming."

STARZ PLAY offers more than 400 monthly selections, including 300 movies comprising first-run films from Disney (Brave, Frankenweenie) and Sony (The Amazing Spider-Man, Men in Black 3, Hotel Transylvania, Looper) and other great films from a wide selection of Hollywood studios, and 100 episodes of exclusive STARZ Original series, including "Magic City," "Da Vinci's Demons," and "Spartacus."

ENCORE PLAY offers about 900 monthly selections with 300 movies and select series (Moneyball, Finding Nemo, The Muppets, Jurassic Park, Air Force One, 21 Jump Street, Lethal Weapon and "North And South").


