
 
 The newly-available-on-Android live streaming feature of Time Warner Cable's TWC TV app (and TWCTV.com website) has just gotten a major content upgrade, adding many national and regional sports feeds. It looks like ESPN, ESPN2, TNT, TBS, MLB Network, NBA TV and NHL Network are available in most regions, along with the applicable Fox RSNs. The full lineup of areas and channels is in the press release after the break. Of course, if you'd like to keep telling your significant other sports channels haven't been added yet and they will need to watch their reality show on the tablet while you use the big HDTV, then we can all just pretend this never happened.



  Show full PR text    April 20, 2012 11:15 AM Eastern Daylight Time Time Warner Cable Customers in New York City, Dallas and Charlotte Can Now Watch a Variety of Sports Networks Live on TWC TV™
   NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the addition of national and regional sports networks to the TWC TV™ app for the iPad®, iPhone®, Android™ 4.0 smartphones and tablets, and TWCTV.com, the browser-based portal that can be accessed through PCs and Mac® computers. Customers in New York City, Dallas and Charlotte can now watch their favorite sports networks from their mobile device or computer anywhere inside the home. TWC TV™ is available at no additional cost to Time Warner Cable video customers at the Standard (Expanded Basic) level or higher. Programming lineup availability will vary by market.

   "We're also working hard with our industry partners to implement a broader technical solution that will enable us to deliver more sports programming on TWC TV™ in additional markets."

   The following networks now available are as follows:

   New York City (except for Hudson Valley) - ESPN, ESPN2, TNT, TBS, YES, SNY, MSG, MSG+, MLB Network, NBA TV, NHL Network

   Dallas - ESPN, ESPN2, TNT, TBS, Fox Sports Southwest, MLB Network, NBA TV, NHL Network

   Charlotte - ESPN, ESPN2, TNT, TBS, Fox Sports Carolinas, SportSouth, MLB Network, NBA TV, NHL Network

   "We're very pleased that we've been able to solve the technical issues surrounding blackouts in these three markets," said Mike Angus, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Video for Time Warner Cable. "We're also working hard with our industry partners to implement a broader technical solution that will enable us to deliver more sports programming on TWC TV™ in additional markets."

   Live TV requires that the customer have a broadband connection using either Road Runner or a TWC-managed service, or a Time Warner Cable-provided video only cable modem. Customers can download the mobile app from the App Store or Google® Play, launch it, log in and scroll through the channel lineup to select preferred programming. They can also watch TWC TV™ from any computer in their home by visiting www.twctv.com and logging in using their TWC username and password.

   For a complete channel lineup and more information on TWC TV™, visit the Untangled blog at www.twcableuntangled.com.

   All trademarks remain the property of their respective owners.

   About Time Warner Cable

   Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high‐speed data and voice services in the United States, connecting more than 15 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video and voice services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers and, through its NaviSite subsidiary, managed and outsourced information technology solutions and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at www.timewarnercable.com, www.twcbc.com, www.navisite.com, and www.twcmedia.com.

 
