
 Time Warner Cable has expanded its TWC TV IP streaming of broadcast television to several different platforms since its launch two years ago, but so far it's been limited to use inside subscriber's homes. That will change tomorrow, according to a tipster who informed us a new version of the iOS app is coming that allows out of home streaming. This source previously gave us an early heads up on TWC TV for Roku, which just launched last month. The video doesn't include all of the channels that are a part of TWC TV, but will feature video on-demand from channels like BBC America, BET, Comedy Central, MTV, Nick, and Univision, among others. There will be ten live TV channels as well: Aspire, BBC America, beIn, Big Ten Network, FearNet, Fox News Channel, Fox business, GMC, Pac-12 Network and TV Guide Network

 The web portal will also be revamped in May, and Android users should expect an update in Q2 with access to streaming away from home. However, there are still a few strings. From what we've heard, streaming over 3G / 4G will be limited to Verizon Wireless until Q4, but all users will be able to access the video streams over WiFi. Time Warner already faced several legal challenges to the initial app, if the new features arrive tomorrow we'll see whether Viacom and other content providers head back to the courts for round two, or if any complaints have been negotiated away already.

 Update: Time Warner has confirmed the feature in a post on its blog, although there's no mention of any restrictions for streaming over cellular connections. The update is not live in the app store yet but it's scheduled to arrive by tomorrow morning, hit the source link to check out the official list of content.

 [Thanks, Anonymous].



  Show full PR text   New TWC TV™ App Release for Apple iOS Enhances Customer Viewing Experience with Access to Programming out of Home
   Customers Can Watch Over 1,100 Hours Of On Demand Programming and Live TV On The Go

   NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--In its ongoing commitment to deliver content that customers can enjoy anytime, anywhere, Time Warner Cable will launch select Video On Demand and live programming outside the home on the new update to the popular TWC TV app for iPad, iPad Mini, iPhone and iPod iTouch tomorrow at 10 AM EST. The programming is accessible over any WiFi connection.

   "We were the first provider to bring live television to the iPad in the home"  TWC TV content is now available while away from their home and features over 1,100 hours of On Demand TV shows and movies from 26 top-rated networks and up to 11 live TV news, sports and entertainment channels. The offering includes Time Warner Cable local news, traffic and weather channels NY1, NY1 Noticias, YNN and News 14. Customers can now watch a selection of their favorite shows on the go. This update to TWC TV also improves the user experience of the live TV mini-guide with the introduction of new filtering and sorting features for the 200-plus live channels available to watch in the home.

   "We were the first provider to bring live television to the iPad in the home," said Mike Angus, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Video for Time Warner Cable. "Since then, we've increased the number of platforms and devices on which our customers can watch live television, and added thousands of hours of Video On Demand programming at no additional cost. The release of this TWC TV update is the next natural step towards our goal of giving customers even more of the content they love on every screen."

   TWC TV is available at no additional cost to Time Warner Cable Video subscribers. Channel line-ups vary by market and depend on the video subscription package to which a customer subscribes. A Time Warner Cable authorized modem is still required for in-home access to the complete TWC TV line-up. In home viewing of the app is available on Apple iOS, Android devices running release 4.0 or higher, PCs and Macs via www.TWCTV.com, and Roku Streaming Players via the TWC TV channel.

   A full list of available channels can be found on the TWC TV about page.

   More information is available on the Time Warner Cable Untangled blog at www.twcableuntangled.com.

   About Time Warner Cable

   Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high-speed data and voice services in the United States, connecting more than 15 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video and voice services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers and managed and outsourced information technology solutions and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at www.twc.com, www.twcbc.com and www.twcmedia.com.

 
