
 
Time Warner has been running trials of its Look Back service for a year or so in various markets, but it's finally ready to bring it to the Real America. The feature lets good, honest folk go back and watch shows they've missed for up to three days after they've aired, with no need to set a DVR -- it's basically on demand content with a better name and no charge. Shows will be available to watch immediately after they've aired. Look for it to hit a coax cable near you very soon.
      

 

Show full PR textTime Warner Cable Launches Look Back®Digital Customers Can Go Back Up To Three Days To Watch Shows They MissedNEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the launch of Look Back®, a free feature that gives Digital Video customers the ability to go back within a three-day window to watch shows they may have missed without setting their DVR. Look Back® will launch with 48 channels (24 in HD and 24 in Standard Definition) with a consistent lineup across cable systems. Customers can access Look Back® programming content immediately after it has aired on the network channel.After completing successful market trials in several cities, the company is launching this feature in multiple areas, including New York, New England, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, Wisconsin and parts of Texas. Look Back® complements the company's Start Over feature, which allows a customer to restart a program in progress, and its On Demand offerings, which are generally available one to eight days after original air time."Look Back® gives customers the ability to further time-shift and achieve more control over the programming they want to watch," stated Melinda Witmer, Executive Vice President and Chief Programming Officer for Time Warner Cable. "There is no need to set a DVR and no worries about getting special equipment. Look Back® is easy, fast and simple for all of us with busy schedules."To use this feature, Digital Video customers simply use the "Select" button on their remote control then choose Look Back® to find a program. The available window for these programs will be 72 hours. For example, if a show airs from 8:00-9:00 p.m. on Tuesday, customers can view that show immediately after it has aired until 9:00 p.m. on Friday. Customers may also pause and rewind their program selection.For a complete channel lineup and more information on Look Back®, please visit the Time Warner Cable website at: http://www.timewarnercable.com/Localization/LinkLocalizer.ashx?linkid=166About Time Warner CableTime Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located in five geographic areas - New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, Southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14.7 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media Sales, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at www.timewarnercable.com, www.twcbc.com and www.twcmediasales.com.
 