
As commonplace as Time Warner Cable's TWC TV app might be, it's surprisingly tricky to find on actual TVs -- Roku boxes don't quite count. The provider is addressing that gap today with plans to release a version for Samsung's Smart TVs. The new app (not yet pictured here) offers authentication-based access to about 5,000 on-demand shows without any extra hardware. This isn't a true replacement for a cable box, however -- along with the usual subscription requirement, there's no mention of the live TV that we've seen elsewhere. Those who aren't deterred by the restrictions can load TWC TV on their 2012-era Smart TVs soon, and 2013 sets sometime after that.



Show full PR textTime Warner Cable to Bring Content Directly to Samsung Smart TVs without a Set Top Box
Offering will feature 5,000 Hours of Video on Demand Content at Launch
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the launch of the TWC TV™ application, starting this summer, on compatible Samsung Smart TV™s, furthering the company's commitment to developing ways to help consumers enjoy the programming they love anytime, anywhere.
Time Warner Cable video subscribers will have instant access to 5,000 Video On Demand titles from nearly 100 networks. Customers can easily download the TWC TV application at no additional cost on their compatible Samsung Smart TV without a set-top box.
"Time Warner Cable is giving customers more flexibility in how they watch the content they love through our TWC TV application for Samsung Smart TVs," said Mike Angus, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Video for Time Warner Cable. "We're committed to giving customers the best television viewing experience as we expand the ways they already use TWC TV."
"Samsung is very excited to add Time Warner Cable to our growing TV Everywhere offering," said Eric Anderson, VP of Content and Product Solutions at Samsung Electronics America. "The application will provide existing Time Warner Cable subscribers with more control and choice for how they access their Time Warner Cable content over their Samsung Smart TVs without having to be tethered to their cable box."
The TWC TV application will be available for download initially on 2012 Samsung Smart TVs and the 2013 Samsung Smart TVs soon afterwards. Channel line-ups vary by market and depend on the video subscription package to which a customer subscribes.

