
 

An early release over the weekend took any surprise out of the news, but now TiVo has officially announced its plans for the new TiVo Premiere Q and TiVo Preview set-top boxes and an update for its iPad app at the 2011 NCTA Cable Show. Both boxes are firsts for TiVo, the Premiere Q (pictured above) because it has four tuners and can stream video to up to three other boxes in the home, and the Preview because it lacks a hard drive or any DVR capabilities entirely. The Preview can function on its own or as a multiroom thin client streaming from TiVo DVRs, and both promise full integration with video on-demand and other cable-provided services. There's no word on any retail plans and as expected RCN and Suddenlink will be the first to offer the boxes. The TiVo iPad app is also getting a cable-friendly makeover with a new version that can browse video on-demand offerings and flick them to any available TiVos for viewing, just like it does for internet video. We complained about the slow pace of updates for the existing Premiere DVR yesterday, so we'll try to have a fresh outlook on the official announcements (PR and more pictures are after the break) and consider a future where TiVo isn't tied to DVRs or being offered at retail.

Update: @BrennokBob points out a post on DSLReports revealing the Premiere Q will ship (at least for RCN) with a 500GB hard drive, up from 320GB on the standard Premiere but less than the 1TB of the XL model or Virgin's TiVo in the UK.
      

 

  		Show full PR text  TiVo Unveils Full Family of Set Top Boxes for Comprehensive Whole Home Solution 		Introduces Company's First Quad-Tuner DVR Gateway and First Non-DVR HD Set-Top Box; RCN and Suddenlink First Cable Operators Planning to Offer New Products 		CHICAGO, IL, Jun 13, 2011 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) -- TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), a creator and leader in advanced television services and digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced the next generation of its whole home solution with the addition of robust HD video streaming and two new set-tops to its service provider product family. TiVo Premiere Q, the company's first-ever quad-tuner gateway set-top box, and TiVo Preview, its first non-DVR HD set-top box, will join TiVo's existing advanced television solutions offered to cable operators. 		Consistent with TiVo's mission to bring the TiVo experience to every screen in the house, these new products enable TiVo's operator partners to provide a superior advanced television experience to non-DVR households, single DVR households, as well as multi-room DVR households. With its four tuners and support for broad range of video on demand content over IP, the TiVo Premiere Q serves as an advanced video gateway, while TiVo Preview provides the full TiVo user experience for non-DVR households and also functions as a thin client complement to those using a TiVo DVR, creating a fantastic multi-room viewing experience. Both set-top boxes support the full integration of operator services such as Video on Demand, PPV, CallerID on the TV and linear programming, plus access to broadband applications and services. 		"TiVo's solution for cable has stood apart in delivering the only offering that fully integrates the operator's linear and VOD content with broadband content and application choices," said David Sandford, TiVo's Vice President and General Manager of TiVo's service provider business. "With the introduction of the TiVo Premiere Q and TiVo Preview, TiVo is extending its advanced user experience and leading multi-room capabilities to provide cable operators a cost effective and highly differentiated solution for every type of household and every television in the house." 		Beyond its quad tuners and industry leading DVR features, TiVo Premiere Q brings a number of benefits to operators deploying whole home solutions. TiVo Premiere Q is unique in that it supports 4 simultaneous recordings and the ability to view streaming broadband content, while at the same time supporting up to 3 HD streams over a MoCA or Ethernet home network. It is also the only STB of its kind that integrates a bridge between the MoCA and Ethernet networks to simplify and reduce the cost of installation, allowing the Premiere Q to easily connect to existing home networks. 		TiVo Preview completes the whole home solution for operators that can now deploy the TiVo user experience in every room of the home. It provides the same HD user experience as the TiVo Premiere and Premiere Q and fully integrates an operator's linear and VOD content with broadband content and application choices, and immediate streaming access to DVR content from a TiVo Premiere or Premiere Q. Similar to Premiere Q, Preview includes integrated MoCA and Ethernet for home networking and multi-room applications. 		"As the first cable operator to deploy TiVo Premiere last year, rolling out a whole home solution from TiVo is the logical next step for our company," said Jim Holanda, CEO of RCN. "We look forward to offering our customers the TiVo user experience, with access to their recordings, RCN VOD and broadband content options on every television screen in the home." 		These products will initially be available through select cable operators. RCN will be the first domestic cable operator to offer subscribers the Premiere Q and Preview, in addition to its current TiVo Premiere offering. Suddenlink expects to extend its current TiVo offering through these and other TiVo products. Operators who embrace any of TiVo's three products will now be able to realize expanded whole-home capabilities and the same user experience on every TV. TiVo plans to make both new products available to its cable operator partners later this year. 		TiVo unveiled both products during the 2011 NCTA Cable Show in Chicago. For more information visit the TiVo booth #ES-1 located in the main exhibit hall. 		About TiVo Inc. Founded in 1997, TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO) developed the first commercially available digital video recorder (DVR). TiVo offers the TiVo service and TiVo DVRs directly to consumers online at www.tivo.com and through third-party retailers. TiVo also distributes its technology and services through solutions tailored for cable, satellite and broadcasting companies. Since its founding, TiVo has evolved into the ultimate single solution media center by combining its patented DVR technologies and universal cable box capabilities with the ability to aggregate, search, and deliver millions of pieces of broadband, cable, and broadcast content directly to the television. An economical, one-stop-shop for in-home entertainment, TiVo's intuitive functionality and ease of use puts viewers in control by enabling them to effortlessly navigate the best digital entertainment content available through one box, with one remote, and one user interface, delivering the most dynamic user experience on the market today. TiVo also continues to weave itself into the fabric of the media industry by providing interactive advertising solutions and audience research and measurement ratings services to the television industry www.tivo.com 		TiVo and the TiVo Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of TiVo Inc. or its subsidiaries worldwide. Copyright 2011 TiVo Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 		This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, the future availability of TiVo Premiere Q and TiVo Preview set-top boxes, including expected functionality, features and capabilities. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as, "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "intend," "estimate," "continue," or similar expressions or the negative of those terms or expressions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include delays in development, competitive service offerings and lack of market acceptance, as well as the other potential factors described under "Risk Factors" in the Company's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect an analysis only and speak only as of the date hereof. TiVo disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 		Image Available: http://www2.marketwire.com/mw/frame_mw?attachid=1641557 		Image Available: http://www2.marketwire.com/mw/frame_mw?attachid=1641543 		SOURCE: TiVo    TiVo Enhances iPad App to Benefit Cable Operators 		New Version of TiVo's Companion Application Adds Operator's VOD Catalog and Integrates VOD Prominently Into the Overall Search Results 		CHICAGO, IL, Jun 13, 2011 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) -- TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and a leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced that it has enhanced its TiVo App for iPad to include new features tailored to its cable partners. Launched on the App store earlier this year, the TiVo App for iPad enables users to search, browse, explore and share their favorite entertainment all without interrupting what's playing on the television. Once found, the user simply "flicks" the selected content from the iPad to their TV screen. 		The new version of TiVo's companion iPad application automatically adds the operator's Video on Demand into the search and browse features within the App, allowing viewers to quickly find a TV program or movie and enjoy it on TV. The App also automatically detects and integrates the operator's branding, linear programming and VOD catalog when connected to a TiVo box provided by the operator. 		"Operators are constantly looking for new ways to connect with their subscribers," said David Sandford, TiVo's Vice President and General Manager of TiVo's service provider business. "The enhancements we have made to our iPad App help cable operators bring TiVo's innovative user interface directly into the hands of their subscribers, thereby offering consumers the ultimate remote control and viewing on demand experience. We have only just begun to refine our offering to the operator community and look forward to bringing additional elements to the TiVo iPad App." 		To learn more visit www.tivo.com/ipad. 		TiVo made this announcement during the 2011 NCTA Cable Show in Chicago. 		About TiVo Inc. Founded in 1997, TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO) developed the first commercially available digital video recorder (DVR). TiVo offers the TiVo service and TiVo DVRs directly to consumers online at www.tivo.com and through third-party retailers. TiVo also distributes its technology and services through solutions tailored for cable, satellite and broadcasting companies. Since its founding, TiVo has evolved into the ultimate single solution media center by combining its patented DVR technologies and universal cable box capabilities with the ability to aggregate, search, and deliver millions of pieces of broadband, cable, and broadcast content directly to the television. An economical, one-stop-shop for in-home entertainment, TiVo's intuitive functionality and ease of use puts viewers in control by enabling them to effortlessly navigate the best digital entertainment content available through one box, with one remote, and one user interface, delivering the most dynamic user experience on the market today. TiVo also continues to weave itself into the fabric of the media industry by providing interactive advertising solutions and audience research and measurement ratings services to the television industry www.tivo.com 		TiVo and the TiVo Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of TiVo Inc. or its subsidiaries worldwide. Copyright 2011 TiVo Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 		Image Available: http://www2.marketwire.com/mw/frame_mw?attachid=1641565 		SOURCE: TiVo
 