
 

It's too early to know if this is the big TiVo update fans have been waiting for since the release of the Premiere, but there's no doubt it's a significant one. For starters, the guide has finally gotten the upgraded HD treatment -- no word if it is the only remaining old screen to get refreshed. Next up is official Premiere-to-Premiere streaming, which frees your recorded TV to be watched in any room of the house, even if the content is marked Copy Once. Other notable improvements include the integration of Hulu Plus content in TiVo search results, a revamped discover bar that actually discloses why the content is featured -- we assume this will make it more useful -- and hitting select while watching live TV now brings up a mini-guide and updated program info screen. All in all it is a nice list, but the truth will be told once some have had a chance to try it out. When that might be is still somewhat unknown, but feel free to force your Premiere to connect to TiVo service now to find out if you are in the lucky few to be the first to get the update.

Update: We've got one more surprise treat for you, as a reader alerted us the official TiVo Remote app is now available in the Android Market. It claims to be compatible with phones and 7-inch tablets running Android 2.1 and up, so YMMV. Grab it at the link below, and if you've just got to get this update as soon as possible, follow @TiVoDesign on Twitter and then email in your service number for the chance of a priority update. [Thanks, @DanJacobsen!]






  		Show full PR text   Multi-room streaming between two broadband-connected TiVo Premiere boxes within the home			TiVo Guide updated in HD			"Program info" updated in HD with a few new features such as access to a "mini guide" by pressing select during a live show			Hulu Plus search integration			Revamped discovery bar disclosing why the content is featured			Clock insertion under the Live TV window 			Software will roll out to all boxes gradually so some may not immediately see these features. 
 