
 

When TiVo announced its first quad tuner DVR, the Premiere Q, fans were devastated to learn it would only be available via cable operators, and that it featured a smallish 500GB hard drive. Fortunately, the company has rectified both of those issues by announcing the TiVo Premiere Elite, a quad tuner Series 4 DVR with 2TB of storage built that will be available through TiVo.com, Best Buy's Magnolia stores and authorized home theater installers. There's no word yet on price or an exact release date, as all of this is still pending a waiver from the FCC allowing TiVo to sell the box without any OTA or analog cable tuners, making this a digital cable (or Verizon FiOS) only experience. It's also THX Certified and most of the press release is dedicated to focusing on the high end nature of the hardware TiVo is unleashing. Also unmentioned so far is any retail edition of the TiVo Preview multiroom extender box, but we should get some hands-on time with this quad tuner edition very shortly during CEDIA 2011. For now, just check out the press release, included after the break, and for our European readers Engadget Spanish has you covered on the launch of the TiVo Premiere for ONO in Spain.

Update: The official TiVo.com/elite page is live, and reveals the price as $499 "with service", $499 additional for a lifetime subscription. [Thanks @PhilipSaad]





 		Show full PR text  TiVo to Unveil TiVo Premiere Elite, the World's Most Advanced Set-Top Box Featuring Unprecedented Recording Capabilities and Entertainment Value 		Four tuners, Two Times More Recording Space and THX Certified DVR Offers Unlimited Entertainment Possibilities for High-end Integrators and Home Theater Enthusiasts 		ALVISO, CALIF., September 7, 2011 – TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced its TiVo® Premiere Elite set-top box, offering four digital tuners and an unprecedented two-terabyte hard drive for unmatched recording capabilities, as well as THX certification for optimal sound and video fidelity. The TiVo Premiere Elite builds upon the Series4 TiVo Premiere platform, the first and only set-top box to seamlessly combine the best of broadband and broadcast entertainment through one stunning HD interface. The TiVo Premiere Elite is intended for use with digital cable systems only and does not work with analog cable or over-the-air antennas. It will be on display and available for demonstration at the TiVo Booth (Booth # 2140) at CEDIA 2011 in Indianapolis September 8-10, 2011. 		The new product is TiVo's first and only DVR with four tuners allowing for simultaneous recording of four different shows while viewing a fifth recorded program. Plus, its industry-leading two-terabyte hard drive allows for up to 300 hours of recorded HD programming, that's two times more recording space than current offerings. The TiVo Premiere Elite maintains TiVo's gold-standard, easy to navigate user interface, integrating Web entertainment from Netflix, Pandora, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video, YouTube, and much more. 		"We are please to announce the TiVo Premiere Elite at this year's CEDIA show as this product was designed specifically for the high-end custom home theater integrator or enthusiast looking to complete their home entertainment system with a best-in-class TV experience. Only TiVo Premiere Elite seamlessly combines digital cable programming with the best of Web entertainment, in full 1080p HD, and with 300 hours of HD recording space," said Doug Bieter, Vice President of Retail Sales for TiVo Inc. "With the added distinction as a THX-certified DVR, the TiVo Premiere Elite offers a high-end solution for premium quality installers looking for an improved way to get the most out of a customer's high definition television and cable subscription." 		Unprecedented Expansion and Integration Capabilities:		TiVo Premiere Elite's quad-tuner design enables users to dramatically vary their program recordings and create a library of personalized entertainment content suitable for any viewer. This flexibility, and the mind-bending 300 hours of HD recording space, ensures that no program has to be deleted for the sake of space. 		Further enhancing the TiVo Premiere Elite's appeal as an all-encompassing entertainment hub is its ability to send content to other TiVo devices in the home, or integrate seamlessly with home automation remotes. TiVo Premiere Elite offers MoCA as a networking option in addition to its integrated Ethernet connectivity. By integrated MoCA support, custom installers can use the coaxial cabling within the home to connect the TiVo Premiere Elite to the home network in setups where an Ethernet connection is not available to the DVR. Home theater installers and custom integrators will also appreciate the TiVo Premiere Elite as an exceptional solution through its compatibility with some of the most popular home automation controllers, including Creston, Control4, and RTI. This compatibility allows installers to seamlessly incorporate the TiVo Premiere Elite into existing home controls. 		Unrivaled Browsing Experience: 		Harnessing the power of the world's first Smart DVR, the TiVo Premiere Elite offers an intuitive search and browsing experience that enables users to quickly and easily search and browse television and broadband programming from a convenient unified screen. When searching for a particular program, TiVo scans across cable channels, on demand services like Netflix and Amazon Instant Video, as well as web-based entertainment sites like YouTube to offer users an easy way to select and schedule recordings. 		The TiVo Premiere Elite is also compatible with the TiVo Slide remote with a QWERTY keyboard as well as TiVo's integrated apps for iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch. The TiVo App brings intuitive remote control operations to the tips of users' fingers with simple gesture-based controls. Users can quickly uncover program guides and information, view, schedule and manage recordings, get recommendations, or even explore an actor's entire career with a single tap. 		First-time installers and high-end integrators will appreciate this level of customization and control, further distinguishing the TiVo Premiere Elite as a premium product for the connected home. Training family members or a client is simple and intuitive, allowing installers to connect with clients on a more personal basis and provide a more thorough level of service.		TiVo Premiere Elite Box Specifications:  			TiVo Series4TM architecture 			Supports digital cable, high-definition digital cable and Verizon FiOS® 			THX-certified DVR, offering optimal video and audio fidelity 			Outputs: HDMI, Component video, Composite video, Optical audio, Analog audio 			Video output modes include: 480i, 480p, 720p, 1080i, 1080p 			Inputs: CableCARDTM, Cable coax, Ethernet 			Additional support for USB 2.0 (2 ports), eSATA for external recording space, TiVo Wireless N or G Network Adapter 			2 Terabytes of recording space for up to 300 hours of recorded programming 	Pending FCC approval of TiVo's request to waive a requirement to include analog tuners, The TiVo Premiere Elite will be available by the end of the year through tivo.com, authorized home theater installers and Magnolia stores nationwide. The TiVo Premiere will be on display at CEDIA 2011 in Indianapolis September 8-10 at Booth # 2140. For more information on the product and to sign up for notifications of availability please visit www.tivo.com/elite.
 