
 

The four-tuner, 2TB hard drive-equipped TiVo Premiere Elite DVR is officially available. It popped up over the weekend on Weaknees and in Best Buy Magnolia stores, and some eager users have already taken them home and dug deep into the hardware and software. Gizmo Lovers points out the $499 box is packing updated software that hints at dual core support and more including Premiere-to-Premiere streaming, as well as 1GB of RAM built-in. If you prefer to get your DVR from your cable company, RCN is also apparently promising the Premiere Q and Preview extender boxes will be available in November. So far the early adopters are reporting increased speed, but we should find out what the new boxes are really capable of when all their features go live today, so stay tuned.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Four-Tuner, Two Terabyte, THX® Certified TiVo® Premiere Elite Now Available 		New Set-Top Box Joins the TiVo Premiere Line and Delivers Unprecedented Offering to High-end Integrators and Home Theater Enthusiasts 		ALVISO, CALIF., Oct. 10, 2011 – TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced the availability of its latest premium offering - the TiVo® Premiere Elite set-top box. Designed for the most discerning home theater enthusiasts, the TiVo Premiere Elite offers four digital tuners and an unprecedented two-terabyte hard drive for unmatched recording capabilities, as well as THX® certification for optimal sound and video fidelity. 		The new product, available today, is TiVo's first and only retail DVR with four tuners allowing for simultaneous recording of four different shows while viewing a fifth recorded program. Plus, its industry-leading two-terabyte hard drive allows for up to 300 hours of recorded HD programming, that's two times more recording space than current offerings. 		"The sheer power and expansive range of capabilities on the TiVo Premiere Elite answer a demand from our high-end and custom-entertainment consumers; it rounds out our range of products to meet the entertainment needs of all consumers, from general entertainment lovers with TiVo Premiere to the home theater enthusiast with the TiVo Premiere Elite," said Doug Bieter, Vice President of Retail Sales for TiVo, Inc. "By making the TiVo Premiere Elite available at Best Buy Magnolia locations and through select home theater installers, we ensure our customers receive the best advice and professional expertise for their home theater or whole-home solution, and will enjoy TiVo's gold standard user experience." 		The TiVo Premiere Elite is intended for use with digital cable systems only and does not work with analog cable or over-the-air antennas. With the added distinction as a THX Certified DVR, the TiVo Premiere Elite offers a high-end solution to get the most out of a customer's high definition television and cable subscription. It maintains TiVo's gold-standard, easy to navigate user interface, integrating Web entertainment from Netflix, Pandora, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video and YouTube, bringing Brilliant TV to life. 		TiVo Premiere Elite Key Specifications:		TiVo Series4TM architecture		Supports digital cable, high-definition digital cable and Verizon FiOS®		THX Certified DVR, offering optimal video and audio fidelity		Outputs: HDMI, Component video, Composite video, Optical audio, Analog audio		Video output modes include: 480i, 480p, 720p, 1080i, 1080p		Inputs: CableCARDTM, Cable coax, Ethernet		Additional support for USB 2.0 (2 ports), eSATA for external recording space, TiVo Wireless N or G Network Adapter		2 Terabytes of recording space for up to 300 hours of recorded programming 		The TiVo Premiere Elite will be available through tivo.com, authorized home theater installers and Magnolia stores nationwide for $499.99 MSRP. To learn more about the product visit www.tivo.com/elite. 		# # #
 