
However good TiVo's new Roamio DVRs may be, not everyone can justify purchasing them -- especially not TV providers that would have to buy in bulk. TiVo could make that experience more accessible with its just-unveiled Network PVR. The service (not yet pictured) puts the Roamio interface in the cloud, letting operators offer similar recording and streaming features though cheaper set-top boxes and mobile devices. Network PVR should also let providers offer perks that aren't possible with locally-stored shows, such as sharing a recording with friends who missed the big season finale. There's no estimated launch time frame for Network PVR, although that's more likely to be dictated by the providers; don't be surprised if it takes a while for the technology to reach viewers.



Show full PR textTiVo Debuts Network PVR
Bringing TiVo(R) Roamio DVR Experience to the Cloud; Network Recordings Seamlessly Integrated, Easily Searchable via the Brilliant TiVo User Interface; Cloud-Based Management, Lower CAPEX and Control a Key Next Step in the IP Transition for Operators
AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Sep 11, 2013) - TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), a global leader in the advanced television entertainment market, today announced that it would debut a prototype of its next generation cloud television offering, which includes new TiVo® features delivered with a Network PVR, during the International Broadcasting Conference 2013 (IBC) in Amsterdam.
The TiVo Network PVR will use TiVo's Emmy Award winning cloud service and is a natural extension of the TiVo solution. This is an important next step for operators as they consider a transition to IP delivered content and utilization of low-cost IP clients and consumer provided devices (tablets, smartphones, etc) with an eye toward enhancing the user experience inside and outside of the home, which is becoming a critical component in the increasingly competitive video market. TiVo's Network PVR extends the TiVo Service and consistent user experience while enabling consumers to easily find, consume and socially share cloud delivered content through the TiVo user interface.
In addition to moving the Roamio experience to the cloud, TiVo would be enabling operators and programmers to manage complex content rights, create multiple tiers of network PVR features, and enable multiscreen policies that accelerate the critical transition to an all IP video world. For instance, operators deploying TiVo network PVR could offer a premium nPVR service with expanded catch-up and save options. The service would also empower programmers to more intelligently target advertising in cloud hosted time-shifted content.
Additionally, TiVo plans to enable new consumer features that enable co-viewing experiences through social networks and recommendations across disparate libraries of content. For example, TiVo's nPVR service would allow a viewer to share a recorded program with an authorized user who missed the show with a few simple clicks of the remote control.
Joshua Danovitz, Vice President, Innovation at TiVo, said, "Operators are becoming more and more focused on the reducing capital expenditure while enhancing subscriber satisfaction across every screen inside and outside the home. TiVo's Network PVR could play an important role in this process as it would bring an experience, which has proven to improve customer satisfaction and operating metrics for global operators, fully to the cloud. This demonstration is a testament to TiVo's commitment to innovations that improve the consumer's ability to access all the content they want, whenever they want it. The natural evolution of the TiVo Service to address network storage is one of the cornerstones of an overall TiVo strategy to deliver an experience that delights the consumer on every screen while driving down pay TV operator costs."

