
It's just over two months since the release of the TiVo Roamio Plus and Pro, and the namesake feature is now available. Beginning today, iOS device users can update their TiVo apps and start streaming live or recorded content from TiVo Roamio Plus or Pro DVRs while connected via WiFi. Users can also instead choose to download recorded shows for offline viewing over WiFi (assuming the content provider's copy protection allows it) whether at home or away, and even start watching while it downloads. Android support and streaming via 4G/LTE is on the schedule next year -- on iOS the minimum supported bandwidth needs more tweaking to meet Apple's maximum bitrate for cellular. Slingbox owners have enjoyed no-strings streaming for years, and others like Monsoon have pushed downloads while TV providers like Comcast and Time Warner offer their own apps; but TiVo's setup promises the most streamlined solution this side of the similar Dish Hopper DVRs. TiVo Premiere and standard Roamio owners with a TiVo Stream attached will have to continue to wait a few more weeks before they too can enjoy this new freedom.



Show full PR textROAM FREE, BABY!
OUT-OF-HOME STREAMING FOR TIVO ROAMIO™ USERS DELIVERS LIVE AND RECORDED CONTENT VIA WI-FI ANYWHERE, ANYTIME

First Set-Top-Box for Cable Subscribers that Enables Out-of-Home Streaming; Makes Cable an Even Better Experience for TV Lovers

SAN JOSE, Calif. – October 24, 2013 – TiVo, Inc., a leader in advanced television services and the creator of digital video recorders (DVRs), announced today the launch of out-of-home streaming on the TiVo Roamio Pro and TiVo Roamio Plus DVRs, letting you stream and download your live TV and recorded content to your smartphones and tablets from anywhere.

"Until now, your shows have been locked up in your set top box at home," said Jim Denney, Vice President of Product Marketing at TiVo. "Now with a TiVo Roamio DVR, whether it's a hotel in Denmark, the waiting room at the dentist office, when you're stuck at the airport, or at the gym, out-of-home streaming gives you the level of choice, control and freedom that consumers have come to expect from TiVo."

TiVo Roamio combines the functionality of a DVR, Apple TV, Roku and Slingbox and even with all of those devices in your entertainment center you still wouldn't have access to everything a Roamio can do for you. Cable provides a phenomenal experience and TiVo Roamio makes it even better by extending it anywhere and making it stickier benefiting both cable subscribers and operators.

While doing what other cable set-top-boxes don't do: combine all the best of linear TV with all the best over-the-top content, TV lovers now have the ability to roam free and both control and consume from out of the home through a mobile device. The new TiVo mobile experience includes full mobility and control:

• Out-of-home & in-home streaming: watch your live or recorded shows remotely anywhere you have Wi-Fi• Out-of-home and in-home downloading: download your content to enjoy anywhere so that low bandwidth or lack of a Wi-Fi connection never slows you down• What to Watch Now: no matter where you are, TiVo's second screen dashboard provides instantaneous personalized recommendations the second you pull up your TiVo app• Remote scheduling: view the programming guide, manage recordings or set a Season Pass any time – no matter where you are• Mobile Search & discovery: figure out what's on whether you're in the office or a hotel and enjoy the same browsing tools you have with your TiVo at home (including the TiVo editorial Collections and show, cast and actor information)

"The TiVo Roamio has reset the bar for what a DVR can do," said Colin Dixon, Chief Analyst and Founder of nScreenMedia. "Making all that functionality and content available anywhere will allow users to get more value from the content they already pay for, cementing TiVo as the market-leading personal TV solution."

The TiVo Roamio DVR Series includes three models: TiVo Roamio ($199.99), TiVo Roamio Plus ($399.99) and TiVo Roamio Pro ($599.99). Roamio features four or six tuners and unprecedented storage (ranging from 75 hours to 450 hours of HD content) ensuring you will never miss a show again and have plenty of space for all the shows and movies you need at your fingertips.

All subscribers with a TiVo Roamio Pro and TiVo Roamio Plus will automatically receive the out-of-home streaming feature via an automatic software and mobile app update starting today. Base-model TiVo Roamio requires separate TiVo Stream to enable out-of-home streaming (and support for out-of-home streaming for existing users with a TiVo Stream is scheduled for next month). Support for streaming over 4G/LTE and to Android devices is scheduled for 2014.

Out-of-home streaming requires an Apple iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch device running iOS 5.1 or higher, and only supports streaming to one of your mobile devices at a time. Due to the copy protection assigned by the content provider, not all content can be downloaded to your mobile device for offline viewing, and not all content can be streamed when you are away from your local network. Visit tivo.com for additional terms and restrictions that apply.


