
 
In the world of consumer electronics we have come very accustomed to seeing evolutionary instead of revolutionary changes. This can make it very hard to discern what's new, so when we received the latest news from TiVo, we really had to read it carefully. After a very thorough analysis we've determined that there really isn't that much new about the new TiVo Search. In fact the only thing we can tell is different from the older Swivel search is the cool new look and the focus on HD -- which is welcomed. But now that we've got an official glimpse of this new image rich UI, we wish TiVo would completely replaced the entire UI, something TiVo persists it isn't ready to do. Another picture and a full release after the break.

 

TIVO TRANSFORMS THE TV WORLD ONCE AGAIN BY OFFERING A NEW WAY TO SEARCH& DISCOVER CONTENTIntroduction of New TiVo Search Means Channel Surfing is a Now Thing ofthe PastFind What You've Been MissingLAS VEGAS, NV. January 7, 2009 -TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator ofand a leader in television services for digital video recorders (DVRs),today showed the future of television, unveiling a redesigned TiVoSearch feature that offers improved search results with a completely newHigh Definition design, all at no additional charge. TiVo Search bringsusers the power of choice, offering millions of pieces of content notavailable via cable or satellite, along with thousands of linear TVchoices. Delivered via broadband, TiVo Search combines a graphics richexperience with simplicity and relevancy that makes it a trulyrevolutionary way to get more out of your TV."What Google did for the Internet, TiVo is now doing for the TV,bringing people a combination of excellent search results and innovativediscovery that can't be found anywhere else," said Tom Rogers, CEO andPresident of TiVo Inc. "TiVo has always been known as the best way towatch what you want, when you want it. Now we're taking that to a newlevel, using TiVo technology to find just the right program fromhundreds of channels and thousands of broadband options, all in seconds.It is clear TiVo is leading the way in providing more choice, and alsoleading the way in finding content quickly. TiVo Search is a new way tofind what you've been missing."TiVo Search takes advantage of extra screen size afforded by highdefinition televisions by showing more details about a highlightedprogram than ever before, eliminating the need to dig down into each andevery program to learn what it is about. It ensures the most importantinformation is surfaced right up to the screen you're already on,equaling less navigation and quick, accurate results."One of the best things about the new TiVo Search feature is how itworks as a discovery engine, helping users find content they didn't evenknow they could get," said Jim Denney, Vice President of ProductMarketing at TiVo Inc. "We've added a new discovery bar that gives aquick guide to relevant content, and the search experience incorporatescontent from broadband sources like Amazon Video on Demand and YouTube.The newly tuned search engine also displays the most popular searchresults of the day automatically, even when typing only a single letter.Searches work not with just the first word of a title, but any word ofthe program, which is especially handy when looking for programs withspecific search words."The new interface not only displays in high definition, it has a focuson finding high definition television content. TiVo searchautomatically recommends high definition television channels andepisodes when users schedule a program to record. Additionally, userscan now browse shows season by season and select any episode they wantutilizing a robust episode guide. Depending on availability users mayrecord content from cable/antenna, download it from Amazon Video onDemand, or use WishList searches to record it the next time the contentis broadcast.Seeing equals believing, and the new TiVo Search is no exception.Starting today broadband connected TiVo Series3, TiVo HD, and HD XLsubscribers can experience a beta version of the feature on their TiVoDVR, which can be found under Music, Photos, and Showcases. For anonline preview and to provide your comments and feedback on this newsearch tool to TiVo visit www.tivo.com/tivosearch.TiVo Search will be on display at the TiVo Inc Booth at the ConsumerElectronics Tradeshow, Room N202 running January 8th - 11th.

       

 