
 




We got our chance to have a littleprivate time with TiVo'snew 80-hour dual-tuner Series2 (TCD649080) last week. There isn't a whole lot we can tell you about the unit thatyou didn't already know (dual analog tuners, single digital, no CableCARD, no high def, integrated Ethernet, etc.). Inother words, for those expecting something to ease the pain of the absentee Series3 box, you'll probably want to look elsewhere for somethingto meet your needs, perhaps a Media Center PC. But if you have analog cable and were thinking about snagging a TiVo,you might want to take a second look.

 

As you can plainly see, this TiVo boxdoesn't look much different from any other TiVo box. In fact, aside from some slight aesthetic tweaks and theever-so-slight rear port switchup, everything here is standard issue -- including the remote and 7.2 software release.So yeah, the dual tuners are pretty much the only functional difference once you get the thing booted. TiVo is prettyup front about what it can tune and how: one cable box, max. Which means if your cable company only offers digitalcable (like ours), you'll only be able to use a single tuner with that single cable box. If you want to record anything else you'll have to set up an old school antenna and tune in viaRF. (TiVo called to let us know this thing won't tune RF -- yick.) If you have digital and analog on the sameline, you should be fine recording digital and basic cable simultaneously -- but we don't have that. Luckily wehappened to be on the road while reviewing this device, which allowed us to test the two tuners with analog cable. Weunderstand that some people can tune basic and digital simultaneously -- if so, this box still works out well for youif you, as long as you're not trying to get around scheduling conflicts on digital cable.TiVo seemed to know this whole dualanalog tuner thing might be a point of contention with their customers, who might be looking to tune two shows at onceand don't have (or want) analog cable. TiVo addressed the matter at hand by justifying the design decision in theirpress materials. Besides stating that adding dual digital cable tuners would carry a "large cost," TiVoperceived such a system's benefits to be small. Sez they, "For digital cable subscribers, we believe that inactual use, not being able to record shows from two digital cable channels at once is less of a limitation than itmight seem. Many shows on digital cable channels are repeated several times during the week, so if the user cannotrecord a show on a digital cable channel due to a conflict with a show on another digital cable channel, she will oftenhave the opportunity to record a future re-airing of the show." That's about as weak an excuse not to include afunctionality we can possibly think of. Expanded digital cable channel rerun schedules aren't much different from basiccable's; that argument could be used to justify why all other TiVos to date never had more than one tuner, and actuallyargues against any reason one might have to want a box with dual analog tuners. But hey, the box is what it is: a dualanalog tuner TiVo, love it or leave it. We thought it was pretty good.Integrated Ethernet in2006. Welcome to the future.Basically, so far as we could tell, everythingwas in its place with the Series2 DT. TiVo ToGo and all the multimedia functions were still right where they weresupposed to be, the options were the same, everything felt right at home. This, of course, had to do with the fact thatas we mentioned, this device is a standard software release 7.2 TiVo. There were two working differences, so far as wecould tell. First: when in the on-screen program info popup, there's now a new icon (see above), which you can use tosee what's up with the second tuner. Second: pressing the live TV button while watching live TV now switches betweentuners instantly. Seriously that's it, that's all that separates this from a regular TiVo box. For the TiVouninitiated, new users might not even realize that this device was special.So what'd we think? Well, itworked exactly as advertised, and that second tuner was totally seamless. So the question isn't how good was theSeries2 DT -- it's really no better than any other TiVo on the market right now, this isn't like a tossup between aSeries2 and a Series3 or Media Center PC. The question you is: how much is that second tuner worth to you? After $150rebate and service activation, is $199.99 for the 180-hour, or $99.99 for the 80-hour too much? Well, if you didn't have dual tuners (or two TiVos), you'd never be able to record Everybody Loves Raymondreruns at the same time as getting your Judy fix.Then again, all TiVos still excel at what theywere originally invented to do: pause live TV so as to capture awkward facial positions.

       

 