
 

A magazine ad revealed it was on the way, and today TiVo came through by releasing a version of its remote app for the iPhone and iPod Touch. v1.5 does more than just get the existing iPad interface ready for smaller screens, it also increases compatibility by adding "limited compatibility" (search, browse and schedule recordings, plus the virtual remote) with older TiVo Series3, TiVo HD and TiVo HD XL DVRs, as well as TiVo Premieres supplied by cable providers RCN and Suddenlink. Still waiting in the wings is the promised Android version -- unless you're in the UK. Check out the press release after the break or just click the iTunes link below and give it a download yourself, especially since even the TiVo-less can browse its wares thanks to a new guest mode.

[Thanks, @BrennokBob & Larry]
      

 

 		Show full PR text  TiVo App for iPhone and iPod touch Offers Users a Pocket-Sized TiVo Companion 		"Guest Mode" Allows Non TiVo Users a Unique TiVo Experience 		ALVISO, CA -- (Marketwire) -- 07/12/2011 -- TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and a leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced its TiVo® App is now available for iPhone and iPod touch. The TiVo App allows users to search, browse, explore and share comments about their favorite programs all without interrupting the programming currently playing on their TiVo box. Whether replacing the remote as a handheld digital console from the command of the couch or as an on-the-go show scheduler, the free TiVo App enhances the look and feel that TiVo users have come to know and love. 		TiVo combines the best of broadcast content and access to the world's largest on demand library from services like Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video, YouTube, Pandora and more. Whether TiVo users prefer on demand movies, web content or live TV, the TiVo App enhances the overall TiVo experience. 		Based on TiVo's signature TV experience, the TiVo App also brings intuitive remote control operations to the tips of users' fingers with simple gesture-based controls. Users can quickly uncover program guides and information, view, schedule and manage recordings, get recommendations, or even explore an actor's entire career with a single tap. The high-resolution screen and Retina Display of iPhone and iPod touch make viewing the onscreen navigation simple and easy. Since the controls are built right into the app, TiVo lovers never need to worry about losing the remote control to their entertainment universe. 		Features of the TiVo App include: 		NEW! Guest Mode -- Even if you don't currently have a TiVo DVR, you can still sample the TiVo experience through the new Guest Mode. Users can browse, search and scroll through program and channel guides and experience the simplicity of the TiVo interface.		NEW! TiVo Series3™ Support* -- Now users who have TiVo Series3™, HD and HD XL DVRs can also download the app to browse, search and schedule recordings as well as make use of the reinvention of the TiVo remote.		Gesture-based controls -- Take complete control of all recordings, even move forward and backward through a show with a simple tap or swipe.		Program Guide -- Browse your full-screen TV program guide without interrupting TV viewing.		Schedule -- Schedule one-time recordings and Season Pass® recordings from the device at home or on-the-go.		Get more from your shows and movies -- Explore cast and crew and other recommendations of your favorite shows without interrupting the big screen.		Search -- Search for all of your favorite TV shows, movies, actors or directors across both broadcast and broadband from Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video, and more.		Share comments with your friends -- From within the TiVo App, comment and share your thoughts on your favorite programming on Facebook or Twitter.		"As the maker of the world's first and only smart DVR, offering a brilliant TV experience, the TiVo App is an extension of TiVo's best-in-class user experience to iPhone and iPod touch users. By integrating these devices, the TiVo experience never leaves a users' side, allowing them a new way to access and interact with their TiVo DVR," said Jim Denney, vice president and general manager of product marketing for TiVo. "The new Guest Mode feature is an important addition, as even non-TiVo users have the opportunity to navigate and interact with TiVo's hallmark service and see what they've been missing." 		The TiVo App is available for free from the App Store on iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, or at www.itunes.com/appstore. 		The TiVo App for iPhone supports all high definition TiVo DVRs, including TiVo Premiere, Premiere XL, Series3™, HD and HD XL.* A valid TiVo user account is required for full functionality. 		For more information, please visit www.tivo.com/iphone. 		* TiVo Series3™, HD and HD XL DVR users will enjoy the app's guide, scheduling, remote control, search and explore features, but these users should anticipate a smaller set of features and capabilities than TiVo Premiere users. 		About TiVo Inc.		Founded in 1997, TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO) developed the first commercially available digital video recorder (DVR). TiVo offers the TiVo service and TiVo DVRs directly to consumers online at www.TiVo.com and through third-party retailers. TiVo also distributes its technology and services through solutions tailored for cable, satellite and broadcasting companies. Since its founding, TiVo has evolved into the ultimate single solution media center by combining its patented DVR technologies and universal cable box capabilities with the ability to aggregate, search, and deliver millions of pieces of broadband, cable, and broadcast content directly to the television. An economical, one-stop-shop for in-home entertainment, TiVo's intuitive functionality and ease of use puts viewers in control by enabling them to effortlessly navigate the best digital entertainment content available through one box, with one remote, and one user interface, delivering the most dynamic user experience on the market today. TiVo also continues to weave itself into the fabric of the media industry by providing interactive advertising solutions and audience research and measurement ratings services to the television industry www.TiVo.com 		TiVo, TiVo Logo, Series3, and Season Pass are trademarks or registered trademarks of TiVo Inc. or its subsidiaries worldwide. ©2011 TiVo Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 