
 

The new "whole home solution" from TiVo consisting of the four tuner Premiere Q DVR and Preview extender is finally available for the first time, from RCN. The initial rollout is taking place in the Washington D.C. area, marketed as the Whole Home Bundle consisting of one Premiere Q and one Preview for $29.99 monthly. Additional Preview extenders, which lack tuners and hard drives entirely, can be added for $9.99 per month. While DVR features like pausing live TV aren't currently available, Gizmo Lovers points out a DSLReports post by an RCN rep indicating that early next year it will gain the ability to start recordings on the Q remotely, so users can press record, then pause, rewind, or fast forward freely. The Preview box still has yet to hit retail, but those who need four tuners in their TiVo can always pick up the Premiere Elite which features a bigger hard drive than the Q. A press release with all the details is after the break, or you can check the forum post for more Q&A.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  RCN Deploys TiVo's Ultimate Whole Home Solution in Washington D.C.		TiVo Premiere Q DVR Provides High-Definition Viewing Experience Seamlessly Blending TV, RCN On Demand and Internet Content, Four Recording Tuners, and Even More Recording Space; First Deployment of Non-DVR HD Set-Top Box, TiVo Preview Gives Subscribers the Ultimate in Entertainment Possibilities Throughout the Home 		PRINCETON, NJ and ALVISO, CA, Nov 08, 2011 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) -- 		RCN Telecom Services, LLC, a leading provider of all-digital and high definition video, high-speed internet, and premium voice services, and TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), the creator of and a leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced the launch of RCN's whole home solution powered by TiVo to RCN customers in Washington D.C. The RCN whole home solution includes the Premiere Q four-tuner gateway DVR and TiVo Preview HD set-top box. With this deployment, RCN becomes the first operator in the country to offer TiVo's whole home solution, marketed as the TiVo Whole Home Bundle from RCN. These products join TiVo Premiere, which RCN has been offering since May 2010. 		With its four tuners, TiVo Premiere Q enables RCN customers to record four shows while watching a fifth recorded program and allows up to 75 hours of recorded HD programming for optimal recording capabilities. Importantly, this offering is built off TiVo's high-definition user interface, allowing RCN subscribers to enjoy traditional television, RCN On Demand and great online services such as Pandora Internet Radio all packaged in a beautiful, easy-to-navigate experience. 		In addition, the TiVo Preview HD set-top box is a small, quiet device perfect for the bedroom and an excellent complement to the TiVo Premiere Q. With the TiVo Preview, customers can stream any recording from the TiVo Premiere Q DVR to multiple rooms in the house over the home network, watch live TV, access RCN On Demand or even use Internet-delivered services like sharing photos or music and all using the same TiVo HD user interface. 		Jamie Hill, General Manager for RCN Washington D.C., said, "Since our initial deployment of TiVo, we've seen higher customer satisfaction, lower churn and increased video on demand usage in homes with TiVo Premiere. The TiVo Whole Home Bundle from RCN now allows our customers to take even more control of their TV-watching experience and entertainment. And the whole family can watch what they want to watch when they want to watch it, together in one room or simultaneously in separate rooms. It is abundantly clear that TiVo understands the future of television and offers up solutions that benefit both consumers as well as cable and broadband operators like RCN." 		David Sandford, Vice President, General Manager of TiVo's service provider business, said, "We've seen significant demand in the cable industry for a whole home solution like this and we are pleased that RCN is now expanding its suite of TiVo offerings to become the first operator to deploy TiVo's whole home solution with TiVo Premiere Q and TiVo Preview. In a short period of time, we've seen excellent reception for TiVo Premiere from RCN. This is a testament to the TiVo experience and its ability to increase subscriber loyalty and reduce churn for the operator. We look forward to continuing our work with RCN to expand their advanced television offerings." 		TiVo Premiere Q and TiVo Preview are both available today to subscribers in Washington D.C. with other markets to follow. 		About RCN RCN Telecom Services, LLC (www.rcn.com) is a privately-held competitive broadband services provider delivering all-digital and high-definition video, high-speed internet and premium phone services to residential and small-medium business customers. RCN's primary service areas include Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Lehigh Valley (PA), New York City, Boston and Chicago. 		About TiVo Inc. Founded in 1997, TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO) developed the first commercially available digital video recorder (DVR). TiVo offers the TiVo service and TiVo DVRs directly to consumers online at www.tivo.com and through third-party retailers. TiVo also distributes its technology and services through solutions tailored for cable, satellite and broadcasting companies. Since its founding, TiVo has evolved into the ultimate single solution media center by combining its patented DVR technologies and universal cable box capabilities with the ability to aggregate, search, and deliver millions of pieces of broadband, cable, and broadcast content directly to the television. An economical, one-stop-shop for in-home entertainment, TiVo's intuitive functionality and ease of use puts viewers in control by enabling them to effortlessly navigate the best digital entertainment content available through one box, with one remote, and one user interface, delivering the most dynamic user experience on the market today. TiVo also continues to weave itself into the fabric of the media industry by providing interactive advertising solutions and audience research and measurement ratings services to the television industry. www.tivo.com 		TiVo and the TiVo Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of TiVo Inc. or its subsidiaries worldwide. Copyright 2011 TiVo Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 		This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, future introduction of whole home solution, including TiVo Premiere Q and TiVo Preview products with RCN and other service providers in the future and the expected benefits of TiVo products including increased subscriber satisfaction, lower subscriber churn and higher video on demand usage. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as, "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "intend," "estimate," "continue," or similar expressions or the negative of those terms or expressions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include delays in development, competitive service offerings and lack of market acceptance, as well as the other potential factors described under "Risk Factors" in the Company's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 as amended, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2011, and Current Reports on Form 8-K. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect an analysis only and speak only as of the date hereof. TiVo disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 		SOURCE: TiVo
 