
 
TiVo Premiere users won't have to be jealous of Comcast's Xfinity TV remote for very long -- soon enough, they'll have an DVR-scheduling, content-searching, program-pushing iPad app of their own. Called the TiVo Premiere App, it'll feature a full touchscreen TV programming guide, playback controls, and the ability to search Netflix and Amazon on Demand for shows when it arrives "in the coming weeks." There's also basic social network sharing via Facebook and Twitter, and if that "Livingroom TiVo" drop-down menu is any indication, the ability to control multiple TiVo boxes from a single tablet. Also, the search box and remote icons in the upper-right hand corner that suggests that TiVo's integrated the iPad keyboard and some virtual buttons too, so maybe you'll be able to exercise control over the entire experience without diving into your couch (or your pocketbook) for a TiVo Slide Remote. One can only hope. No word on smartphone versions, though. PR and another shot of the interface right after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTiVo Announces Companion App for iPadApp Combined with iPad Creates the World's Ultimate Remote ControlALVISO, CA, November 22, 2010 – TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), a leader in advanced television services, including digital video recorders (DVRs), today announced a powerful new TiVo app for the iPad. The app will be available for free from the Apple iTunes App store in the coming weeks. The TiVo® Premiere App enables you to search, browse, explore and share your favorite entertainment all without interrupting whatever is playing on your TV. Since the app works in tandem with what you are watching, iPad is now the ultimate remote control and companion device for TiVo Premiere users.By bringing its best in class high-definition user interface to iPad, TiVo has created a true two-screen TV experience. TiVo Premiere users will get access to a full set of TiVo capabilities on iPad, providing a richer TV viewing experience for both live TV and Internet video while kicking back on the sofa. Plus, users will also be able to schedule and manage their DVR recordings while on-the-go.The TiVo Premiere App for iPad includes:·Gesture based control - Take complete control of all recordings, even dragging forward and back through a show with a simple tap or swipe·Start watching what you want - Launch a recorded show, live TV or streaming video with the swipe of a finger·Program guide - Browse your full-screen TV program guide without interrupting TV viewing·Schedule - Schedule one-time recordings and Season Pass recordings from the device at home or on-the-go·Get more from your shows and movies - Explore cast and crew and other recommendations of your favorite shows without interrupting the big screen·Search - Search for all of your favorite TV shows, movies, actors or directors across both broadcast and broadband from Netflix, Amazon Video On Demand, and more·Share comments with your friends - From within the TiVo Premiere App, comment and share your thoughts to Facebook or Twitter about the show you are currently watching"We're bringing TiVo's innovative user interface from the TV directly to your fingertips, taking your TV viewing experience to a whole new level," said Jim Denney, vice president and general manager of product marketing for TiVo. "The new TiVo Premiere App takes our best in class user-interface and brings it to iPad's stunning, high-resolution display and innovative Multi Touch interface. There's no better example of TiVo's passion for innovation and focus on ease-of-use than the TiVo Premiere App for iPad, and no better reason to give the gift of TiVo this year."The TiVo Premiere App will be available for free from the App Store on iPad or at www.itunes.com/appstore/. Users must have a TiVo Premiere or TiVo Premiere XL box and an existing account with TiVo.To learn more about the app visit www.tivo.com/ipadThe Perfect Holiday GiftHoliday pricing for TiVo Premiere and TiVo Premiere XL boxes makes it even easier to give the one gift that will keep on giving the best of TV, movies, Web and music all year long. For a limited time, TiVo Premiere is available for $99.99 with a one-year commitment of $19.99 per month – a $200 upfront savings.* TiVo Premiere XL is available for $299.99 with a one-year commitment at $19.99 per month.***Compared to TiVo Premiere $299 MSRP. **Promotional offers for TiVo Premiere and Premiere XL expire December 31, 2010. See www.tivo.com for offer details, terms and conditions.
 