
  The new TiVo Premiere featuring an upgraded 500GB hard drive (65 percent more hours of HD storage than the old 320GB unit) that we spotted this morning is official, and will start shipping March 25th -- but that's not it. As we also noted, it only requires a one year service agreement at $14.99 per month or $12.99 for users with multiple boxes, which is cheaper than last year's $19.99 / month package (Lifetime Service is still available as well). If you need more hard drive space, THX Certification or more tuners then you're also in luck, as price cuts are in order for the 1TB Premiere XL (down $50 to $249) and the 2TB Elite models (down $100 to $399). The new pricing should let multi-TiVo homes compete even better with cable company DVR offerings, and once the new multiroom boxes arrive this summer things should only get better. Stake out various online retailers or your local Best Buy to snag one or three on Sunday, but until then check out the press release after the break for all of the numbers.
      

 

  Show full PR text  TiVo Offers New 500 GB TiVo Premiere  Expanded TiVo Premiere Model with Upgraded Memory Records up to 75 Hours of HD Entertainment  Accompanies New Monthly Service Pricing for All TiVo Premiere DVR Models  ALVISO, Calif. (March 25, 2012) – TiVo Inc., the creator of and a leader in advanced television services including digital video recorders (DVRs), announced the launch of its new entry-level TiVo Premiere DVR which records up to 75 hours of HD content giving customers 65% more recording space than its previous version. Beginning Sunday, March 25, the upgraded memory version of TiVo Premiere is available for purchase on tivo.com or from your local Best Buy store.  With the introduction of this expanded model, TiVo has updated its pricing structure across all TiVo products giving customers easier access to even higher recording capabilities. The TiVo Premiere product line is the following:  TiVo Premiere $149.99: Records two shows at once and up to 75 hours of HD content TiVo Premiere XL $249.99 (reduced $50): Records two shows at once and up to 150 hours of HD content TiVo Premiere Elite $399.99 (reduced $100): Records four shows at once and up to 300 hours of HD content "We now live in a world where HD entertainment is the standard and there is more demand than ever to provide customers with additional recording space," said Doug Bieter, Vice President of Retail Sales for TiVo, Inc. "By enhancing the TiVo Premiere, we've also responded to customers' requests for upgraded memory and introduced a new TiVo monthly service fee structure that is highly competitive with most cable DVR pricing. It is now easier than ever to get the greatest at-home entertainment experience available on the market today." TiVo has introduced new monthly pricing for all TiVo Premiere DVRs: The TiVo monthly service fee is now $14.99 per month, with a one-year commitment, making it lower on a monthly basis than most cable offerings Multi-service discount pricing is now $12.99 per month  For customers wanting to pay once for the lifetime of the DVR, product lifetime service is still available for $499.99 and at a discounted price of $399.99 for customers with multiple TiVo DVRs.  TiVo's award-winning user interface offers a unique combination of TV, web and on demand content, paired with top-of-the-line recording capabilities and the many great features users have grown to love. With TiVo Premiere, Premiere XL, and Premiere Elite, users have access to the world's largest on demand library from services like Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video, YouTube, Pandora and more.  The 500 GB TiVo Premiere TiVo can be purchased nationwide at retail stores like Best Buy or directly from TiVo by calling 1-877-BUY-TIVO (1-877-289-8486) or visiting www.tivo.com.  # # #  * There will be no pricing change for non-Premiere legacy boxes; monthly service now costs $12.95/month ($9.95/month for multi-service discount pricing). Product Lifetime Service remains the same: $499.99 - $399.99 multi-service discount pricing for additional units.
 