
  Just one month shy of a year after we first heard it would happen (not counting the icon flub during the original Premiere announcement) TiVo has announced its DVRs will be able to access Comcast's Xfinity On Demand library. The blog and product page feature several screenshots flashing the Xfinity VOD icon and showing off the TiVo Premiere UI's universal search pulling from Comcast's library alongside other sources like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu Plus. Until now, switching to third party DVRs exclusively meant largely foregoing access to Comcast's VOD, but with this customers who dig the TiVo experience can switch without making compromises. Naturally, to make use of this customers will need to be Comcast TV subscribers, although we hear the video will be delivered via QAM just like on cable company owned boxes instead of IP, which might provide higher video quality than the Xbox 360's recently launched app. The update will be made available to customers in the San Francisco Bay Area to start, delivered "today and over the next few weeks" -- no word yet when we'll see this roll out elsewhere.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Additional Information About XFINITY On Demand From Comcast Now Available To San Francisco Bay Area TiVo Customers   · The offering brings unprecedented entertainment options to consumers by offering traditional TV content, an ever-growing amount of web entertainment and XFINITY's massive video on demand library all together through the award-winning TiVo service.   · TiVo Premiere subscribers in additional markets across the country are expected to have access to the XFINITY On Demand library in the coming months. Visit www.tivo.com/comcast to learn more or to sign up for notifications when XFINITY On Demand becomes available on TiVo Premiere in additional areas.   · TiVo Premiere can be purchased from Best Buy or direct from TiVo by calling 1-877-BUY-TIVO (1-877-289-8486) or visiting www.tivo.com.   · In addition to the TiVo service, TiVo users will continue to pay a separate monthly bill for Comcast services. To get Xfinity On Demand a TiVo Premiere DVR is required along with Xfinity TV with access to On Demand.  Available Quote for Use   · "TiVo Premiere has always offered the best of Xfinity TV channels with the most popular web services, and we are excited to now integrate the Xfinity On Demand library for San Francisco subscribers, delivering a true one-stop shop for at-home entertainment," said Doug Bieter, Vice President of Retail Sales for TiVo, Inc. "We are pleased that TiVo Premiere users in the Bay Area will be the first market in the country to experience this great Xfinity On Demand content and we look forward to additional markets in the near future." 
