
 So, what's a company to do when turning the big one-oh? The same thing that it always has, of course! Tivoli Audio's classic styling has somehow found its way back around again on the 10th anniversary Model 10 AM/FM clock radio, a highly compact music maker with a 7.8-inch cabinet, a pair of independent alarms (which can be set to music or a tone), inbuilt LCD and a menu screen with an adjustable backlight. As you'd expect, the pizazz is coming mostly in the form of exterior color options, with "furniture grade wood" being offered in walnut, cherry, blue, black and red. For the true historians, a Celebration Collection is available in light and dark aluminum wood finishes, with the Superior Collection adding a high gloss Frost White and Chesnut Brown (along with the 'Lines' pattern shown here). The auxiliary input allows pretty much any source to be connected, with all functions dictated by a single top-mounted rotary control or a bundled remote. As for pricing? They're going for $199.99 to $379.99, or precisely 19.2 times more than you ever expected.
      

 

Show full PR textTIVOLI AUDIO'S MODEL 10 DUAL ALARM CLOCK RADIO CELEBRATES TIVOLI'S 10TH ANNIVERSARYIn honor of their 10th anniversary, Tivoli Audio's newest radio is the Model 10 am/fm Clock Radio. The Model 10 delivers a rich, high fidelity sound in a compact 7.8" cabinet, features two independent alarms (which can be set to music or a tone), with sleep timers and snooze control, an easy to read LCD digital clock and a menu screen with an adjustable backlight. The Model 10 is available in several colors and finishes of furniture grade wood. The Contemporary Collection comes in Walnut, Cherry, Ocean Blue, Midnight Black and Carmine Red. The commemorative Celebration Collection is available in light and dark aluminum wood finishes. The Superior Collection features high gloss Frost White and Chestnut Brown finishes and a Lines patterned design. The Model 10 is expandable with input for a CD Player, iPhone, iPod or other MP3 players, as well as a mix audio input and record, headphone and subwoofer outputs. All functions are accessed by a single top-mounted rotary control or with a full function remote control. Matching companion speakers are available to create a stereo system. The Contemporary Collection and Celebration Edition sell for $199.99 (with stereo $299.99) and the Designer Collection sells for $249.99 (with stereo $379.99).
 