
 Look out, Google Maps Navigation -- here comes a little friendly competition from across the pond. While we'd heard the term HTC Locations bandied about a bit during the company's London launch of the Desire HD, now it looks as if both HTC and TomTom are ready to make their newfound friendship official. TomTom will be partnering with HTC in order to provide maps for phones loaded with HTC Locations, which is hailed as a new mapping system that results in a "zero-wait navigation experience." Initially, at least, it'll only be available on the new HTC Desire HD and HTC Desire Z smartphones in Europe and Asia, but the outfit promises to extend that to a wide variety of future phones and geographies. It should be noted, however, that while map and location content come preloaded on HTC Locations, turn-by-turn by guidance has to be purchased separately.
      

 

Show full PR text TomTom and HTC Unite to Deliver Best of Class Location and Navigation Experience on the PhoneAMSTERDAM & TAOYUAN, Taiwan--(BUSINESS WIRE)--TomTom, the world's leading provider of location and navigation solutions, and HTC Corporation, a global designer of smartphones, today announced they are combining strengths to deliver superb navigation and location solutions on HTC smartphones."This partnership with TomTom underlines HTC's commitment to giving our customers an innovative navigation experience that is natural and provides unique enhancements for common navigation needs"HTC Locations, HTC's new mapping experience, comes preloaded with TomTom's location-rich maps, resulting in a zero-wait navigation experience. HTC Locations is initially available on the new HTC Desire HD and HTC Desire Z smartphones in Europe and Asia and will be extended to a wide variety of future smartphones and geographies."I am very pleased to be providing HTC customers with TomTom's accurate location and navigation content on their phones wherever they are. The beauty of it is that the maps are preloaded and instantly available at users' fingertips. For the first time, this makes the power of TomTom navigation content available 'in-pocket' for HTC smartphone users", says Maarten van Gool, Managing Director of TomTom Licensing."This partnership with TomTom underlines HTC's commitment to giving our customers an innovative navigation experience that is natural and provides unique enhancements for common navigation needs," said John Wang, Chief Marketing Officer, HTC Corporation. "HTC and TomTom have worked closely to optimize these amazing capabilities on HTC smartphones through our new HTC Locations application."Maps and location content come preloaded on HTC Locations while turn-by-turn navigation can be purchased and downloaded through HTC Locations or HTC Sync.
 