
 
 TomTom is busting out a pair of new smartphone cradles to ensure your handset sits snugly on the windshield of your whip. The Hands Free Car Kit is available in both iPhone or microUSB (for all other smartphones) versions and comes with a built-in two watt speaker, extendable microphone and fast charging. Both editions are available for £80 ($125), while an iPhone-specific bundle that comes with the company's navigation app will set you back £130 ($204).



 
  
 
    Show full PR text   TomTom Launches New Hands-Free Car Kit for Smartphones
  London, 31 July 2012 – TomTom today launches the TomTom Hands Free Car Kit for smartphones with the highest quality audio for loud, clear hands-free calling and navigation. The new Car Kit features an advanced noise and echocancellation system, which dramatically reduces background noise for the caller and removes ambient noise for the driver.

   New mounting options make smartphone use on the move safer and more convenient. The newly designed Car Kit has an adjustable grip to fit any smartphone with or without its cover. An extendable microphone can be clipped to the sun visor to ensure conversations are louder and clearer.

   "The new Car Kit has been designed for safety and convenience," said Corinne Vigreux, Managing Director at TomTom. "With fantastic audio quality and new mounting options, we are making it easier and safer for drivers to make calls and use navigation applications on the move. With advanced new features, our aim is to help drivers keep their hands on the wheel and their eyes on the road."

   The TomTom Hands Free Car Kit comes in two versions to support iPhone and micro USB compatible smartphones such as Android phones. Two iPhones and/or smartphones can automatically pair simultaneously. When connected via Bluetooth®, voice recognition functionality can be activated - enabling drivers to navigate and dial without taking their hands off the wheel.

   Pricing and Availability

   The TomTom Hands-Free Car Kit for iPhone or Smartphone is available in selected retail stores and from www.tomtom.com\smartphone priced £79.95.  The TomTom Hands-Free Car Kit for iPhone with Western EU navigation app is priced at £129.95

  
