
 
We reckon this whole "new Pacemaker" thing is becoming an annual occurrence for Tonium, as it has just introduced a revamped Pacemaker DJ system nearly a year to the day after we toyed with its prior iteration. The new flavor sports a "completely reworked" user interface, one that's supposedly user-friendly and "extremely intuitive" for the first-timers. Additionally, Tonium engineers have added in auto beat match for seamless track blending along with a 60GB hard drive that should store around 15,000 tracks. No price is mentioned, but it ought to be on store shelves across the US this Spring. Check the full release just after the break.
      

 

Tonium's New Pacemaker Makes DJing Accessible to Everyone  Stockholm, Sweden – January 6, 2009 – Today, Tonium announced a new Pacemaker that will truly bring DJing to the masses and right into the hands of the next DJ generation.  The Pacemaker DJ system is a musical sketchpad that fosters unprecedented creativity and expression. No other device will let you mix tracks on the train to work, mash up albums at a backyard barbeque or experiment with soundscapes on a secluded beach. Tonium's new Pacemaker is intended to further this concept by making DJing possible for everyone.  The new Pacemaker's user interface has been completely reworked. The result is a user-friendly, extremely intuitive interface that gives first-time users the ability to instantly DJ when they first take the device out of the box. In terms of features, Tonium's engineers have given the new Pacemaker auto beat match, allowing novice DJs to seamlessly blend tracks together by the click of a button, allowing anyone to learn how to mix in less than 2 minutes. This Pacemaker boasts a 60GB hard drive, capable of storing 15,000 songs.  "The concept behind the new Pacemaker centers around accessibility," said Ola Sars, Tonium's Vice President of Sales and Marketing. "Our company was founded on the belief that musical inspiration should be created by anyone and shared with everyone. With the new Pacemaker, the goal was to remove all barriers and let anyone interact and experiment with their music."  Tonium's new Pacemaker will be on shelves at major retailers across the country this spring. Once available, Tonium will release an announcement with detailed product specifications, ushering in the next step in the music interaction revolution.  About Tonium:  Tonium (www.tonium.com) is a Swedish company, established by a tightly knit group of passionate people with a background in music, design and engineering. With a flair for innovation, Tonium exists as a company dedicated to promoting the sharing of musical tastes in a socially engaging context. For Pacemaker info, go to www.pacemaker.net. 
 