
  Toshiba gave us an early glimpse of its glasses-free 3D Satellite P855 a few days ago and has now revealed a little more about the rest of the P8-series. The company still isn't talking processors or GPUs, beyond saying that the line-up will use the "latest" hardware from Intel and "next-gen graphics from NVIDIA." Without getting breathless about it, this hints at what we'd already hoped: some Ivy Bridge action coupled with the possibility of Kepler graphics -- after all, these new Satellites won't start shipping til the next quarter. Regardless, here's some stuff we know for sure: The full line-up includes a second 15.6-incher (the P850) and two 17.6-inchers (the P870 and P875) which will do away with the lenticular 3D display but keep the metallic finish, LED backlighting, backlit keyboard, Slip Stream audio for playing music while in standby, four USB 3.0 ports, HDMI out, WiDi and BlueTooth 4.0, while also offering the options of a Blu-ray drive and hybrid hard-drive (8GB solid, 750GB spinning). No official word on pricing yet, but we've already reported that the range will likely start at £599 ($940). So, breathless is too much, but breathy is okay.
      

 

  Show full PR text   Toshiba UK today unveils the launch of the new Satellite P series – a premium collection of multimedia laptops built to provide raw power and lightning-fast performance. Comprising four models, the new P series features the latest generation of processors, dedicated graphics and optional glasses-free 3D support – all packed into a sleek, stylish design.  The ideal choice for home entertainment enthusiasts looking for enough power to handle demanding multimedia applications, the Satellite P series features two 36.9cm (15.6") models, the Satellite P850 and the Satellite P855, available with an incredible glasses-free 3D screen. Two 43.9cm (17.3") options, the Satellite P875 and Satellite P870 offer ideal options for those requiring a powerful laptop with a large screen, such as designers, photographers and entertainment enthusiasts.  Raw power, next generation performance  The latest Intel® processors, dedicated NVIDIA® graphics and incredible memory capacity combine to provide a truly state-of-the-art computing experience. Each P series model supports DDR3 memory, making light work of demanding tasks such as video, audio or image editing programs – all at the same time.  Home entertainment, anywhere  An HD screen and Blu-rayTM support allows users to view the latest high-definition films, displaying incredible images that don't compromise on detail, sharpness or clarity. LED backlighting on each screen also ensures colours are accurate, with sharp contrasts between dark blacks and pure whites – perfect for video playback or viewing photographs.  - Turbo-charged processing power and next-gen graphics - High definition, glasses-free 3D screeni and integrated Blu-rayTM drive - Harman KardonTM speakers and SRS Premium Sound 3D provide supreme audio - For those looking for next generation multimedia performance, selected Satellite P855 models are available with glasses-free 3D playback – allowing users to enjoy the latest 3D films with no barriers as well as viewing 2D and 3D content simultaneously. Using advanced Toshiba technologies, each model uses a lenticular screen that sends individual images to each eye, creating the illusion of 3D depth in every frame. An integrated webcam tracks the position of the viewer's face and adjusts the 3D image accordingly, ensuring an optimum viewing experience is maintained – even if the viewer moves their head or adjusts their position.  A selection of advanced features on the Satellite P series makes it easy to play content from the laptop on a bigger screen – perfect for enjoying movies in the living room, or playing multiplayer games with friends. Using an HDMI® port, amazing 3D visuals can easily be played on any 3D TV connected to the new Satellite P series laptops. Intel® Wireless Display also makes it possible to wirelessly stream media saved on the laptop to connected TVs – letting users enjoy digital photo albums, videos or music on a big screen from the comfort of the living room.  Exceptional visuals are complemented by first-class audio, with integrated stereo speakers designed by specialists Harman Kardon® combining with SRS Premium 3D sound enhancement technology to deliver impressive audio performance. Slip Stream technology ensures distortion from bass frequencies is kept to a minimum even at high volumes, ensuring MP3s, video soundtracks and dialogue are rich, dynamic and immersive. Toshiba's Sleep-and-Music feature also lets users enjoy music on each laptop's speakers from MP3 players or smartphones, even when the laptop is in sleep mode.  The Satellite P series is available with up to 1TB hard disk space for incredible storage capacity – ideal for vast music collections, huge digital photo libraries and hundreds of high definition videos. A Hybrid Drive is also available on select models, combining a 750GB hard drive with an additional 8GB solid state capacity, enabling faster booting times and saving energy by reducing the need for a moving part. Four USB 3.0 ports provide extensive connectivity options, and transfer speeds between compatible devices up to ten times faster than USB 2.0 – perfect for transferring large photo collections, HD videos, entire games or music libraries instantly.  The Satellite P series will be available from Q2 2012.  Satellite P series details  Latest Intel® processors Next generation NVIDIA® GPUs Glasses-free 3D screen (selected Satellite P855 models only) Up to 1TB hard drive or 750GB/8GB hybrid drive DVD SuperMulti, Blu-rayTM ROM drives 4x USB 3.0 including 2x Sleep-and-Charge USB HDMI®, RGB Gigabit Ethernet LAN Intel® Wireless Display Dedicated headphone port & microphone port with Sleep-and-Music Full HD web camera with Face Recognition Backlit tiled keyboard Harman Kardon® speakers with Slip Stream technology, SRS Premium Sound 3D Bluetooth 4.0 connectivity 
 