
We caught a glimpse of Toshiba's second generation 4K TVs at CES in January and at a European event in March, and now the company has announced it's delivering three versions of the L9300U series this fall. All feature its CEVO 4K Quad+Dual Core processor built-in to handle image processing and its suite of Cloud TV apps, plus built-in WiFi, Miracast and WiDi. It also announced Technicolor has certified its Blu-ray player and streaming media box for delivering HD content to its 4K TVs. The 58-, 65- and 84-inch models will all ship in August for $4,999, $6,999 and $16,999 respectively -- we'll see how they compete with similar Ultra HDTV options arriving from the likes of Sony, Sharp and Samsung.




Show full PR textToshiba Announces Availability of 4K Ultra HD TV Series
CE Week 2013NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--CE Week – Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced the L9300U Series of 4K Ultra HD TVs will be available for purchase in the U.S. this August, starting at $4,999 MSRP1 for the 58-inch model.

"While the content creators work to create more 4K content and figure out how to distribute it, consumers can still enjoy the clearer, more natural and lifelike images on a 4K Ultra HD TV"The new Toshiba L9300U Series TVs deliver the ultimate viewing experience for movies, TV shows, video games, photo viewing and more. Powered by Toshiba's proprietary CEVO 4K Quad+Dual Core Processor, L9300U Series TVs deliver the highest quality 4K image processing, including Resolution Restoration to restore clean near 4K image quality from less than 4K content, Color Gamut Enhancement to create color intensity that matches the resolution impact and Surface Brilliance Enhancement that brings images to life like never before.

"While the content creators work to create more 4K content and figure out how to distribute it, consumers can still enjoy the clearer, more natural and lifelike images on a 4K Ultra HD TV," said Scott Ramirez, vice president of product marketing and development, Visual Products, Toshiba America Information Systems, Digital Products Division. "This year, consumers can enjoy Blu-ray Discs with near 4K resolution thanks to powerful upscaling technology; however when choosing a brand, they should choose one that has high-quality processing and proven engineering skill to optimize the 4K experience right, like Toshiba."

Featuring a new design that is modern, yet simple and elegant, the L9300 Series features a sophisticated gun-metallic trim and matching frame stand. L9300U Series Ultra HD TVs will be available in 58-, 65- and super large 84-inch class screen sizes.

Powerful Image Enhancement Technology

In addition to 4K image processing, the L9300U Series includes a suite of technologies that enhance picture quality, including:

ClearScan® 240Hz refresh rate technology creates clearer and smoother fast motion video.CQ Engine™ technology offers consumers superior picture quality controls, including Edge Enhancer, Dynamic Gamma, Color Master and Expert Mode Calibration Capability, and new UltraClear Dynamic Noise Reduction to create cleaner images without sacrificing image detail.Color and Depth Adaptive Resolution+® to help create images with enhanced image resolution, lifelike color saturation and incredible picture depth.Advanced Cloud TV

Offering a smarter connected experience, the L9300U Series includes advanced Cloud TV functionality. Cloud TV takes the connected experience to another level by offering easy, personalized content discovery and acquisition, including news content; better mobile device interactivity; practical social interaction features, server-based upgradability and much more. Some of the key initial Cloud TV services include:

Family Calendar to share family eventsPersonal Messaging to send and receive messages from family and friendsPhoto Album to share digital photosStreaming News to view news videos and slide showsMediaShare to access content from other DLNA-enabled devicesMediaGuide, a TV programming guide with advanced search capabilities and program recommendationsBuilt-in Wi-Fi®, Miracast™ and WiDi for both router and peer-to-peer wireless capabilitiesPricing and Availability

The Toshiba L9300U 4K Ultra HD TV Series are scheduled to ship in August 2013.

58-inch $4,999 MSRP65-inch $6,999 MSRP84-inch $16,999 MSRP

Toshiba Announces 4K Image Certification to Deliver Color Accuracy and Image Processing
Technicolor Certification Assures Toshiba Consumers The Best Home Theater Viewing Experience
IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced it is the first Blu-ray player manufacturer to be awarded 4K Image Certification by Technicolor, a worldwide technology leader in the media and entertainment sector. Technicolor is leveraging its expertise in Hollywood color and imaging science to certify that Toshiba's BDX6400 Symbio® Media Box and Blu-ray Disc™ Player will deliver improved viewing experiences for consumers at home.

"It is an honor to have our 4K media player officially certified by Technicolor"Today, native 4K content is used for production of Hollywood movies, but it is ultimately reduced in resolution for the home to fit accordingly with existing HD disc formats and display panels. While the industry transitions to native 4K content, it is important that consumers are able to enjoy the high-resolution display of UltraHD 4K TVs with their current HD content.

Additionally, entertainment content increasingly comes from multiple sources beyond cable and satellite, including streaming media players, laptops, game consoles, DVD and Blu-ray Disc players. However, the viewing experience of these sources varies drastically due to uneven levels of video resolution, frame rates and compression formats. Technicolor's Image Certification initiative addresses this dilemma and verifies that Toshiba's 4K Blu-ray Disc player solution will push the industry forward while providing consumers with the best viewing experience for movies.

"It is an honor to have our 4K media player officially certified by Technicolor," said Scott Ramirez, vice president of product marketing and development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Digital Products Division. "Passing Technicolor's thorough certification process is a testament to Toshiba's goal to create the highest quality consumer electronics that are ahead of the curve. Technicolor's 4K Image Certification will be a key differentiator in the market to help consumers discern and identify the best 4K media players."

With Technicolor 4K Image Certified products, consumers can be confident of a 4K source device's ability to deliver a stunning 4K Hollywood movie experience in the home from existing HD content. Technicolor has certified Toshiba's 4K image processing technology that up-scales "less than 4K" content to near 4K quality without inserting image-damaging artifacts.

Combining Toshiba's BDX6400 Symbio Media Box and Blu-ray Disc Player with the L9300U Series UltraHD 4K TV by Toshiba will provide consumers with the most stunning picture quality available for existing HD content.

For more information on Technicolor Image and Color Certification visit www.technicolor.com/certified.


