
  Chances are, college students are merely gearing up for finals, and the high school seniors among us are still months away from graduating. No matter to Toshiba. The company is getting ahead of the competition, showing off its back to school collection now. In addition to refreshing its entry-level C series, the outfit has redesigned its mainstream L and high-end P laptops. Look closely and you'll also see an entirely new line, the S series, which offers some of the same premium features as the P laptops, but with more of an emphasis on top-shelf specs than bells and whistles (because let's face it, bang-for-your-buck is likely to be a bigger priority for parents footing the bill). To keep things simple, we'll say this up front: each of these laptops is available in 14-, 15- and 17-inch sizes. Oh, and Toshiba isn't dishing too much on specs at the moment (Intel's Ivy Bridge processors still being shrouded in mystery and all.) Want the one-minute elevator pitch? You can jump straight to those pictures below. If you're curious about what makes each line distinct, follow past the break for the full breakdown.





Starting with that new S series, these laptops have brushed aluminum bodies (but not bottoms). This is the lowest-end group in Toshiba's lineup where you can get discrete graphics, and in many cases you'll get a larger hard drive / faster CPU here than if you went for an identically priced P series laptop. The reason for that, though, is that the P series (pictured) features that same etched aluminum design we saw on Tosh's European models, along with conveniences like Harman Kardon audio, Sleep and Music USB ports, backlit keys and a generally thinner chassis than what the S series offers (the difference is especially dramatic on the 14-inch version, which packs a 17-watt processor).


Moving down the line, the L series has a patterned, glossy finish that manages to hide fingerprints, along with chiclet-style keys on the interior. Though it offers Toshiba's Sleep and Charge USB ports, it's missing Sleep and Music, and the number of USB 3.0 ports is capped at two, as opposed to four for the P series. It also has SRS audio, not Harman Kardon. The lowest-end C series is available with that same glossy lid, though inside you'll be greeted with a more dated-looking deck. The C line also has HDMI (a first for this series) and a lone USB 3.0 port, though it's missing Sleep and Charge. Oh, and in case you're interested, this marks the first time you can get a C series laptop with a 14-inch display, as opposed to something a little (or a lot) larger.The premium P series will go on sale June 24th starting at $800 for the 14- and 15-inch models and $850 for the 17-inch P875. The S series will land at the beginning of Q3, starting at $700. Look for the C series to start at $400 when it arrives in the third quartre, while the L series will fetch $450 for the 14-inch model, going up to $500 for the 15-inch version and $600 for the 17-incher.  Show full PR text   TOSHIBA UPGRADES MAINSTREAM CONSUMER LAPTOPS WITH ENHANCED FEATURES AND INCREASED PORTABILITY  Thinner and Lighter Satellite L800 and Satellite C800 Series Laptops Feature Toshiba Smart Technologies, Better Performance and Stylish Designs  IRVINE, Calif. - April 10, 2012 - Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced its new fully equipped, affordable and portable Satellite® L800 and Satellite® C800 Series laptops. These new laptops pair everyday computing with style and versatility and are available in a wide range of configurations, screen sizes and colors.   "Toshiba is committed to providing its customers with the latest technologies and improved design in each generation of products," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "Thinner and lighter than the previous generation, the C800 Series offers essential computing while the L800 Series delivers affordable performance."  Satellite L800 Series: Smart Engineering and Style  Combining contemporary styling, functionality and mobility, Satellite® L800 Series laptops are ideal for families, students and small business owners looking for a solid all-around system at a reasonable price. The new L-Series laptops are thinner than previous models, but still maintain the structural integrity and screen size. With select configurations featuring 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ processorsi or the latest multi-core Accelerated Processing Units from AMD, Satellite® L800 Series laptops offer great performance for multitasking, productivity and light gaming. The Satellite® L800 Series features HD TruBrite® displaysii and are available in three screen sizes: 14-inch, 15.6-inch and 17.3-inch.   Designed with Toshiba's stylish Fusion™ II finish with a new cross line pattern in a variety of colors, including Mercury Silver, Tuxedo Black, Pearl White, Corsa Red and Cobalt Blue, Satellite L-Series laptops also include comfortable full-sized raised tile keyboards with 10-key number pads on 15.6-inch and 17.3-inch models to improve performance and style. In addition, the updated Satellite® L800 series now include a multi-touch control trackpad that is larger than previous generations and recessed to maximize usability and minimize incidental contact.   These laptops also come equipped with Toshiba smart technologies, including USB Sleep & Chargeiii, which enables users to charge other devices even when the laptop is powered down, PC Health Monitor and eco Utility™. Audio has been greatly enhanced in the latest L-Series laptops with the integration of SRS Premium Sound HD. Select configurations of the Satellite® L800 Series feature a Blu-ray Disc™ playeriv, HD webcam and HDMI® port.  Satellite C800 Series: Essential Features, Practical Functionality  The Satellite® C800 Series laptops deliver basic productivity for the value-minded, budget-conscious consumer. Donning a fingerprint-fighting Trax Texture finish in Satin Black or Fusion® I finish in Mercury Silver, the laptops feature next-generation processors from Intel and AMD, up to 500GB hard drivesv and a range of connectivity options including USB 2.0 and USB 3.0vi ports, a Media Card Reader and an HDMI® port. These laptops also include a webcam with face recognition technology, a DVD drive for watching movies and a full-sized keyboard. Now available with a new 14-inch diagonal HD TruBrite® widescreen displayvii as well as a 15.6- and 17.3-inch diagonal displayviii models, the Satellite® C800 Series offers a unique design with essential features at an affordable price.  Pricing and Availability  The Toshiba Satellite® L845 Series laptops start at $449.99 MSRPix. The Toshiba Satellite® L855 Series laptops start at $499.99 MSRP. The Toshiba Satellite L875 Series laptops start at $599.99 MSRP. The Toshiba Satellite® C800 Series laptops start at $399.99 MSRP.   The Toshiba Satellite® L800 and Satellite® C800 Series laptops will be available for purchase at the beginning of Q3 2012 at major retailers, e-tailers and direct from Toshiba on ToshibaDirect.com.   Image Galleries: Bit.ly/SatelliteC800 and Bit.ly/SatelliteL800.  Connect with Toshiba on Facebook at www.facebook.com/ToshibaUSA, on Twitter at twitter.com/ToshibaUSA, and on YouTube at youtube.com/ToshibaUS.   Show full PR text   TOSHIBA INTRODUCES NEW HIGH-PERFORMANCE SATELLITE SERIES P SERIES AND S SERIES LAPTOPS  New Satellite P800 Series and Satellite S800 Series Laptops Offer Outstanding Performance, Superior HD Entertainment and Convenient Smart Features with Contemporary Styling  IRVINE, Calif. – April 10, 2012 – Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced its latest line of fully-equipped and sophisticated Satellite® P800 Series and Satellite® S800 laptops. Packed with entertainment-optimized features and performance for greater everyday computing power, plus HD multimedia enjoyment and creation, these laptops are also designed for sleek style with premium aluminum casings.   "Toshiba's Satellite P800 Series and all-new Satellite S800 Series laptops offer leading edge processing technology and outstanding audio, perfect to handle a wide range of demanding tasks, from content creation to media management and playback to 3D gaming and more," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Digital Products Division. "With thinner and lighter form factors and high-quality, durable designs, these laptops are perfect for consumers looking for more of everything."  Satellite P800 Series: Premium Performance and Features  Available with 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ processorsi and select configurations featuring NVIDIA® GeForce® 630M discrete graphicsii with battery-saving Optimus™ technology, Satellite® P800 Series laptops incorporate everything needed for an amazing entertainment and powerful multitasking experience. Dressed in an all-new, elegantly etched aluminum body in Champagne Silver, Toshiba's Satellite® P800 Series is not only stylish, but extremely durable.   The laptops come equipped with comfortable raised tile keyboards with available LED backlighting, a new larger and easier-to-use Click Pad and multiple USB 3.0iii ports for faster data transfers. Additional standard features include harman/kardon® stereo speakers with SRS Premium Sound 3D™ sound enhancements, hard drive impact sensor, HD Webcam, an HDMI® port and Toshiba's exclusive Resolution+® video upconversion technologyiv, which breathes new life into standard-def video by seamlessly adjusting color, brightness and contrast for a more HD look and feel. The laptops also include USB Sleep & Chargev and Toshiba Sleep & Musicvi, two technologies that give users the freedom to power up their smartphones and enjoy music from their MP3 players, even while the laptops are powered down. Select configurations are equipped with the latest connectivity technologies and entertainment features, including Intel® Wireless Displayvii and a Blu-ray Disc™ playerviii. The Satellite P800 Series include vivid HD TruBrite® LED Backlit displaysix in three screen sizes: 14-inch diagonal widescreen, 15.6-inch diagonal and 17.3-inch diagonal widescreen.  Satellite S800 Series: Powerful and Stylish at Smart Prices  Delivering solid performance, functionality and fashion, the all new Satellite S800 Series is ideal for the entertainment enthusiast and the everyday user looking for a stylish laptop with excellent power at a reasonable price. Featuring 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ processors or the latest multi-core Accelerated Processing Units from AMD with optional discrete ATI graphics, Satellite S800 Series laptops offer exceptional power for multitasking, entertainment and creativity.   Designed in a sleek and durable brushed aluminum casing in Ice Blue, the Satellite S800 Series also offers a spacious and attractive track pad and a raised tile keyboard for supreme portability and comfort, ensuring comfort and style. The laptops also feature the latest smart Toshiba technologies, including USB Sleep & Chargex technology, Toshiba's Media Controller software that supports content sharing, PC Health Monitor and Toshiba's eco Utility™ promote laptop longevity with utilities designed to protect vital components and conserve power. Certain configurations will also include a Blu-Ray Disc™ player. The Satellite S800 Series is available with an HD TruBrite® LED Backlit in three screen sizes: the Satellite S845 with a 14-inch diagonal widescreen displayxi, the Satellite S855 with a 15.6-inch diagonal display and the Satellite S875 with a 17.3-inch diagonal widescreen display.  Pricing and Availability  The Satellite P845 and Satellite P855 (starting at $799.99 MSRP) and Satellite P875 (starting at $849.99 MSRP) will be available for purchase at the beginning of Q3 2012 exclusively at Best Buy stores nationwide, on BestBuy.com and ToshibaDirect.com.   The Satellite S800 Series (starting at $699.99 MSRP) will be available for purchase at the beginning of Q3 2012 at major retail outlets, e-tailers and ToshibaDirect.com beginning on June 24, 2012.   Image Galleries: Bit.ly/SatelliteS800 and Bit.ly/SatelliteP800.  Connect with Toshiba on Facebook at www.facebook.com/ToshibaUSA, on Twitter at twitter.com/ToshibaUSA and on YouTube at youtube.com/ToshibaUS. 
