

 If Computex was a coming out party for Windows 8 Ultrabooks, Toshiba was one of the wallflowers: though the company teased some concept devices, it only let journalists photograph them from certain angles, and with their screens turned off. Now, though, we're closing the summer with yet another tradeshow, and Toshiba is using the occasion to demo its wares in more detail. The company just announced the Satellite U925t, that Windows 8 slider we showed you earlier in the summer. No word on price, except that it's expected to be "slightly north" of the Satellite U845W, which starts at $1,000. We do know that it will ship on October 26th, the day Win 8 formally launches.

 In the meantime, Toshiba hasn't left any specs to the imagination. What we have here is a 12.5-inch Ultrabook with a slide-out, Gorilla Glass touchscreen. Pushing the screen up reveals a built-in keyboard, and we were pleasantly surprised in our hands-on to find that it's actually quite spacious. (With this form factor, the propped up display usually cuts into the usable keyboard space.) The keys are also backlit, and have the same feel as what you'll find on Toshiba's U845 and U845W Ultrabooks. That is to say they're shallow, and very, very quiet. The whole package weighs "just over three pounds" and measures about 0.8 inches thick, making it easy enough to stuff in a carry-on.

 When you push up the display you'll also find another surprise: an autofocusing 3-megapixel camera on the back side. For good measure, there's also a lower-res shooter up front. On the inside, it packs a Core i5 processor, Intel HD 4000 graphics and a 128GB SSD. Like many other Ultrabooks, it also has Intel's Wireless Display tech on board, though you'll of course have to buy the requisite set-top box separately. Taking a tour around the device, you'll find a mix of tablet- and laptop-style trappings: two USB 3.0 ports, HDMI, vents, a 3.5mm headphone jack, a volume rocker and a button for turning off screen auto-rotation.

 Software-wise, Toshiba is bundling Desktop Assist, a utility designed to give Windows 8 newbies quick access to files, programs and the like. You'll also see Live Tiles for things like Toshiba Central (a support hub), Book Place and Toshiba App Place. That's all she wrote for now, but expect us to follow up closer to October 26th with a more specific price. Until then, we've got hands-on photos below, along with a short walk-through video.





 
 