
 
The best things in life, it turns out, aren't actually free. Toshiba's decided to freshen up its X500 gaming station with NVIDIA's new high-end GTX 460M discrete graphics and slapped a handsome $1,300 MSRP on the resulting beast. And a beast it shall be, with an 18.4-inch screen, Core i5 or i7 CPU choices, SSD storage options, up to 8GB of RAM, a backlit keyboard, and simulated 5.1 audio pumping out of Harman Kardon speakers. We had a chance to check out its X505 brother recently and came away impressed by the deep blacks the screen was able to produce. For a bit more visual detail, visit the gallery of product shots below.

[Thanks, Ralph]






Show full PR textNew Toshiba Qosmio X500 Series Delivers Extreme Mobile Performance for Games, Media Creation and HD EntertainmentNow Equipped with New NVIDIA GeForce GTX 460M Graphics Processor, Qosmio X500 Delivers Blazing Fast Performance and High-Definition 3D Gaming with Full DirectX® 11 SupportIRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced its award-winning Qosmio® X500 Series laptops is getting a graphics performance boost from the new NVIDIA® GeForce™ GTX 460M graphics processor1 with 1.5GB of discrete graphics memory. The high-performance Qosmio X500 Series laptops deliver elite mobile performance and high-end features for demanding tasks – games, media creation and HD entertainment – for an affordable price, starting at $1,299.99 MSRP2."The Qosmio brand is about bringing the extreme performance gamers and HD content creators crave without the extreme price," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "With the new NVIDIA GeForce GTX 460M GPU, consumers can now take advantage of a sophisticated graphics engine optimized for the newest and most demanding DirectX 11 games. The Qosmio X500 delivers an enthusiast-class package equipped with everything needed to fully enjoy and create high-definition content."Qosmio X500 Series laptops feature Intel® Core™ i5 and Core i7 processor3 options with Turbo Boost technology. A stunning 18.4-inch diagonal HD TruBrite® widescreen display4 delivers plenty of screen real-estate for multi-tasking and multimedia enjoyment, while the premium sound system of harman/kardon® speakers and Dolby Home Theater® audio technology delivers rich 5.1 surround sound.Additional features include LED backlit keyboard and Blu-ray Disc™ player5 options, speedy dual-configuration 7200RPM HDD and solid state drive options, DDR3 memory configurations expandable up to 8GB6, plus a host of ports, including three USB 2.0 ports, one eSATA/USB Combo port with Sleep and Charge7, ExpressCard, IEEE 1394 and a 5-in-1 media card reader.The laptops also feature Toshiba's exclusive package of convenience-driven smart applications and features, including Resolution+™ DVD upconvert technology, eco Utility™, ReelTime™, Toshiba Media Controller and Bulletin Board.Pricing and AvailabilityThe Qosmio X500 Series starts at $1,299.99 MSRP and will be available on Sept. 26, 2010 at Amazon.com and direct from Toshiba at ToshibaDirect.com.Image Gallery: http://bit.ly/ToshibaQ42010QosmioX500Connect with Toshiba on Twitter at twitter.com/ToshibaLaptops and on Facebook at www.facebook.com/ToshibaLaptopsUS.About Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc. (TAIS)Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., TAIS is comprised of four business units: Digital Products Division, Imaging Systems Division, Storage Device Division, and Telecommunication Systems Division. Together, these divisions provide mobile products and solutions, including industry leading portable computers; imaging products for the security, medical and manufacturing markets; storage products for automotive, computer and consumer electronics applications; and telephony equipment and associated applications.TAIS provides sales, marketing and services for its wide range of information products in the United States and Latin America. TAIS is an independent operating company owned by Toshiba America, Inc., a subsidiary of Toshiba Corporation. Toshiba Corporation is a world leader and innovator in high technology, a diversified manufacturer and marketer of advanced electronic and electrical products. These products span from information & communications systems; digital consumer products; electronic devices and components; as well as power systems including nuclear energy; industrial and social infrastructure systems; and home appliances. Toshiba was founded in 1875, and today operates a global network of more than 740 companies, with 204,000 employees worldwide and annual sales surpassing $68 billion (6.3 Trillion Yen). For more information on Toshiba visit www.toshiba.com.© 2010 Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc. All product, service and company names are trademarks, registered trademarks or service marks of their respective owners. Information including without limitation product prices, specifications, availability, content of services, and contact information is subject to change without notice. All rights reserved.1 Graphics. GPU performance may vary. See Graphics Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com2 Price. Reseller prices may vary. MSRP means "Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price."3 Processor. CPU performance may vary. See Processor Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com4 Display. Any small bright dots that may appear on your display are an intrinsic characteristic of the thin film transistors manufacturing technology. See Display Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com5 Blu-ray Disc™ Player Technology. Compatibility and/or performance issues are possible. See Blu-Ray Disc Player Technology Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com6 Memory. Memory size may vary. See Memory Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com7 The "USB Sleep & Charge function" may not work with certain external devices even if they are compliant with the USB specification. In those cases, turn the power of the computer ON to charge the device.
 