
 Not to be outdone by Korean rival Samsung, Toshiba has become the latest manufacturer to announce it's now accepting pre-orders for its loaded repertoire of Windows 8 PCs. Naturally, this contains an array of options for all different types of budgets and preferences, including the Japanese company's Satellite S, P and L laptops or the U series of Ultrabooks, the Qosmio X875 for gamers and, for those who enjoy a more desktop-friendly setup, the LX815 and LX835 all-in-ones are also there for the taking. As expected, Toshiba will be shipping online pre-orders on October 26th, while folks who decide to go the brick-and-mortar route should be able to physically pick one up on that very same day. There's still a lot more where this came from, but you'll have to head over to Toshiba's site to see what else the outfit has to offer -- link to the store is just down below.



  Show full PR text   Toshiba's Windows 8 PCs Now Available   Pre-orders of New Satellite Laptops, Ultrabooks and All-in-One Desktops Start Today on ToshibaDirect.com and Retailers Nationwide

   IRVINE, Calif., Oct. 17, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced that its consumer line-up of Satellite® laptops and Ultrabooks™, Qosmio® laptops as well as its All-in-One desktops featuring Windows 8 are available for pre-order starting today and will be widely available for purchase from select U.S. retailers and ToshibaDirect.com on October 26.

   Windows 8 Optimization  Toshiba's new laptops feature spacious touchpads with Windows 8 gesture support to allow users to perform gestures on the touchpad as they would on a touchscreen device. In addition, to help transition consumers to the innovative interface in Windows 8, Toshiba's new PCs come pre-installed with Toshiba Desktop Assist, a utility designed to give users easy access to their programs, control panel, as well as files and folders, similar to the Start Menu in previous versions of Windows.

   The PCs include three new Windows apps – Toshiba Central, Toshiba Book Place and Toshiba News Place – redeveloped as tiles for the new Start Screen. Toshiba Central provides easy access to the user guide, support information, how-to videos and more. Toshiba Book Place is an e-book reader and marketplace with access to millions of titles. Toshiba News Place provides an easily accessible and graphical news aggregator.

   Satellite S Series: Powerful and Stylish at Smart Prices  Satellite S800 series laptops are all-purpose PCs, offering smart performance, design and technologies for superior multitasking, HD entertainment and creativity. Chambered stereo speakers with SRS® Premium Sound HD™ audio enhancement technology deliver a high-def experience at home or on the go, while smart styling and exclusive Toshiba conveniences like USB Sleep & Charge[1] add more bang for the buck. Configurable with 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processors[2] or AMD A-Series Accelerated Processing Units (APU) with optional AMD Radeon™ HD 7570M graphics[3] with up to 2GB DDR3 graphics memory and up to 8GB of RAM[4], the Satellite S800 Series delivers the speed and rich visuals for mainstream games and powerful multitasking. The laptops offer up to 1TB of storage[5] and can also be equipped with an optional Blu-ray Disc™ player[6]. Encased in Toshiba's stylish yet durable brushed aluminum finish in Ice Blue, the Satellite S800 Series is available with 15.6- or 17.3-diagonal HD TruBrite® displays[7] and start at $699.99 MSRP[8] and $749.99 MSRP, respectively.

   For those looking for greater portability, the new Satellite S955 provides an option that is less than an inch thin, while maintaining its sophisticated audio and video capabilities. At less than one inch thin, the Satellite S955 can be configured with a 3rd generation Intel Core processor or a powerful AMD A-Series APU and up to 8GB of memory, offering ultra-responsive performance for multitasking, casual gaming or watching movies on its 15.6-inch diagonal HD TruBrite display. The laptop features a built-in DVD drive and a range of connectivity options. The Satellite S955 starts at $649.99 MSRP.

   Qosmio X875: Extreme Performance and Power for Entertainment and Creativity  For gamers, media creators and advanced users who want an affordable, enthusiast-class laptop loaded with Windows 8, the Qosmio X875 laptop delivers the latest technologies for maximum performance. Packed with Toshiba innovation and powered by a 3rd generation Intel Core i7 processor, up to 32GB of 1600MHz RAM and NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 670M graphics with 3GB of GDDR5 discrete graphics memory, this laptop easily keeps up with the toughest tasks and graphics-intensive applications. A high-resolution 17.3-inch diagonal HD+ TruBrite display – or a full 1080p HD with 3D-ready screen that includes NVIDIA 3D Vision® 2 Kit with Lightboost – offer the expansive screen real estate necessary for heavy duty gaming, content editing and multitasking as well as better viewing and navigating the new Windows 8 interface and apps.

   The laptop can be configured with up to 2TB of storage, featuring the industry's first laptop with a 1TB hybrid drive, a Blu-ray Disc Rewritable player and is encased in Toshiba's attention-grabbing Black Widow styling, featuring a diamond-textured aluminum body and a glowing red LED Qosmio logo on the cover with raised tile LED-backlit keyboard and 10-key numeric pad. With built-in harman/kardon® Quad Speakers with Slipstream port technology that produce superior audio and SRS Premium Sound 3D™ that enhances the surround sound experience, the Qosmio X875 is the ultimate option for those who crave ultimate performance. The Qosmio X875 starts at $1,479.99 MSRP.

   Satellite P Series: Powerful with High-end Features and Styling  Powerful, portable and equipped to entertain, Satellite P800 Series laptops are the perfect balance of price and performance for media enthusiasts and power users. The laptops incorporate everything needed for an amazing entertainment and powerful multitasking experience, including ultra-responsive 3rd generation Intel Core processors and Intel Rapid Start technology, up to 8GB of DDR3 memory and an up to a 750GB hard drive. For added performance and convenience, select models incorporate an LED-backlit keyboard and the NVIDIA GeForce GT 630M graphics with Optimus™ technology and 2GB of video memory. Dressed in an elegantly textured aluminum body in Prestige Silver, the laptops are not only stylish, but durable.

   Equipped with premium audio, the Satellite P800 series include harman/kardon stereo speakers with Slipstream port technology and are custom-tuned with SRS Premium Sound 3D sound enhancements that bring movies and games to life. The patented harman/kardon technology creates more bass output with greatly reduced port noise and distortion. In addition, the laptops feature standard USB 3.0 ports for faster data transfers plus USB Sleep & Charge and Toshiba Sleep & Music[9], two technologies that give users the freedom to power up their smartphones and enjoy music from their MP3 players, even while the laptops are powered down. Satellite P800 series laptops also feature Intel Wireless Display[10] to share the laptop's screen wirelessly with a big screen TV. The Satellite P800 series is available in 15.6- and 17.3-inch diagonal widescreen HD TruBrite displays, for $799.99 MSRP and $929.99 MSRP, respectively or with a 14-inch diagonal HD touchscreen display with edge-to-edge glass, starting at $929.99 MSRP.

   Satellite L Series: Solid Performance and Style  Offering a blend of style, performance and versatility, the new Satellite L800 series laptops are designed for students, families and small businesses that want a great PC to stay connected, productive and entertained. These laptops can be configured with 3rd generation Intel Core i3 or Core i5 processors or AMD A-Series APUs and up to 4GB of RAM for enjoying movies, games and multitasking. With up to 640GB of storage, built-in DVD drive and a full range of ports including HDMI® and USB 3.0[11], plus 802.11n Wi-Fi® and a large, intuitive touchpad, the laptops are well equipped to make the most of the Windows 8 experience. Encased in Toshiba's stylish Fusion® Finish in Mercury Silver , the Satellite L800 Series is available with 15.6- and 17.3-diagonal HD TruBrite displays and start at $629.99 MSRP and $579.99 MSRP, respectively.

   The all-new Satellite L950 series delivers all the versatility of the Satellite L800 series including a built-in DVD drive in a form factor that is less than an inch thin. With Ultrabook-like dimensions and a 15.6-inch diagonal display, the laptops can be configured with either 3rd generation Intel Core i3 or Core i5 processors or an AMD A-Series APU, up to 750GB of storage and up to 6GB of RAM. Pricing starts at $579.99 MSRP.

   Satellite C800 Series: Fully Equipped and Affordable  Satellite C800 series laptops are designed for price-conscious consumers who want a versatile laptop that doesn't sacrifice quality and style for cost. Equipped with powerful processors, Satellite C800 series laptops are great for web browsing, socializing, emailing, entertainment and multitasking – leveraging the new Windows 8 speed, fluidity and interactive Start Screen. The laptops can be configured with a range of processors, including 3rd generation Intel Core i3 processors and AMD E-Series and A-Series APUs, up to 8GB of RAM and up to 750GB of storage. Encased in Toshiba's durable Trax textured finish or Fusion Finish in Mercury Silver , select models also feature Bluetooth® connectivity, HDMI and USB 3.0 ports. The Satellite C800 series is available in two diagonal screen sizes, the 15.6-inch Satellite C855, starting at $379.99 MSRP and the 17.3-inch Satellite C875, starting at $499.99 MSRP.

   Satellite U Series Ultrabooks  The Satellite U925t Ultrabook Convertible sports the performance of an Ultrabook with the ease-of-use and portability of a tablet, making it a perfect hybrid device. A unique hinge enables the device to be used as a tablet or as an Ultrabook. In tablet mode, users can slide the 12.5-inch diagonal IPS touch screen back and tilt it up to reveal an LED backlit raised tile keyboard and clickpad and use the device like a traditional Ultrabook. The Satellite U925t starts at $1,149.99 MSRP.

   The Satellite U945 Ultrabook is a more affordably-priced Ultrabook for everyday productivity and entertainment. Weighing less than four pounds[12] and measuring less than 0.8 inches thin, the Satellite U945 offers all the performance of a conventional PC but with slimmer styling and less weight. Featuring a 14-inch diagonal HD TruBrite display, the Ultrabook is encased in a textured Fusion Lattice finish in Ice Blue and includes a spacious clickpad with Windows 8 gesture support. The Satellite U945 also includes stereo speakers with SRS Premium Sound 3D sound enhancements, an HD webcam and can be configured with an optional LED backlit keyboard. The Satellite U945 starts at $699.99 MSRP.

   The Satellite U845W is the first Ultrabook to feature a 14.4-inch diagonal ultrawide-HD TruBrite display with a cinematic 21:9 aspect ratio. The widescreen display provides an approximately 30 percent greater view of tiles on the Windows 8 Start Screen and is also ideal for snapping Windows 8 apps to the classic desktop interface, giving users more desktop space to work, while still enjoying live content. Precisely constructed of brushed aluminum with luxurious soft-touch rubberized trim that spans the cover, the Satellite U845W delivers sophisticated styling, while its lightweight design and less-than-an-inch profile make it extremely comfortable to carry. The Satellite U845W starts at $1049.99 MSRP.

   All-in-One Desktops  The 21.5-inch Toshiba LX815 and 23-inch LX835 All-in-One desktops are perfect Windows 8 devices for the home or dorm room, ideal for multitasking, productivity and HD entertainment. These PCs offer full HD 1080p displays with optional touchscreens on edge-to-edge glass, recessed edges to hide connectors to any external devices and a slim-line folding stand that allows users to tilt the display at various angles. Offering outstanding performance, the All-in-One PCs are fully equipped with 3rd generation Intel Core processors, up to 8GB RAM, up to 2TB of storage, two USB 3.0 ports plus four USB 2.0 ports. All of this paired with superior sound from SRS Premium Sound 3D, Onkyo speakers make them ideal for enjoying all forms of entertainment, including the latest movies and games, surfing the Web, photos and more. Select models are also equipped with NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 630M graphics, an HDMI input that allows convenient connections to gaming consoles, tablets and other video sources and a TV-tuner with an IR blaster for connecting to a set-top box or DVR. The LX815 starts at $699.99 MSRP and the LX835 starts at $849.99 MSRP.

   Availability  Toshiba's Windows 8 products are all available for pre-order today at major retailers, e-tailers and direct from Toshiba at ToshibaDirect.com and will be available for purchase beginning on October 26, 2012.

 
