
 

Of all the "TV-like" all-in-one PCs we've seen, this Toshiba is perhaps the most convincing. Something about its glossy black, consumer electronic packaging and Onkyo soundbar just screams (tiny) HDTV. But, behind that 23-inch 1080p, multitouch panel is a Windows 7 PC powered by a Core i5 or i7 and 4GB of RAM. You also get a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse, a 1TB hard drive, a DVD drive and a lone USB 3.0 port. There's also an HDMI in jack for use with a game console or cable box -- not bad for the oddly specific starting price of $957. When the DX735 starts shipping exclusively from Best Buy on October 2nd you'll also have the option of adding on a TV tuner for a truly all-in-one entertainment solution. Check out the gallery below, as well as the PR after the break.





 		Show full PR text  Toshiba Expands Line of All-in-One Desktops with New 23-Inch Model 		Toshiba DX735 Blends Innovative PC Technology with TV Styling and Entertainment for Any Room 		IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today expanded its line of All-in-One PCs with the introduction of the Toshiba DX735, featuring a 23-inch Full HD multi-touch display1. A complete entertainment hub for the home or dorm room the DX735 offers high-end audio, video and computing performance as well as premium computing capabilities to manage and create content. 		"Our All-in-One systems blend the best of Toshiba's PC and visual product expertise for families and students looking to enjoy TV, watch DVDs and play games," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "Featuring a stylish and space-saving TV-like design, the DX735 is a great add to almost any room, enabling users to interact with their media, while acting as an ideal hub for family photos, videos, music and more." 		Space-saving Stylish Design 		The DX735 features a vivid 23-inch diagonal touchscreen display that supports full 1080p HD content surrounded in a glossy black finish and sits on a modern aluminum pedestal stand that can be easily angled for the best viewing and touch experience. The matching Bluetooth® wireless keyboard with 10-key numeric keypad can be easily stored on the base of the stand for additional space savings. The DX735 also includes a glossy black Bluetooth wireless mouse. Both the keyboard and mouse are pre-paired with the All-in-One, allowing users to get up and running right out of the box. 		The DX735 can easily serve as a home media hub with generous storage for photos and videos and easy connectivity options. Via the HDMI®-In port, users can also connect to a gaming console and enjoy the latest games on the PC's bright and responsive display. The DX735 also includes a premium audio system with Onkyo® stereo speakers professionally tuned by experts at Waves and feature Waves MaxxAudio sound processing that provide users with unparalleled performance, delivering sound that is louder, clearer, fuller and more intelligible. 		High-performance Computing 		The All-in-One comes equipped high-performance computing technologies, including a 2nd Generation Intel® Core™ i5 or Core i7 processor2, 4GB of DDR3 memory3, a 1TB 7200 RPM hard drive4, one USB 3.0 port5 with USB Sleep & Charge6, one USB 3.0 port and four USB 2.0 ports. The DX735 also includes a built-in DVD SuperMulti Drive and unique Toshiba technologies, including Sleep & Music7, which enables users to take advantage of the speakers even if the PC is off and Resolution+® video upconversion technology8 that breathes new life into standard-def video and DVDs. The PC will also be available in a configuration with a TV tuner. 		Availability 		The Toshiba DX735 will be available exclusively at Best Buy stores nationwide and at BestBuy.com, starting at $956.99 MSRP9 on October 2, 2011. 		Image Gallery: http://bit.ly/ToshibaDX735 		Connect with Toshiba on Twitter at twitter.com/ToshibaUSA, on Facebook at www.facebook.com/ToshibaUS, and on YouTube at www.youtube.com/ToshibaUS. 		About Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc. (TAIS) 		Headquartered in Irvine, Calif., TAIS is comprised of four business units: Digital Products Division, Imaging Systems Division, Storage Device Division, and Telecommunication Systems Division. Together, these divisions provide digital products, services and solutions, including industry-leading portable computers; televisions, TV/DVD Combination products, Blu-ray Disc and DVD products, and portable devices; imaging products for the security, medical and manufacturing markets; storage products for automotive, computer and consumer electronics applications; and IP business telephone systems with unified communications, collaboration and mobility applications. TAIS provides sales, marketing and services for its wide range of products in the United States and Latin America. TAIS is an independent operating company owned by Toshiba America, Inc., a subsidiary of Toshiba Corporation. For more information on TAIS visit us.toshiba.com. 		About Toshiba Corporation 		Toshiba Corporation is a world leader and innovator in pioneering high technology, a diversified manufacturer and marketer of advanced electronic and electrical products spanning digital consumer products; electronic devices and components; power systems, including nuclear energy; industrial and social infrastructure systems; and home appliances. Toshiba was founded in 1875, and today operates a global network of more than 490 companies, with 203,000 employees worldwide and annual sales surpassing 6.3 trillion yen (US$77 billion). Visit Toshiba's web site at www.toshiba.co.jp/index.htm. 		© 2011 Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc. All product, service and company names are trademarks, registered trademarks or service marks of their respective owners. Information including without limitation product prices, specifications, availability, content of services, and contact information is subject to change without notice. 		1 Display. Any small bright dots that may appear on your display are an intrinsic characteristic of the thin film transistors manufacturing technology. See Display Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com 		2 Processor. CPU performance may vary. See Processor Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com 		3 Memory. Memory size may vary. See Memory Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com 		4 Hard Disk Drive Capacity. Hard drive capacity may vary. 1 Gigabyte (GB) means 109 = 1,000,000,000 bytes using powers of 10. See Hard Disk Drive Capacity Legal Footnote at www.info.toshiba.com 		5 USB 3.0. 5Gbps is the maximum theoretical interface transfer rate per the specifications of the Universal Serial Bus 3.0. Actual transfer rate will vary depending on your system configuration and other factors. 		6 The "USB Sleep & Charge function" may not work with certain external devices even if they are compliant with the USB specification. In those cases, turn the power of the computer ON to charge the device. 		7 Toshiba Sleep & Music. In this mode, the headphone jack and mute functions are disabled. The volume and sound quality will diminish as the speakers not tuned in Windows® mode. Use the volume control on your audio device to adjust sound. Audio line-in cable is not included. 		8 Upconverter/Upconversion Technology (Resolution+® Technology). Viewing enhancements may vary depending upon content quality and display device capability/functionality/settings. Depending on the quality of the content, some video noise may be visible. 		9 Price. Reseller prices may vary. MSRP means "Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price."
 