

More Info

That 7.7-inch Toshiba tablet we saw at CES? It's called the AT270, and it runs Tegra 3
Toshiba announces Excite 10, 7.7 and 13 tablets, Thrive slates on their way out
Toshiba pushes AT270 Tegra 3 tablet through the FCC, gets Excited


In its sophomore attempt at cranking out Android tablets, Toshiba has unleashed the Excite series, a trifecta of thin tablet terror, upon Terran territory. The tiniest of the Thrive-topping trio is the Tegra 3-toting Excite 7.7, a close competitor to the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7. It's portable, sports a gorgeous AMOLED display and packs plenty of processing power. Unfortunately for consumers, there aren't too many tablets this small with this nice a display, which means it'll be much easier for Toshiba to be noticed.

Coming to the US on June 24th, the WiFi-only version of the 7.7 -- also known as the AT270 -- will be available for $500 with 16GB and $580 for 32GB. It's not the most flattering price tag, but the Tegra 3 and brilliant display help ease the pain your wallet may experience. But is it worth it? You know what to do: head on past the break for our detailed review.




Hardware
The Excite series offers improvements over last year's Thrives in componentry, no doubt, but there's no area where this is more evident than in the new tablets' design. Toshiba's goal here was to make its latest slabs more attractive than its predecessors, and we'd say the Japanese manufacturer succeeded in its quest. All three -- the 13-inch, 10-inch and 7.7-inch models -- are nearly identical in shape, material and build, likely in effort to maintain a brand identity. In the case of the Excite 7.7 -- also known as the AT270 or AT275, depending on if you have a need for mobile data -- the device edges out its competitor, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7, with an impressive thinness of 7.6mm (0.3 inches). It also beats the pants off its 11.9mm-thick Thrive predecessor. Unfortunately, it's slightly heavier than the aforementioned Korean rival; at 380g (13.4 ounces), it loses that particular battle by about 40 grams (1.4 ounces). It may not look overly tough, but it at least acts the part: the Excite 7.7's display is covered with Gorilla Glass and the device is encircled by a band of plastic, but it's backed by a solid helping of aluminum textured with thousands of tiny dimples. The inclusion of these materials adds peace of mind as you make your purchase decision. It's not waterproof, dustproof or any other kind of proof, but if the tablet suffered a drop from your kitchen table or similar heights, it's quite likely that your newfound gadget will have made it through the nerve-wracking journey relatively unscathed (save some minor bruises and scratches, perhaps). It's a comfortable tablet to hold: the textured back and squared-off edges make it just as easy to keep in your hands as the Galaxy Tab 7.7. The top edge houses the power / standby button, volume rocker and a multi-function toggle. This particular switch can be used to mute your tablet, lock the screen orientation or lock the power / volume buttons, and you can change the functionality back and forth in the display settings. On the right side of the tablet, you'll find a 3.5mm jack, a microSDXC slot and a micro-USB port. The slate's left side is bare, which leaves the bottom as the residence of the monstrosity known as the charging port, flanked by two external speakers.

The back of the Excite offers a minimalist design consisting of two different shades of grey: the dimpled material occupies most of the rear, while the lighter-shaded aluminum sits on the right side of the back and houses the camera and LED flash. We're happy that the tablet's thinness is the same from edge to edge and humps are nowhere to be found on the device. The front is graced with a 1280 x 800 "AutoBrite" Super AMOLED Plus panel, which places the pixel density at 196ppi. It's a beautiful display, certainly. It's easy to see in daylight (provided you have it cranked up to the brightest setting), and it offers wide viewing angles that allow you to take in content nearly edge-on. HD-quality video was impressive with the display's attention to clarity. Haptic feedback is ever-present on the Excite, which means the screen will vibrate near your fingers to let you know it's recognizing your touch. The vibrations are actually strong and audible, which may cause some annoyance, but you can turn them off if they get to be too much. If you're looking for a competitive advantage between this and the Galaxy Tab 7.7, you'll have trouble finding one in this department: they use the same type of display with the same resolution. Curious about what else is under (or on top of) the hood? We've compiled the Excite 7.7's essential specs in an easy-to-read table for your perusal:

    Toshiba Excite 7.7     Pricing $500 (16GB), $580 (32GB)   Dimensions 8.1 x 5.3 x 0.30 inches (127.4 x 64.8 x 7.6mm)   Weight 13.4 oz. (380g)   Screen size 7.7 inches   Screen resolution 1280 x 800 pixels (196ppi)   Screen type "AutoBrite" Super AMOLED Plus   Gorilla Glass Yes   Battery 15Wh   Internal Storage 16GB / 32GB options   External Storage None included, MicroSDXC compatible   Rear camera 5MP, AF, LED flash   Front-facing cam 2MP   Video capture 720p HD   NFC No   Network speeds WiFi-only (in US; AT275 will sport HSPA+ internationally)   Bluetooth v3.0   CPU 1.3GHz quad-core NVIDIA Tegra 3   GPU ULP GeForce 2   RAM 1GB LPDDR2-800   MHL No   WiFi b/g/n   Supported multimedia formats  AAC LC, 3GPP, MP3, AVI, MIDI, AMR-NB, AMR-WB, WAVE, WMA, H.263/H.264, MPEG-2, MPEG-4, WMV/VC-1  Software
Much to our delight, the Excite 7.7 ships with Android 4.0.3, also known as Ice Cream Sandwich -- and a very lightly-skinned version at that. While there is the typical smattering of manufacturer customizations and pre-loaded apps, it ends up staying true to the pure vanilla user experience. This makes for glad tidings if you aren't a TouchWiz fan: which will be a key differentiator for the Excite over the Galaxy Tab. Face unlock isn't included, however -- we don't use this low-security feature on a regular basis, but we imagine a few people who like to show off the feature at parties will be disappointed that it's missing. Sorry, you'll have to find some other way of impressing your friends -- might we suggest telling jokes? If you're not a proponent of the stock Android keyboard, Toshiba has added Swype to your list of choices -- though it's easy to find several other keyboards through the Play Store. Additionally, the company threw in a balanced power mode and a toggle switch for SRS audio enhancement (more on this later).



 In terms of pre-installed applications, the Excite comes loaded with Quickoffice, LogMeIn, PrinterShare, Adobe Reader, Crackle, Rdio, Amazon MP3, five card games, News Place, Book Place, Media Player, Toshiba File Manager, Zinio and Kaspersky Tablet Security. Fortunately, most of these programs can be disabled in the event that you have no need for them. In fact, you can clear nearly every piece of Toshiba-supplied software off your app tray -- the only apps that won't disappear are Google+, Flash Player, Maps, Messenger, Navigation and Rdio. Even when the focus did its job appropriately, we still found ourselves looking at images with washed-out colors, overexposed lighting, a lack of detail and an absurdly high amount of noise. Shutter lag time is roughly three seconds, a step backwards for an Ice Cream Sandwich device. As odd as it seems, we discovered that in some instances we were more satisfied with the amount of detail in pictures taken with the 2-megapixel, forward-facing fixed-focus camera. Historically, tablets have built a reputation for being furnished with subpar sensors, but Toshiba's effort exemplifies this notoriety to the nth degree.