
We get it: speeds and feeds aren't everything. But this might be a rare case where a chip could actually make the whole story. Toshiba announced the Satellite Click today, and until you get to the spec sheet, it reads like a totally forgettable product. What we have here is a 13-inch detachable tablet with a 500GB hard drive inside the tablet and an extra battery inside the keyboard dock. Sounds like lots of other things you've read about, right? Well, lo and behold, the Click is actually one of the first products to ship with AMD's Temash chip, whose graphics prowess we showed you back at CES. To be fair, this is a dual-core 1GHz A4-1200 processor with AMD Radeon HD 8180 graphics, not the quad-core one we demoed earlier. Even so, the general concept is the same: this is a system-on-a-chip tailored for tablets that makes use of AMD's 28nm Graphics Core Next architecture, which you'll also find inside some of AMD's discrete GPUs. Depending on the exact chip, Temash promises to compete with Intel's Atom processors as well as its Core i3 series. Unlike a Core i3 tablet, though, Temash allows for a fanless design, more akin to what you'd expect from an Atom or ARM-powered device.


Also, it drives down the cost. The Click will go for about $599, making it $150 cheaper than the Core i3-powered HP Split x2, which also has a 13-inch screen, dual batteries and a 500-gig hard drive in the dock. Granted, there are likely to be tradeoffs, and we suspect battery life could be one of them, if not speed. A Toshiba rep estimated runtime at three to four hours for the tablet only, and six to seven hours with the dock. That wouldn't match up well against a new Haswell hybrid but then again, some of its competitors (like the Split x2) are based on Ivy Bridge, which isn't so hot in the longevity department either. The Click will be available later this month exclusively at Best Buy and on Toshiba's site.


Update: We've just seen the Click on display here at IFA... sort of. Toshiba is showing off the European version, the Satellite W30t, which for whatever reason ships with an Intel Core processor, not an AMD Temash chip. So, similar design (save for the fans), but very different performance, we'd imagine.







Dan Cooper contributed to this report.
Show full PR textTOSHIBA INTRODUCES SATELLITE CLICKVersatile New 13.3-inch 2-in-1 Detachable PC Offers Tablet Convenience and Laptop FunctionalityNEWS HIGHLIGHTS- New detachable design with a 13.3-inch diagonal IPS multi-touch screen delivers two form factors in one device – a laptop and a tablet.- Powered by the AMD A4 Accelerated Processing Unit with AMD RadeonTM 8000 graphics performance.- Key hardware features include a 500GB hard drive (built in to the removable tablet) and dual battery design.- Sold exclusively via Best Buy and Toshiba Direct for the Holiday 2013 buying season.
IRVINE, Calif. – Sept. 5, 2013 – Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced the Satellite Click, an all-new detachable consumer PC, offering the full functionality of a Windows® 8 laptop with the convenience of a tablet in one portable device. Designed with a removable 13.3-inch diagonal touchscreen1 tablet that locks and unlocks from the hinge, Satellite Click offers a seamless transition between laptop and tablet modes. The Satellite Click is available exclusively via Best Buy and Toshiba Direct for the Holiday 2013 buying season.
The first detachable device to utilize AMD's low-power A4 accelerated processing unit2 (APU), codenamed "Temash," with AMD Radeon 8000 graphics and 4GB of 1600MHz DDR3L RAM, the Satellite Click delivers fast, laptop-class dual-core performance while maintaining a generous battery life rating. A 500GB hard drive5 is built-in to the removable screen making it easy and convenient to store files, photos and media libraries on the same device used for travel. Tablet essentials, including a built-in webcam, Micro USB 2.0 and HDMI® ports, a microSDTM slot, plus accelerometer and gyroscope sensors, enable the device's transformation from laptop to tablet without compromise.
"The first generation of detachable PCs was out of reach of the mainstream buyer," said Carl Pinto, vice president of marketing, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "We believe that home users can truly benefit from the form factor as it provides the versatility for both work and play. We paid attention to every detail with the Satellite Click, equipping it with the right processor, ample storage and a larger-screen tablet at an attainable price."
"Our latest APUs are designed to address the needs of new and traditional mobile PC users who want an amazing visual experience," said Bernd Lienhard, corporate vice president, AMD Client Products. "We worked closely with Toshiba to incorporate the new, power-efficient AMD A4 APU on the Satellite Click that combines stunning graphics and excellent CPU performance, while maintaining impressive battery life."
The detachable design of the Satellite Click enables a seamless transition from productivity to play, delivering the horsepower needed for both content creation and consumption from one, highly-portable device. The device features a hinge design that allows the screen to be removed completely or tilted up to 125 degrees when in laptop mode. A dual-battery set-up supports DC-in on both the keyboard base and on the screen, giving the user the flexibility to charge while docked or undocked, while a smart approach to charging prioritizes the removable screen to receive a charge first.The keyboard base consists of a full-size keyboard and touchpad along with a USB 3.0 port6 with Toshiba's USB Sleep & Charge technology. The device is enclosed in an attractive silver casing with a sleek fanless design for a clean, elegant look whether it's being used as a laptop or a tablet.
AvailabilityThe Satellite Click will be available beginning September, 2013 exclusively at Best Buy stores, BestBuy.com and ToshibaDirect.com.

