
   In case it wasn't clear, Toshiba's overhauling its entire consumer lineup for the back-to-school season, and that includes its lone gaming rig. The 17.3-inch Qosmio X875 replaces last year's X775, ushering in Ivy Bridge and that same reined-in design we we've seen in recent photos. Though Toshiba's remaining fairly mum on specs (we bet this has something to do with not wanting to steal Intel's thunder), we can confirm it packs "third-generation" Intel Core processors, NVIDIA GTX 670M graphics with 3GB of video memory, dual hard drive bays, quad Harman Kardon speakers and four memory slots, with up to 16GB of RAM on board out of the box. The resolution can be either 1600 x 900 or 1080p, with that latter pixel count only available on the 3D model. As you can see in the photos, Toshiba's moved to a subtler aluminum aesthetic it's calling Black Widow, but what you can't tell from that vantage point is that this guy is 25 percent thinner than its predecessor. In case you needed more proof this is an Ivy Bridge machine, note the release date: this beastly fellow won't be available until June 24th. At that point, it'll start at $1,299, though the highest-end configuration will set you back a cool $2,499. That's more than two months away, of course, so for now you'll have to content yourselves with our teaser shots below. 




  Show full PR text   TOSHIBA SPINS OUT NEW QOSMIO GAMING LAPTOPS WITH BLACK WIDOW DESIGN  Enthusiast-class Qosmio X875 Series Laptops Deliver High-End Performance and Unique Styling at a Sub-$2,000 Price  IRVINE, Calif. - Apr. 10, 2012 - Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced two new high-performance laptops, the Qosmio® X875 and Qosmio X875 3D, designed for enthusiast gamers, media creators and advanced users who demand the most powerful equipment. The laptops are fully equipped with the latest processor technology from Intel® and NVIDIA®, providing users with the power and speed required to take on the most demanding tasks and graphics-intensive applications with ease.  Premium Performance and Style for Power Users  The new Qosmio X875 and X875 3D laptops are powered by 3rd Generation Intel Core™ processors1 that deliver amazing performance and stunning visuals boosted by NVIDIA GeForce® GTX 670M graphics processor2 with 3GB of GDDR5 discrete graphics memory3 to take on graphics-heavy projects and the latest 3D games. The multimedia powerhouse gaming laptops are encased in Toshiba's new Black Widow styling, featuring a diamond-textured aluminum body and a glowing red LED Qosmio logo on the cover with raised tile LED-backlit keyboard and 10 key.   "Power users have grown accustomed to a high level of performance and style from Toshiba's Qosmio line," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "Whether it's the latest graphics processors, new stylish designs or innovative smart technologies – we're dedicated to bringing it all to our customers at an affordable price."  The Ultimate Gaming and Multimedia Machine  Every technical component needed for a truly immersive gaming and multimedia experience can be found in Toshiba's latest Qosmio laptops. A high-resolution 17.3-inch diagonal HD+ (1600x900)TruBrite® display4 – or a full 1080p HD with 3D-ready screen that includes NVIDIA 3D Vision® 25 Kit with Lightboost – offer the expansive screen real estate necessary for heavy duty gaming, content editing and multitasking. These brilliant displays6 are paired with built-in harman/kardon® quad speakers with Slipstream technology that produce superior audio and SRS® Premium Sound 3D™ that enhances the surround sound experience. All of these advanced audio/visual features combined with a Blu-ray Disc™ player make the Qosmio X875 Series the ultimate gaming and movie-watching powerhouse. The systems are also equipped with an HDMI® port that delivers 1080p output to an HDTV, as well as the Toshiba Media Controller7 software that lets users easily share and stream content with other DLNA-compatible devices within a home network.  Intelligent Features for Smarter Computing  Toshiba's newest Qosmio laptops sport a variety of smart technologies, including Toshiba Sleep & Music8 that allows users to utilize the premium speakers to enjoy music even while the laptop is powered down. They also offer dual USB Sleep & Charge9 ports that enable users to charge their USB-powered devices while the system is sleeping or powered off. The devices are also well-equipped with four USB 3.010 ports and are available with speedy hybrid hard drives and dual hard drive combinations in configurations with up to 2TB11 of on-board storage, as well as up to four slots (two user accessible) for 1600MHz memory. They also offer high-speed connectivity with Gigabit Ethernet and wireless capabilities for faster upload/download and LAN gaming.  Pricing and Availability  The Qosmio X875 and Qosmio X875 3D laptops will be available for purchase on June 24, 2012 at major retailers, e-tailers and direct from Toshiba at ToshibaDirect.com. Pricing starts at $1,299 MSRP12 and runs up to $2,499 MSRP13.   Image Gallery: bit.ly/QosmioX875  Connect with Toshiba on Twitter at twitter.com/ToshibaUSA, on Facebook at www.facebook.com/ToshibaUSA and on YouTube at youtube.com/ToshibaUS. 
 