
 Toshiba's been holding its own at the affordable end of the laptop and PC market for a while, but that doesn't mean it can't do classy. Perhaps that's why it's just announced KIRAbook, a 13-inch Ultrabook aimed squarely at the high end. All the usual top-tier treats are here, plus an impressive 2,560 x 1,440 (221 ppi) panel, making this the first Windows Ultrabook to offer such a high-resolution screen. There's also a pressed magnesium housing and touchscreen input (non-touch version also available). That tactile input option also comes with a 10-point Corning Concore sheet of glass between your digits and the Windows 8 operating system. That OS will be housed on a 256GB SSD, supported by 8GB of 1,600 MHz RAM and third-gen Intel Core processors. There is also 25GB of cloud storage if you need a little more. At launch, there will be three configurations starting at $1,599, rising to $1,999 if you want all the bells and whistles (i.e., Core i7 and that touchscreen). If this sounds like your thing, then you can pre-order in May 3rd, or walk into bricks and mortar stores on May 12th.



  Show full PR text   KIRA REVEALS THE LUXURIOUS SIDE OF TOSHIBA
   Company Introduces 13-inch KIRAbook with PixelPure Ultra-High Resolution Display and Striking Ultraportable Design; Showcases Toshiba's Commitment to Engineering Innovation and VIP Customer Service  IRVINE, Calif.-April 18, 2013-Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today introduced KIRA™, a new premium brand for consumers. The first device to launch under the brand is KIRAbook™, an all-new Ultrabook™ featuring the company's first ultra-high resolution PixelPure™ display and a striking new lightweight and compact design precision engineered with AZ91 pressed magnesium alloy. KIRAbook embodies the elegant nature of the new brand with a striking industrial design, premium build materials and an exceptional overall experience with a two-year warranty1, plus complimentary Platinum service and support. KIRAbook will make its debut in the U.S. market in early May.

   "At the core of the KIRA brand are products derived from inspired engineering," said Carl Pinto, vice president of marketing, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "Products that will carry the KIRA name will be more than a collection of the latest hardware technologies, but a statement of craftsmanship, fit and finish, and features built for the consumer's benefit, not technology's sake."

   A Sensory Experience  KIRAbook is the first laptop from Toshiba to feature the ultra-high resolution, factory color-calibrated PixelPure display. With a native resolution of 2560 x 1440, KIRAbook delivers 221 pixels per inch to the device's 13.3-inch diagonal display2-a 90-percent increase over standard HD displays-resulting in razor-sharp clarity for text and a crystal clear view of photos, movies, games and more. Offered in both standard and touchscreen display configurations, KIRAbook's touchscreen models utilize Corning® Concore™ Glass, which offers damage resistance and a smooth, 10-point multi-touch surface to navigate the Windows 8 experience. To complement the display's broad range of true-to-life colors, KIRAbook also includes Adobe® Photoshop® Elements 11 and Premiere® Elements 11 software, so photo and video enthusiasts can master their creations quickly and seamlessly

   .  KIRAbook's sound system offers a luxurious listening experience. Equipped with high-quality stereo speakers by Harman Kardon®, a leader in premium audio, and complemented by audio processing by DTS®, KIRAbook marks an achievement in high-fidelity sound quality in the thin-and-light category.

   Inspired Engineering  KIRAbook is the only Ultrabook of its kind to be constructed with AZ91 pressed magnesium alloy and a honeycomb-base. One hundred percent stronger than aluminum alloy3, the use of AZ91 enables KIRAbook to maintain lightness with a styling edge. A manufacturing technique commonly used in aerospace engineering, honeycomb reinforcement is applied to key pressure point areas of the device such as the palm rest area to achieve a higher grade of durability and rigidity.

   On the inside, KIRAbook features Toshiba's AirFlow II technology, a thin multi-phase fan cooling system, as well as a stabilizing hinge that increases the resilience of the lid when opening and closing the laptop and reduces screen bounce for touchscreen use. A high-capacity Li-Polymer battery is incorporated to let users work unplugged throughout the day with a long battery life rating, while a 256GB Solid State Drive4 and 8GB of 1600 MHz memory5 produce a fast and responsive experience. KIRAbook is powered by 3rd generation Intel® Core™ processors6.

   Craftsmanship in Design  With KIRAbook, Toshiba achieved an all-new level of ultraportable design. Featuring clean lines and elegantly rounded edges, the device has a starting weight of a scant 2.6-pounds7 and stands at an ultra-slim 0.7 inches, amazingly fitting its 13.3-inch display into an extremely compact body. The design also includes a sleek frameless LED backlit keyboard, making life easier while on-the-go.

   Complimentary Platinum Service and Support  KIRAbook comes standard with Toshiba's Platinum Service & Support, turning owners into Toshiba VIPs. Customers will enjoy premium perks, including a two-year warranty, 24x7 phone support, plus access to dedicated U.S.-based agents, rapid repair, set-up assistance, annual tune-ups and more at no additional cost.

   Protect the Stuff that Matters  KIRAbook also features a complimentary two-year subscription to a custom suite of industry-leading security products from Symantec, including Norton Internet Security, Norton Anti-Theft and Norton Online Backup, providing 25GB of online storage.

   Pricing and Availability  The KIRAbook will be available for pre-order on May 3, 2013 and for purchase on May 12 at Amazon.com, BestBuy.com, Microsoft Store, B&H and Adorama, and direct from Toshiba at ToshibaDirect.com.

   Three configurations will be available ranging from $1,599.99 MSRP8 to $1,999.99 MSRP8, featuring Intel Core i5 or Core i7 processors.

 
