
 

If you've been waiting for someone to take the glasses part out of the current 3D TV viewing experience, Toshiba has finally put a launch date on its glasses-free 3D TV. The world's first to be available to the public at the size, the ZL2 will take its place at the top of the company's range of sets when it launches this December in Germany (no word yet on other European countries, or anywhere else for that matter) complete with an LED-backlit QuadHD resolution (3,840 x 2,160) LCD panel and Cell-processor based CEVO engine technology within. Check out the press release after the break for more of the specs, no word yet on how much it will cost but the glasses-based 3D ZL1 it's replacing was rocking a £4,000 price tag.

Update: We have a price, as Toshiba's German press site currently mentions the set will cost 7,999 euros when the 55-inch version launches. We're figuring you can afford a couple of pairs of active shutter glasses instead at that price, but at least it's still a 4K screen, right? [Thanks, Daniel]
      

 

 		Show full PR text 		Toshiba unveils world's first1 large-screen glasses-free 3D TV* 		The 55ZL2 offers innovative first-class technology in a premium design delivering a 3D experience without the need for 3D glasses		Neuss, Germany, 1 		GmbH announced the launch of the world's first large-screen glasses-free 3D TV. The 55ZL2 has a screen of 139cm (55") in diagonal and does not require glasses to experience 3D. Plus, the 55ZL2 is the world's first TV targeted at consumers that comes with a Quad FullHD screen. This enables the 55ZL2 to offer a 3D TV experience that can be enjoyed by a large group of viewers and displays 2D contents in four times (Quad) Full HD resolution. The 55ZL2's glasses-free 3D application is powered by Toshiba's high-performance multi-processor platform CEVO-ENGINE which also allows for many more innovative applications including PERSONAL-TV, enabling the consumer to personalise TV settings, and SMART-TV applications such as USB recording and access to Toshiba Places. It also comes with an Auto Calibration feature to achieve studio level picture quality. The 55ZL2 will be available from December 2011 in Germany with release dates to be confirmed in other European countries 		st 		September 2011 – Today, Toshiba Europe 		A new era for 3D TV 		Toshiba engineers used their skills in designing software algorithms 		and developing powerful consumer electronics processor technology 		to calculate multiple viewpoints from stereoscopic images, combined 		with the ability to display them at high picture quality on a large 		screen. In the 55ZL2, they deployed an array of lenticular lenses that 		are found for the first time in such a large-screen device ready for 		market. 		Sophisticated lenslet technology delivers multiple views 		The glasses-free 3D technology is based on the stereoscopic principle 		of simultaneously delivering a picture for the left eye and another one 		As of September 1st, 2011 for digital high definition LCD TV in consumer markets. (Source:Toshiba) 		1 		with a small offset (parallax) for the right eye – these are then 		superposed in the viewer's brain to get the 3D effect. To achieve 3D 		without glasses, it is essential that the lenses guide the dedicated 		images to the viewer's eyes. The Integral Imaging technology, 		powered by the CEVO-ENGINE, applied to the 55ZL2 delivers nine 		views which create multiple wide-angle viewing zones in front of the 		glasses-free 3D TV. This allows several viewers to enjoy the 3D 		experience at the same time without wearing glasses. 		Face tracking optimises glasses-free 3D experience 		To optimise the viewing zones in respect to the viewers' actual 		positions in front of the TV, the 55ZL2 features a face tracking 		application. At the push of the remote, it detects the viewers' position 		and sets up the total viewing experience. 		Quad Full HD screen for excellent picture quality in 3D and 2D 		Delivering nine views from a screen in high definition picture quality is 		technically challenging. Toshiba therefore embedded a panel with 		3,840 x 2,160 pixels, equivalent to a Quad Full HD resolution, to allow 		up to nine views to be displayed simultaneously. An additional bonus 		of the 55ZL2's high resolution screen is the ability to display 2D 		contents in Quad Full HD resolution. In other words: photos captured 		with an 8 Mega-Pixel camera can be displayed on screen without 		compromising the image quality. 		By using complex algorithms, Toshiba's Resolution+ technology 		converts content such as TV programmes in SD or HD resolution - as 		well as DVD or Blu-rayTM content in four times Full HD resolution - to 		make full use of the high definition of the Quad FHD display. 		A smart and personalised window to the world 		The 55ZL2 delivers much more than glasses-free 3DTV. It also 		features advanced SMART-TV functions providing access to Toshiba 		Places, Toshiba's online platform offering streaming, purchasing and 		sharing Web-based content. Plus, it supports the HbbTV® (Hybrid 		broadcast broadband TV). Last but not least, the 55ZL2 allows USB 		recording of digital broadcasting on an external hard disk drive 		connected to the TV via USB. Thanks to Toshiba Apps Connect, 		iPhone® owners no longer need to reach for the remote control but 		can control the TV using their smartphone. 		The 55ZL2 also features PERSONAL-TV applications: The TV is able 		to store personal picture settings and a personal channel list for up to 		four users and it supports personal grouping of recorded content. In 		addition, the TV set is able to remember the volume level of each user 		after switching off. 		CEVO-ENGINE: the powerhouse behind the innovative features 		The CEVO-ENGINE, Toshiba's high-performance multi-processor 		platform, is the powerhouse behind the 55ZL2. The CEVO-ENGINE's 		outstanding technology is able to deliver the depth information needed 		to create the 3D effect and then calculates nine different views. It is 		the only engine available in the TV market today that is able to deliver 		the huge calculation power required to manage the complex 		algorithms that implement the glasses-free 3D technology and 		applications. 		Auto Calibration: picture quality at studio level 		The 55ZL2 exploits the CEVO-ENGINE's performance to further 		increase picture quality. It powers the Auto Calibration 2 tool, which 		optimises the display's settings to show movies with exactly the 		colours and grey scale as intended by the films' directors. Until now, 		the colour-analyser3-based approach was only used by professionals 		and required an external computer. Now the CEVO-ENGINE can 		carry out all calculations internally.
 