
 

Toshiba just unveiled what it claims is the world's first glasses-free 3D laptop, the Qosmio F750. It's a heavy-set beast dedicated to gaming and movies, with a 15.6-inch Full HD lenticular screen that can display 2D and 3D simultaneously in separate windows. It also rocks an HD webcam that follows your movements and adjusts the 3D effect accordingly, so you can peek at the that lovely third dimension from almost any angle you like. Innovative stuff indeed, but we were underwhelmed when we caught a glimpse of Toshiba's concept model back in January. So, has the technology improved since then? Check out our hands-on impressions and video after the break.





The laptop we played with was still technically pre-release, but the official release is in early August so the hardware must be pretty final. This includes some powerful innards, befitting the £1300 ($2100) price tag: an Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia Geforce GT540M graphics, "distortion-free" Harmon Kardon speakers, a BDXL drive, plus a USB 3.0 port and two of the USB 2.0 variety. HDMI and VGA outputs were also in attendance, along with an input for a co-axial aerial, which we were told would be "capped off" in the final European model. You'll find complete specs in the PR below.The software was less production-ready, and we were only able to watch a few 3D video clips that Toshiba had loaded on there. It would have been great to see how an off-the-shelf 3D Blu-ray disc performed, and try our hand at a few 3D games, but alas that will have to wait until we do a full review. Also, we were unable to the see the simultaneous 2D/3D in action, for example by running a 3D movie in one window while browsing 2D content in another window. Nevertheless, the videos we saw were pretty mouthwatering -- at least once our eyes and brain adjusted to the 3D effect.The eye-tracking system was remarkably quick and refused to be fooled by the sharp movements and embarrassing head-bops we threw at it. However, the adjustment of the 3D effect was slower to catch up. Even a relatively small head movement caused the 3D effect to falter momentarily before settling again. However, we think the system could cope with normal movements while watching a movie, and gaming tends to have the user transfixed in a single spot anyway -- and it was infinitely better than what we saw in the concept model. It's important to note that the system can only cater for one viewer at a time -- this is the major downside of the glasses-free tech employed here. You won't be able to watch a 3D movie with your buddy on a flight, for example, but that's the price you pay for not having to wear funny specs.  		Show full PR text  Toshiba UK today announces the launch of the Qosmio F750 3D – a revolutionary new laptop with the ability to display mesmerizing 3D images without the need for 3D glasses. The Qosmio F750 3D can also display a combination of 2D and 3D images on screen at the same time, while a range of powerful, high-performance multimedia features ensures the laptop is perfect for even the most demanding tasks.  3D unplugged 		The Qosmio F750 3D is designed for those looking for the ultimate 3D experience. Like the world's first glasses-free 3D television – the Toshiba REGZA GL1 – the Qosmio F750 3D uses a special lenticular 3D screen to give users the freedom to experience all the benefits of 3D entertainment, without the restrictions of having to wear 3D glasses. Glasses-free 3D technology adds a truly immersive element, perfect for experiencing 3D in a more natural and comfortable way, particularly for those that may already require prescription glasses. The 39.6cm (15.6") screen also offers Full HD resolution for clear, vivid images, while a 120Hz refresh rate eliminates blur or ghosting with the fast moving images seen in action films and games.  Glasses-free 3D – how it works 		To create a 3D effect without 3D glasses, the left eye needs to see a slightly different perspective to the right eye. The Qosmio F750 3D's state-of-the-art lenticular screen sends		Qosmio F750 3D displays 3D images without the need for glasses Eye-tracking technology ensures 3D effect works regardless of position 39.6cm (15.6") screen allows 2D and 3D images to be viewed simultaneouslytwo images of slightly differing perspectives individually to the left and right eye, which creates the 3D effect. An integrated webcam also intelligently tracks the user's eye movements, allowing the Qosmio F750 3D to adjust the 3D effect to match the eye position. The Qosmio F750 3D can also display 2D and 3D content simultaneously – allowing users to browse the internet, for example, in one window and have 3D content playing in another window.		The glasses-free Qosmio F750 3D offers a unique way for businesses, professionals and designers to present 3D content. New product concepts, architecture plans, medical information or educational tools can be viewed with unparalleled realism and greater depth.  The ultimate multimedia machine 		Premium features including second generation Intel® CoreTM i processors and the latest 3D graphics from NVIDIA® ensure the Qosmio F750 3D handles demanding programs and the latest video games with ease. Integrated stereo speakers designed by audio-specialists Harman Kardon® produce distortion-free, punchy sounds, working with Dolby® Advanced Audio optimisation technology to provide truly a cinematic experience.  3D conversion, 3D connectivity 		In addition to integrated Blu-rayTM XL support, the Qosmio F750 3D also features Toshiba's 2D-to-3D technology – a complex algorithm that takes ordinary 2D DVD content and instantly converts it into 3D. For those wanting to enjoy 3D Blu-rayTM content on a bigger screen with family and friends, the Qosmio F750 3D easily connects to any 3D-ready HDTV via HDMI.		Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n) provides users with a fast and reliable wireless internet connection, while USB 3.0 and Bluetooth 3.0 with High Speed support offers incredible transfer speeds between the laptop and peripheral devices.  Premium design 		The Qosmio F750 3D is available in a Shiny Red finish, and features a distinctive wavelet pattern across the chassis lid, while a carbon pattern on the inside palm rest gives the laptop a premium finish. Additionally, the EasyControl bar includes seven dedicated buttons, sat above the matt black keyboard, providing users with feather-touch control over multimedia and 3D features.  Qosmio F750 specifications 		39.6cm (15.6") Full HD (1920 x 1080) glasses-free 3D display (120Hz) HD web camera with eye tracking technology Intel® CoreTM i7 processor (2.00/2.90GHz Turbo) 1.333MHz NVIDIA® GeForce GT 540M graphics (up to 2GB)		640GB (5400rpm) SATA hard disk drive 6GB DDR3 (1333MHz) RAM Blu-rayTM XL re-recordable drive Windows 7 64bit Home Premium NVIDIA® N12P-GS 2GB(DDR3) Harman Kardon® stereo speakers, Dolby® Advanced Audio HDMI-CEC, Multi-Card Reader		Wi-Fi 802.11(b/g/n), Bluetooth® 3.0 + HS 3x USB 2.0, 1x USB 3.0 with USB Sleep-and-Charge, Sleep-and-Music 380.5mm x 254mm x 30mm (front) / 37.6mm (rear)  Availability 		The Toshiba Qosmio F750 will be available from August 2011.
 