
 

Toshiba's just announced a partnership with 3D gurus RealD to bring 3D viewing a little closer to home. The company plans to hit the world with support for RealD's stereoscopic format on its new Regza televisions. RealD's proprietary shutter style 3D glasses are not to be confused with the polarized ones used in theatres that the company is known for. The plan is apparently to unleash a full line of 3D Regza full HD LCDs in 2010. We don't know anything about specific models, pricing, or specific availability yet, but we'll keep our eyes open for fuller details as the CES 3D onslaught continues. The full press release is after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTOSHIBA and RealD Collaborate to Bring 3D to the Home CES, LAS VEGAS, NV and TOKYO (January 6, 2010) – Toshiba Corporation (TOKYO: 6502) and RealD today announced that the companies will cooperate in bringing 3D technology to Toshiba TVs, including support for the stereoscopic RealD Format, as Toshiba advances development of REGZA TVs able to deliver HD quality 3D content. The companies will also work together on technology for active eyewear compatible with Toshiba 3D-enabled displays. "Toshiba plans to introduce 3D into our REGZA line-up of Full-HD LCD TVs in 2010, and we are delighted to work with RealD, the clear leader in the industry," said Masaaki Osumi, President and CEO, Digital Media Network Company, Toshiba Corporation. "Home viewing is fast moving toward the total immersion offered by 3D, and Toshiba is determined to be in the vanguard in delivering this experience." "3D is opening new opportunities for home entertainment and we look forward to collaborating with Toshiba to bring an unmatched 3D experience to their products," said Michael V. Lewis, Chairman and CEO of RealD. "RealD 3D technology has revolutionized cinema and the RealD Format promises to deliver a similar premium entertainment experience to the home utilizing today's existing HD infrastructure." The RealD Format is a proprietary version of a side-by-side 3D format that multiplexes a left eye and right eye 3D image stream into a single channel for delivery of HD 3D content to any 3D-enabled display type – plasma, LCD or DLP. The RealD Format uses a unique set of proprietary filters and other technologies making it compatible with today's HD infrastructure for high quality 3D delivered via cable, satellite, packaged media or the internet. About ToshibaToshiba is a world leader and innovator in pioneering high technology, a diversified manufacturer and marketer of advanced electronic and electrical products spanning information & communications systems; digital consumer products; electronic devices and components; power systems, including nuclear energy; industrial and social infrastructure systems; and home appliances.Toshiba was founded in 1875, and today operates a global network of more than 740 companies, with 199,000 employees worldwide and annual sales surpassing 6.6 trillion yen (US$73 billion). Visit Toshiba's web site at www.toshiba.co.jp/index.htm About RealDRealD is the global leader in 3D technology for cinema, home and professional applications. RealD pioneered a revolution in cinema with its new generation 3D technology, which is deployed across the world's largest 3D platform. Beyond cinema, RealD is the worldwide inventor and provider of key stereoscopic technologies used in science, manufacturing, marketing, and other industries, with thirty years of development behind its systems. RealD's mission-critical 3D technologies are used by organizations such as NASA, Pfizer, BMW, Boeing and more. www.RealD.com
 