
 

When Toshiba said its skinny AT200 tablet wouldn't be available until January, anyone with a casual interest in gadgets could have guessed that meant a splashy CES launch was in order. Sure enough, everyone's favorite trade show has rolled around, and the company is finally ready to talk pricing and availability, four months after it first announced the thing. As we've suspected for some time now, it'll go on sale in the US under the name "Excite" (Excite X10, to be exact), starting at $530 for the 16GB model, with a $600 32GB flavor also available.

To recap, this is supposed to be the premium slate the Thrive wasn't, with a 1280 x 800 Gorilla Glass display, 178-degree viewing angles, TI OMAP 4430 chip, an anti-smudge coating and a 7.7mm-thick chassis, making it the thinnest 10-inch tablet on the market. It'll also ship with Android 3.2, though Toshiba says it's ICS-ready. And don't let that serious metal exterior fool you: for all its gravitas, the 1.2-pound tab is lighter than it looks. (We should know: we got hands-on ages ago.) So is a super slim design enough to make this Tegra 2 slate worth choosing over the Tegra 3-packing Transformer Prime which starts at $500 with 32GB of storage? To be honest, we suspect not, given that the Prime isn't much thicker and is also due for an upgrade to ICS. And besides, who knows what other Android tablets will surface at CES this week?





 		Show full PR text   TOSHIBA UNVEILS PLANS TO BRING THE WORLD'S THINNEST 10-INCH TABLET TO THE US MARKET Excite X10 Tablet Paves the Way for Premium Tablet Design by Achieving Ultra-thin and Light Form, While Maintaining Essential Ports and Features			LAS VEGAS - Consumer Electronics Show 2012 - Jan. 9, 2012 - Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today revealed plans to introduce the ExciteTM X10 tablet, the world's thinnest 10-inch tablet, to the U.S. market. Measuring in at just 0.3 inches (7.7mm) thin and weighing just 1.18 pounds (535g)1, this next- gen tablet offers a premium design with essential ports and features needed for a more complete experience. The Excite X10 tablet will be available in the U.S. starting in the first quarter of 2012.  A More Premium Design			Ultra-thin, ultra-light and ultra-powerful, the Excite X10 features a high-resolution 10.1-inch diagonal AutoBriteTM display2, offering an ideal canvas for browsing and entertainment. Designed for durability and style, the device also features a high-quality magnesium alloy surface and scratch-resistant Corning® Gorilla® Glass display with an anti-smudge coating for greater resiliency. 			"Excite X10 pushes the boundaries of what a thin and light tablet is capable of, delivering elegant styling without sacrificing features or durability," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division.  All the Essentials on Board			To connect with other devices, the Excite X10 tablet comes with all essential interfaces and ports onboard, including micro-USB and HDMI ® ports, a micro-SD slot to share content and files with other devices, plus Wi-Fi ® and Bluetooth ® connectivity. The micro HDMI port allows users to extend HD content from their tablet screen to a large screen HDTV. Front and back HD cameras provide convenient photo capture, plus 1080p video recording and conferencing. Stereo speakers enhanced with exclusive deliver superior entertainment capabilities. 			"We see the tablet as a key device in a connected home ecosystem, so delivering not just a thin and light design, but one that also incorporates built-in ports, is a step toward making the connected home a reality," added Pinto.  Smart Multicore Performance with Long Battery Life			Powered by the Texas Instruments OMAPTM4430 mobile processor3, the Excite X10 delivers smart multicore processing power without draining battery life. The multicore design features two ARM CortexTM A9 cores plus dual-channel memory for greater speed and efficiency, offering smooth web browsing and multi-tasking plus high definition video and entertainment. 			To connect with other devices, the Excite X10 tablet comes with all essential interfaces and			ports onboard, including micro-USB and HDMI® ports, a micro-SD slot to share content and files with other devices, plus Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® connectivity. The micro HDMI port allows			users to extend HD content from their tablet screen to a large screen HDTV. Front and back			HD cameras provide convenient photo capture, plus 1080p video recording and conferencing. Stereo speakers enhanced with exclusive deliver superior entertainment capabilities.  Powered by the Latest Android Technology			The Excite X10 tablet is powered by the latest Android platform technology. Also included is a full suite of familiar Google Mobile Service applications, including the Android Market, YouTube, Gmail, Google Maps, Music, Videos, plus select third-party applications including Netflix.  Specifications			-- Latest Android technology			-- 10.1-inch diagonal LED Backlit widescreen Corning Gorilla Glass display with IPS			technology and 10-finger multi-touch support			-- 1280 x 800 resolution, 16:10 aspect ratio			-- Texas Instruments OMAP 4430 processor; 1.2GHz with 1GB LPDDR2 RAM			-- 16GB and 32GB configurations4			-- 2 megapixel front-facing camera			-- 5 megapixel rear-facing camera with LED flash			-- Micro USB, Micro HDMI ports			-- Micro SD card slot			-- Wi-Fi (802.11b/g/n) and Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR			-- Gyroscope, Accelerometer, GPS, eCompass and Ambient Light Sensor			-- Stereo speakers with sound enhancements by Toshiba and SRS® Labs			-- Built-in 25 watt-hour rechargeable lithium ion battery			-- 10.1" (W) x 6.9" (D) x 0.3" (H)  1.18 pounds (535g)  Pricing and Availability			The Excite X10 tablet will be available in mid-Q1 2012 for a starting price of $529.99 MSRP5 for the 16GB model and $599.99 MSRP for the 32GB model at major U.S. retailers, e-tailers and ToshibaDirect.com. 
 