
 
Originally envisioned last year as a 4k x 2k monstrosity, Toshiba's ZX900 Cell TV has been humbled slightly for its market debut. Still, the processing power is what's really on display here, and Toshiba claims that it's packed 143 times the processing power over existing televisions. That processing makes way for Toshiba's Resolution+ upscaling, a 480Hz frame rate (completely ready for 3D), and some home media server capabilities as well. The centerpiece is the Net TV applications, which include Netflix, VUDU, CinemaNow and Pandora, and there's 802.11n WiFi and 1TB of HDD for streaming and storage. There's also mention of video phone capability, but it's unclear if has a built-in webcam (doubtful) or if you've got to bring your own USB number. Unfortunately, the biggest draw of this TV in its Japanese incarnation is its eight tuners, and for whatever reason that special distinction has been removed from this US version. The 55-inch and 65-inch displays use KIRA2 LED-backlit displays with 512 zones of localized dimming, and just in case this was wasn't enough, the sets have built-in Wireless HD and to connect the Cell-packing set-top box to the display wire-free. Of course, once you involve a set-top box you're kind of nullifying some of the magic of building a TV "with a Cell processor," but we'll let it slide. Just this once, Toshiba. Both TVs will be out "later this year" for an undisclosed, sure-to-be-huge price. A press release is after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textTOSHIBA UNVEILS POWERFUL CELL TV™ FOR THE USACELL TV is More Than Just a TV; CELL Broadband Engine™ Now Positioned to Power the Future of Home EntertainmentCES, LAS VEGAS – JANUARY 6, 2010– Toshiba America Consumer Products, L.L.C. ("Toshiba"), a market leader in LCD TVs, announced today that the company has developed groundbreaking home entertainment technology and is introducing the ZX900 Series CELL TV™ into the U.S. market. The state-of-the-art CELL TV will provide consumers with a new level of home entertainment experience. The focal demonstration of Toshiba's 2010 CES exhibit, CELL TV will be available in the U.S later this year.At the heart of the CELL TV is the CELL Broadband Engine™, designed for superior multimedia processing and previously used in advanced PCs and high-end gaming consoles. By incorporating the CELL Engine into CELL TV, Toshiba has designed an unparalleled TV with an exciting array of advanced features that were previously unthinkable."Creating a TV around the CELL Engine has removed previous limitations and allowed Toshiba to create an ultra-premium TV that is also an easy to use home entertainment server," said Scott Ramirez, VP TV Marketing for Toshiba America Consumer Products. "By combining the CELL Engine with the new KIRA2™ LED panel technology, Toshiba engineers have developed all-new levels of stunning performance and comprehensive functionality. CELL TV provides more brightness, more contrast, more detail, more 3D, more robust connectivity, and more fun than anything we have ever created. CELL TV is the new gold standard."CELL MAKES EVERYTHING BETTERThe heart of CELL TV is the powerful CELL Engine which has 143 times the processing power available in current TV models. This massive power manifests itself in incredibly enhanced picture quality that is certainly the new state-of-the-art. True Super Resolution Technology ensures precise image accuracy by sampling multiple frames and restoring the native pre-sampling signal curve. This process enhances both SD and HD signals for the clearest possible 1080p Full HD picture. Net Resolution+ adds Compression Noise Canceling to significantly enhance Internet content. This system detects noise compression inherent in low resolution internet content and separates and corrects the image data to produce sharper, cleaner internet images, even on super large screens. In addition, AutoView™ RGB combines an ambient light sensor, and a new RGB sensor, to automatically set the brightness, contrast, gamma, sharpness, color saturation, and now color temperature, to ensure the best possible picture in any lighting condition. CELL TV also boasts ClearScan™ 480Hz Frame Rate, for a clear, crisp picture for fast motion video. TOSHIBA INTRODUCES SUPER LOCAL DIMMING LEDFor the flagship ZX900 Series, Toshiba combined the power of the CELL processor with its new KIRA2 Super Local Dimming LED Display. KIRA2 is positioned as "Twice as Bright!" as it has an amazing 1,000 cd/m2 brightness. In addition, KIRA2 also has 512 controllable zones (5X that of previous local dimming models) for precise control over black levels. This allows the KIRA2 to create an unmatched 9M: 1 Dynamic Contrast, creating the ultimate picture quality package.WATCH EVERYTHING IN 3DCELL TV has true 3D TV capability, and much more. For native 3D content, CELL TV utilizes a Frame Sequential System that changes from 240Hz in 2D mode, to 120Hz for the right eye and 120Hz for the left eye in 3D` mode. This system accepts multiple 3D input formats, including MPEG4-MVC, RealD, and more. However, when true 3D content isn't available, CELL TV has the solution. TriVector™ 2D to 3D Conversion takes any 2D content and converts it into 3D in real time. This means that with CELL TV you can "Watch Everything in 3D!" including 2D sports, movies, TV shows, video games, and more. 3D TV creates a more immersive home theater experience, and CELL TV's TriVector 2D to 3D Technology significantly expands the amount of time you can enjoy 3D, truly setting itself apart. GET READY TO BE SERVEDGoing beyond the realm of television, CELL TV is also a high-end Home Entertainment Server. With a built-in 1TB HDD, BD Player, and 802.11n Wi-Fi® capability, CELL TV can store your favorite media content (video, music, pictures, etc.), and then display it, or transmit it to other compatible DLNA displays in your home. Content can be downloaded from the Internet, transferred from your PC, or recorded directly onto the HDD from the BD Player. With CELL TV you have unprecedented access to your content, all of the time, virtually anywhere in your home.GET CONNECTEDCELL TV offers a robust set of advanced connectivity options including an Ethernet Port with DLNA, 802.11nWi-Fi, and Wireless HD. The Ethernet Port enables a wired connection to the Internet or home network, while 802.11n enables connection to the Internet or other rooms through a wireless router. In addition, Wireless HD allows the CELL Set-Top Box to connect to the display without running any wires to the wall. Net TV capability will provide a wide list of Internet "Channels", providing almost limitless options for additional content. Key targeted content partners include Netflix®, VUDU™, CinemaNow®, Pandora®, and many more. High value content can be streamed, or in some cases downloaded to the HDD for purchase.Taking connectivity to another level, CELL TV also includes new Video Phone capability. This Home Video Conferencing over IP allows you to see and hear people with compatible devices, adding a whole new dimension to social networking. By combining this with Net Resolution+, Cell TV can provide clear images, even on super large screens. The CELL XV900 Series is the first CELL TV Series, and will be available in large 55" and 65" (diagonal) screen sizes. This two piece system features a sleek Set-top Box, and a display in the new Genesis Design with a black brushed aluminum bezel with acrylic trim.For more information on the CELL TV, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.ToshibaTV.com" http://www.ToshibaTV.com. About Toshiba America Consumer Products, L.L.C.Toshiba America Consumer Products, L.L.C. (TACP) is owned by Toshiba America, Inc., a subsidiary of Toshiba Corporation, a world leader in high technology products with subsidiaries worldwide. TACP markets and sells a full line of home entertainment products, including flat panel TVs, Hi-Definition Blu-ray Disc players, TV/DVD Combination products and portable devices. Toshiba America Consumer Products, L.L.C. is headquartered in Wayne, New Jersey. For additional information, please visit HYPERLINK "http://www.tacp.toshiba.com"www.tacp.toshiba.com or www.toshibatv.com.3D capable display and compatible 3D eyewear required for viewing content in 3D. Internet services are available only in the United States. VUDUTM, Netflix®, Cinema Now® and Pandora® and other internet services are not provided by Toshiba, may change or be discontinued at any time and may be subject to internet service provider restrictions. Toshiba makes no warranties, representations, or assurances about the content, availability or functionality of third-party content or services. Use of third party internet services may require the creation of a separate account through a computer with internet access. Not all VUDU services may be available on or compatible with these products. Third party internet services may require payment of one-time and/or recurring charges. While every effort has been made at the time of publication to ensure the accuracy of the information provided herein, product specifications, configurations, system/component/options availability are all subject to change without notice.
 