
 

Clearly sick and tired of watching all of the fun other companies have been having with their all-in-ones, Toshiba this week announced the DX1215, the company's first entry in the space for the US market. The 21.5-inch touchscreen desktop has two USB 3.0 ports (and four of the boring old 2.0 variety), an HDMI port, 1TB of storage, and built-in Onkyo speakers. The system ships with a wireless mouse and keyboard, and will be hitting Best Buy's stores and website exclusively on July 3rd, starting at $930 -- just in time for your Independence Day ketchup-covered fingerprints.
      

 

 		Show full PR text   Toshiba Introduces All-in-One Desktop With Premium Audio 			RVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today introduced the DX1215, the company's first All-in-One PC for the U.S. market. The DX1215 is an all-purpose entertainment hub offering superior audio with performance and technologies for HD entertainment and multitasking. 			"Toshiba combined its experience with computing platforms and visual products to create an All-in-One that truly complements the living situations of our customers with a PC that offers high performance, premium features and unique styling," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Digital Products Division. "We've designed the DX1215 to serve as the optimal entertainment hub for families, college students and those who consume a large amount of digital entertainment in their homes and want the finest audio experience." 			A Stylish Entertainment Hub 			The DX1215 features a vivid 21.5-inch diagonal touchscreen display1 that supports full 1080p HD content and sits on a modern aluminum pedestal stand that can be easily angled for the best viewing and touch experience. The space-saving and stylish All-in-One PC also boasts a premium black glossy finish, making it fit well into any room, including the kitchen, living room, bedroom or dorm room. 			The DX1215 can easily serve as a home media hub with generous storage for photos and videos and easy connectivity options. Via the HDMI® In port, users can also connect to a gaming console and enjoy the latest games on the PC's bright and responsive display. The DX1215 also includes a premium audio system with Onkyo® stereo speakers professionally tuned by experts at Waves and feature Waves MaxxAudio processors that provide users with unparalleled performance, delivering sound that is louder, clearer, fuller and more intelligible. 			"We are honored to work with Toshiba to tune the audio system in its first All-in-One desktop for the U.S. market to create an impressive audio experience," said Tomer Elbaz, general manager of Waves Semiconductor and Licensing Division. "Whether listening to music, watching a movie, playing a game or talking on Skype, users expect superior performance and advanced features. The new Toshiba DX1215, powered by Waves MaxxAudio processors, takes All-in-One PC sound to the next level." 			Center for Content Management and Productivity 			All the tools needed for managing one's digital content, the performance necessary for creating movies and music, as well as the software to keep one organized throughout the day can be found in the DX1215. The All-in-One comes equipped with a 2nd Generation Intel® Core™ i5 or Core i7 processor2 and a 1TB 7200 RPM hard drive3. The DX1215 also includes two USB 3.0 ports4 with USB Sleep & Charge5, four USB 2.0 ports, a built-in DVD SuperMulti Drive and unique Toshiba technologies, including Sleep & Music6, which enables users to take advantage of the speakers even if the PC is off and Resolution+® video upconversion technology7 that breathes new life into standard-def video and DVDs by seamlessly adjusting color, brightness and contrast in real time to give video a more high-def look and feel. The PC will also be available in a configuration with a TV tuner. 			Easy Setup 			The Toshiba DX1215 includes a pre-paired Bluetooth® wireless keyboard with 10-keypad and media buttons and wireless mouse both in glossy black, allowing users to get up and running right out of the box. 			Pricing & Availability 			The Toshiba DX1215 will be available exclusively at Best Buy stores nationwide and at BestBuy.com, starting at $929.99 MSRP on July 3, 2011. 
 