
In addition to announcing some new laptops for back-to-school season, Toshiba took the opportunity to refresh its lone all-in-one desktop. This new model, the PX35t, comes with a new look, borrowing some design cues from the televisions Toshiba introduced back at CES. Really, it's that aluminum, U-shaped chin that keeps it looking sort of TV-like, though the new pedestal stand helps too. Inside, it will be offered with Haswell Core i3, Core i5 and i7 CPUs. At the high end (somewhere in the $1,300 range) you can trick it out with up to 1TB of HDD storage, 16GB of RAM and a Blu-ray drive. A Toshiba rep also told us it will also be available with optional discrete graphics -- specifically, the NVIDIA GeForce 740M. 

Either way, you get a 23-inch 1080p touchscreen (no IPS), four Harman Kardon speakers and a mix of Sleep-and-Charge and Sleep-and-Music ports. Interestingly, Toshiba says the target market for its all-in-ones skews more female, so it deliberately tailored the mouse for smaller hands (Ed. note: fits like a glove.) The keyboard, however, is cushy enough that even men should be able to use it comfortably. Look for the whole package to ship this month, starting at $1,030.



Show full PR textTOSHIBA UNVEILS POWERFUL ENTERTAINMENT PCS THAT DELIVER SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE AND HD GRAPHICS

All-new Qosmio X75 Enthusiast Class Laptop and PX35t All-in-One Touchscreen Desktop Kick Productivity, HD Entertainment and Gaming into High Gear

IRVINE, Calif. – June 3, 2013 – Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced its completely redesigned Qosmio® X75 enthusiast-class laptop and PX35t All-In-One Touchscreen Desktop Computer, two powerful entertainment hubs equipped with 4th generation Intel® Core™ processors.

"These entertainment-driven PCs are designed to help consumers do more and be more productive with Windows 8," said Carl Pinto, vice president of marketing, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "Both systems enable users to do everything from creating, managing and enjoying HD content, multitasking and playing graphics-intensive games with an amazingly responsive experience."

Qosmio: Raw Performance for Gaming Enthusiasts and Creative Pros

The new enthusiast-class Qosmio X75 laptop pushes the boundaries of power and performance with a blazing-fast 4th generation Intel Core i7 quad core processor1 with Intel® Turbo Boost Technology, four high-speed memory slots configurable up to 32GB2 plus a huge, 17.3-inch diagonal Full HD TruBrite® display3 and tons of high-end entertainment features and hardware, making it ideal for creative pros, advanced users and hardcore gamers. Encased in Toshiba's Black Widow styling in brushed Aluminum, red chrome accents and a glowing red Qosmio logo on the cover, the laptop features a frameless LED-backlit keyboard and 10-key numeric pad, making work and play easy even in dim places.

With NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 770M discrete graphics4, battery-saving NVIDIA® Optimus™ technology and a massive 3GB of GDDR5 discrete graphics memory, users can power through the latest games with ease. In addition, NVIDIA® CUDA™ Technology unlocks the power of the GPU's processor cores to accelerate the most demanding tasks – such as photo and video editing – delivering incredible performance over traditional CPUs. Users can also load up on games and HD content with dual drive configurations up to 1.25 TB5, configurable with an SSD6, and get creative right out of the box with included full versions of Adobe® Photoshop® Elements 11 and Adobe® Premiere® Elements 11 software.

Enjoy room-filling audio with four premium Harman Kardon® speakers with Slipstream™ port technology that provides more bass output and less distortion for richer, more precise sound and DTS® Studio Sound™, which makes music and video sound more natural and detailed. All of these advanced audio/visual features combined with an optional Blu-ray Disc™ player7 make the Qosmio X75 the ultimate gaming and movie-watching powerhouse. The laptop also provides 4K UltraHD (3840x2160) HDMI® output so users can enjoy their movies and games on the latest 4K TVs and enjoy four times the resolution of full HD content.

Finally, the Qosmio X75 includes Toshiba's convenient Sleep & Music8 and improved USB 3.0 Sleep & Charge9 features to use the laptop as an audio dock and charger for a phone or tablet even when it is in Sleep Mode or off and a full array of speedy USB 3.0 ports10 to help sync, transfer and share content in a snap.

PX35t All-In-One: High-Definition Multimedia Hub for the Home or Dorm Room

More than a mere PC, the PX35t All-In-One Touchscreen Desktop is a PC and multimedia machine combined into one sleekly designed system. It's easy to set up, striking to look at, and uses little desk space. It also includes a huge 23-inch diagonal, Full HD 1080p touchscreen display, a premium sound system and performance-driven features for effortless multitasking, stunning HD entertainment and better digital content creation.

Taking cues from Toshiba's 2013 TV lineup, the PX35t is completely redesigned with Toshiba's sophisticated Skyline styling in silver and fits perfectly in nearly any décor. With a small desktop footprint, it comes with classy edge-to-edge glass with 10-finger multi-touch support and an attractive base, plus a wireless, pre-paired, raised-tile keyboard and modern-looking mouse.

With up to a massive 16GB of RAM and configurable with 4th generation Intel Core i3, Core i5 or Core i7 processors, users can run today's popular software and power though multi-media management, school assignments, games and movies with ease or enjoy broadcast programming from a set-top box with the HDMI input. What's more, everyone in the house can share 1TB of high-speed 7200 RPM storage for videos, files, pictures and music. The PX35t is also equipped with speech recognition software to allow users to control the All-in-One PC with their voice.

For enjoying movies, the PX35t features an integrated DVD drive and pair of premium Harman Kardon stereo speakers that provide high-quality surround sound, while DTS Studio Sound™ delivers deep, rich bass and crystal clear dialog at maximum volume levels without any fluctuations, clipping or distortion.

This PC has all the ports needed to hook into printers and other high-speed devices, including four USB ports, two high-speed USB 3.0 ports, Bluetooth® 4.0 as well as an HDMI-In port for connecting a gaming console or set-top box. Loaded with Toshiba extras, the PX35t also includes Toshiba's newly enhanced USB 3.0 Sleep & Charge that can charge a smartphone, tablet and other devices, even when the PC is off.

Availability

The new Qosmio X75 will be available in mid-June, starting at $1,399.99 MSRP11. The PX35t will be available in mid-June, starting at $1,029.99 MSRP.

Both will be available at major retailers and e-tailers nationwide, and direct from Toshiba at ToshibaDirect.com.

Image Gallery: http://bit.ly/QosmioandAIOJune2013.


