
  Toshiba was fairly late to the all-in-one party, only releasing its first US model last year. Less than twelve months later, though, the outfit's already revamping its design: the company just announced the LX815 and LX835, which will replace its current 21.5- and 23-inch offerings. Both models sport 1080p TN displays, and sport an overhauled chassis with matte surfaces and recessed ports. Spec-wise, expect "third-generation" Intel Core processors (read: Ivy Bridge), up to 3TB in HDD storage, a max of 16GB of RAM, dual USB 3.0 ports (plus four 2.0 sockets) and HDMI-in. At the high end, you'll also be able to scoop one up with a capacitive touchscreen. Look for these starting sometime in Q3 at which point the 21-incher will go for $600 while the 23-inch model will command northward of $880.





  Show full PR text   TOSHIBA REVEALS COMPLETELY REDESIGNED FULL HD ALL-IN-ONE DESKTOP COMPUTERS  Toshiba 21.5-inch LX815 and 23-inch LX835 Offer Sleek Styling, Full Connectivity and Versatile Performance at Affordable Prices  IRVINE, Calif. - Apr. 10, 2012 - Toshiba's Digital Products Division (DPD), a division of Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., today announced its newest All-in-One Desktop PCs, the 21.5-inch LX815 and 23-inch LX835, which perfectly blend high performance, style and affordable pricing. These All-in-One computers serve as all-purpose devices ideal for the kitchen, family room and dorm room for effective multitasking and HD entertainment.  All New Sleeker Design  The new LX815 and LX835 present an entirely new level of style to Toshiba's All-in-One Desktop Computer product line. These attractive PCs now offer full HD 1080p displays1 with optional touchscreens on edge-to-edge glass, recessed edges to hide connectors to any external devices and a slim-line folding stand that allows users to tilt the display at various angles. The beautiful display is bundled with a comfortable full-size raised tile wireless keyboard with a 10-key numeric keypad and a matching wireless mouse that are both pre-paired to allow users to start using their new All-in-One right out of the box.   "Toshiba has completely revamped the design of our All-in-Ones to make them an even more attractive productivity and entertainment device for the busy home," said Carl Pinto, vice president of product development, Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc., Digital Products Division. "We're confident that the All-in-One market will continue to power the desktop market. Toshiba is committed to bringing new elegant and powerful machines into our lineup to balance our customers' desire for both strong performance and appealing design."  Outstanding Performance and Convenience  Fully equipped with 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ processors, up to 16GB RAM, up to 3TB high-speed hard drives, two USB 3.0 ports plus four USB 2.0 ports, the LX815 and LX835 provide consumers with the high level of performance they have grown accustomed to with Toshiba's computing products. All of this paired with superior sound from SRS Premium Sound 3D™ Onkyo speakers make them ideal for enjoying all forms of entertainment, including the latest movies and games, surfing the Web, photos and more. These new All-in-Ones are also equipped with HDMI® input that allows convenient connections to gaming consoles, tablets and other video sources. Select models will also feature Blu-ray Disc™ drives5 and a TV-tuner with an IR blaster for connecting to a set-top box or DVR.   Additional smart features include USB Sleep & Charge6, which allows users to charge USB-powered devices while the PC is sleeping or powered off, and PC Health Monitor, which allows users to track the condition of their machines to keep them in peak condition. All of Toshiba's All-in-One PCs are rated EPEAT® Gold, Energy Star® 5.0 compliant and include Toshiba eco Utility™, which allows them to quickly adjust the settings and power plan of their laptop and monitor their ongoing power usage with just a click.  Pricing and Availability  The Toshiba LX815, starting at $599.99 MSRP7, and LX835, starting at $879.99 MSRP, will be available for purchase at the beginning of Q3 2012 exclusively at Best Buy stores, e-tailers and direct from Toshiba at ToshibaDirect.com.   Image Gallery: http://bit.ly/LX815andLX835.  Connect with Toshiba on Twitter at twitter.com/ToshibaUSA, on Facebook at www.facebook.com/ToshibaUSA and on YouTube at youtube.com/ToshibaUS. 
 