
 

Prius fans, that long road to a promised plug-in hybrid's coming to an end. Toyota rolled out its production model PHV at the Green Drive Expo, announcing a March 2012 availability for the car, and a $32,000 price tag for the base model. The partial EV will be offered in two trim versions with a touchscreen audio / navigation display and Toyota's Entune in-car entertainment system to come standard, with the Heads Up display reserved for the advanced models. Expect to get about 87 MPGe with the auto in combined drive mode, and 49MPG when it switches to hybrid. As for that old NiMH battery, the new 4.4kWh Li-ion replacement gains a full charge after about three hours on a 120v source, and can re-up the juice in less than two hours on a 240v connection. You can dive into the PR for all the details after the break, and look forward to our in-depth hands-on in a few.
      

 

  		Show full PR text 		September 16, 2011 Toyota Announces Pricing for All-New 2012 Prius v and Prius Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles		RICHMOND, Calif., September 16, 2011 - - Toyota Motor Sales (TMS), U.S.A., Inc. announced manufacturer's suggested retail prices (MSRP) here today at the annual Green Drive Expo for two new hybrid vehicles, the Prius v and Prius Plug-in. 		Since 1997 to present day, the Prius has been the dominant leader in hybrid technology worldwide. In the U.S. alone, the Prius has sold more than one million units since 2000. The all new Prius v and Prius Plug-in are the two newest hybrid vehicles to help make up the Prius Family. A fourth new member, the city-friendly Prius c, will launch in 2012. 		Prius v		The first new member of the Prius Family, the Prius v, will meet the needs of growing families with active lifestyles while providing the same attributes traditionally found in the Prius DNA including Toyota's Hybrid Synergy Drive. The Prius v will provide 58 percent more cargo space than the Prius Liftback, and at 34.3 cubic feet, it has more cargo room than 80 percent of the small SUVs on the road today. Despite the spaciousness of a family friendly midsize vehicle, the Prius v will deliver estimated EPA fuel economy ratings of 44 mpg city, 40 mpg highway and 42 mpg combined, the highest fuel efficiency of any crossover, SUV or wagon on the market. 		The Prius v will have three configurations to help provide an easy ordering process, the value-driven Prius v Two, the well-equipped Three, and the premium level Five. All Prius v models come equipped with a wealth of standard comfort and convenience features including a new 6.1-inch Display Audio system with integrated backup camera, Bluetooth® and USB port, 16-inch alloy wheels with wheel covers, single-dial climate control, EV/ECO/Power modes, driver door Smart Key System, instrument panel with driver feedback displays, Toyota's Star Safety System™ [which includes the Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Brake Assist (BA), Enhanced Vehicle Stability Control (VSC), Traction Control (TRAC) and Smart Stop Technology], 60/40 split sliding and reclining rear seat, comfortable driver seating with power lumbar support and much more. 		The Prius v Three adds standard Display Audio with Navigation and the Entune1™ multimedia system (includes SiriusXM™ Satellite Radio with 90-day trial subscription, HD Radio® with iTunes® Tagging and text-to-speech with programmed and customizable test responses). 		In addition to standard features on the Prius v Two and Three, the Prius v Five adds standard SofTex-trimmed seats, heated front seats, three-door Smart Key, 17-inch alloy wheels, LED headlamps, fog lamps and more. 		The base MSRP for the Prius v are $26,400 for the Prius v Two model, $27,165 for the Prius v Three, and $29,990 for the Prius v Five. The Prius v will arrive at Toyota dealerships in late October. 		Prius Plug-in		The third member of the Prius Family, the first-ever Prius Plug-in Hybrid, combines the benefits of the third-generation Prius Liftback's Hybrid Syndergy Drive with extended electric vehicle (EV) range, in a package that is priced more competitively than any plug-in hybrid or pure EV on the market. It will feature a new Lithium-ion battery, which supplements the superior fuel economy of the Prius with an extended electric-only driving range of up to 15 miles at a maximum speed of 62 mile-per-hour. By Toyota estimates, it will deliver an estimated 87 MPGe (miles per gallon equivalent) and when operating in hybrid mode will achieve an estimated 49 MPG3, providing drivers with great fuel economy without range anxiety. The Prius Plug-in also offers convenient charging times of only 2.5-3 hours using a standard 120V outlet or 1.5 hours using 240V. 		The Prius Plug-in will share many of the same exterior and interior design elements as the 2012 Prius Liftback. Design features exclusive to the Plug-in include unique chrome grille and bumper trim, chrome door handles, unique 15-inch alloy wheels, blue-accented headlamps, a distinct tail lamp design, and a new Hybrid Synergy Drive Plug-in badge. 		Prius Plug-in Hybrid will be available in two models, the Prius Plug-in and the Prius Plug-in Advanced. The Prius Plug-in Hybrid model comes equipped with an abundance of standard features including heated front seats, Remote Air Conditioning System (which can run either off the grid while the vehicle is plugged in or off the battery like the third-generation Prius Liftback), a charger timer, EV/ECO/POWER modes, three-door Smart Key, Display Audio with Navigation and Entune1 and an integrated backup camera, LED Daytime Running Lights, 15-inch 10-spoke alloy wheels, enhanced Multi-information Display and much more. 		The Prius Plug-in Advanced model adds additional standard features including Premium HDD Navigation with Entune2 and JBL® GreenEdge™, Plug-in Hybrid Applications through a user's smartphone (Charge Management, Remote Air Conditioning System, Charging Station Map, Vehicle Finder and Eco Dashboard), Head-up Display, Dynamic Radar Cruise Control, Pre-Collision System, LED headlamps with auto on/off feature and integrated fog lamps, SofTex-trimmed seating, an eight-way power adjustable driver's seat, Safety Connect and more. 		The base MSRP for the Prius Plug-in Hybrid is $32,000. The Prius Plug-in Hybrid Advanced will have an MSRP of $39,525. Both Prius Plug-in models are expected to qualify for a federal tax credit of approximately $2,5004. 		The Prius Plug-in Hybrid will be on sale in 14 launch states beginning this October through Toyota's Online Order System at www.toyota.com. Vehicle deliveries begin in Spring 2012. The launch states include California, Oregon, Washington, Arizona, Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia. A national rollout is planned for 2013. 		The MSRP for the 2012 Prius v and Prius Plug-in does not include the delivery, processing and handling (DPH) fee of $760. The DPH fee for vehicles distributed by Southeast Toyota (SET) and Gulf States Toyota (GST) may vary. 		Leviton Level 2 (240V) Home Charging Stations		Leviton, an approved provider of Level 2 (240V) home charging stations, has developed a residential program exclusively tailored for Prius Plug-in customers. The program will include the following: 		A one-stop solution for home charging stations, installation services for 120V and 240V applications, and dedicated support for Toyota customers;		Level 2 (240V) 16-amp and 30-amp home charging stations designed exclusively for the Prius Plug-in (UL-certified, compact design, easy-to-use, and made in the U.S.A.);		Industry-leading pricing for Level 2 (240V) with basic packages starting as low as $999;		Toyota-dedicated e-commerce web portal (leviton.com/Toyota) with product information, order tracking, and other features. 		Prius Plug-in customers will be able to take advantage of Leviton's special pricing beginning in early October. 		Show full PR text 		RICHMOND, Calif. (Sept. 16, 2011) – Toyota, the world leader in hybrid passenger cars and SUVs, introduced the Prius Plug-in Hybrid at the annual Green Drive Expo here today, as the newest member of the Prius Family. 		Joining the popular third-generation Prius Liftback and the new Prius v, the new Prius Plug-in combines the benefits of the standard Prius model's hybrid vehicle operation with extended electric vehicle (EV) driving and more affordable pricing than pure electric or range-extender type vehicles. The 2012 Prius Plug-in Hybrid, which offers seating for five, is expected to achieve a manufacturer-estimated 87 MPGe (miles per gallon equivalent) in combined driving and 49 MPG in hybrid mode.		Toyota has sold more than one million Prius models in the United States since the first-generation model was introduced for model-year 2001. The recent introduction of the larger Prius v and now the Prius Plug-in Hybrid brings this eco-focused model range to four distinct vehicles, including the Prius c, which will debut in 2012.		The 2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid will allow true EV operation and performance for up to 15 miles at speeds up to 62 mph, along with quick home charging using a standard AC outlet and 15-amp dedicated circuit. Operating in EV mode, the Prius Plug-in Hybrid provides the quick, smooth quiet driving of a pure electric vehicle. The Prius Plug-in Hybrid offers the same five-passenger seating and luggage space as the standard Prius model.		The 2012 Prius Plug-in Hybrid retains the Hybrid Synergy Drive of the standard Prius model and will seamlessly switch into hybrid operation at a pre-determined state of battery charge. A newly developed 4.4 kWh lithium-ion (Li-ion) battery pack replaces the standard Prius model's nickel metal hydride (NiMH) battery and fits under the rear cargo floor, and the vehicle adds an easy-to-use external charging cable.		￼-more-		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 2-2-2-2		A full charge using an external AC outlet takes approximately 2.5 to 3.0 hours		using a 120v household outlet or 1.5 hours using a 240v outlet. The included 120v charging cable connects to the charging port inlet located on the right-rear fender.		In addition to offering EntuneTM, Toyota's new multimedia system, available smartphone applications developed for the Prius Plug-in Hybrid include Charge Management, Remote Air Conditioning System, Charging Station Map, Vehicle Finder and Eco Dashboard.		Introduction of the 2012 Prius Plug-in Hybrid follows an extensive test-fleet program involving 125 early prototypes in the United States. Toyota applied experience from that test phase, along with input from participants, to finalize engineering and improve features for the production model.		Performance and Economy		Even with the addition of the new onboard battery charging system and larger 176-lb. Li-ion battery pack, the 2012 Prius Plug-in Hybrid weighs just 123 lbs. more than the standard Prius Liftback, thanks to weight-savings techniques applied elsewhere. As a result, driving performance for the 2012 Prius Plug-in Hybrid will be similar to the standard Prius.		Running in EV mode, the system switches to full hybrid mode under full acceleration, which splits engine power between the drive wheels and the generator, keeping the battery charged – just as in the standard Prius model.		Even when not running in the driver-selectable EV mode, the Prius Plug-in Hybrid will rely more on its electric-only capability in situations where it is more efficient than running the gasoline engine, especially in urban and suburban driving and during shorter trips when drivers will enjoy the smoothness and quiet of EV operation. The overall fuel economy rating for the Prius Plug-in Hybrid increases to a manufacturer- expected 87 MPGe, with the car achieving an estimated 49 MPG when operating in hybrid mode. Drivers who use the vehicle for frequent short trips and local driving will realize the biggest reduction in gasoline usage.		EV and Hybrid Operation		The Prius Plug-in operates much the same way as the standard Prius model while offering extended EV range and plug-in charging. Current Prius owners will feel instantly familiar with the new model while enjoying more benefits of EV driving.		￼￼-more-		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 3-3-3-3		The Plug-in Hybrid system consists of a large-capacity Li-ion battery and an		external battery-charging port connected to the standard Prius Hybrid Synergy Drive system.		Toyota developed the new compact, lightweight, high-output battery specifically for the Prius Plug-in Hybrid. The 4.4 kWh battery pack includes a battery charger located under battery that features an internal cooling fan. The hybrid system's inverter and has been optimized for the new, higher-capacity battery. In addition, the hybrid cooling system uses a larger heat exchanger and higher-capacity fan motor.		As in the standard Prius Hybrid model, the Prius Plug-in Hybrid shuts down the gasoline engine at a stop and accelerates away with the hybrid battery providing electricity to the front motor; the Prius Plug-in Hybrid can rely on battery power alone for longer distances and higher speeds than the standard Prius. It features a new battery state-of-charge gauge, and a standard multi-information display panel monitors fuel and energy consumption to help encourage economical driving habits.		New multi-information display additions have been included in the Prius Plug-in. A new EV Drive Ratio display records the ratio of driving distance covered by EV power, and the Hybrid System Indicator shows possible EV driving range when in EV mode. An Eco Savings Record screen, new to both the 2012 updated Prius and the Prius Plug-in, allows drivers to measure their savings over a customizable pre-set comparison vehicle. The pre-set areas include fuel cost for a gallon of gas and miles-per-gallon average.		Charging the Prius Plug-in Hybrid		The external charging system is designed to be easy and safe to use. Approximately 24 feet in length, the battery charger cable weighs just 3.75 lbs. and conveniently fits its own compartment in the trunk area.		The port is located behind a spring-loaded push-open door on the right-rear fender. A full charge using an external AC outlet takes approximately 2.5-3.0 hours using a 120V household outlet with a dedicated 15-amp circuit, or 1.5 hours using a 240V outlet. The charge port provides LED (Light Emitting Diode) illumination for convenient nighttime charging. A timer allows charging to take place during off-peak hours and can be set for both start and end times.		-more-		￼		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 4-4-4-4		In the event of a malfunction, the CCID (Charging Circuit Interrupter Device) in		the cable will stop the flow of electricity for safety, and the indicator lamp will flash. There is also a self-test button, similar to that used on household kitchen and bathroom electrical outlets. A special rubber stopper prevents the charging port door from snapping shut when closing.		Leviton Level 2 (240V) Home Charging Stations		Leviton, an approved provider of Level 2 (240V) home charging stations, has developed a residential program exclusively tailored for Prius Plug-in customers. The program will include a one-stop solution for home charging stations, installation services for 120V and 240V applications, and dedicated support for Toyota customers. The program will also offer Level 2 (240V) 16-amp and 30-amp home charging stations designed exclusively for the Prius Plug-in (UL-certified, compact design, easy-to-use, and made in the U.S.A.), industry-leading pricing for Level 2 (240V) with basic packages and a Toyota-dedicated e-commerce web portal (leviton.com/Toyota) with product information, order tracking, and other features. Prius Plug-in customers will be able take advantage of Leviton's special pricing starting early October.		Packaging and Weight Optimization		A key goal for development of the Prius Plug-in was to deliver the optimal balance of performance, range, economy, packaging and affordable price. The new model delivers extended EV range without sacrificing roominess for passengers or for luggage.		The compact high-output Li-ion battery pack is installed under the rear luggage area. Width, height and length of the luggage space remain the same as the Liftback. There is no reduction in rear seat passenger room from the standard Prius model, with seating for three and 36.0 inches of legroom that is on par with midsize sedans.		Significantly, the biggest change in packaging from the Prius Plug-in Hybrid test- fleet model is the smaller, more efficient battery pack in the production model. The new battery pack is approximately one-half the weight of the demonstration-phase vehicle, yet provides about 15-percent more range.		The 2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in has a weight of 3,165 lbs. versus 3,042 lbs. for the Prius Liftback and 3,373 lbs. for the Plug-in test-fleet model. Suspension tuning has		-more-		￼￼		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 5-5-5-5		been altered in accordance with the change in weight distribution from the standard Prius model.		The Prius Plug-in reduced vehicle weight in other areas as well. In place of a spare tire, the Prius Plug-in carries a tire-sealing kit and inflator. The trunk floor panel features a reinforced honeycomb design and is about half the weight of the standard model's floor panel, while the charging cable stores in a compartment at the rear edge of the trunk floor.		As on the standard Prius model, weight was saved through use of aluminum in the hood, rear hatch, front stabilizer bar and brake calipers and by using super high- tensile strength steel in the inner rocker panel, center pillar and roof reinforcement.		All Prius models are built using processes that reduce emissions in every stage of the vehicle lifecycle, from production and driving, through eventual disposal and dismantling years down the road. Toyota uses plant-derived, carbon-neutral plastics in Prius models. Known as "ecological plastic," the material is used in the seat cushion foam, cowl side trim, inner and outer scuff plates, and deck trim cover. Ecological plastic emits less CO2 during the production process than conventional plastic, and it also helps reduce petroleum use.		Exclusive Trim Levels		Externally, the Prius Plug-in inherits the standard model's exceptionally low coefficient of drag at 0.25 Cd. The current Prius had received more wind tunnel hours of testing than any other Toyota in history, resulting in one of the cleanest aerodynamic profiles of any mass-produced vehicle in the world.		The 2012 Prius Plug-in is distinguished from the standard Prius model by exclusive exterior trim, including chrome-like finish for the door handles, front grille, rear license plate garnish and the battery charging door. Unique badges, blue-accent headlamps and LED taillight clusters also identify the new model. It is available in five exterior colors, including the new Clearwater Blue.		The new Prius Plug-in will be offered in two trim levels, standard and Advanced. The standard trim level provides all of the features of the Prius Two Liftback grade, plus some features from the upscale Prius Three and Prius Four grades. The Prius Plug-in Hybrid also makes standard a new touch-screen Display Audio and navigation system with rear backup camera and Toyota's new EntuneTM multimedia services.		￼-more-		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 6-6-6-6		The Prius Plug-in comes standard with unique wheels, LED Daytime Running		Lights, new driver-feedback screens, heated front seats, Smart Key System on three doors with push-button start and remote illuminated entry, and the Touch Tracer Display. The latter features touch sensors on the steering wheel switches that are designed to reduce driver eye movement for better concentration on the road. When the driver touches the audio or info switch located on the steering wheel, a duplicate image is displayed on the instrument panel, directly in front of the driver.		The Advanced trim level adds Head-Up Display, LED headlamps, SofTex interior seat trim, eight-way adjustable power driver seat, a JBL® premium audio and HDD navigation system and exclusive Entune Plug-in Hybrid Applications for smartphones. Additional safety features in the Advanced level include the Pre-Collision System with Dynamic Radar Cruise Control and Safety Connect system. The latter can access a call center with a live operator who can dispatch police and emergency vehicles. The system combines automatic collision notification and a stolen vehicle locator feature, which can track the location of the stolen vehicle via GPS and help guide police to recover it.		Hybrid Synergy Drive		The Hybrid Synergy Drive system in the Prius Plug-in Hybrid is essentially the same as in the current third-generation Prius and new Prius v models. The system uses two high-output electric motors, one 60kw (80 hp) unit that mainly works to power the compact, lightweight transaxle, and another smaller motor that works as the electric power source for battery regeneration and as a starter for the gas engine. Maximum motor-drive voltage is 650 volts DC.		Hybrid Synergy Drive is a series-parallel hybrid system that can provide power either from the engine alone, or the electric motor/generator alone, or any mix of both. A hybrid control computer manages the system so that optimum power is delivered according to driver demand. A start/stop system and regenerative braking also help to conserve fuel, the latter recharging the battery upon deceleration.		Hybrid Synergy Drive is built around a specially adapted, efficient 98-horsepower 1.8-liter four-cylinder engine that runs on the Atkinson cycle and contributes to a maximum 134 total system horsepower. Key components include an electric water pump that requires no belts, and an Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) system that helps warm the engine quickly, reducing fuel consumption when the engine is cold.		￼-more-		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 7-7-7-7		The compact and lightweight gasoline engine produces low noise and		vibration. Sophisticated valve control, injector design, and other technologies help reduce emissions to allow the Prius Plug-in to qualify for an enhanced ATPZEV emissions rating. A new low-pressure fuel-vapor containment tank system releases pressure in the tank for the engine to consume the generated vapor.		Remote Climate Control Operation for Comfort and Conservation		The Prius Plug-in features a standard automatic climate control system. The remote air conditioning feature can be activated by the key fob while the vehicle is being charged to cool the interior. This feature can help enhance fuel consumption by using the external AC power source to provide comfortable cabin temperature before entering the car. As in the standard Prius, an ECO switch operates to prioritize fuel economy when the air conditioning is running. On the Advanced model a Smartphone can be used to start cooling the cabin		For quick interior heating in cold climates, the Prius Plug-in Hybrid features standard two-position front seat heaters and a supplementary electric heater.		Safety		Like all Toyota models, the Prius Plug-in Hybrid will feature as standard Toyota's Star Safety SystemTM, which includes Enhanced Vehicle Stability Control (VSC), Traction Control (TRAC), Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Brake Assist, and the Smart Stop Technology brake-override system. An available Pre-Collision System (PCS), paired with Dynamic Radar Cruise Control, retracts seatbelts and applies the brakes in certain conditions when a frontal crash is determined to be unavoidable. The Prius Plug-in will also come standard with seven airbags. Also available is Safety Connect, which includes automatic collision		notification, stolen vehicle locator, emergency assistance button (SOS) and roadside assistance (three-year complimentary subscription included).		Entune Multimedia System		The 2012 Prius Plug-in is among a number of Toyota models that offer the new Entune multimedia system. This innovative new system leverages mobile smartphones to provide a richer in-vehicle experience with fully integrated access to navigation, entertainment and information services.		￼￼￼-more-		2012 Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid 8-8-8-8		Toyota Entune debuts the first-ever support for engaging mobile apps, such as		BingTM, OpenTable®, and MovieTickets.com, along with accessing useful travel-related services, such as live weather, traffic, fuel information (location and price), stocks, and sports. Toyota Entune brings the largest selection of music options available to a vehicle, including iHeartRadio's 750+ stations, and the Pandora® personalized music service.		Access to Entune services (and Plug-in Hybrid Applications in the Advanced trim level) is complimentary for three years. The audio systems combined with Entune feature a best-in-class, advanced conversational voice recognition system that helps the driver to stay focused on the road by eliminating the need to memorize thousands of voice commands. The system will also allow for audio read-back and replay capabilities for text messages, with the ability to respond by pre-set quick-reply messages such as: "I'm driving and will reply later."		Peace of Mind Warranty Protection		Toyota's 36-month/36,000 mile basic new-vehicle warranty applies to all components other than normal wear and maintenance items. Additional 60-month warranties cover the powertrain for 60,000 miles and against corrosion with no mileage limitation. The hybrid-related components, including the HV battery, battery control module, hybrid control module and inverter with converter, and the battery-charging system and cable/connector, are covered for eight years/100,000 miles (10 years/150,000 miles for CARB states).		The Prius Plug-in Hybrid will also come standard with Toyota Care, a complimentary plan covering normal factory-scheduled maintenance and 24-hour roadside assistance for three years or 25,000 miles, whichever comes first.
 