
 
 Lost luggage is a seemingly unavoidable inevitability for the frequent traveller. Millions of bags either get left behind, sent to the wrong city or simply disappear completely every year. GlobaTrac has created Trakdot Luggage to give the constant flyer a little more of a sense of security. The palm-sized plastic device slips discreetly into your duffle or suitcase and updates the owner on its location via an app, SMS, email or the Trakdot website. Sadly the apps are not live in Play or the iTunes app store, so we can't tell you much about their functionality, outside of some specialized alerts that are promised, like a notification when your bag hits the claim carrosel. On the site you can set up customized text and email notifications or view location pins via Google Maps.

 The preproduction box we handled was stunningly light, though we wouldn't be surprised if the device packed on a little weight when the final version hits shelves in March. Rather than rely on battery draining GPS, the Trakdot Luggage relies on a quad-band GSM chip and triangulation, which allows it to last up to two weeks on a fresh pair of AAs, which are generously included in the packaging. The Trakdot luggage will $49.95, though a one time activation fee of $8.99 and an annual service fee of $12.99 will be required to keep it functional. Check out the gallery below and the PR after the break for more.





  Show full PR text    TrakdotTM Luggage Delivers Peace of Mind to Travelers with Affordable Real-Time Airport Baggage Tracking
   Los Angeles – January 7, 2013 – According to the SITA, nearly 26 million bags go missing each year from airports around the world. Air travelers concerned about their valuables now have a simple, affordable luggage tracking solution from TrakdotTM. The Trakdot LuggageTM tracker fits into a checked bag and reports city location in real time to any mobile, Apple, Android, or SMS capable devices. For the first time, Trakdot Luggage gives airline passengers unprecedented control at a wallet-friendly price, allowing them to keep track of checked-in luggage anywhere mobile phones work.

   Trakdot Luggage is built for travel convenience, with a palm-sized tracker that is ultra-light and fits easily into any size bag. The luggage locator system delivers city-specific information on the whereabouts of checked baggage in real time. Even if the Trakdot protected bag does not reach the desired destination, passengers will still have the reassurance of knowing which city their luggage is in.

   Once the device is registered on the Trakdot website and placed inside a checked bag, it will deliver location information directly to the user's mobile phone or SMS device via text or email. Alternatively, travelers can track their luggage on Trakdot.com or use the free Trakdot Luggage app. An additional app alerts passengers as their baggage approaches on the carousel, making it easier than ever for them to find their bag.

   "A recent passenger survey from the International Air Transport Association showed that 81% of travelers are interested in tracking their bags in real time," explains CEO Harry Steck. "Trakdot Luggage empowers travelers to do just that, with a revolutionary product that is inexpensive as well as simple and convenient to use."

   The retail package includes the Trakdot Luggage device, luggage tag, and batteries. It works globally with any cell phone or SMS enabled device for a low annual price. Each device can be linked to multiple phones, and each phone can track multiple devices (as with family applications). For added convenience, Trakdot Luggage owners can track or locate bags on the web at www.Trakdot.com using a secure log-in.

   The product will be available March 2013 for $49.95 MSRP with an activation fee of $8.99 and an annual service fee of $12.99. Media, sales, and distribution inquiries can be made by appointment during CES at LVH Meeting Room MP25639.

   About the TrakdotTM Brand  TrakdotTM delivers breakthrough products that empower consumers to keep track of the people and things they hold dear. Providing cutting-edge patent-protected technology at a remarkable value, Trakdot offers innovative solutions that meet global demand. In a world where our assets seem so vulnerable, Trakdot delivers a level of peace of mind previously unattainable. For more information about Trakdot products, please visit www.Trakdot.com.  Trakdot has been created by GlobaTrac LLC , a pioneering innovator in low cost tracking solutions.

 
