
 
 Thought Tritton was satisfied with only pumping out Xbox-licensed gaming headsets in the last year? Fret not ye' PS3 and PC gamers, instead, say hello to its latest cross-platform unit, the AX Pro+. Although its color scheme is similar to the Dolby Headphone-enabled AX 720 virtual surround sound headset, the moniker pits it as a follow up to the AX Pro. Like its predecessor, the Pro+ sports a trio of drivers and one subwoofer in each of its earcups, aiming to offer "true 5.1 surround sound." Among other design tweaks, its cups can rotate flat for added comfort (a sorely missed feature on the original), and the drivers have been repositioned for "superior surround sound separation and improved bass response." An included Dolby decoder box handles its connections, while the headset's inline remote allows you to adjust each driver's individual volume level, the balance of game / voice audio, and enable voice monitoring through its detachable mic. Better yet, the whole setup is powered by one wall plug, rather than two as was the annoyance with the older model. Discrete 5.1 headsets haven't impressed us in the past, but you can pre-order the Pro+ for $200 from Tritton if you're willing to give its cramped surround sound setup a try during Call of Duty fragging sessions come this September.



  Show full PR text   Mad Catz® Announces TRITTON® PRO+™ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset Featuring Dolby® Digital Technology
  Flagship Multi-Format Headset Features Advanced Speaker Separation And Improved Design
  San Diego – August 16, 2012 – Mad Catz Interactive, Inc. ("Mad Catz") (NYSE MKT: MCZ) announced today the TRITTON PRO+ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset, the upgrade to the award winning TRITTON AX Pro™. Compatible with both the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system from Microsoft and the PlayStation®3 computer entertainment system from Sony®, the TRITTON PRO+ True 5.1 Surround Sound Headset is expected to ship in September 2012.
  The PRO+ features a number of key enhancements designed to offer superior performance and comfort. Featuring true Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound via eight separate Neodynium drivers (four in each earcup), the PRO+ produces superior surround sound separation and improved bass response thanks to newly repositioned speaker placement inside the earcups. In addition, the PRO+ features a redesigned in-line Remote and Selectable Voice Monitoring (SVM), allowing users to choose if they hear their own voice in the headset. The PRO+ sports a lightweight and flexible design, ideal for extended playing sessions and replete in an eye-catching gloss white finish.
  "The AX Pro pioneered multi-driver Dolby Digital surround sound gaming headsets. We believe the PRO+ will be an important part of our growth and enable us to maintain our leadership position within the high-end gaming headset market." said Darren Richardson, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mad Catz. "The PRO+ innovation in audio and design further demonstrates our commitment to the category and is part of our strategy to bring market leading products to passionate gamers."
  Additional information and purchase options are available at: www.trittonaudio.com/proplus
 
