
 
We don't have the foggiest idea whether Tron: Legacy will serve to reboot Disney's venerable light cycling franchise, but it's certainly got peripheral vendors in high gear -- you'll be able to hack the ENCOM Digitizing Molecular Laser with a genuine Tron keyboard and mouse or toss virtual light discs with an Tron-themed Xbox 360, PS3 or Wii controller this holiday season. Gaming favorite Razer crafted this $130 laser-etched keyboard with swappable numpad and programmable macros; it will ship alongside a $100, 5600dpi laser mouse in October, and PDP will provide the console controllers for $50 at an unspecified date. We were bummed to hear that the Xbox 360 and PS3 pads are wired, but in retrospect that might be a good thing -- by comparison, Razer's detachable keypad is just begging to be thrown at an MCP-generated foe. See all the new Tron toys lit up in a video after the break. (Caution: video loads automatically.) 






Show full PR textDISNEY UNVEILS CUTTING EDGE TRON-INSPIRED TOYS AND ELECTRONICS LINEFrom TRON: Legacy Action Figures That Boast First-Of-Its Kind Impulse Projection Technology To High-End Headphones For Gamers And AudiophilesNEW YORK – June 22, 2010 – Disney Consumer Products (DCP) today unveiled a first look at its unprecedented fall line-up of TRON: Legacy inspired electronics and toys (#TronMerch), including the first-ever action figures to feature impulse light projection technology. Also unveiled were high-end lifestyle headphones and advanced computer peripherals for gaming enthusiasts, illuminated iPod® docks, high-quality ear buds and iPhone® cases; and break-through zero-gravity vehicles that travel up and down walls. Walt Disney Picture's TRON: Legacy, starring Academy® Award winning actor Jeff Bridges, Garrett Hedlund and Olivia Wilde, will take audiences on a thrilling action-packed adventure in a unique virtual world when it hits theaters Dec. 17, 2010 in Disney Digital 3D(TM) and IMAX® 3D.(Editor's note: for high resolution product IMAGES http://dcp.smugmug.com/Media-Briefs/TRON-Product-Images/12643337_Nc7h9#908977100_jrp49) and VIDEO http://dcp.smugmug.com/Media-Briefs/TRON-Product-Images/12643337_Nc7h9#909129733_H2sHN)Featuring dark finishes, neon lighting and a cyber aesthetic, DCP's new TRON: Legacy line will immerse kids and adults alike into the amazing, illuminated cyber world of TRON. Developed in collaboration with leading industry innovators including Spinmaster, Monster, Performance Designed Products (PDP) and Razer, TRON products will be available at retail beginning this October and will be showcased at the San Diego Comic Con International Convention next month giving fans an exclusive first look."TRON: Legacy is a cutting-edge film with a unique futuristic feel, and we wanted to create products with new technology and high-end design that live up to what you will see on screen," said Chris Heatherly, VP of toys and electronics, Disney Consumer Products. "This is not a typical movie line. We're working exclusively with trailblazers who normally do not do movie merchandise, but they believed so passionately in TRON that they jumped at the chance to help us make great products."TRON: Legacy Toy LineEvery product in Disney's TRON: Legacy toy line lights up and is designed to bring the film's characters and themes to life by boasting sleek design, eye-popping technology and endless opportunities for active play.TRON Action Figures: The new TRON: Legacy action figures are the first to feature impulse projection technology, which brings the characters to life by projecting digitized, illuminated and moving faces onto the helmet just as in the film. The line features 7.5" figures and a special 12" Ultimate Sam Flynn figure. The characters also speak phrases from the TRON: Legacy film. With prices ranging from $15 to $40, TRON Action Figures are expected to immediately attract avid collectors and to shake up the toy aisle this holiday season. (Ages 4 & up).TRON Core and Deluxe Vehicles: TRON Core and Deluxe vehicles are detailed replicas from TRON: Legacy that come to life when a character is inserted and they both light up. The Deluxe model features launching projectiles, tri-color light changes, pop-up air brakes (pop-up blasters on the Light Runner) and gravity tilt sounds, just like in the movie ($14.99 and $19.99, ages 4 & up).TRON Zero Gravity Light Cycle: The TRON Zero Gravity Light Cycle features six-foot light-emitting trails and legendary Air Hogs technology allowing the vehicle to be driven on a wall or even upside down. Includes controller (SRP $34.99, ages 8 & up).TRON: Legacy ElectronicsDisney's TRON: Legacy electronics line is designed to appeal to discerning gamers and audiophiles who seek out products that offer high quality and innovative design. Key licensees include Monster, PDP and Razer.TRON Headphones, iPod® Dock from Monster: DCP and Monster, a leading manufacturer of high-performance headphones and A/V accessories, have collaborated to bring the ultimate set of headphones designed for the TRON fan, music enthusiasts and serious gamers. The new TRON Headphones capture the design aesthetic of the world of TRON. The Monster Tron T1 over-ear headphones feature Advanced Noise Suppression Technology and ControlTalk(TM), which enables easy and clear hands-free calling (SRP $349.99). The Monster/Disney Tron line will also feature an iPod dock inspired by the iconic data disk from TRON: Legacy ($249.99) and high quality in-ear headphones that will feature ControlTalk(TM) Universal and crystal-clear Monster Headphone signature sound technology ($99.99).TRON PC Peripherals from Razer: Razer is a leader in high-end PC gaming and lifestyle peripherals and has an established reputation for creating the world's most precise and advanced tools for gaming. The new TRON: Legacy inspired gaming peripherals from Razer include: an ergonomic gaming mouse incorporating Razer's 5600dpi 3.5g gaming grade sensor, a gaming keyboard with programmable keys and macro capabilities as well as a detachable keypad, and a high precision mouse mat - all designed to create the ultimate gaming experience featuring highly detailed finishes and lighting effects. The product line will range in price from SRP $79-139.TRON Game Controllers and Apple Accessories from PDP: Unique multiplatform TRON game controllers from PDP bring the look and feel of TRON: Legacy directly into the hands of gamers with light-up accents, perforated details and performance-enhancing contours and design. Playstation 3® and Xbox 360® controllers are corded with precision parts and vibration support; the Wii(TM) controller is wireless. Available in tandem with the TRON: Evolution video game release, the SRP for each is $49.99. PDP will also offer a line of iPod®, iPhone® and iPad® cases inspired by the world of TRON.TRON: Legacy Products at Comic ConFans will get a first look at the all new TRON: Legacy-inspired toys and electronics at San Diego Comic Con next month. Disney will showcase an interactive TRON booth that will engage fans with an array of new TRON-inspired merchandise launching this fall. Capturing the action, light, and cool aesthetic style of the film, the line on display will also include collectibles, apparel and accessories for men and women, publishing and the new TRON: Evolution video game from Disney Interactive Studios. Comic Con exclusive TRON product will also be on sale. Disney will also reveal exciting new mobile content at the event. San Diego Comic Con will be held at the San Diego Convention Center July 22-25, 2010. Visit booth #3712 to see the TRON showcase.
 