
Have you been getting a kick out of Coachella's jams and arts in Indio, California? Or, did you decide to peacefully enjoy it from home via YouTube's site? Either way, you may have heard Tupac made an on-stage holographic appearance over the weekend, performing Hail Mary and 2 of Amerikaz Most Wanted alongside Snoop Dogg. Tupac's hologram was made possible by AV Concepts in partnership with Dr. Dre's production company and Digital Domain, after reportedly working on the project for a few months. The outfits used a display technology dubbed "Eyeliner" that, with the help of a custom rig and a mechanical solution, was able to shoot out a life-sized, 3D illusion of Mr. Shakur onto the Coachella platform. Don't believe us? Hit 'em up at the source below, though we feel compelled to tell you language isn't exactly for all ages.




Show full PR textAV Concepts Brings Tupac Back via Hologram to Perform with Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg at the 2012 Coachella Music FestivalSAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--AV Concepts, an award-winning immersive technology solutions provider of video, audio, and staging services for corporate, convention, and entertainment events, executed the technology and content behind the most anticipated performance at this year's Coachella Music Festival."A highly choreographed, live, outdoor holographic production of this magnitude with hundreds of thousands of people watching gave us the added incentive, and pressure, to deliver"Over 100,000 fans witnessed the "return of Tupac" as a Hologram performing on stage with hip-hop music legends Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg, thanks to the combination of advanced projection technology and creative expertise available only from AV Concepts. The production followed months of collaborative planning between Dr. Dre's production company and AV Concepts' creative and technical experts to design and engineer the special effect (www.avconcepts.com/portfolio)."This show was by far one of the most exciting yet challenging projects we have ever worked on," said Nick Smith, President of AV Concepts. "A highly choreographed, live, outdoor holographic production of this magnitude with hundreds of thousands of people watching gave us the added incentive, and pressure, to deliver" Nick said.AV Concepts, the largest North American licensee for Musion®, utilized the Eyeliner™ display technology along with a custom rigging and mechanical solution to deliver the perceived 3-dimensional life-sized holographic illusion. AV Concepts partnered closely with Digital Domain Productions to shoot videos and deliver the life-like imagery that were critical to the success of the performance.AV Concepts' success in Coachella comes on the heels of highly acclaimed projection mapping projects for Chris Brown at the Grammy's and the American Music Awards. These events utilized AV Concepts' proprietary Liquid Scenic server to deliver uncompressed HD video which can be projected as holograms in an entertainment setting or as 3D imagery on building exteriors, interior walls, stage sets and other structures.AV ConceptsAV Concepts is an inspired place where creative and technology converge. For 24 years AV Concepts has been a full-service supplier of video, audio, lighting and technical services, driving innovation to a new level for brands, professional meetings and corporate events. With a team of over 100 employees supporting 500+ annual events across North America, AV Concepts has been recognized as an industry leader who delivers exceptional quality, ideas and client satisfaction. AV Concepts can be found at www.avconcepts.com, www.twitter.com/avconceptsinc, www.youtube.com/avconceptsinc, and www.facebook.com/avconceptsinc.
 