
 


	Turtle Beach's PS3-oriented PX5 performed great in our recent review, and just after we've arrived at E3 the company has announced another new release for the show: the XP500 for the Xbox 360. It's essentially a PX5, featuring the same design and programmable Dolby virtual 7.1 goodness, but with a Microsoft loving green trim and a rechargeable Xbox 360 Bluetooth Chat Adapter -- the latter plugs into your controller for some wireless chatting action. This makes it the only other completely wireless Xbox headset besides the Tritton / Microsoft cans we got a glimpse of last week. The XP500 will cost $260 -- $10 more than the PX5 -- when Turtle Beach releases it this fall, but current PX5 owners can just purchase the $30 Chat Adapter to join the fun.

	In addition, TB is also announcing the $30 XL1 as a replacement for your Xbox's standard headset -- you can view its full-on stereo glory alongside the XP500 in our gallery below. We'll hopefully grab some ears-on time with all of the new gear while we're here at E3.





 		Show full PR text   E3 2011: Turtle Beach Debuts A New Generation of XBOX 360 Gaming Headsets at E3 2011 			Turtle Beach continues the tradition of award winning XBOX 360 headsets by introducing the super-premium XP500 and economical XL1 models 			Elmsford, N.Y., June 7, 2011 – Turtle Beach, the leader in premium gaming headsets announces two exciting additions to their XBOX 360 line up of gaming headsets. The story begins with the top of the line Ear Force XP500 Programmable Wireless Gaming Headset with Dolby7.1 Surround Sound and Bluetooth Chat; the long-awaited XBOX 360 focused companion to the acclaimed PX5 introduced earlier this year. At the other end is the economical and performance-packed Ear Force XL1 Amplified Stereo Gaming Headset. These headsets join the recently announced PX3 and Z6A models, all making their debuts at the 2011 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, California, from June 7-9, 2011 at the Turtle Beach booth #435 in the South Hall of the Los Angeles Convention Center. 			Turtle Beach Ear Force XP500 Programmable Wireless Gaming Headset with Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound and Wireless XBOX 360 Chat 			Like the revolutionary Ear Force PX5, the new Ear Force XP500 delivers all of the PX5's impressive features, along with wireless XBOX 360 chat via Bluetooth. Like the PX5, the XP500 incorporates programmable custom presets that allow independent customization of the chat, game and microphone signals. These custom presets are stored in the headset and can be selected on the fly during specific parts of the game to emphasize sounds like enemy footsteps or ammo reloads that might otherwise be difficult to hear. 			The XP500 sets itself apart from the PX5 with its ability to function with the XBOX 360 completely wirelessly right out of the box. The included XBOX 360 Bluetooth Chat Adapter (XBA) lets players eliminate the chat wire connecting their headset and controller, making it the first XBOX 360 headset with wireless chat. The XP500's dual-paring Bluetooth functionality also enables the headset to answer mobile phone calls and stream music from Bluetooth enabled digital audio players while enjoying the freedom of wireless chat. The XBA adapter will also be available for purchase on the Turtle Beach website for PX5 owners looking to upgrade to full wireless XBOX LIVE chat. 			"The PX5 pioneered a new generation of headsets that recalibrated people's expectations of what a gaming headset can be." Said Carmine Bonanno, President and CEO of Turtle Beach. "With the release of the XP500, XBOX 360 owners can enjoy the super-premium gaming experience they have been waiting for, complete with wireless chat." 			Key features and user benefits of the Turtle Beach Ear Force XP500 include: 			· Customizable Presets: Configure up to 18 personalized presets to optimize game, chat, and microphone audio for different gaming situations. Download the Advanced Sound Editor software and make your own presets, or simply upload any of the numerous custom files posted on the Turtle Beach website. 			· Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound: Immersive 360 degree audio lets you hear the direction of every sound as if you were playing with speakers all around you 			· Digital RF Wireless Game Sound: Uncompressed wireless digital audio signal delivers CD-quality game sound that rivals professional grade wired headphones 			· Xbox Chat Adapter (XBA): For the first time, play XBOX 360 games untethered and chat without any wires using Bluetooth technology! 			· Dynamic Chat Boost: Chat level increases automatically as the game volume gets louder, so you can always hear the voices of other players 			· Microphone Monitoring: Lets you hear your voice in the headset, so you won't need to shout to hear yourself 			· Sonic Silencers: Enjoy total silence by eliminating ambient noise pickup on your mic and cutting background noise from PSN or XBOX LIVE chat sound 			· Sonic Lens™ with Sound Field Expander: Widen or narrow the sound field to focus on difficult to hear audio cues like footsteps sneaking up on you or the clicks of someone reloading in the distance 			· Intuitive Voice Prompts: A real voice announces critical headset status conditions, such a low battery, preset numbers and more 			· Ear Guard with Blast Limiter: Limit the intensity of deafening games sounds such as explosions and gunfire to reduce ear fatigue during long gaming sessions 			· PS3 and XBOX 360 Compatible: Delivers the ultimate gaming experience with PS3 and XBOX 360 consoles 			MSRP: $269.95 			Availability: Fall 2011 			URL: www.turtlebeach.com/XP500  			Ear Force XL1 Amplified Stereo Gaming Headset 			The Ear Force XL1 Amplified Stereo Gaming Headset for the XBOX 360 is an affordably-priced headset for the casual gamer who wants to improve their gaming experience without breaking the bank. The in-line amplifier features a built-in bass boost and independent controls for the game and chat volume. With 50 millimeter speakers, comfortable fabric mesh ear cushions and lightweight design, gamers will enjoy amazing audio fidelity and extreme comfort during long gaming sessions. 			"Turtle Beach has always been obsessed with providing value and performance in the same package and the new Ear Force XL1 is no exception." stated Carmine Bonanno, President and CEO of Turtle Beach. "This new entry level headset offers XBOX 360 owners all the features they need to enjoy a more immersive gaming experience, at a price that rivals the cost of a mono communicator headset. 			MSRP: $39.95 			Availability: Fall 2011 			URL: www.turtlebeach.com/XL1 
 