
 


Last year, at CES Turtle Beach wowed us with its Ear Force PX5 wireless gaming headset, featuring customizable surround sound presets -- this year, the New York-based company is unveiling its first foray into "lifestyle" headsets with its new M-series, as well as updating some of its staple Ear Force gaming headsets. To start, fans of the X31 and X41 wireless Xbox 360 headsets will be pleased to learn about its new X32 and X42, respectively priced at about $100 and $160. The duo build atop their older siblings' 2.4 Ghz RF radio signals, operating over dual-band 2.4 / 5 Ghz WiFi using an included transmitter. While both of these native stereo headsets feature a similar design with 50mm drivers, the X42 notably comes equipped with Dolby 7.1 virtual surround sound.

Moving onto the PC front, TB is introducing an option for gamers on a budget with its $40 Z11. Much like the company's on-ear Z1, it's a bare-bones stereo headset, but notably, the Z11 opts for an over-ear design with 50mm drivers. Lastly, Turtle's trio of M-series headsets are perfect for those looking to talk trash on Call of Duty and command their favorite music playlists on their smartphone between frag sessions. The lineup consists of the in-ear M1s, on-ear M3s (seen above, and vaguely similar Nox Audio's now-defunct Specialist) and the over-ear (and PX5-like) M5s. Each headset features an Android and iPhone-compatible inline remote / mic, and they're set to sell from $40 to $60 when they hit shelves. While availability for all the goods has yet to be announced, Turtle Beach apparently has another "surprise" announcement planned for CES, and we'll be sure to let you know as soon as when do while we're there. For now, check out the gallery below to see all the goods in the flesh, and the press release after the break for more details. 






 		Show full PR text  CES 2012: TURTLE BEACH ANNOUNCES NEW PRODUCTS SPANNING		WIRELESS, MOBILE AND DOLBY SURROUND SOUND TECHNOLOGIES 		Industry Leader Presents Newest Video Game Headset and Accessory Lineup at CES 2012, plus a Special Surprise Announcement January 10 on SpikeTV 		Elmsford, NY, January 5, 2011 – Turtle Beach, the market leading pioneers of the console gaming headset category, today announced their line of new products being unveiled at the International Consumer Electronics Show this year. Cutting-edge technologies being introduced in these products range from new interference-reducing dual-band 2.4/5 GHz Wi-Fi RF wireless tech, customizable Dolby® Surround Sound speaker angles and a new line of mobile lifestyle headsets designed for gamers on the go. All newly announced Turtle Beach products will be available for demonstration along with the full product assortment, at the Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall 1 – Booth #21327, during the International Consumer Electronics Show from January 10 to 13, 2012. 		2012's product lineup follows another banner year in 2011 for the company; based on NPD data Turtle Beach is the number one gaming headsets/headphones company and the number one overall for third party console video gaming accessories based on dollar volume. Numerous awards and accolades were collected for its many new products in 2011 and the company is poised to deliver more "firsts" in 2012. 		In addition to the products listed below, Turtle Beach and Spike TV will be hosting an exclusive new product reveal only available on the Spike TV "CES ALL ACCESS LIVE" show airing on Tuesday, January 10. Tune into "CES ALL ACCESS LIVE" during the 11:00 AM hour (PDT) to see the world exclusive reveal of the latest unannounced Turtle Beach product. Visit http://dialedin.com/mtvnetworks41/CES/Sizzle for more information about "CES ALL ACCESS LIVE", or check with your local cable provider to catch this year's biggest announcement in the gaming headset category. 		New Console and PC Lineup 		• Ear Force X42 Wireless Dolby® Surround Sound Xbox 360® Headset		• Ear Force X32 Wireless Stereo Xbox 360® Headset		• Replacements for the very popular Ear Force X31 and Ear Force X41 models, these headsets include new 2.4/5GHz dual-band Wi-Fi technology that actively navigates the wireless landscape in your home or office and finds the open bandwidth to eliminate interference with 2.4GHz wireless devices and LANs. With massive 50mm drivers, the X32/X42 headsets will not only outperform their predecessors, they represent the ultimate blend of value and wireless performance for Xbox gamers.		• Ear Force X32 MSRP: USD $99.95; Ear Force X42 MSRP: USD $159.95		• Availability TBA 		• Ear Force DSS 2 Surround Sound Processor for Stereo Headsets		• The latest iteration of Turtle Beach's award winning Dolby® Surround Sound Processor (DSS), this updated model revolutionizes the surround sound experience with six variable speaker configurations, offering custom tuned angles to optimize the surround sound effect for any listener.		• DSS2 is sold alone, or bundled as part of several new Turtle Beach surround sound wired headset models, also debuting at CES.		• The Ear Force DSS2 is available now on the Turtle Beach website for USD $79.95 		• Ear Force Z11 Wired Stereo PC Gaming Headset		• The latest addition to the Ear Force PC headset lineup, the Z11 brings an affordable, high-quality stereo experience to PC gamers, with acoustically angled 50mm drivers for rich audio and crystal clear communication.		• MSRP: USD $39.95		• Availability TBA 		M-Series Mobile Lifestyle Headsets 		Building on the success of their console and PC gaming product lines, Turtle Beach is introducing three new headsets designed specifically for gamers on the go. The M5 and M3 headsets, along with the M1 Earbuds, are engineered to deliver the same legendary audio quality found in all Turtle Beach gaming headsets, while providing compatibility with a broad range of smart phones, tablets and mobile gaming devices. 		• Ear Force M5: Mobile Gaming Headset		• The M5 mobile gaming headset features high-fidelity 40mm audio drivers and full-sized, noise-isolating ear cups with breathable mesh cushions for enhanced comfort. The M5 delivers premium audio quality for gaming or listening to music. Features an in-line mic with call control in a sleek, compact design for hands-free calling and crystal clear communication.		• MSRP: USD $49.95		• Availability TBA 		• Ear Force M3: Mobile Gaming Headset		• Designed for optimum portability, the M3 features a compact, fold-flat design for easy storage, while its comfortable noise-isolating ear cups and 40mm drivers deliver extreme comfort and high-fidelity audio. The M3 also includes an in-line mic for hands-free calling and online communication.		• MSRP: USD $39.95		• Availability TBA 		• Ear Force M1: Mobile Gaming Earbuds with In-line Mic		• These noise-isolating earbuds are specially-designed for enhanced stability and comfort with an around-the-ear fit. They feature high-performance 10mm drivers with neodymium magnets that deliver a dynamic audio range with deep bass response and superior sound quality. The M1 also includes a sleek in-line mic and durable tangle-free braided cable.		• MSRP: USD $59.95		• Availability TBA 		For more information on these an all Turtle Beach products, please visit www.turtlebeach.com.
 