
 
 If you thought Turtle Beach was only announcing its MLG-approved gaming headsets at E3, let us tell you that those are only a sliver of everything it plans to offer this fall. For the second time with a Call of Duty release, you can expect a barrage of co-branded headsets from the company when Black Ops II hits shelves, including the Ear Force Earbuds, Tango, Sierra, X-ray and Kilo and priced $70 to $300. You can expect LED lights, Bluetooth functionality, and virtual surround sound on some of the more expensive models. Moving along, TB has partnered with Nintendo to created licensed headsets for the Wii U that'll also work for the 3DS, and a we're told prototype model will be on display at the show floor.
 As if that weren't enough, a new series of smaller "La" ear-blasters have also been detailed. You'll have choice between the USB-powered PLa (PS3) and XLa (Xbox) which feature 40mm drivers, independent game and chat controls, microphone monitoring and bass boost functionality for when you need more wub. A computer version dubbed ZLa will also be available, stripping away most of the aforementioned features in favor of 4-pole 3.5mm jack for easy compatibility between your devices. Lastly, the M7 has been added to the company's lifestyle lineup, featuring 50mm drivers, an inline remote / mic, a faux-leather headband and memory foam earcup pads for noise isolation. There's no word on pricing or availability for the La and M-series headsets -- nor are any images available yet for the Black Ops II headsets -- but you'll find more details on everything mentioned in the press release after the break. We'll be sure to update you with more info when we have it.

 Update: We've added a gallery of photos just below.





  Show full PR text   TURTLE BEACH STORMS E3 WITH NEW AND ADVANCED LINE-UP OF  GAMING AUDIO PRODUCTS
  Audio Technology Experts Feature Theater Experience, Tournament Area and New Products
  VALHALLA, N.Y. & LOS ANGELES – June 5, 2012 – Turtle Beach, pioneers and market-leaders of the gaming headset category, is pleased to unveil its new fall lineup at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). Turtle Beach has created a 6,000 square foot both that will showcase new products and a dedicated theater showcase featuring an immersive audio experience. In addition, Turtle Beach will also underscore its commitment to competitive gaming by offering attendees a tournament showcase. The tournament area, theater experience and full line of gaming audio products are available via its E3 booth; Los Angeles  Convention Center South Hall #2447, from June 5 – 7, 2012.
  The Turtle Beach Ear Force theater experience offers E3 attendees a unique and innovative audio presentation to demonstrate the importance of audio in the gaming experience. Through a custom system utilizing a 270-degree screen, three projectors and headset integration the presentation highlights Turtle Beach's advanced audio.
  Products debuting at E3 2012 from Turtle Beach include:
  Ear Force M7: The latest in the M-series line of headsets designed for mobile gaming, the M7  offers high-fidelity audio through 50mm speakers for premium stereo sound. For premium,  styling and noise isolation, the M7 features a leatherette headband and a memory foam ear  cushion. In addition, it offers in-line microphone with call control and a tangle-free braided cord.
  The M7 also provides the option to customize its look and feel with interchangeable speaker  plates. It's also compatible with smartphones, tablets, portable game systems and digital music players.
  Ear Force ZLa: A PC Gaming Headset, compatible with Windows and Mac systems, featuring  acoustically angled speakers to deliver optimal sound quality through 40mm speakers. In-line volume controls allow for quick access to volume and mic mute controls. With a 3.5mm, 4-Pole connector and PC adapter cable, the ZLa also easily connects to computers and mobile devices, such as tablets.
  Ear Force PLa & XLa: These amplified gaming headsets are designed for PlayStation 3 and  Xbox 360, respectively. Both offer a more immersive experience through amplified audio and  built-in bass boost for increased depth and realism. Independent volume controls allow for  personalized balancing of game and chat audio, and a microphone monitor allows you to hear your voice naturally as you speak. Both are USB powered and require no batteries. The PLa is also compatible with Windows and Mac systems.
  The MSRP and availability date for the Ear Force ZLa, PLa, XLa and M7 will be announced in the coming months.
  In addition to these products, Turtle Beach has also announced a comprehensive product and marketing partnership with Major League Gaming and Activision, as well as a licensing agreement with Nintendo.
  Licensed gaming headsets for Nintendo's Wii U™  Turtle Beach is announcing its agreement to produce licensed Wii U™ headsets in anticipation of the upcoming console launch. The proposed inaugural Nintendo branded headsets will include built-in chat functionality, connect easily to the Wii U™ tablet controller and also function with portable devices such as the Nintendo 3DS™ hand-held system and the Nintendo DS™ hand-held system.
  Limited Edition Call of Duty®: Black Ops® II Gaming Headsets  Turtle Beach will unveil and display a new line of exclusively licensed, limited edition Call of  Duty®: Black Ops® II Ear Force headsets. Custom designed and optimized to deliver enhanced audio for the year's most anticipated entertainment launch, the distinctive line includes the Ear Force TANGO, Ear Force SIERRA, Ear Force X-RAY, Ear Force KILO and Ear Force EARBUDS.
  Comprehensive Major League Gaming Partnership  On the heels of announcing its comprehensive product and marketing partnership with Major  League Gaming, Turtle Beach will display working prototypes of the all-new MLG exclusive pro circuit headsets in its booth. Part of Turtle Beach's new SEVEN series, the working prototypes include the Ear Force XP7 and Z7 programmable surround sound headsets for console and PC play, and the Ear Force TM1 tournament audio mixer. The XP7 and Z7 headsets will feature Turtle Beach's acclaimed Preset Technology for the ultimate in bespoke audio. In addition, MLG Pro Players will be on hand  to help introduce the new products, with appearances in the Turtle Beach booth daily, starting at 2:00pm PT.
  To learn more about Turtle Beach, visit its booth at E3 in Los Angeles from June 5-7 in the South Hall of the Los Angeles Convention Center, #2447, or visit its website at http://www.turtlebeach.com.
 
  TURTLE BEACH ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT WITH NINTENDO TO DEVELOP OFFICIALLY LICENSED HEADSETS FOR Wii U™ AND NINTENDO 3DS™
 
  Turtle Beach Brings Premium Stereo Sound Quality and Crystal Clear Built-In Chat to Nintendo's Newest Console
  VALHALLA, N.Y. & LOS ANGELES – June 5, 2012 – Turtle Beach, pioneers and market-leaders of the gaming headset category, today announce an agreement with Nintendo, worldwide pioneer in the creation of interactive entertainment, for an officially licensed line of Wii U™ gaming headsets in anticipation of the new console.  Under the agreement, Turtle Beach will produce a line of licensed headsets for Nintendo's Wii U™ with built-in chat functionality. These proposed headsets will also be compatible with portable devices such as the Nintendo 3DS™ hand-held system and the Nintendo DS™ hand-held system. Based on its legacy of audio supremacy, Turtle Beach will aim to provide Wii U™ gamers with a series of solid entry level headsets at competitive price points.
  "We are very excited to be working with Turtle Beach to launch new gaming headsets for Wii U," said Steve Singer, Vice President of Licensing, Nintendo of America Inc.
  "The Wii U launch will be one of the biggest new game console events of the year and we couldn't be more excited to support Wii U with a line of headsets," said Bob Picunko, Chief Marketing Officer of Turtle Beach. "The advanced capabilities of the upcoming Wii U allow us to take full advantage of the technology we've developed and deliver gamers the kind of quality they fully expect from both Turtle Beach and Nintendo."
  To learn more about Turtle Beach, visit its booth at E3 in Los Angeles from June 5-7 in the South Hall of the Los Angeles Convention Center, #2447, or visit its website at http://www.turtlebeach.com. 
 
  TURTLE BEACH TO DEBUT LIMITED EDITION CALL OF DUTY®: BLACK OPS II GAMING HEADSETS   New Line of State of the Art Ear Force Headsets Designed Exclusively for the Year's Most Anticipated Entertainment Launch   VALHALLA, N.Y. & LOS ANGELES – June 5, 2012 – Turtle Beach, pioneers and market-leaders of the gaming headset category, today introduced a new line of exclusively licensed, limited edition Call of Duty®: Black Ops II Ear Force headsets. Custom designed and optimized to deliver enhanced audio experiences for the year's most anticipated entertainment launch Call of Duty: Black Ops II, the distinctive line will be previewed at Turtle Beach's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) booth: Los Angeles Convention Center South Hall #2447, from June 5 – 7, 2012.
  Turtle Beach, Activision Publishing, Inc. and award-winning game developer Treyarch are collaborating on every facet of the line, from design to the unique features of each model, offering select compatibility across most major platforms. As with last year's highly successful launch of Call of Duty®: Modern Warfare® 3 headset models, Turtle Beach will work with Activision to deploy an extensive mix of marketing, media and retail initiatives to support the new line.
  "Turtle Beach is honored to be working with Treyarch and Activision on a line of new headsets for the release of Call of Duty: Black Ops II," said Bob Picunko, Chief Marketing Officer at Turtle Beach. "Whether you are a hardcore multiplayer gamer or a casual mobile player, the goal in the development of these new headsets is to allow the player to hear the game the way the developer intended."
  The Call of Duty®: Black Ops II Ear Force lineup is built with the latest in video game audio technology and is comprised of five products; Ear Force TANGO, Ear Force SIERRA, Ear Force X-RAY, Ear Force KILO and Ear Force EARBUDS. Each limited edition model contains a unique feature set, special packages, bonus content and a price point suitable for casual gamers to serious competitors. These models are specifically designed to enhance the audio experience across each scenario within the epic gameplay of Call of Duty®: Black Ops II, while placing the technology of the future in gamer's hands today.
  Ear Force TANGO – The top of the line Tango headset offers Call of Duty: Black Ops II fans a sleek, premium design combined with Bluetooth, Wireless Dolby Surround Sound and programmable presets for the ultimate audio experience across the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. The Tango can be loaded with unique Call of Duty: Black Ops II voice prompts and exclusive audio presets custom-created with Treyarch to create a signature game experience. Players also have the option of configuring personalized presets to customize game, chat and mic audio for different gaming scenarios. In addition, the Tango's wireless radio features Turtle Beach's new dual band Wi-Fi technology and operates via a rechargeable battery for up to 15 hours of uninterrupted gameplay. MSRP: $299.99
   Ear Force SIERRA – Optimized for pro tournaments and competitive online play, the Sierra Programmable Dolby Surround Sound headset can also be loaded with Call of Duty: Black Ops II presets custom-created by Treyarch and the option to swap out with personalized presets. The Sierra features a streamlined design with a LED backlit control with touch control capabilities and limited edition Call of Duty: Black Ops II speaker plates for use with Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and PC platforms. In addition, the Sierra features voice morphing so players can disguise their voices; Sonic Lens™ with sound field expander to widen or narrow the sound field and hear game play cues like enemy footsteps; and Ear Guard™ with Blast Limiter to limit the intensity of thunderous sounds like explosions and gunfire. MSRP: $279.99
   Ear Force X-RAY – Boasting clean design and the latest tech, the dual band wireless X-Ray provides Call of Duty: Black Ops II players with an optimized Dolby Surround Sound experience for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Featuring a rechargeable battery and dynamic Chat Boost, players can battle for up to 15 hours in style and comfort with friends. MSRP: $199.99
   Ear Force KILO – For Call of Duty: Black Ops II gamers seeking an affordable high fidelity stereo experience, the new USB powered Kilo delivers with its powerful 50mm speakers and amplified stereo sound for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and PC platforms. Players can also quickly access critical gaming audio controls, including chat and game volume via its inline amp, and experience enhanced depth and realism through the headset's Bass Boost. MSRP: $79.99
  Ear Force EARBUDS – The Ear Force Earbuds are the ideal audio solution for gamers looking to display their dedication to Call of Duty: Black Ops II and enjoy premium quality audio while gaming, talking or listening to music, on their mobile phones or tablets. Its inline microphone provides crystal-clear communication for hands-free calling or chatting during online game play, while its ear gels and design are optimized to eradicate ambient noise and provide optimal comfort. MSRP: $69.99
 
