
 
Hear that? That's the sound of a million new products being introduced here in Vegas... in glistening 7.1 Dolby surround sound, no less. Turtle Beach has just ushered out its new flagship device, the Ear Force PX5. Designed for use with Sony's PlayStation 3 (but perfectly usable with the Xbox 360 or any other audio source), this here gaming headset is wireless in nature and is the company's first to incorporate dual radios -- one for surround sound, and another for chatting on the PlayStation Network via Bluetooth. This is also the first of its kind to incorporate customizable presets; there's a DSP chip that lives inside, and the bundled software interface allows you to program voice prompts, custom EQ, compressors, Bass Boost, etc. Then, those settings are saved right on the headset, enabling your CPU to take a breather while the cans themselves handle the math. Moreover, the BT feature can be used to accept mobile phone calls or listen to audio streams, and if you needed any more reason to invest, it also supports voice morphing. You heard right -- it can be programmed to disguise a gamer's voice, which is partially awesome, and partially the worst thing ever to happen to online chat. Hop on past the break for the full feature list, and look for this one to land in the Spring for $249.95.
      

 

Show full PR textTurtle Beach® Introduces Ear Force® PX5 - Programmable Wireless Dolby® Surround Sound Headset For PS3™ and XBOX® 360Innovative PX5 Pioneers a New Generation of Gaming Headsets with Fully Customizable Sound Control, Bluetooth® Communication and Unmatched Audio QualityElmsford, N.Y., January 4, 2010 – Turtle Beach, a leader in premium gaming headsets and audio entertainment accessories, today revealed their new flagship product, the Ear Force PX5 Programmable Wireless Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound Gaming Headset. Designed for PlayStation 3 and compatible with the Xbox 360, the PX5 will be demonstrated in closed meetings during the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas from January 6-9, 2011. Turtle Beach will debut other new products at their CES Booth, South Hall 1 # 20428.The PX5 is the most technologically-advanced headset ever designed for PS3 and XBOX 360 gaming, incorporating a programmable digital signal processor to allow independent customization of the chat, game and microphone signals. Custom settings stored in the headset as presets can be selected during specific parts of the game to emphasize sounds like footsteps or reloads that might otherwise be difficult to hear. It can even be programmed to disguise a gamer's voice or to enhance the voices of online players to be heard when the game gets louder. These personalized presets will be possible with software available from the Turtle Beach web site via a USB to the gamer's PC.The PX5 is also the first headset to incorporate dual radios-one for immersive, Dolby Digital surround sound game audio and another for chat on the PlayStation Network via Bluetooth. The Bluetooth feature also supports stereo audio streaming for listening to music while playing a game and can accept a phone call while wearing the headset. "Turtle Beach has always been recognized for technological innovation. We pioneered the console gaming headset industry by launching the first stereo Xbox headset, we were the first with wireless gaming headsets, and the first with innovative features to enhance the gaming experience, like Chat Boost™. With the introduction of the programmable PX5, we're poised to again revolutionize the gaming headset market." says Carmine Bonanno, President and CEO. "Allowing gamers to customize their audio environment gives them an opportunity to take charge of their console gaming experience in ways that have never before been available." Although optimized for PS3 and Xbox 360 gaming, the PX5 is also perfect for watching movies with its large, deep, fabric cushions, soft headband, and twist cup designed for resting the headset on your shoulders. Key features and user benefits of the Turtle Beach Ear Force PX5 include:• Customizable Presets: Configure up to 18 personalized presets to optimize game, chat, and microphone audio for different gaming situations.• Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound: Immersive 360 degree audio lets you hear the direction of every sound as if you were playing with speakers all around you.• Digital RF Wireless Game Sound: Uncompressed wireless digital audio signal delivers CD-quality game sound that rivals professional grade wired headphones.• Voice morphing: Disguise your voice by changing the sound from deep lows to screeching highs.• Dual-pairing Bluetooth for Wireless Chat: Chat wirelessly on the Playstation Network, answer mobile phone calls or listen to streaming music from a digital music player while gaming. • Dynamic Chat Boost: Chat level increases automatically as the game volume gets louder, so you can always hear the voices of other players.• Microphone Monitoring: Lets you hear your voice in the headset, so you won't need to shout to hear what you're saying.• Sonic Silencers: Enjoy total silence by eliminating ambient noise pickup on your mic and cutting background noise from PSN or XBOX LIVE chat sound.• Sonic Lens with Sound Field Expander: Widen or narrow the sound field to focus on the audio cues that are difficult to hear like footsteps sneaking up on you or the click of someone reloading in the distance.• Intuitive Voice Prompts: A real voice announces critical headset status conditions, such a low battery, preset numbers, and more.• Ear Guard with Blast Limiter: Limit the intensity of deafening games sounds such as explosions and gunfire to reduce ear fatigue during long gaming sessions.• PS3 and XBOX 360 Compatible: Delivers the ultimate gaming experience with PS3 and XBOX 360 consoles.The Ear Force PX5 will be available in spring 2011. Stay tuned for additional information on pricing and availability.###About Turtle BeachTurtle Beach (www.turtlebeach.com) designs and markets premium audio peripherals for personal computer and video game platforms, including its acclaimed line of Ear Force gaming headphones and headsets crafted for XBOX360® and PS3™ game consoles and PC games. Turtle Beach's Ear Force X41 wireless headset is Official XBOX Magazine's "2009 Peripheral of the Year." Turtle Beach, headquartered in Elmsford, New York, is a brand of Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc., which has been at the forefront of music and audio technology for more than three decades and is recognized as a pioneer of today's PC audio industry.
 