
 


Turtle Beach impressed the pants off of us last month with its Ear Force PX5 headset, which is why our mouths began watering when we found out that the company has two new gaming products on the way -- the Ear Force PX3 and Z6A. Much like the PX5, the wireless PX3 (pictured above) boasts 18 interchangeable audio settings and supports additional presets that users can download directly from Turtle Beach. Though it was designed with PS3 users in mind, the PX3 can also run on an Xbox 360 and is the first Turtle Beach headset to feature a rechargeable, ten-hour battery.

	The PC and Xbox-friendly, surround sound Z6A, meanwhile, rocks eight amplified speakers (including two subwoofers) and is juiced by a 5.1 channel amp that promises to bathe your head with booming bass. The USB-powered device may leave you tethered to your console, but at least it will house your ears in an oversized mesh cushion, which may make those late-night gaming marathons a little more bearable. The PX3 will retail for about $150, with the Z6A set at around $100, and both headsets will be on display at E3 next week in Los Angeles, so we'll be sure to give you our feedback once we get our paws on them. For now, you can sate your appetite with the full PR and an image of the Z6A -- both of which are waiting for you after the break.

Updated: The Z6A is designed for both PC and Xbox platforms.
 

  		Show full PR text  Turtle Beach® Introduces Ear Force® PX3 Programmable Wireless Headset For PS3™ and XBOX® 360 		Ear Force PX3 Programmable Wireless Gaming Headset Gives Console and PC Gamers the Immersive Experience and Competitive Edge they Need 		Elmsford, N.Y., June 1, 2011 – Turtle Beach, the gaming headset category pioneers and market leader, today announced today their latest innovations for 2011; the PX3 Programmable Wireless Stereo Headset and the Z6A Multi-Speaker Surround Sound Headset. Both new headsets will make their debuts at the 2011 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, California, from June 7-9, 2011 at the Turtle Beach booth #435 in the South Hall of the Los Angeles Convention Center. 		Turtle Beach Ear Force PX3 Programmable Wireless Gaming Headset 		Engineered primarily for use with PlayStation 3 - and also compatible with Xbox 360 and PC/Mac gaming - the PX3 is the "kid brother" to the highly acclaimed Ear Force PX5 programmable wireless surround sound headset launched earlier this year. Like the PX5, the PX3 comes preloaded with 18 interchangeable audio presets that allow gamers to select their desired audio experience. Additional stereo audio presets will also be made available for download from the Turtle Beach website for easy installation into the PX3; letting users enjoy a personalized assortment of in-game audio experiences. The PX3 is also Turtle Beach's first headset to feature a rechargeable battery pack, providing over 10 hours of uninterrupted game play and an auxiliary input so you can listen to your favorite music while gaming. In addition, like the PX5, the PX3 has an impressive set of audio features, including Sonic Lens with Sound Field Expander that widens or narrows the sound field to focus on specific frequencies and Ear Guard™ with Blast Limiter technology, which limits the intensity of deafening sounds. 		MSRP: $149.95		Availability: Summer 2011		URL: www.turtlebeach.com/PX3 		Turtle Beach Ear Force Z6A Multi-Speaker Surround Sound Headset 		Powered by a 5.1 channel amplifier with bass enhancement, the Ear Force Z6A combines the audio quality and comfort of a professional-grade gaming headset. The Z6A comes complete with eight amplified speakers including dual subwoofers, delivering realistic directional audio for a more immersive audio experience. The speakers are acoustically angled toward the user's ears, allowing gamers to pinpoint critical sound cues from every direction, such as the sound of approaching footsteps, incoming enemy vehicles, or the click of someone reloading in the distance. With oversized mesh ear cushions and a lightweight design, the Z6A is perfect for long gaming sessions, and with a quick disconnect cable and USB power, it is the ideal solution for LAN tournaments and parties. The Z6A is also features XBOX 360 compatibility with an optional cable kit. 		MSRP: $99.95		Availability: Summer 2011		URL: www.turtlebeach.com/Z6A		"We are the category leader because we are the only headset maker solely focused on gamers' unique audio needs," said Carmine Bonanno, President and CEO of Turtle Beach. We redefined what a gaming headset could do when we introduced the PX5 earlier this year. One message we have heard from gamers load and clear is that they want to control their gaming experience as much as possible. The PX3 allows us to bring many of the PX5's amazing innovations to an even broader audience, while the Z6A offers PC gamers a competitive edge with a flexible multi-driver surround sound experience that provides the comfort needed for long gaming sessions."
 