
  After finally issuing a version of its TWC TV app for Android tablets and phones (sans-live TV streaming, for now) Time Warner Cable has finally made its iOS version, which launched last March on the iPad, compatible with the iPhone and iPod Touch. There's no additional charge for the app which allows for the aforementioned live TV viewing (as long as you're on your home WiFi) and DVR scheduling, and the accompanying blog post reveals the available list of channels has reached 196. We should probably mention that the app is unlikely to play nicely with any jailbroken iOS devices it encounters, so some extra hackery may be in order to get things working there. Otherwise, Time Warner customers can grab it now from iTunes at the source link below.[Thanks, Jason]
      

 

  Show full PR text  Time Warner Cable Launches TWC TV™ for iPhone January 20, 2012 11:54 AM Eastern Time  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today announced the launch of TWC TV™ for iPhone®. With TWC TV™, customers can watch live TV from within the home, change channels on their set-top box and manage their DVR right from their iPhone. This feature is available at no additional cost to Time Warner Cable video customers that have a broadband connection.  Features on TWC TV™ include: - Interactive program guide (IPG) – up to 7 days of listings. View detailed show descriptions including box art. Option to display "HD only" or "favorites only" by creating a favorite channel list.  - Search – search for programming by title or episode name and filter results by genre  - Set-top box tuning – tap on a network logo or "watch on TV" button within the program description to tune compatible set-top boxes directly to the channel  - DVR management – schedule one-time and series recordings on compatible DVRs directly from the IPG. Tap on the "DVR" button to see a list of all upcoming recordings and make changes or cancel recordings  Customers can download TWC TV™ from the App StoreSM, launch it, log in and scroll through the channel lineup to select preferred programming. Interactive program guide, channel tuning and DVR management features require a set-top box or DVR running the "Navigator" interactive program guide.  For more information on the app, please visit the Time Warner Cable Untangled blog at www.twcableuntangled.com.
 