
What was promised has been delivered to Xbox-owning Time Warner Cable customers. Today, TWC TV for Xbox 360 is finally available to Xbox Live Gold members, and brings live streaming of up to 300 channels to the console. Once downloaded, folks can find their favorite shows using the app's program guide and Kinect gesture and voice controls. For now, the service is only streaming live programming, but Polygon reports that Microsoft's working to add VOD content to the app as well -- with no timetable for its arrival, naturally. Still, with the rollout of its latest live TV streaming app, TWC TV is now on iOS, Android, PC, Roku and Samsung Smart TVs. It's clear that the company's made spreading the TWC TV love a priority, so let's hope it starts showing the same initiative when it comes to those negotiations with CBS. Football season's only a couple weeks away, so the clock is ticking, TWC.


Update: GigaOm has confirmed with Time Warner Cable that, like Comcast's Xbox 360 app, TWC TV on the console does not count towards its user's bandwidth caps. Good news if you want to use your Xbox to feed an extra TV without worrying about the ticking counter, inflammatory news if you're worried about its relevance in terms of network neutrality.



Show full PR textTWC TV™ on Xbox 360® Expands the Number of Screens on Which Customers Can Watch Their Favorite Shows
Customers Can Watch Up To 300 Live Channels At Launch
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable officially launched the TWC TV™ application on the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment system today. TWC video subscribers who are Xbox Live Gold members now have the ability to watch up to 300 live TV channels through their Xbox 360, giving them access to their favorite shows through this popular device.

"We're thrilled to add TWC TV to the Xbox 360 as a big screen viewing option for our customers," said Mike Angus, Time Warner Cable SVP and General Manager, Video. "It's part of our ongoing commitment to give customers more ways to watch the television they love."

"At Xbox, our vision has always been to provide all the entertainment people want in one place," said Yusuf Mehdi, Corporate Vice President, Marketing, Strategy and Business, Interactive Entertainment Business at Microsoft. "We partner with the biggest brands in the entertainment to bring today's TV favorites to the living room for 48 million Xbox Live members and we couldn't be happier to welcome TWC customers to the Xbox family."

The TWC TV app for Xbox features fast, intuitive navigation with the entertainment experience of the Xbox 360 console. With Xbox Live integration, customers can choose to share and see what friends are watching and use voice and gestures to navigate through Kinect. The TWC TV application also features integrated parental controls through Xbox Family Settings.

TWC TV is available for download at no additional cost in the Xbox Live Marketplace. Channel line-ups vary by market and depend on the video subscription package to which a customer subscribes. Time Warner Cable is working to add Video On Demand though TWC TV on the Xbox 360 later this year.

For more information, please visit www.twc.com.


