
 And then, there were three. Three ways to snag an Overdrive, that is. Months after Sprint issued the original 3G / 4G mobile hotspot, Clear came along and introduced a rebadged version of the same thing. Now, Time Warner Cable (who is also in cahoots with Sprint and Clear) is following suit by tossing its logo on the all-too-familiar device and christening it the IntelliGo. Functionally, it's the same as ever -- there's a built-in battery that'll provide 3G / 4G mobile internet to a smattering (read: five) of nearby devices via WiFi, a microSD slot and USB connectivity. The difference here, though, is that it'll run you $49.99 on a two-year contract, and the fee will "vary by region." Speaking of regions, it'll be available wherever Road Runner Mobile is offered, which means Texas, North Carolina, Hawaii and Kansas City for now.
      

 

Show full PR textTime Warner Cable Introduces IntelliGo by Sierra Wireless and Road Runner Mobile™ 4GConnect up to five WiFi-enabled devices to the Time Warner Cable 4G Mobile Network, providing super-fast internet access on the goNEW YORK & VANCOUVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable (NYSE: TWC) and Sierra Wireless (NASDAQ: SWIR; TSX: SW) today announced a new dual mode mobile hotspot device, IntelliGo is now available on the Time Warner Cable 4G network with Road Runner Mobile™. IntelliGo enables any device with Wi-Fi connectivity, and up to five devices simultaneously, to connect to the Time Warner Cable 4G Mobile Network and a nationwide 3G network for internet access on the go. While on the Time Warner Cable 4G network, customers using Road Runner Mobile™ can get internet speeds up to 6 Mbps (megabits per second) on the fastest mobile broadband network available."We are excited to be bringing our customers IntelliGo and the ability to connect their favorite Wi-Fi devices to our 4G mobile network.""IntelliGo allows customers to really leverage the speed of the Time Warner Cable 4G network and the coverage of a national 3G network on all of their Wi-Fi enabled devices anywhere they go," said Mike Roudi, GVP of Wireless Products for Time Warner Cable. "We are excited to be bringing our customers IntelliGo and the ability to connect their favorite Wi-Fi devices to our 4G mobile network.""IntelliGo, the Sierra Wireless AirCard® W801 Mobile Hotspot, provides a simple solution for those who live the modern digital lifestyle," said Mike O'Brien, Vice President, Network Operator Sales for Sierra Wireless. "With IntelliGo from Time Warner Cable and Sierra Wireless, it's easy to keep all your devices connected, even on the go – cameras, media players, gaming devices, notebooks, and tablet computers can update and be updated in real time. We're thrilled to be able to collaborate with Time Warner Cable in bringing IntelliGo to Road Runner Mobile customers."Time Warner Cable 4G Network, featuring Road Runner Mobile is available in Dallas, San Antonio, and Austin, Texas; Charlotte, Raleigh and Greensboro, N.C.; Honolulu and Maui, Hawaii; and Kansas City, MO. Road Runner Mobile customers will also be able to access the 4G network in additional cities outside the Time Warner Cable footprint including Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, Houston, Las Vegas, Philadelphia, and Seattle. Additional 4G networks planned for launch in 2010 include New York, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Boston, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Los Angeles. Time Warner Cable's Road Runner Mobile 4G customers also have access to 3G coverage nationwide in areas where 4G is not available.For more information about getting Road Runner Mobile please contact your local Time Warner Cable office or visit www.timewarnercable.com.IntelliGo Mobile HotspotThe IntelliGo Mobile Hotspot provides access to both 3G and 4G networks, for the fastest available wireless broadband connection and plenty of bandwidth to share. It can be connected wirelessly to any WiFi-enabled device, including media players, gaming devices, and cameras as well as notebook, netbook and tablet computers.Key features also include a LCD screen that provides important information such as battery life and internet connection status, as well as an easy-to-use web interface for customizing settings. The IntelliGo Mobile Hotspot also includes built-in GPS capability (on 3G), a MicroSD slot for up to 16 GB memory cards creating shared storage with up to five connected devices, and an extended Wi-Fi range of up to 150 feet. With up to four hours active battery life, and USB charging capabilities it offers a home hotspot away from home – a fast, secure connection for busy digital nomads that makes the time-consuming "hotspot hunt" obsolete.
 