
Just as promised, Time Warner Cable has delivered a new version of its TWC TV app for Android users that includes access to live TV streams of certain channels while away from home. That new feature is accompanied by several other tweaks, including TV mini guide filtering and expanded device support for devices running Android 2.2 and higher. Out of home streaming is still more limited than that provided by solutions like Slingbox or Cablevision's Optimum, and streaming over cellular connections are restricted to Verizon only (for now.) Despite the restrictions, the app is out now and will hopefully see them loosened in the future, subscribers can grab it now at the link below.



Show full PR textTWC TV App for Android Devices Now Features over 4,000 Hours of Video on Demand Programming

Update includes out of home access to over 1,100 hours of on demand TV shows and up to 10 channels of live programming

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Time Warner Cable today officially launched the latest TWC TV update for Android smartphones and tablets. Customers now have in home access to over 4,000 hours of Video On Demand content. Similar to the latest TWC TV launch for iOS, customers can also access select On Demand and live TV channels on the go over any WiFi connection. This update also includes performance enhancements and improvements to live TV mini guide to improve the overall user experience.

Key features include:

In home access to over 4,000 hours of subscription and free On Demand content from 90 providersOut of home access to selected On Demand and live TV channels from any WiFi connection including over 1,100 hours of On Demand TV shows and movies from 26 top-rated networks; and up to 10 live TV news, sports and entertainment channels including all local TWC news channelsExpanded device support for video playback for Android 2.2 ("Froyo") or higher devicesCustomers can download the app for Android devices through Google Play. TWC TV is available at no additional cost to Time Warner Cable Video subscribers. Channel line-ups vary by market and depend on the video subscription package to which a customer subscribes. A Time Warner Cable authorized modem is still required for in-home access to the complete TWC TV line-up. In home viewing of the app is also available on Apple iOS, PCs and Macs via www.TWCTV.com, and Roku Streaming Players via the TWC TV channel.

A full list of available channels can be found on the TWC TV about page.

More information is available on Time Warner Cable Untangled at www.twcableuntangled.com.


