
 
Announced yesterday, Time Warner Cable's iPad app arrived via iTunes as scheduled this morning to meet the rest of the pay-TV provider apps sporting its one key feature: live TV streaming of 32 cable channels. Speaking of the competition, Dish Network had something to say about that claim to fame as first with live streaming, since it's already offered an app with Sling-powered streaming from its boxes. Of course, they're not exactly the same approach since TWCable TV doesn't potentially require any add-on hardware or tie up a tuner on your set-top box, while the Dish approach enjoys the ability of working beyond the reach of your home's WiFi, and can tune in to any channel. Other than requiring both cable TV and high speed internet service those two last notes may be the key weaknesses to this strategy; while the TWCable TV app advertises itself as "another TV screen," it's one with significant limits and currently lags behind the competition by lacking features like remote control or DVR scheduling. Check after the break for Dish's press release or just click through to iTunes to nab the app yourself.
      

 

Show full PR textDISH Network is First Pay-TV Provider to Give Customers Ability to Watch Their Live TV on iPadFree DISH Remote Access Gives DISH Network Customers Ability to Transform Their iPad into a TVENGLEWOOD, Colo. – Dec. 1, 2010 – DISH Network L.L.C., today announced that DISH Remote Access, the free application that gives DISH Network customers the ability to watch their live and recorded TV on compatible smartphones, tablets and laptops, is now available for the iPad™. To enjoy live and recorded TV viewing on the iPad, DISH Network customers must have a broadband-connected, Sling-enabled™ device such as the Sling Adapter™ – a small placeshifting device that pairs with DISH Network's ViP® 722 or 722k HD DVRs."DISH Network is the only pay-TV provider to offer a true TV everywhere solution, and now we've extended that experience to the iPad," said DISH Network Chief Marketing Officer Ira Bahr. "Unlike mobile viewing from cable and telcos that limit access to select programs, our TV Everywhere services give consumers 24 x 7 access to all of their live and recorded content included with their DISH Network programming subscription."In addition to TV viewing, the DISH Remote Access app also gives DISH Network customers with compatible DVRs the ability to browse and search up to nine days of programming, schedule DVR recordings, manage conflicts, delete shows on multiple receivers, and transform the iPad into a fully-functioning remote control.The DISH Remote Access app for the iPad can be downloaded for free from the iTunes App Store. For more information about DISH Remote Access, visit www.dish.com/tveverywhere.###About DISH NetworkDISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ:DISH), through its subsidiary DISH Network L.L.C., provides more than 14.2 million satellite TV customers, as of September 30, 2010, with the highest quality programming and technology at the best value, including HD Free for Life. Subscribers enjoy industry-leading customer satisfaction, the largest high definition line-up with more than 200 national HD channels, the most international channels, and award-winning HD and DVR technology. DISH Network Corporation is included in the Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX) and is a Fortune 200 company. Visit www.dish.com.
 