
How does a dedicated gamer relax when they're finally beat on Call of Duty? Surely by watching others suffer the same fate, right? Well, now that just got even easier with an official Twitch app for Xbox 360. The game-centric video service finds a natural home on the console, which could go some way to augment the platform's already 34-million strong audience (or at least prevent hundreds of wasted gaming calories used when switching screens). It's not clear if there will be the option to bring your premium credentials along with you. But, we do know the app will bring access to the top 300 live Twitch channels, albeit initially only for Xbox Live Gold subscribers. Still, as a dedicated gamer, you probably already are one, right?




Show full PR textTwitch App for Xbox 360 Brings Live Video Game Spectating to the Living Room
Viewership of gaming broadcasts climbs to new heights as Twitch community surpasses 34 million unique viewers per month

SAN FRANCISCO- May 14, 2013 - Twitch, the world's leading video platform and community for gamers, today announced the release of an app to watch Twitch directly from the Xbox 360® video game and entertainment console from Microsoft. Available for download from the Xbox Live® marketplace in the U.S., users of the app can tune into Twitch to watch a diverse array of live streaming content right from their living room. With Twitch's audience now exceeding 34 million unique viewers per month, this latest expansion to Xbox 360 strengthens the company's goal of being everywhere that gamers are.

"Our app for Xbox 360 brings Twitch video to the television and into the living room of millions of Xbox Live members for the first time," said Emmett Shear, Twitch CEO. "The app will let every Xbox Live gamer find and watch streams of their favorite games from their couch! Given the huge number Xbox owners and how many of them love gaming spectatorship, it's a natural fit to bring the Twitch experience to the 360."

Since launching at E3 in June of 2011, Twitch has experienced explosive growth in viewership, now exceeding 34 million unique viewers per month. The Twitch app for Xbox 360 caps a long list of high profile partnership announcements with the video game industry's biggest game brands, including Ubisoft, Electronic Arts, Activision, Sony Online Entertainment, and others.

"We're very excited to create more amazing Xbox 360 experiences. Twitch brings a whole new category of live gaming video content that Xbox 360 owners will love. Now you can get your fill of playing a game, then stay right there on Xbox Live and continue the experience by watching the world play," said Martin Sacchi, General Manager, Content Acquisition at Xbox."

With the new Twitch app for Xbox 360, gamers will be able to watch the top 300 live Twitch channels. Viewers will be able to browse videos by channel, by game and by featured content. The Twitch app is initially available to Xbox Live Gold subscribers in the U.S.

Along with launching this exciting new app on Xbox 360, Twitch will also host an exclusive broadcast following the May 21st #XboxRevealed event at 12:00pm PDT. The broadcast will be presented by Larry Hryb, aka Microsoft's Major Nelson, live via the new Twitch for Xbox 360 app as well as Twitch.


