



	Remember that one-inch Chobi Cam One spotted in Japan earlier this year? Well, its tiny self has now reappeared on US shores, ready to be lost in a sofa or coat pocket near you. Unimaginatively titled "The World's Smallest Camera," it's priced at $99.95 and packs a petite, two megapixel autofocus sensor capable of recording VGA video. Resembling a Lego Man's DSLR, storage is done on a microSD card, though you're more likely to run out of battery juice than space -- the battery will give a maximum of 30 minutes use from one hour's charge. "The world's smallest" are words we hear a lot at Engadget, and we're inclined to agree with CNET that JTT's previous camera, the Chobi Cam, is actually smaller by volume. The Chobi Cam One arrived with extra detachable lenses, but there's no word yet on whether these add-ons will appear in Hammacher Schlemmer's online store -- not that we really want to be lugging around a whole bunch of tiny lenses with us.




 		Show full PR text  Hammacher Schlemmer Introduces: The World's Smallest Camera  		New York, NY, September 20, 2011 - Continuing its 163-year history of offering the Best, the Only and the Unexpected, Hammacher Schlemmer introduces The World's Smallest Camera, a fully functional digital camera that is no larger than a fingertip. 		Measuring just over one inch in all dimensions and weighing only half an ounce, the camera appears to require Lilliputian dexterity, yet a human finger can snap a picture with a touch of the shutter button. 		"Although The World's Smallest Camera is only slightly larger than a marble, it takes still images and records video just like much larger cameras," explained Hammacher Schlemmer's General Manager, Fred Berns. 		The World's Smallest Camera provides automatic focus and has a 2 MP image sensor that captures crisp JPEG photographs at 1600 x 1200 resolution and AVI video at 30 frames-per-second with 640 x 480 resolution. 		The pictures and videos are saved onto the included 2 GB micro SD card and The World's Smallest Camera can be connected to a computer for displaying images and video for family and friends. 		"The World's Smallest Camera comes with a wrist lanyard that keeps it close at hand and enables ease of portability," explained Mr. Berns. 		The camera's rechargeable battery provides up to 30 minutes of operation from a one-hour charge via the included USB cable. 		The World's Smallest Camera is available from Hammacher Schlemmer for $99.95. For more information, please visit www.hammacher.com/81584 or call 1-800-543-3366 or via email at pr@hammacher.com. 		About Hammacher Schlemmer		Hammacher Schlemmer is America's longest running catalog, offering the Best, the Only, and the Unexpected since 1848. The company provides unique products that solve problems or represent the only one of their kind, and backs its products by a rather famous Lifetime Guarantee of Complete Satisfaction. Hammacher Schlemmer's innovative offerings are available through its catalog, online at www.hammacher.com at its landmark store on East 57th Street in New York City.
 