
 
It looks like U-verse customers won't be left out of all the set-top box upgrade madness going around lately, as AT&T has announced two upgrades on the way for the services. Total Home DVR users will get more ways to customize their recording settings with a Series Priority option to help resolve any programming conflicts four tuners can't take care of, a Keep At Most feature to specify how many episodes of a particular program to keep and Series Delete to remove an entire series with one stroke. The Yellow Pages TV App has also been upgraded, beyond just letting viewers search local business info on their TV, there's now a "Make a Call" button to automatically ring the business from their home or mobile phone. Still waiting for mobile program downloads? So are we.
      

 

Show full PR textAT&T Rolls Out new Upgrades to U-verse(R) DVR and YP.COM TV AppDALLAS, May 20 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- AT&T is making the U-verse TV experience better again. AT&T* today announced it will roll out several AT&T U-verse TV DVR enhancements and add new functionality to the U-verse YP.COM TV app for all U-verse TV customers at no extra cost over the coming weeks."These new features are the latest examples of how AT&T U-verse gives you a better TV and entertainment experience, with easy to use apps and an even better DVR," said Jeff Weber, vice president of video services, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "Whether it's making a call from your U-verse TV screen with our YP.COM TV app or bringing more functionality to our Total Home DVR, we continue to use our IP platform to give customers more control of their viewing experience and bring exciting, integrated features to the U-verse home."The U-verse TV enhancements announced today include the ability to:Place calls within the YP.COM TV app. Using the YP.COM TV app, introduced in 2007, you can enter your zip code to search for local business information, phone numbers and maps directly on your TV screen. With the latest upgrades, once you find the business of your choice, you can conveniently select "Make a Call" with your remote to automatically connect the call to your U-verse Voice home phone. You can also enter your wireless phone number on-screen to send the call to your mobile phone as you head out the door. The app is available to all U-verse TV customers on channel 97, and through the Interactive Menu, at no extra charge.Customize More U-verse Total Home DVR Settings. The U-verse DVR allows you to record up to four programs at once on a single DVR - a capability unmatched by cable providers. This feature prevents most recording conflicts, but with Series Priority, you can also prioritize all of your household's scheduled recordings. The new Keep at Most feature lets you select how many episodes of a recorded series are stored on your DVR, and allows you to store a recording until the date you select. With Series Delete, you can delete all recordings of a series with one click of the remote control.These upgrades add to the numerous features and applications that enhance your entertainment experience, including the ability to watch up to four channels at one time with the award-winning U-verse TV Multiview; access to an extensive High Definition (HD) channel lineup with more than 130 HD channels; the ability to program DVR recordings from your Web-connected mobile phone or PC; personalized, on-screen weather, sports, traffic and stock information via AT&T U-bar; the ability to stream your personal photos and music files from your PC to your U-verse TV with Media Share; the ability to check the current weather conditions and forecasts in any U.S. city with Weather On Demand; and more.AT&T U-verse TV is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider, making AT&T U-verse one of the most dynamic and feature-rich services available today. AT&T U-verse TV ranked "Highest in Residential Television Service Satisfaction in the South and West Regions Two Years in a Row," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2008 and 2009 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction Studies(SM). For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit www.att.com/u-verse.*AT&T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT&T Inc. under the AT&T brand and not by AT&T Inc.About AT&TAT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a premier communications holding company. Its subsidiaries and affiliates – AT&T operating companies – are the providers of AT&T services in the United States and around the world. With a powerful array of network resources that includes the nation's fastest 3G network, AT&T is a leading provider of wireless, Wi-Fi, high speed Internet and voice services. A leader in mobile broadband, AT&T also offers the best wireless coverage worldwide, offering the most wireless phones that work in the most countries. It also offers advanced TV services under the AT&T U-verse® and AT&T | DIRECTV(SM) brands. The company's suite of IP-based business communications services is one of the most advanced in the world. In domestic markets, AT&T Advertising Solutions and AT&T Interactive are known for their leadership in local search and advertising. In 2010, AT&T again ranked among the 50 Most Admired Companies by FORTUNE® magazine.Additional information about AT&T Inc. and the products and services provided by AT&T subsidiaries and affiliates is available at http://www.att.com. This AT&T news release and other announcements are available at http://www.att.com/newsroom and as part of an RSS feed at www.att.com/rss. Or follow our news on Twitter at @ATTNews. Find us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ATT to discover more about our consumer and wireless services or at www.Facebook.com/ATTSmallBiz to discover more about our small business services.© 2010 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.AT&T U-verse services are provided by AT&T local telephone companies. Geographic and service restrictions apply to AT&T U-verse. Call or go to www.uverse.att.com to see if you qualify. HD Service: Access to HD service requires $10/mo. HD Premium Tier available for an additional $5/mo. HD channel availability varies by package selected. THDVR: Full Total Home DVR functionality requires a receiver for each additional TV at $7 per month each. DVR not included with U100 or U-basic packages. Multiview: Channels/content available for viewing in Multiview are based on TV package subscription and additional programming purchased. AT&T U-verse services are provided by AT&T local telephone companies. Customizing options require AT&T U-verse High Speed Internet Service. Wireless phone with Internet access required and standard data charges may apply. Media Share: Media Share requires Windows XP or Vista operating systems and streams only photos or songs that are supported by Microsoft Media Player.AT&T U-verse received the highest numerical score among television service providers in the South and West in the proprietary J.D. Power and Associates 2008-2009 Residential Television Service Satisfaction Studies(SM). 2009 study based on 28,118 total responses from measuring providers in the South (13) and West (10) regions and measures consumer satisfaction with television service. Proprietary study results are based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in January, March and June, 2009. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com
 