
 
Just as we'd heard it would, AT&T has officially launched version 2.0 of its iPhone app for U-Verse TV customers. Now dubbed U-Verse Mobile, it still allows users to manage and schedule DVR recordings on the go, but now has an updated UI, a favorite channels list, and most notably will allow users (with the U399 or U450 packages) to download a limited selection of shows directly to their phone. While that should make it easier to catch up with Lost, Grey's Anatomy or whatever other shows AT&T makes available while on the subway or otherwise out of streaming reach you won't be downloading your own DVR recordings, and you won't downloading any of them over 3G since that's WiFi only. While AT&T is loudly proclaiming it's the first to allow downloads, by comparison Dish already lets users Sling whatever they want from its 922 -- if they can get it to work right now. Check out the press release and a quick video demo after the break if you're still not exactly sure how all this will go down, or just go straight to iTunes and grab the free app right now. Blackberry Torch fans should keep an eye out too, since a compatible version is on the way -- no word yet on Android or webOS. 






  Show full PR textAT&T LAUNCHES U-VERSE MOBILE APP TO LET CUSTOMERS RECORD AND WATCH TV SHOWS FROM IPHONESFirst TV Provider to Offer iPhone App with DVR Management and Ability to Download and Watch TV Content While on the GoDALLAS, Aug. 9, 2010 - AT&T* today announced its AT&T U-verse® Mobile App is now available on the App Store.The U-verse Mobile app gives U-verse subscribers the ability to download and watch popular TV content on their iPhone so they can take their U-verse TV experience with them, wherever they go. AT&T is the first TV provider to offer an integrated mobile app that allows you to both manage your DVR and download and watch select shows. The app is another example of how AT&T delivers more value to U-verse TV customers with continued service enhancements and innovative apps.U-verse Mobile replaces the popular Mobile Remote Access for iPhone app and incorporates the ability to browse the U-verse TV program guide, view program descriptions, schedule and manage your DVR recordings, while adding the ability to download available episodes over any Wi-Fi connection, and watch them in full-screen mode on your iPhone from anywhere. U-verse TV customers already enjoy the flexibility of remote DVR management. More than 100,000 U-verse TV customers use the Web and Mobile Remote Access apps every month."We're making it possible for you to watch TV shows on your iPhone at no extra charge. It's just one more valuable and innovative feature available on U-verse TV," said David Christopher, chief marketing officer, AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets. "Our U-verse multi-screen promise is now a reality for millions of U-verse TV customers, with content available on U-verse TV, U-verse Online, and today, U-verse Mobile. No cable provider comes close to matching the cross-platform experience we're delivering today, and we'll continue to add unique features that further integrate these screens."All U-verse TV customers can download the app to manage their DVR, and the ability to download and watch content is available for customers that subscribe to the U300 package or higher. U-verse customers can upgrade their TV packages at any time at www.att.com/u-verse. New U-verse TV customers and iPhone owners that order AT&T U-verse U300 or U450 will receive a $75 iTunes gift card.You can browse or search a library of downloadable shows, and select which series or specific episode you want to download. The content is downloaded to iPhone over a Wi-Fi connection. All AT&T U-verse High Speed Internet customers have home Wi-Fi installed as part of their service and get access to AT&T's U.S. Wi-Fi network at no additional cost.The U-verse Mobile App includes TV shows from several popular networks and AT&T will continue to add more content on an ongoing basis. U-verse Mobile is the latest way that AT&T is mobilizing everything that's important to customers - their favorite content, apps, entertainment and social networks. AT&T today delivers the nation's fastest mobile broadband network as well as the nation's largest Wi-Fi network, giving customers the best combination of speed and coverage. The U-verse Mobile App is available for free from the App Store on iPhone or at www.itunes.com/appstore/.AT&T U-verse offers numerous features and apps that enhance your entertainment experience, including many ways that TV and wireless services work together - a benefit that cable providers don't offer. In addition to U-verse Mobile, you can check your wireless and U-verse Voice messages from a single voice mailbox; use the YP.COM TV app to search for local business information and send the call to your home or wireless phone with the click of your remote; and more.AT&T U-verse TV is the only 100 percent Internet Protocol-based television (IPTV) service offered by a national service provider, making AT&T U-verse one of the most dynamic and feature-rich services available today. AT&T U-verse TV ranked "Highest in Residential Television Service Satisfaction in the South and West Regions Two Years in a Row," according to the J.D. Power and Associates 2008 and 2009 Residential Television Service Provider Satisfaction StudiesSM. For additional information on AT&T U-verse - or to find out if it's available in your area - visit www.att.com/u-verse.
 