
Following the lead of several other TV providers, AT&T U-verse has launched internet streaming for some of the channels it carries. Subscribers can tune into up to 108 channels while at home, and about 25 while away from home either on Uverse.com or on the U-verse for iPad app. The new iPad app launched on September 30th and Uverse.com streaming went live on the 4th. A support document posted on the AT&T forums indicates it will come to the iPhone app on October 16th, with support following for Android phones and tablets on the 21st. Conveniently, the old U-verse Live TV service from AT&T's mobile unit has already been renamed to Mobile TV, clearing any possible confusion.


As far as the channel selection, for in-home viewing on the app it mostly consists of Viacom (MTV,Comedy Central, Nickelodeon, etc.), NBCUniversal (Syfy, USA,E! etc.), plus most sports and premium channels but not favorites like ESPN, which has its own app. Out of home streaming has a more limited selection with the Showtime and Starz families plus NFL Network and a few others. Even though U-verse only supports a limited number of HD streams per home, these don't count against that total. Otherwise, features like video on-demand access and remote DVR scheduling are still active (download for offline viewing is still a phones-only feature), and the iPad app features a new "Home" tab to sort out all the options.



Show full PR textAll About... Live TV From Your DeviceWhat is it? U-verse TV subscribers will now be able to use the U-verse app or Uverse.com to tune into live TV programming. Please note: The type of access varies by network. Some networks have provided rights only within the home (member must be connected to residential gateway). Other networks are providing access both in and out of the home.

What networks are participating? We will launch with live access to approximately 108 channels. Of those, 25 will be available outside of the home. Sample channels that are participating:Travel ChannelHGTVFood NetworkShowtimeStarzContent is based on the subscription package. If the customer's package does not include a particular channel, they will not be able to access it on the U-verse mobile app or through Uverse.comProgramming watched inside the home doesn't count against the Customer's number of streams

How does the customer access it? By signing in to uverse.com or the U-verse app. Access is authenticated by the customer's log-in and password. This is no change from the current experience today for Live on Uverse.com or On Demand across platforms.When does this launch?U-verse App: Existing subscribers will need to update their app to the latest software release to receive these changes. New subscribers will receive the live TV feature with initial app download.Uverse.com: Upon visiting the LIVE TV page (Uverse.com/Live) users will be encouraged to Sign-In and are then presented with the option to install a browser plugin that will help to identify the subscriber's connection location.iPad: 9/30Uverse.com: 10/4iPhone: 10/16Android Tablet: 10/21Android Phone: 10/21


