
AT&T is ahead of schedule in bringing live U-Verse TV streaming to mobile devices: it just updated the service's iPhone app several days earlier than promised. As on the iPad, U-Verse subscribers with iPhones can now watch up to 108 live channels while at home, and as many as 25 when they're away. They also get improved remote controls, new parental tools and a fresher-looking interface. Viewers can grab the iPhone app through the App Store today. There's no surprise upgrade for Android users, however; they'll just have to wait until October 21st.



Show full PR textAT&T U-verse Launches More Than 100 Live Channels on Smartphone and Tablet
Customers Can Now Watch Live TV with 'TV Everywhere' In and Outside the Home
Dallas, Texas, October 07, 2013
Watch your favorite TV shows outside. Keep the kids entertained while you wait for a doctor's appointment. Follow along with your favorite cooking show on your tablet in the kitchen. With AT&T* U-verse®, you can enjoy live TV at home or on the go at no extra cost.
Today AT&T launched more than 100 live channels on the U-verse App for smartphone and tablet, with more than 20 channels available to watch outside the home. The new channels are available to U-verse TV customers as part of their U-family or higher U-verse TV package. AT&T will be adding more live channels and expanding the live channels to more devices on an ongoing basis.
"By making live TV content available across devices we're enabling our customers to watch TV on their terms when and where they want it," said Mel Coker, Chief Marketing Officer, AT&T Home Solutions. "U-verse has always been about delivering a TV experience built around our customers, and this enhancement gives them even more flexibility and control."
The full lineup of live TV content for the U-verse App is available here.
In addition to live channels, the U-verse App also offers customers several great features at no extra cost like:
- Thousands of on demand TV shows and movies.- Extra content and information about the TV show you're watching, including episode synopsis, photos, cast and crew information, related TV shows and more.- A full-featured U-verse remote control with channel guide.- Ability to control your DVR remotely.- Advanced search functionality to help you find the content you want.

