
You know what'll go perfectly with that waterproof Bluetooth speaker ball that a Billy Corgan doppelganger recommended a few years back? That odd tube you're undoubtedly fixated on above. That's the Ultimate Ears UE Boom, and those people underneath are presumably blitzed from a day of raving at [insert EDM festival here]. Parent company Logitech is calling this thing the "world's first social music player," but last we checked, it's not capable of tweeting whatever you're listening to. Instead, it's seemingly engineered "to help you rage, riot, party and play the music you love, out loud." Seriously -- that's in the description.


In order to do so, there's a Bluetooth radio within, NFC support, a 15-hour rechargeable battery and an exterior that'll turn away light splashes. Of note, you can wirelessly link two UE Booms together using an associated Android or iOS app to play them in either stereo-to-stereo mode or traditional left / right stereo mode. It's expected to hit US and European shores later this month for $199.99, which means you too can take weird shots of yourself holding it at frat parties in the very, very near future.




Show full PR textUltimate Ears Unveils World's First Social Music Player: UE BOOM

Leverages YouTube Comedy Channel JASH in Summer-Long Campaign Aimed at Making Music Social"The digital age has changed how we listen to our favorite songs and interact with music,"

NEWARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Today Ultimate Ears introduced UE BOOM, a social music player made to help you rage, riot, party and play the music you love, out loud. It's designed to make the most of digital music's convenience, while making it less of a solitary experience.

UE BOOM is the first-ever social music player, a wireless speaker that's packed with a specific set of features that sets a new standard for listening to music. It's the first stereo speaker to offer 360-degree sound in a battery-powered device, and features a 15-hour rechargeable battery. Its versatile go-anywhere shape is wrapped in a specially developed acoustic skin that is both water and stain resistant so you can enjoy your music anywhere you go. And it is made for connecting with others. If more friends crash the party, you can wirelessly connect two UE BOOMs together through the free UE BOOM app (available for iOS™ and Android™) to play them in either stereo-to-stereo mode or traditional left/right stereo mode.

"The digital age has changed how we listen to our favorite songs and interact with music," said Rory Dooley, general manager of Ultimate Ears. "While online music services have made it easier to access your music, it's remained a challenge to have an anytime, anywhere listening experience that can be shared with others. UE BOOM solves that problem. Ultimate Ears strives to amplify the social experience of listening to music, bringing people together around the music they love. UE BOOM is designed to bring music out into the world, and that's why we're also supporting this introduction with a campaign to inspire young music fans to make music social."

In conjunction with the launch of UE Boom, Ultimate Ears is initiating The Social Music Experiment – a lighthearted examination of the effect music has on people in social environments. As part of this effort throughout the summer, Ultimate Ears is teaming up with YouTube comedy channel JASH and its noted music expert, Reggie Watts, to produce an original series entitled The Social Music Experiment. Reggie will play the role of Ultimate Ears' first ever "Head of Socio-Musicology" putting his social music theories to the test in a series of hilarious real-world experiments. In each episode Reggie will take a UE Boom and his crazy hypothesis to the streets to understand the effects that social music has on everyday people in everyday places. The series launches today exclusively on JASH's comedy network on YouTube (http://jash.com/social-music-experiment/) and will then be syndicated beginning May 28 across a variety of other digital sites including Collegehumor.com and ultimateears.com. Episodes are expected to roll out through the end of June.

After nearly 20 years of working with the most discerning ears in music, Ultimate Ears has set out to help change the way people experience the music they love with its range of critically acclaimed wireless speakers and earphones. That tradition continues with UE BOOM and interactive programs such as The Social Music Experiment.

Pricing and Availability

UE BOOM is expected to be available in the U.S. and Europe in May 2013, and in select countries in Asia in June 2013, for a suggested retail price of $199.99. For more information, and to find a retailer near you, please visit www.ultimateears.com.

About Ultimate Ears

Ultimate Ears, a brand of Logitech, revolutionized the way artists perform music on stage with the creation of its custom fit professional earphones in 1995. Today, more touring artists use Ultimate Ears than any other brand, and UE makes critically acclaimed earphones and speakers that are redefining the way people experience the music they love. Ultimate Ears is the leading supplier of in-ear-monitors for professional musicians and an emerging provider of premium speakers and headphones for the consumer market. For more information, please visit www.ultimateears.com.

Logitech, the Logitech logo, and other Logitech marks are registered in Switzerland and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. For more information about Logitech and its products, visit the company's website at www.logitech.com.


