
 
The Roku Player's beefed-up Netflix channel was certainly a nice addition, but the company's latest partner is a little more fierce: pay-per-view UFC is coming to the little streaming media player, starting with Rampage vs. Evans on May 29th. Fight pricing hasn't been announced yet, but users will also have access to archived fights, as well as live access to pre-fight events and post-fight press conferences. Full PR after the break.
      

 

Show full PR textUFC® FIGHTS LIVE ON ROKU STARTING WITH UFC 114: RAMPAGE vs EVANS Las Vegas, NV (USA) – For the first time ever, just as UFC® light heavyweight rivals Rampage Jackson and Rashad Evans enter the Octagon™ and touch gloves, Roku users all over the country will be able to see what happens next and who emerges the winner of this ultimate grudge-match live on TV via their Roku streaming video player. The world's largest live Pay-Per-View event content provider, the Ultimate Fighting Championship®, and Roku, Inc. today announced a multi-year deal to feature all major UFC events on Roku, starting with UFC 114: Rampage vs. Evans taking place Saturday, May 29 live from the MGM Grand Garden Arena. "We are always looking at the latest technology and the newest ways to bring the UFC experience to our fans," said Dana White, UFC President. "Roku is another way for fans to get more UFC and watch all of the UFC events live and in HD, starting with UFC 114 on Saturday, May 29th." "The Roku player is capable of delivering amazing live events, in HD, on the TV. We are excited to be UFC's lead partner in bringing the total UFC experience – from live events and classic fights to insider previews, countdowns, and training coverage – to fans everywhere, whenever they want it," said Anthony Wood, founder and CEO of Roku, Inc. "The new UFC channel joins a growing list of major streaming content services for the TV that started first on Roku, including Netflix, MLB.TV, and Amazon Video On Demand – further strengthening our position as the leader in delivery of premium streaming content." In addition to UFC 114 and future live fights, Roku users will also have access to the UFC® Vault™, the world's largest collection of archived fights, as well as live access to UFC pre-fight events including the official weigh-ins, and pre-and-post fight press conferences, hosted by White. First introduced in May 2008 as the original Netflix player, the affordable Roku streaming player is a little box that allows you to instantly stream tons of entertainment on your TV-without a PC. Roku's rapidly expanding library of instant entertainment includes over 50,000 movies and TV shows, live sporting events, music, and more. Roku players start at just $79.99 for the standard definition model and $99.99 for the HD model. For more information on Roku and the UFC channel, visit http://www.roku.com/ufc. About UFC 114: RAMPAGE vs EVANSAt UFC 114, two former Ultimate Fighting Championship® light heavyweight champions get a chance to let their fists do the talking. After multiple back-and-forth verbal exchanges on the 10th season of The Ultimate Fighter®, Quinton "Rampage" Jackson and "Suga" Rashad Evans are set to headline UFC 114, presented by THQ's "UFC Undisputed 2010" and live from the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on Saturday, May 29. Ultimate Fighting Championship® - www.ufc.comOwned and operated by Zuffa, LLC, and headquartered in Las Vegas, Nev., UFC® produces over twelve UFC live Pay-Per-View events annually and 30 live arena events around the world. UFC programming is distributed in the United States on Viacom, Inc.'s Spike TV and on Comcast, Inc.'s Versus network. UFC content is distributed commercially through Joe Hand Promotions in the U.S. and Canadastar in Canada. Globally, UFC programming is broadcast in over 130 countries, territories and jurisdictions, reaching 430 million homes worldwide, in 20 different languages. Ancillary businesses now include UFC.com with over 5 million unique visitors per month, the best-selling UFC "Undisputed" videogame franchise distributed by THQ, UFC Gym™, UFC Fight Club affinity program, UFC Fan Expo™ festivals, branded apparel, trading cards, articulated action figures and other media including best-selling DVDs and a U.S. bimonthly magazine.Ultimate Fighting Championship®, Ultimate Fighting®, UFC®, The Ultimate Fighter®, Submission®, As Real As It Gets®, Zuffa®, The Octagon™ and the eight-sided competition mat and cage design are registered trademarks, registered service marks, trademarks, trade dress and/or service marks owned exclusively by Zuffa, LLC and licensed to its affiliated entities and other licensees in the United States and other jurisdictions. All other marks referenced herein may be the property of Zuffa, LLC, its affiliates or other respective owners. Roku, Inc.The market leader in streaming entertainment devices for the TV, Roku has always believed that anything you want to watch, listen to, and enjoy should simply be there on your TV, whenever you want it. Over half a million happy customers later, Roku streaming players are renowned for their simplicity, variety of entertainment choices, and exceptional value. Roku is privately held and based in Saratoga, Calif. For more information on the company and its products, visit: http://www.roku.com. 
 