
 
 Logitech's got just the thing for that $2,000 burning a hole in your pocket. The new Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors are "engineered to your exact needs for fit, look and sound." The wood-paneled in-ear monitors utilize UE's Personal Reference Tuning Box to adjust the output mix of lows, highs and mids. Your two grand also gets you 26 dB of passive noise isolation and a cable that promises to reduce tangling. The new RewardTag offer, meanwhile, offers up rewards for kind souls who happen to find and return your pricey pair. The Personal Reference Monitors will be available in select retail locations at the beginning of next month. PR after the break.



  Show full PR text    Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors Are Engineered to Fit, Look and Sound Exactly Like You Want Them To
  Logitech (SIX: LOGN) (NASDAQ: LOGI) today unveiled the world's first personally tuned custom in-ear monitors - the Ultimate Ears™ Personal Reference Monitors. Engineered to your exact needs for fit, look and sound, the Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors were created to deliver an experience as personal as your passion for music. The process begins with our exclusive Personal Reference Tuning Box, which allows you to precisely adjust the sound signature of the monitors based on your listening preferences. The Personal Reference Tuning Box captures your adjustments to the mix of highs, mids and lows, which Ultimate Ears engineers then use to craft Personal Reference Monitors to your very own sound signature based on those exact settings.
  "There are some people out there – and we've met many of them over the years – that know exactly what they need and want in terms of their sound signature," said Philippe Depallens, vice president and general manager of Wearables at Logitech. "Our new, handcrafted Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors are designed with these people in mind. The Personal Reference Monitors take custom in-ear monitors to a new level of personalization – creating an audio experience tailored to each individual listener.
  The Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors showcase Ultimate Ears' expert technology, honed through years of delivering superior audio experiences and include our proprietary five-armature design, a three-way crossover circuit and triple-bore sound channels. Additionally, the detachable, low-profile, low-distortion cable eliminates burdensome Y-joint connectors and is tightly braided to reduce friction, unraveling and tangling.
  Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors provide 26 dB of isolation and passive noise cancellation. Similar to our other Custom In-Ear Monitors, they are compatible with wireless transmission systems for the stage and portable media devices. For the first time, there are four custom fine-wood faceplates that will be available exclusively to Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitor customers. What's more, Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors will be the first Ultimate Ears product to come equipped with RewardTag. Through RewardTag, if your Ultimate Ears Personal Reference Monitors are lost or stolen, whoever finds your device can return it through RewardTag and Ultimate Ears will give the individual a reward for their safe return – providing you with extra peace of mind as you travel with your earphones.
  
