
 We got a look at the first version of the Android-based I'm Watch at CES last year, and the Italy-based company is back again this year with an updated version and another new accessory. As you can see, the I'm Watch appears to be largely unchanged on the outside, but it promises a number of others improvements courtesy of the new I'm Droid 2 operating system (no word on the Android version it's based on just yet), including a "smart tethering" feature designed to minimize battery use, new "i'music" and "i'mages" apps, and a new "i'market" app store. Making its debut alongside it is the company's I'm Here device, a GPS tracker equipped with a SIM card that can be used by adventurers or those simply concerned with safety -- it'll also let you make an emergency call at the push of a button. Look for it to be available sometime in May for $169. We're hoping to get our hands on both of them shortly, but you can find some additional details in the press release after the break and at the source link below in the meantime.



  Show full PR text   Two Revolutionary Creations by i'm in World Premiere at CES 2013: The New Version of i'm Watch and the Launch of i'm Here
   LAS VEGAS, January 8, 2013 /PRNewswire/ --  The Italian company i'm hit a first incredible success last year with the world premiere presentation of i'm Watch, the world's first smartwatch that meanwhile has become a cult object for technophiles. Now, the company strikes another hit in Las Vegas with amazing innovations that will revolutionize the world of technological communication: the new version of i'm Watch and the launch of a new product, i'm Here. Sophisticated Made in Italy technology and innovative design were presented at the keynote at CES in Las Vegas, the world's most important event dedicated to technology, electronics, design and innovation. The many long-awaited innovations include the official presentation of the new i'm Droid 2 operating system: the customized Android version developed by i'm Watch engineers. These developments are the fruit of a year of research that has led to the development of i'm Droid 2 which is downloadable from http://www.imsmart.com.

   There will be more innovations and new functions for i'm Droid 2 presented at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona at which the company will be present from February 25 to 28 2013. "Evolution takes its byte!"

   The revolutionary innovations of this new operating system include: Smart tethering, an intelligent technology that minimizes battery use; i'm Cloud, i'music, that allows you to listen to millions of songs on-demand; i'mages, a revolutionary application that allows your smartphone to become "the eye" of your i'm Watch, transforming it into a camera; i'market, hundreds of apps for leisure, games, office, sport, fitness, music... Read the complete press release here.

   In occasion of this launch, readers can use the promo code of 50 € to be used on the online store http://www.imsmart.com/en (promo code IMWATCH2013 - valid until January 20th 2013)

   Manuel Zanella , inventor of the i'm Watch and Massimiliano Bertolini , partner and sales director, who were at CES together with Ennio Doris , the financial partner of the i'm Watch project, are advocates of a new "philosophy" that brings into everyday life the concept of Smart Living, i.e. a series of modern technologies and devices that could lead to an improvement in the management of our daily lives.

   For this reason, on the occasion of CES and alongside these creations, i'm will present, in a world premiere, i'm Here, the smallest, sleekest and most sophisticated GPS tracker that promises to be a great innovation because "Smart Living" also means "Safe Living". i'm Here is the first GPS tracker that identifies its position and that of other people and has inside it a SIM card, created thanks to a joint venture with another company in the group, Zeromobile. i'm Here is a GPS tracker to wear or carry which can identify your geographical position and that of other people. In the case of danger, it lets you make an SOS call just by pressing a single button. Having your own geographical tracking or that of a loved one is ideal in different situations of risk that might occur in everyday life: for mothers terrified of losing their children at the seaside, in the shopping mall or in the hills during a hike; for people who enjoy extreme sports like mountaineering or parachuting; for people suffering from illnesses that cause sensory dysfunctions such as loss of orientation or spatial awareness. All you need is to be connected and the device will quickly track the exact position of the missing person. In the case of danger for ourselves, a simple button will make an SOS call to someone pre-selected by us.

   Even the design is innovative; this device has all the credentials to become a new and extremely comfortable fashion accessory. In addition to being incredibly small and portable, you can wear i'm Here on your wrist using its strap, attach it to your jacket or keep it in your backpack or purse and so conveniently take it anywhere with you. Ergonomic models are available for children in fun colors designed especially for them.

   More info: http://www.imsmart.com  SOURCE i'm - www.imsmart.com

   PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1y8RY)

 
