
  Welp, that didn't take long. Just weeks after US Cellular's first LTE device hit the shops (yeah, the Galaxy Tab 10.1), in flies the carrier's first 4G LTE smartphone. It's the Samsung Galaxy S Aviator -- otherwise known as the Droid Charge -- taking the crown, shipping today with a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED Plus touchpanel, front-facing camera, Android 2.3.6 (Gingerbread), an eight-megapixel rear-facing camera, an HDMI output and access to Google Play (despite the deceased 'Market' logo shown on the press imagery above). The bulk of you will be asked to pony up $199.99 on a two-year contract (and after a $100 mail-in rebate), but "select" LTE cities will be selling it for $100 less; as for LTE service, we're told that portions of Iowa, Maine, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas and Wisconsin are being served now, while coverage is expected to expand to Illinois, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, Oregon, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia in the latter half of the year.
      

 

  Show full PR text  U.S. CELLULAR LAUNCHES FIRST 4G LTE SMARTPHONE:SAMSUNG GALAXY S AVIATOR  Aviator Available Online and In Stores Today  CHICAGO (April 5, 2012) – U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM) and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S.1, have announced that the Samsung Galaxy S® Aviator™ is available today, both in stores and online at uscellular.com. The Android™-powered smartphone runs on the 4G LTE™ network, with speeds up to 10 times faster than 3G, and is the first 4G LTE smartphone in the carrier's device line-up. The Galaxy S Aviator will be available for $199.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate. For a limited time, the smartphone will be available for $99.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate in select markets covered by the 4G LTE network. Visit uscellular.com for detailed pricing.  Powered by Android 2.3.6 (Gingerbread), the Galaxy S Aviator has a 4.3-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus touchscreen and front-facing camera for easy video chatting. This sleek and slim smartphone allows you to connect quickly to entertainment and the Internet on-the-go. Users also have access to Google Play, formerly known as the Android™ Market, a one-stop shop for Android users to access nearly half a million apps, millions of songs and books, and thousands of movies.  "We are excited to bring our customers our first 4G LTE smartphone to help them get more done in less time," said Edward Perez, vice president of sales and marketing operations for U.S. Cellular. "The faster downloading and browse and talk function make it the go-to device for customers who depend on their smartphone to keep up with their busy schedules."  Highlighted features: · Android 2.3.6 (Gingerbread) · 4.3-inch Super AMOLED™ Plus touchscreen · 8 megapixel rear-facing camera · Front facing webcam · HDMI port  The 4G LTE network builds on the 3G data services that U.S. Cellular customers already enjoy on the carrier's high-quality nationwide network. The Galaxy S Aviator will be available to all U.S. Cellular customers and will run on the 4G LTE network in markets where it is available and on U.S. Cellular's nationwide 3G network in all other areas.  U.S. Cellular customers enjoy unique benefits, such as new devices faster without resigning contracts, free Overage Protection and free Battery Swap. U.S. Cellular also offers customers the only points-based rewards program in the industry, which rewards customers for simple things, such as paying bills on-time, adding a line or referring friends and family. Points may be used for faster phone upgrades, additional lines, devices, accessories and ringtones. It's one of the reasons U.S. Cellular has the happiest customers in wireless.  U.S. Cellular, in partnership with King Street Wireless, currently offers 4G LTE service in select cities in Iowa, Maine, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas and Wisconsin. In the second half of this year, 4G LTE coverage will expand to cover select cities in Illinois, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, Oregon, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia. By the end of 2012, 54 percent of U.S. Cellular customers will enjoy faster 4G LTE speeds. For more information about the 4G LTE experience, visit uscellular.com/4G.  The Galaxy S Aviator will be available for $199.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate. For a limited time, the smartphone will be available for $99.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate in select markets covered by the 4G LTE network. Visit uscellular.com for detailed pricing. Purchase of a data plan is required and a new two-year agreement and activation fee may apply for new customers. Additional terms, conditions and/or charges may apply.  1 No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S. claim for Samsung Mobile based upon reported shipment data, according to Strategy Analytics Q4 2011 U.S. Market Share Handset Shipments Report.  LTE is a trademark of ETSI.  About King Street Wireless, L.P.  King Street Wireless, L.P. currently holds 700 MHz wireless spectrum in 27 states and is partnering with Chicago-based U.S. Cellular to deliver high-speed 4G LTE service to U.S. Cellular's customers in several of the carrier's markets. King Street Wireless is headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia where it is recognized for its involvement in its community both through its economic development and philanthropic efforts. To learn more about King Street Wireless, visit www.kingstreetwireless.com.  About Samsung Telecommunications America  Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, a Dallas-based subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., researches, develops and markets wireless handsets and telecommunications products throughout North America. For more information, please visit www.samsungwireless.com.
 