
  Just under two months after being officially unveiled, US Cellular's first LTE device is now shipping. Perhaps unsurprisingly, it's a tablet taking the first journey out on the carrier's 4G superhighway, with Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 on sale today online and in stores for... well, entirely too much. Despite being nearly a year old, USCC's Tab 10.1 will sell for a staggering $499.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate, though customers residing in one of its LTE markets will be able to grab it for a Benjamin less. Oh, and did we mention that a two-year agreement (with data plan) is still required? Yeah. Pardon us while we fire up the gravedigger -- we've seen this one before.
      

 

  Show full PR text  SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB 10.1 AVAILABLE ON U.S. CELLULAR ONLINE AND IN STORES TODAY  Tablet Launches U.S. Cellular's Line-Up of 4G LTE Devices  CHICAGO (March 22, 2012) – U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM) and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile) have announced that the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1™ is available today, both in stores and online at uscellular.com. The Android™-powered tablet runs on the 4G LTE network, with speeds up to 10 times faster than 3G, and is the first device introduced in U.S. Cellular's 4G LTE device line-up. The Galaxy Tab 10.1 will be available for $499.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate. For a limited time, the tablet will be available for $399.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate in markets currently covered by the 4G LTE network and in those scheduled to be covered by the end of 2012. Visit uscellular.com for detailed pricing.  The Galaxy Tab 10.1 features a widescreen display and dual surround-sound speakers, ideal for streaming video or watching movies while keeping families entertained on-the-go. The 2 megapixel front camera's high-quality image is ideal for video chatting and the 3 megapixel rear-facing camera has HD video capabilities to ensure users will capture every memorable moment. Galaxy Tab 10.1 users have access to nearly half a million apps available through Google Play, formerly known as the Android™ Market, helping multi-taskers get more done throughout the day with calendars, email, news, weather and more. Google Play also features downloadable digital movies, books and music.  "The Galaxy Tab 10.1 is the first of many cutting-edge devices slated for use on the 4G LTE network," said Edward Perez, vice president of sales and marketing operations for U.S. Cellular. "This sleek and functional tablet makes it easier than ever for busy customers to simplify and organize their lives."  Highlighted features:  · 10.1-inch WXGA PLS TFT 1280x800 HD display · Slim and lightweight at 1 pound, 3.9 ounces and .34-inch depth · Battery life up to 12 hours of usage, with standby time of up to 400 hours · 1 GHz dual-core NVIDIA® Tegra™ 2 processor · Powered by Android™ Honeycomb · Front and rear camera: 3.2 megapixel rear camera with auto-focus, LED flash and HD (720p) video recording, 2 megapixel front camera · 32 GB memory  The enhanced wireless experience on the 4G LTE network builds on the 3G data services U.S. Cellular customers already enjoy on the carrier's nationwide network that has the highest call quality and network satisfaction. U.S. Cellular, in partnership with King Street Wireless, currently offers 4G LTE service in select cities in Iowa, Maine, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin. In the second half of this year, 4G LTE coverage will expand to cover select cities in Illinois, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, Oregon, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia.  The Galaxy Tab 10.1 will be available to all U.S. Cellular customers and will run on the 4G LTE network in markets where it is available and on U.S. Cellular's nationwide 3G network in all other areas. By the end of 2012, 54 percent of U.S. Cellular customers will enjoy faster 4G LTE speeds.  U.S. Cellular customers enjoy the only 4G LTE network with unique benefits, such as new devices faster without continuously signing contracts, free Overage Protection and free battery swap. U.S. Cellular also offers customers the only points-based rewards program in the industry, which rewards customers for simple things, such as paying bills on-time, adding a line or referring friends and family. Points may be used for faster phone upgrades, additional lines, devices, accessories and ringtones. It's one of the reasons U.S. Cellular has the happiest customers in wireless.  For more information about the 4G LTE experience, visit uscellular.com/4G. For information about all of U.S. Cellular's deals, plans and phones, and other restrictions on these offers, visit any U.S. Cellular store, go to uscellular.com or check out U.S. Cellular on Facebook.
 