
 US Cellular announced on Wednesday that it will increase its LTE network coverage by 30 new markets on November 5th. The first territories to be be summarily blessed are: Iowa, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Illinois, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, Vermont, Virginia and West Virginia. While this is great news for customers who call these states home, the carrier has yet to detail which cities will be making the jump to 4G. In the meantime, we'd advise keeping an eye on US Cellular's coverage map to see if your stomping grounds made the cut. For an encore, the carrier will light up Rockford, Illinois; Medford, Oregon; Yakima, Washington; and Knoxville, Tennessee at an undisclosed time. As for its LTE-ready smartphone roster, your current options are a trio of Samsung-made Android devices: Galaxy S III, Galaxy Note II and the Galaxy Metrix. Hopefully, as America's eighth largest wireless carrier's LTE footprint increases, so will its stable of suitable handsets. Until then, US Cellular 4G hopefuls, we hope you like the taste of TouchWiz.



  Show full PR text   U.S. CELLULAR ANNOUNCES NEW 4G LTE™ NETWORK MARKETS
   New cities and states will begin receiving access to 4G LTE speeds on November 5  CHICAGO (Oct. 31, 2012) – U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM), in conjunction with its partner, King Street Wireless, is launching a 4G LTE network in over 30 new markets on Monday, November 5th.

   The November rollout expands the 4G LTE footprint in select cities in Iowa, Wisconsin, North Carolina and Oklahoma, and brings 4G LTE coverage to some of U.S. Cellular's leading markets in Illinois, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, Vermont, Virginia and West Virginia. The next wave of market launches will follow shortly in Rockford, Ill., Medford, Ore., Yakima, Wash., and Knoxville, Tenn.

   4G LTE speeds will enhance the wireless experience and allow customers to begin watching a movie in seconds and enjoy smoother video streaming with little to no buffering, and video chatting with family or business colleagues is seamless. With 4G LTE capable smartphones such as the Samsung Galaxy S® III, Samsung Galaxy Metrix™ and the Samsung Galaxy Note™ II, customers have the ability to talk and access the Internet at the same time. Additionally, U.S. Cellular offers 4G LTE capable data devices including the Huawei UML397 4G LTE USB Wireless Modem and the Samsung SCH-LC11 Mobile Hotspot, allowing customers to experience data speeds up to 10 times faster.

   "With more than half of our customers having access to 4G LTE speeds by the start of the holiday season, we are helping customers simplify and organize their lives more quickly and easier than ever," said David Kimbell, senior vice president of marketing and chief marketing officer for U.S. Cellular. "The 4G LTE network builds upon our award-winning customer satisfaction and is the only one that comes with a valuable rewards program and other unique benefits like Overage Protection and Battery Swap."

   The 4G LTE network builds on the 3G data services that U.S. Cellular customers already enjoy on the carrier's high-quality nationwide network. U.S. Cellular has the highest call quality and network satisfaction of any national carrier. For more information about the 4G LTE experience, visit uscellular.com/4G.

 
