
   US Cellular's had its LTE network in the oven for quite some time, and we knew it was going to be showing up sometime next month. The missing part of the equation, however, was which devices would ring in the celebration. The carrier finally answered the mystery question: the first tablet, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 4G, will be the inaugural device and is expected to arrive in March, while the Galaxy S Aviator 4G should be gracing store shelves sometime in April.  We don't expect to see any surprises with the Galaxy Tab, but the Aviator definitely has us curious. At first glance, it appears to be the same design as the Droid Charge, and will offer a 4.3-inch WVGA Super AMOLED Plus display, run on Android 2.3.6 and come with a 8MP rear camera, front-facing cam and HDMI port. We're hoping to get more specs for your enjoyment, but enjoy the press release in the meantime.  
 

   Show full PR text  U.S. CELLULAR ANNOUNCES LAUNCH OF 4G LTE NETWORK NEXT MONTH ALONG WITH UPCOMING DEVICES  Brings up to 10 times faster download speeds and better web browsing experience  CHICAGO (Feb. 1, 2012) – U.S. Cellular, in conjunction with its partner, King Street Wireless, is launching a 4G LTE network next month that will enhance the wireless experience with countless entertainment possibilities and help customers simplify and organize their lives. The 4G LTE network will cover 25 percent of U.S. Cellular's customers and will coincide with the launch of the Android-powered Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 4G LTE mobile tablet followed shortly by the Samsung Galaxy S® Aviator™ 4G LTE smartphone.  4G LTE speeds allow customers to begin watching a movie in seconds and enjoy smoother video streaming with little to no buffering, and video chatting with family or business colleagues is seamless.  With the Samsung Galaxy S® Aviator™, customers have the ability to talk and access the Internet at the same time. They can talk to their family about dinner plans while downloading an app to find nearby restaurants and simultaneously check out reviews online.  The March rollout of 4G LTE includes select cities in Iowa, Wisconsin, Maine, North Carolina, Texas and Oklahoma, including some of U.S. Cellular's leading markets such as Milwaukee, Madison and Racine, Wis.; Des Moines, Cedar Rapids and Davenport, Iowa; Portland and Bangor, Maine; and Greenville, N.C. U.S. Cellular is the first wireless carrier to offer 4G LTE in several of these markets. The next wave of market launches will be announced later this month.  "With 4G LTE speeds, you can quickly get what you want when you need it," said Mary N. Dillon, president and CEO of U.S. Cellular. "This 4G LTE network builds upon our industry-leading network satisfaction and is the only one that comes with a valuable rewards program and other unique benefits like Overage Protection and Battery Swap that make our customers the happiest in wireless."  The Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1 is powered by Android 3.2 (Honeycomb) and has a 10.1-inch WXGA TFT touchscreen. It features superior multi-tasking capabilities, a video watching experience similar to TV and smooth graphics and responsive controls for faster gaming. Apps are downloaded faster on the sleek Samsung Galaxy S® Aviator™ smartphone that comes with Android 2.3.6 (Gingerbread). It has a 4.3-inch WVGA s-AMOLED plus touchscreen, 8 megapixel rear camera and front-facing camera for easy video chatting. Both devices will provide download and browser speeds that are up to 10 times faster than 3G and be similar to a cable Internet connection.  The 4G LTE network builds on the 3G data services that U.S. Cellular customers already enjoy on the carrier's high-quality nationwide network. U.S. Cellular has the highest call quality and network satisfaction of any national carrier. For more information about the 4G LTE experience, visit uscellular.com/4G.
 