
 
 The flood continues. We knew as of early this morning that regional carrier US Cellular would be carrying the Samsung Galaxy S III, and we now have a few more details to add to our interest. The flagship device will be available for pre-order June 12th and is going to be in stores and online sometime in July. The pricing hasn't been announced yet, but US Cellular mentions that this will be known as soon as the presale begins, and we wouldn't be shocked if it fell right inline with Sprint's price points ($199 for 16GB and $249 for 32GB). Once the purchasing magic begins, you'll have your choice of a 16GB model in Marble White or Pebble Blue, or a 32GB version in only the paler shade. The carrier also plans to start pushing its fledgling LTE network into new areas to support its latest handset coup. For a few more details, most of which will probably sound pretty familiar at this point, check out the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   U.S. CELLULAR CUSTOMERS GETTING THE SAMSUNG GALAXY S III IN JULY
   Online presales begin June 12

   CHICAGO (June 4, 2012) – U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM) and Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), the No. 1 mobile phone provider in the U.S. and the No. 1 smartphone provider worldwide, have announced that the 4G LTETM Samsung Galaxy S® III will be available for customers to preorder on June 12 and will be in stores and online in July. Customers will have the option to prepay for the device beginning June 12 and sign up for updates on June 5 at uscellular.com/gs3. The Galaxy S III smartphone will be offered in a 16 GB version in Marble White and Pebble Blue and a 32 GB version in Marble White. Pricing will be available when the presale begins on June 12.

   Customers who purchase the Samsung Galaxy S III from U.S. Cellular receive benefits no one else offers, including new devices faster without resigning contracts, free Battery Swap and the only points-based rewards program in the industry.

   "We're eager to get this iconic smartphone into the hands of our customers so they can experience the 4G LTE network on a powerful device with lots of new, unique and cool features," said Edward Perez, vice president of sales and marketing operations for U.S. Cellular. "Whether you are a first-time smartphone buyer or a seasoned user, the Galaxy S III makes it easy to stay connected to the people and information that are important to you."

   The Galaxy S III is a cutting-edge device designed to enhance your life and make it easier to do the things you need your phone to do, such as messaging, taking pictures, multimedia activities and sharing information. Using revolutionary technology, it's capable of doing things never seen before with other smartphones. With Share Shot, there is no longer a need to email or download photos. Photos taken can be immediately shared with up to 5 others by synching devices. Photos, calendars, documents and video can be shared simply with S Beam by touching Galaxy S III phones together. The large screen with Trace technology makes text messaging a breeze by swiping between letters instead of typing, and the eight megapixel camera means you can leave your point-and-shoot camera at home.

   Highlighted features:

   Pop Up Play: picture-in-picture video capability that enables multi-tasking with other applications such as email  S Voice: voice control capabilities for applications and the device including taking pictures by saying "cheese," turn the music player up or down, accept or reject calls and to "snooze" an alarm  Smart Stay: Intelligent display with eye tracking to ensure the phone stays on when in use  AndroidTM 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) with TouchWiz enhancements  Advanced 1.5 GHz dual-core processor and 2 GB of RAM

   U.S. Cellular, in partnership with King Street Wireless, currently offers 4G LTE service in select cities in Iowa, Maine, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas and Wisconsin. In the second half of this year, 4G LTE coverage will expand to cover select cities in Illinois, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, Oregon, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia. By the end of 2012, 54 percent of U.S. Cellular customers will enjoy faster 4G LTE speeds. For more information about the 4G LTE experience, visit uscellular.com/4G.

 
