
 V-Moda's been in a vampire swing recently, sinking its design teeth into some True Blood branded headphones. It's finally seen the light though -- one of its existing on-ear headphones, the V-80, has now officially been re-released as the Crossfade M-80. The metal-clad M-80 looks nearly identical to the company's veteran LP over-ear headphones, but this noise-isolating set is actually 53-percent smaller using 40mm dual-diaphragm drivers (down from 50mm) equalized to 31 points for more versatility across musical genres. There's memory foam padding on the earcups with an ultra-flexible headband wrapped in suede to keep things comfy, and vents on the swappable faceplates for a wider soundstage. Two kevlar-wrapped cables with a microphone and different in-line controls are included to support most smartphones. When it's finally time to take them off an included hardshell case will keep 'em safe -- though V-Moda claims they can survive over 70 six-foot drops onto concrete. Hot stuff, and thankfully above the collar. The M-80s are available now for $230 from V-Moda -- PR with more details after the break. 






 V-MODA's Crossfade M-80 Metal On-Ear Headphone Packs Explosive Sound in a Sleek Size 	Half the size of the rock-solid leading Crossfade LP, M-80 fuses Pure Noise Isolating Sound, Military-Level Durability and Timeless Materials 	Los Angeles – August 11, 2011– V-MODA, the multi-platinum selling maker of headphones trusted by the pros and elite, deploys its best-sounding metal masterpiece yet, the Crossfade M-80. Masterfully tuned by a legion of legendary musicians, producers and DJs, M-80 packs unique materials, professional acoustics, natural noise isolation, ultimate ergonomics and military-level ruggedness into a design 53% smaller than its now legendary, over-ear sibling, Crossfade LP. M-80's first-class materials are virtually indestructible including a steel frame, STEELFLEX headband, interchangeable brushed metal shields, durable microfiber suede and replaceable memory foam cushions. The M-80 also comes fully loaded with two Kevlar-reinforced microphone cables for universal smartphone compatibility and an exoskeleton carrying case for added road warrior armor. 	Pure Sound – Bespoke Fit	The nucleus of M-80 is its patent-pending and biggest-in-class 40mm Dual-Diaphragm Drivers that deliver multi-driver sound with the energy efficiency and consistent quality of a single driver. To recreate a pure balanced sound analogous to Vinyl, M-80 uses no batteries or artificial sound processing and instead relies on immortal acoustic techniques. The masterfully crafted V-PORT V3 provides natural noise isolation, life-like staging, vibrant bass, vivid mids and vivacious highs. By utilizing a 31-band EQ with select master musicians and producers, every step of the frequency response curve was finely sculpted. 	The headphone also offers long-play comfort through a tailored, fashionable fit without unsightly gaps and minimal pressure on the head and ears, the result of years of ergonomic research. Since the fit is the sound, M-80 utilizes replaceable supple memory foam cushions, a bespoke STEELFLEX headband and tactile arm extensions. This tiny dancer can bend, move and twist like no other. 	Salute to the Masters	"After years of research, design, and testing, this is truly the finest addition to our acoustic arsenal we have ever developed. Rome wasn't built in a day, and similarly it took almost half a decade to fuse the durability of an M1 Abrams tank, timeless Vinyl sound, Italian-suit elegance and exotic motorsport materials into the compact Crossfade M-80," says Val Kolton, V-MODA CEO and DJ. "In the sound-age of over-processed digital compression and disposable plastic products, our virtues were to develop a quality product that salutes the true masters of music, machines and materials. It's an incredible value for hi-fi sound and sophisticated style that says as much about you as your shoes, watch or car." 	trueHERTZ – The Revelation of Headphones	Most headphone marketing is simply not telling the whole truth – headphones often break too fast and every unit sounds different due to quality control variance and individual fit. Upon this revelation, V-MODA invested heavily on a crusade to create a rugged product that provides the greatest sound for the greatest amount of people. 	V-MODA's trueHERTZ and materalEDGE initiative reveals the sound, materials, engineering and quality control processes shielding the ever-present dangers to defenseless headphones. 	"I vowed to never sell a headphone I wouldn't use myself, and as a producer, DJ and engineer always on the go – M-80 is knighted by quality," said Kolton. 	The M-80 is tested under strict MIL-STD-810G military testing and V-MODA's even more stringent VMQA guidelines, of which a few are listed below. 	MIL-STD-810G and V-MODA Quality Tests	• Kevlar reinforced detachable cables and 45-degree plug strain relief can each bend more than 1 million times, over 100x industry standards	• Survives 70+ drops on concrete from 6 feet, approximately three times the industry standard	• Headband can bend 10+ times flat, without breaking and retain its memory and shape	• Virtually inaudible sound variances across the spectrum of less than 2dB from unit to unit versus 10-30dB+ of inferior products	• MIL-STD-810G environmental tests including high and low temperatures, humidity, salt spray and UV exposure 	M-80 Features: 	• Stylish interchangeable ear shields	• Detachable Kevlar®-reinforced cables with 24k gold-plated plug	• One 3.5mm fabric cable with a three-button remote control optimized for Apple products	• One 3.5mm fabric cable with a one-button microphone universally compatible with all audio, tablet and 3.5mm smartphone products including Android, BlackBerry and Windows 7	• Hard exoskeleton carrying case, ensuring headphones are protected in style	• Two-year V-MODA premier warranty	• Immortal Life Replacement Program – 50 percent off lifetime discount to replace consumer-damaged headphones 	The Crossfade M-80 retails for $230.00 and is available today at V-MODA.com and select retailers worldwide including Radio Shack. 	ABOUT V-MODA	V-MODA is the true music lifestyle brand that is distinguished by its fashion-forward design, unparalleled quality and unequivocal passion for music and materials. Led by professional DJ and Chief Visionary Officer, Val Kolton, V-MODA products blend the inspiration of Italian design, the essence of music, and the charisma of Hollywood. Together with design extraordinaire Joseph Bucknall, the worldʼs most influential producers, musicians and DJs, V-MODA is constantly challenging the norm and forging the remix revolution. For more information, please visit V-MODAʼs website, V-MODA.com.
 