
 
 If money really isn't an issue when it comes to your search for the finest sound possible from your iPhone, V-Moda has a new accessory for you to consider. The company has announced the VAMP: an iPhone 4 / 4S case that converts digital to analog for hi-fi listening. How does it work? Well, the kit uses a 150mW x 2 amplifier to bypass the smartphone's internals to offer the auditory elbow grease needed to adequately power that set of fancy headphones. For controls, you can expect a volume knob, hi / lo gain switch and toggle switch with LED indicator for either Pure or VQ listening mode. There's also an optical audio output for using your phone as a vehicle "for the purest and unparalleled audio listening experience," but you'll have to splurge for an extra cable to do so. In addition to the aforementioned conversion, the aircraft-grade metal add-on provides eight hours of playback from it's own battery -- which can be used as a backup for your Apple handset, should the need arise. Sound good so far? Well, the VAMP is now shipping and will set you back a whopping $650 with $50 of the asking price benefitting the InTheLoop Foundation. You know, if you happen to really love listening to Sigur Rós on the go and are obsessed with high fidelity playback.



  Show full PR text   V-MODA Vanquishes "The Great Compression" Via VAMP for iPhone 4/4S – Integrated Headphone Amplifier, Digital-to-Analog Convertor and Battery
   Spy-worthy gadget for mobile audiophile connoisseurs ushers in a new era of pure sound, sophistication and power

   LOS ANGELES – June 12, 2012 – V-MODA, the maker of critically-acclaimed and award-winning headphones including the Crossfade M-80 and LP-Class lines, introduces a novel accessory for the modern audio connoisseur with VAMP, a precision headphone amplifier made in Japan that combines a dedicated 150mW x 2 Hi-FI amplifier, DAC (Digital-to-Analog convertor), optical audio output and 2200mAh battery all integrated into a solid metal casing for the iPhone 4/4S.

   "I have dubbed the last decade of sacrificing pure high-fidelity sound for the sake of mobile digital convenience as 'The Great Compression'. V-MODA's VAMP is a flashback to our passion and roots in the analog and solid equipment days of hi-fi." says Val Kolton, Chief Visionary Officer and Founder of V-MODA. "VAMP is a statement that you march to your own drum and appreciate sophisticated sound and style. People always criticize the quality loss in the analog-to-digital conversion but few consider the advantages of reversing the process. VAMP unleashes the full potential of your music with vibrant, pure, powerful sound for both power-hungry and small headphones."

   VAMP's audiophile-grade, high fidelity DAC processor extracts the digital signal of the iPhone to bypass the iPhone's internal DAC. VAMP's 150mW x 2 amplifier is five times more powerful than the iPhone's amplifier and provides up to 8 hours of playback. VAMP's rotary volume knob allows you to finely adjust the volume and its hi/lo gain switch adjusts the output level.

   The VAMP features two new audio processing modes for the most discerning audiophile. The PURE mode processes audio in the truest of forms while the VQ (V-MODA eQualizer) mode adds a slight spatial 3D soundstage, tightened bass and increased treble attack that invigorates an all-around sensory experience.

   The AMP/DAC is seamlessly integrated into a beautifully sleek, aircraft-grade brushed metal that is designed to pay homage to the grooves in a vinyl record. The shock absorbing silicone protects your iPhone and allows for quick removal. The 2200 mAh lithium-ion battery can be used as a backup power source for the iPhone 4/4S, virtually doubling its battery life. Another unique feature is an Optical audio output that allows you to connect VAMP to your A/V receiver or DJ mixer via Toslink or SPDIF optical audio, transforming the iPhone into a Hi-Fi grade audio source that can be used a lifetime after the phone function is retired.

   Specifications:  - Made in Japan  - Power: 150 + 150mW @ 32 Ohms  - Battery: 2200mAh Lithium-Ion w/ overcharge protection circuit  - Signal to Noise Ratio: > 95dB  - Headphone Resistance Compatibility: > 16 Ohms  - Smartphone Compatibility: iPhone 4/4S  - Warranty: One year V-MODA premier warranty  - Accessories: USB Cable  - Weight: 135g

   VAMP is available immediately at V-MODA.com/VAMP and Amazon.com for $650. It is also available at the finest boutiques across the world including Collette in Paris. $50 from each sale at V-MODA.com will go to the InTheLoop Foundation, a non-profit entity dedicated to educate and promote the practice of "safe sound." For more information images and videos, visit V-MODA.com and facebook.com/VMODA.

 
