
       With less than a week until everyone's favorite made-up-holiday-of-love, we remembered it was time to start in on ourannual scathing diatribe on gender constructs, identity, and politics. But we figured perhaps we might go a little morelighthearted this Valentine's day andhook you up with some gadgety suggestions for her, for him, or for the both of you. Sure, we'll admit up front that theway some of these gadgets are positioned to be a bit heteronormative, but if that or Vday itself bugs you a little, atleast some of this stuff is good for a chortle. So, let's get started; you made her suffer through the Super Bowl and theshopping spreethat it followed, so you better be prepared to ante up, son, Ladies first!Hers 

Now, if you're serious andwant to buy her a laptop that isn't clad in shades of black, white or silver, your choices are pretty limited. Or arethey? ColorWare offers PowerBooks and iBooks in over twodozen colors (including "Cotton Candy," pictured) at prices starting at about $1,600. Don't want to go Apple,or want a custom job? ColorWare can repaint just about any computer you've got (if you know how to make hers vanishundetected for a few days). The company also sells colorized iPods and accessories.

If it's a pink cellphone she's been hankering for, chances are she's expecting the RAZR. And, sure, you can go ahead and get it for her. But whynot surprise her with one of these babies? The Nokia 6111 is a nice GSM slider with Bluetooth, EDGE, an FM radio, and a1 megapixel camera, and you can pick up an unlocked pink version for about$350. If she'd prefer a clamshell, there's also a pink version of LG's C3300, which was apparently designed by a woman, for women (and don't even get usstarted on all the options available for the fashionphoneinclined).The Dopod 818 Pro smartphone is available in the US by special order from eXpansys. It's an unlocked quad-band GSMunit from Hong Kong, and is identical to the HTC Prophet, which means it includes WiFi, EDGE, a 2 megapixel camera, andBluetooth. It's a special order for $759, so you're really going to have to plead with eXpansys if you want this byValentine's Day. Either that, or hop a plane to Hong Kong and pick one up on your own (or bring her with you for aromantic getaway).We know as well as anyonethat sometimes you just can't be around, but after the week stretch of sleeping on the couch we got last year fromturning over a boyfriend-arm pillow to take ourplace during those long tradeshow trips we're always taking, we decied to go with something a little more subtle thistime. The My Beating Hearthaptic pillow reproduces the sound of a heartbeat when you hug it, which we understand can be quite relaxing -- so longas it's not the sound of a telltale heart, anyway.There's at least onegirlfriend-of-Engadget who's had her eyes on the WiFi-est of all bunnies, so we figured we'd pass on the good wordabout Nabaztag, theambient information wireless wabbit (now with the ability to sing and talk). We're still looking for a spot topick one of these up that doesn't require bot-translating a French e-tailer (Nabaztag isn't yet down with countriesthat aren't France or Japan), but love is a resourceful thing and we figure you'll find a way to make it happen ifyou're so inclined. Click on to get our picks for him and the both of ya'll.  
 

 His We're not saying nothing about the actualpracticality of Gillette's new "the mo' blades the betta'" Fusion razor, sporting an impressively facial hair assaulting 5blades. The fact of the matter is, the Fusion is the only way you're going to get that many blades near your man's facewithout him getting suspicious, so we guess the only choice here is between the regular Fusion and the Fusion Power,which adds a bit of vibration to his already dangerous shaving experience -- your call, we're staying well away fromthis decision.If you spent any time with your guy on Superbowl Sunday, you might have seen his eyes light upat the sight of Mobile ESPN, a new MVNO cellphone service fromESPN (using Sprint's network). It's a tad pricey, but all plans include unlimited nights and weekends, 100 textmessages, 35MB of wireless data downloads, a handful of pre-loaded games, a one-year subscription to ESPN The Magazine,and a mess of special ESPN-centric features like an ESPN video player, text alerts for sports scores, personalizedsports stats, ESPN Fantasy Manager, access to online ESPN news and commentary, and a few other things to make this theV-day present that the dreams of sports lovers are made of.  Even thoughyou may be holding out until his birthday to pick him up a 360 (if he hasn't already snagged one for himself, that is),you may want to hold him over with some serious retro gaming in the mean time. Let him take it back to the day when hewas a little thinner and his hair was quaffed with an Atari FlashBack 2.0, Engadget's pickfor the quick n' easy no-fail way to bring a smile to his face while also subtly reminding him what a long way he'scome from those more pimply pubescent years. Plus, not unlike the Fusion above, you'll be able to use it yourself whenhe's looking the other way.Theirs If you're the kind of couple who just has to have everything his n' hers (hey, no judgments here), you maywant to check out what we dug up for pairing off. Voodoo's got their Envy a:228 in pink andblue, packing Turions, 12.1-inch WXGA (1280 x 800) displays, and they're even small and thin enough (4 pounds, 1-inchthick) that if one's feeling gentlemanly, he can carry hers in addition to his own.Of course, if you're looking to pick up a pair of slightly more adventurous digital cameras and aren'tnecessarily looking for the tops in specs, Pentax has a pair of Optio WPis that'd complement yourVoodoo lappies quite well. It's still the same chunky 6 megapixel shooter yu've come to know and love, but that paltry2-inch screen is more than made up for by its waterproof body, which allows you to rather fancifully dunk your gear inyour martinis while the two of you are out carousing next week. Looking for a place to store all those images you took from the bottom of your cocktail withyour Optio? LaCie'sSkwarim external hard drives designed by Karim Rashid might be a good place to start, although the pink drive isonly 30GB compared to the blue's 60GB. So depending on how secure with your masculinity you are, you may wind upshowing her why you're a little bit of wonderful and swapping drives with her.Looking for something a little more (gender) neutral? Well, let'sjust say that a digital picture frame (perhaps something along the lines of the Philips 7FF1AW) will take you far.Just load it up with your favorite couple-y pictures (and maybe a few of your sweetheart's friends, family, etc.), andyou're good to go; simple and classic.
 