
Remember those Steam Machine partners we heard about? Gabe Newell just took the stage at Valve's CES 2014 event and made them official, doling out specs for gaming rigs from Alienware, CyberPower, Gigabyte, iBuyPower, Falcon Northwest, and more. There are thirteen machines in all, varying from $500 to $6000 a piece. Not all of them revealed their full hardware specifications, but skip past the break, and we'll give you a rundown of what we know.



Alienware -- Price TBD

The folks at Dell were kind enough to reveal their machine at Valve's event, but didn't happen to clue us in what it contains. What we can see is that the case is a fairly basic black box, flaunting only an Alienware and Steam logos for flare and offering a pair of front-facing USB ports. We can't guess at what's inside just yet, but given the company's tradition of configurable hardware, we're sure they'll be multiple options.

Alternate -- $1339

This simple cube won't win any beauty contests, but it has some decent internals. Alternate's Steam Machine is kitted out with an Intel Core i5 4570, An NVIDIA GTX 760 GPU from Gigabyte, 16GB of RAM and up to 1TB of storage, via a hybrid solid state hard drive.

CyberPowerPC -- $499 and up

Looking for something that resembles an original Xbox-era game console? Take a look at Cyber Power's rig. We already know quite a bit about this unit: It's packing a 3.9GHz A6 CPU from AMD, a 2GB Radeon R9 270 GPU, up to 8GB of RAM and 500 gigs of internal storage. Not in to AMD internals? No worries, CyberPowerPC is offering an Intel based alternative with a 3.5GHz Core i3 and a GeForce GTX 760 instead, with dozens of other configurations available at a customer's whim. Oh, and it's shipping in the second half of the year, too.

Digital Storm "Bolt II" -- $2,584

The Bolt II is another Steam Machine that debuted ahead of Valve's event, though Digital Storm was tight lipped on its specs. Still, Newell's crew spilled a few beans: the Bolt II will be outfitted with an Intel Core i7 4770K, a GTX 780 Ti graphics processor, up to 16GB of RAM and a traditional one-two HDD / SDD combo: 1 terabyte of storage on the traditional platter disc and 120GB on the speedy solid state drive. Oddly, it has yet again another price, well above the $1,500 we originally heard it was going to go for, but we'll chalk that up to custom configurations.

Gigabyte "Brix Pro" -- Price TBD

This dimuntive box appears to be a little wider than a DVD, but also seems to suffer for its size. Although it's Intel Core i7-4770R CPU is speedy enough, Valve's press materials describe it as having integrated graphics -- Intel Iris Pro 5200, specifically. Integrated chips have come a long way in recent years, but definitely worth noting. The box also sports 16GB of RAM and a 1TB SATA HDD.

iBuyPower -- $499 and up

Like so many Steam Machine builders, iBuyPower is known for offering its customers customizable boxes, which is why the company didn't specify only one type of processors. The company's Steam Machine will offer CPUs from both AMD and Intel, and promises a graphics card from AMD -- a Radeon R9 270, as we've heard. The box also packs in 8GB of RAM and over 500GB of storage. Plus, if you've got a thing for consoles, you'll love it's case, which looks like an odd mix of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One

Falcon Northwest "Tiki" -- $1,799 - $6,000

Falcon Northwest's Tiki PC isn't exactly a newcomer, but the Steam Machine version certainly is. It's a direct replica of the currently available Tiki, albeit with SteamOS and a Steam Controller packed in when it arrives later this year. In terms of specs, there's a pretty wide range: up to GTX Titan in terms of GPU, 6TB of storage (seriously!), and up to 16GB of RAM. If that weren't enough, the outside is emblazoned with the...planet on fire imagery seen in so much Steam Machine marketing.

Materiel.net -- $1,098

Materiel is aiming at your game consoles with a box packing just a tad more power than what Microsoft and Sony are offering. An Intel Core i5 CPU, an NVIDIA GTX 760 GPU, 8GB of RAM and 1TB of storage round out the box's specs, and the price is just right -- a slight step above the newest game consoles and comparable boutique PCs, with a big enough power upgrade to justify the price.

Next "Spa" -- Price TBD

Next's Steam Machine is just a step above the Xbox One and PlayStation 4, offering an Intel Core i5 CPU, an NVIDIA GT 760 GPU, 8GB of RAM and 1TB storage. There's no price for Next's Steam Machine just yet, but it looks like it'll land just below a grand.

Origin PC "Chronos" -- Price TBD

Origin's taking a configurable approach with its Steam Machine, offering up to an Intel Core i7 CPU, two (!) NVIDIA GTX Titan GPUs, 32GB of RAM and 14TB of storage (with swappable drives). There's a good reason that price isn't announced yet -- because it's gonna cost a tremendous amount of money for this Lamborghini PC setup.

Scan "NC10" -- $1,090

Scan's flat, long Steam Machine is a mix of high end (NVIDIA GTX 765M GPU) and low end (Intel Core i3 CPU), and seems destined for mostly game streaming. 8GB of RAM and 500GB of HDD storage mean you'll be able to do at least a modicum of gaming right on the NC10, but a powerhouse it ain't.

Webhallen -- $1,499

Webhallen's version of the Steam Machine is of the higher-end variety, with an Intel Core i7 CPU, an NVIDIA GTX 780 GPU, 16GB of RAM, and a 1TB SSHD -- clearly they're not kidding around! Of course, that kind of power comes with a hefty price: $1,499. It might be double the power of new game consoles, but more than double the price makes Webhallen's model a bit of a hard sell.

Zotac -- $599

Zotac's got an especially small little box, with an unnamed Intel Core CPU, an NVIDIA GTX GPU (also TBD), and unknown storage and RAM. What we can see thus far looks to be a box on the level of a new game console, and the price matches up with that intent.

Richard Lai contributed to this report.

