
 
 We've had some indication that Valve would soon be expanding its Steam offerings beyond games thanks to a new batch of categories that briefly turned up in its Android app last month, and the company has now made the move official. While not discussing the mobile app specifically, Valve has confirmed that the first set of non-game titles will be hitting Steam on September 5th, offering a variety of (as yet unnamed) applications that the company says "range from creativity to productivity." As you'd expect, those will all be able to be installed and updated through Steam, and you'll be able to save your work in the Steam Cloud and access it on any computer. Valve also says that titles will continue to be added in an "ongoing fashion" after the initial batch, and developers will be able to submit their own applications through the Steam Greenlight system.



  Show full PR text    STEAM EXPANDS BEYOND GAMES

   Launch Set of "Software" Titles Coming Sept 5

   Aug 8, 2012 -- Valve, creators of best-selling game franchises (such as Counter-Strike, Half-Life, Left 4 Dead, Portal, and Team Fortress) and leading technologies (such as Steam and Source), today announced the first set of Software titles are heading to Steam, marking a major expansion to the platform most commonly known as a leading destination for PC and Mac games.

   The Software titles coming to Steam range from creativity to productivity. Many of the launch titles will take advantage of popular Steamworks features, such as easy installation, automatic updating, and the ability to save your work to your personal Steam Cloud space so your files may travel with you.

   More Software titles will be added in an ongoing fashion following the September 5th launch, and developers will be welcome to submit Software titles via Steam Greenlight.

   "The 40 million gamers frequenting Steam are interested in more than playing games," said Mark Richardson at Valve. "They have told us they would like to have more of their software on Steam, so this expansion is in response to those customer requests."

   For more information, please visit www.steampowered.com.

 
