
  You've come a long way, Big Red. For a network that launched a little over a year ago, VZW's LTE service is about to hit a high water mark, blanketing 203 markets come tomorrow's planned expansion to an additional seven territories. But the nation's top wireless dog isn't taking this milestone as a moment of respite; the carrier's aiming to double its current footprint by end-of-year 2012, boosting its tally to a potential 400-plus areas. As for the grand honor of being the 200th to come under the operator's 4G breadth, well, that distinction goes to a little town by the name of Dothan, Alabama. Sadly for those local folks, no festivities, fireworks or even service discounts are planned. Check out the PR after the break for the full list of cities joining the 700MHz brigade.
      

 

  Show full PR text  VERIZON TO LAUNCH ITS 200TH 4G LTE MARKET ON MARCH 15   Company Plans to Double 4G LTE Markets by End of 2012; Offers the Widest Array of Popular 4G LTE Devices, Including Tablets and Smartphones   BASKING RIDGE, N.J. – Verizon Wireless, owner of the nation's fastest 4G network, today announced its 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) network will cover 203 markets on March 15 when it launches service in seven new markets and expands in 17 markets across the United States. Following the launches on March 15, including the 200th market in Dothan, Ala., customers on the nation's largest 4G LTE network can take advantage of the speed and connectivity with more than 20 4G LTE devices, including tablets and smartphones.   Verizon Wireless plans to more than double the number of its 4G LTE markets, bringing the total markets to more than 400, by the end of the year. With the additional new markets and continued expansions, the company's 4G LTE network will cover more than 260 million people in the United States by the end of 2012.    "Our plans to double our 4G LTE network coverage from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012 align with the aggressive and rapid deployment strategy we have taken with our 4G LTE network," said David Small, chief technical officer of Verizon Wireless. "Our commitment to expanding and enhancing our 4G LTE network is enabling more customers across the country to enjoy the benefits of the most popular wireless devices. We will continue investing in our 4G LTE network and working with key partners to ensure our customers have access to the best products and services available."   On Thursday, March 15, the company will introduce its 4G LTE network in Dothan and Enterprise, Ala.; Naples, Fla.; Greenville, N.C.; Altus and Durant, Okla.; and Longview/Marshall, Texas. The company will also expand its 4G LTE network in Washington, D.C.; Elkhart, Ind.; Baltimore, Md.; Columbus, Miss.; Northern N.J.; Wilmington, N.C.; Duncan, Okla.; Allentown/Bethlehem, Harrisburg, Philadelphia and Scranton/Wilkes Barre, Pa.; Hilton Head, S.C.; Cleveland, Tenn.; Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas; and Kenosha, Madison and Milwaukee, Wis.   4G LTE Speed    In real-world, fully loaded network environments, 4G LTE users should experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink. When customers travel outside of 4G LTE coverage areas, devices automatically connect to Verizon Wireless' 3G network, enabling customers to stay connected from coast to coast. Verizon Wireless' 3G network is the most reliable high-speed data network in the country and allows customers in 3G coverage areas who purchase 4G LTE devices today to take advantage of 4G LTE speeds when the faster network becomes available in their area or when they travel to areas already covered by 4G LTE.   4G LTE Markets  On March 15, Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network will be available in 203 markets. Visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte for a full list of 4G LTE markets and additional information about Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

