
 
 Well, this isn't a surprise. Verizon has now gone official with its mouthful of a smart phone, and it does exactly what it says in its name: that is, LTE connectivity. Alongside it, you'll find Sense 4, Android 4.0 and a 4-inch Super LCD qHD screen. Rounding off those digits is a dual-core Snapdragon S4 that's clocked at 1.2GHz, matching its just below its sibling, the 1.5GHz One S. Power-wise, the Droid Incredible 4G LTE packs a 1,700mAh battery, which should provide ample power to shoot away with the rear-facing 8-megapixel shooter. Storage for all those photos, meanwhile, can be increased by up to 32GB through microSD, although we haven't been given specifics on built-in storage yet. Verizon's press release is right after the break, while you can expect the phone itself to appear in stores over the next few weeks.

 Update: The One S runs on a dual-core 1.5GHz processor. Apologies for the confusion.



  Show full PR text   HTC and Verizon Wireless Reveal DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE    New DROID INCREDIBLE Offers Advanced Camera Capabilities, Beats Audio and 4G LTE Speeds from Verizon Wireless

   BASKING RIDGE, N.J., and NEW ORLEANS, May 7, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- From International CTIA Wireless® 2012, Verizon Wireless and HTC today announced the new and exclusive DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC. The DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE will be the twenty third 4G LTE-enabled device currently available on the Verizon Wireless network.

   The new DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE enhances the customer experience by offering high-quality photo and audio capabilities, combined with the power of 4G LTE speeds. Running the latest version of HTC Sense™ 4.0, HTC's branded user experience integrated with Google's™ mobile operating system, Android™ 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich, the new DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE brings a sophisticated, pocket-friendly device to America's fastest 4G LTE network.

   DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC features Beats Audio™ which is enabled across the entire experience for a rich and authentic sound whether customers watch a YouTube™ video, play a game, or stream music over 4G LTE. Beats Audio allows customers to listen to music the way the artist intended with thundering bass, soaring midrange and crisp highs.

   The DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE captures life's special moments with an advanced 8-megapixel camera with quick activation from the home screen so customers never miss that perfect shot. Additionally, there's no longer a need to choose between shooting video or taking photos, HTC Video Pic™ allows users to shoot HD video and capture photos at the same time. With 4G LTE speeds, sharing photos and video via email, uploading to the cloud or posting to social networking sites is a breeze.

   DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE is packed with features to make life easier and customizable. Customers can personalize and use lock screen shortcuts to quickly access their four favorite apps. Folders can easily be created on any home screen for additional customization and organization. A Read Later feature allows people short on time the ability to save browser content like news articles and websites that can be viewed later, even while offline. The smartphone is also NFC capable so customers can take advantage of Android Beam™ to quickly share Web pages, apps, contacts and YouTube™ videos with friends by simply tapping two compatible phones together.

   The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network is available in 230 markets across the Unites States. In real-world, fully loaded network environments, 4G LTE users should experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink. When customers travel outside of 4G LTE coverage areas, devices automatically connect to Verizon Wireless' 3G network, where available, enabling customers to stay connected from coast to coast.

   Additional features:

   4-inch super LCD qHD display  8 megapixel rear-facing camera with autofocus, LED flash, BSI, f/2.2 and 28 mm lens  Front-facing camera for video chatting with friends and family  1.2 GHz dual-core Qualcomm® Snapdragon™ S4 processor  Mobile Hotspot capable to share 4G LTE connection with up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices  Support for up to 32 GB microSD™ memory card  1,700 mAh lithium ion removable battery

   The new DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com in the coming weeks.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

