
 
Surprised? Nah, neither are we -- Verizon's LTE-based Android smartphones have been leaking like the sweet, Cortex-A8 sieves that they are for weeks now -- but Big Red's using stronger language than ever before to say that we can expect multiple Android devices running on Verizon's fresh LTE network here at CES this week. Specifically, the press release says that "the company will also offer a sneak peek at a suite of Android-based LTE consumer devices" at its January 6th event here at the show, echoing Twitter teasers last month -- but with the key addition of the word "suite," which hopefully means we'll have an LG, an HTC, a Motorola, and a Samsung (at the very least) to toy with by the time this week is out. Stay tuned, folks. Follow the break for the brief press release.
      

 

Show full PR textVERIZON WIRELESS SHOWS WHAT 4G LTE MEANS FOR CONSUMERS AT CESWide Range of Ecosystem Partners Demonstrate Products and Solutions that Take Advantage of the 4G LTE NetworkLAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J. – Verizon Wireless said today that its first-ever exhibit booth at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) will show off the consumer and enterprise capabilities of its new 4G LTE network with the products, services and solutions that take advantage of the blazingly fast speed and low latency of the new wireless network. On Jan. 6, the company will also offer a sneak peek at a suite of Android-based LTE consumer devices at a news conference. Visitors to the exhibit booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, #35216) will see firsthand how the nation's fastest 4G LTE network can fundamentally change how consumers manage their daily lives and how businesses interact with each other and with their customers. Working with nearly 50 different technology ecosystem partners, the Verizon Wireless booth will highlight more than 40 new solutions that take advantage of the fast speeds and low latency of the new 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network. Demonstrations will range from connected home and cars to gaming and entertainment to consumer devices. The demos will also feature new ways to do mobile collaboration for retail, customer service and other industries; home and energy management; and consumer entertainment, including multiplayer gaming, all of which leverage the 4G network in innovative ways. Verizon Wireless and its partners will also feature remote security and health care options and a car that shows different applications coming from the automotive industry. Many of the solutions being highlighted are the result of collaborations fostered at Verizon Wireless' LTE Innovation Center. The LTE Innovation Center, established in 2008 and located in Waltham, Mass., provides an environment for dozens of diverse companies to work collaboratively to develop innovative products and solutions that leverage 4G LTE technology. Sneak Peek at Consumer DevicesVerizon Wireless' news conference will provide a sneak peek of a suite of consumer-oriented Android-based devices for its 4G LTE network and will include remarks from senior Verizon Wireless executives and key ecosystem partners. The news conference will be webcast live; visit www.verizonwebcasts.com/ces/2011/news to register.The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network, launched in December 2010, is the fastest, most advanced 4G network in the United States, providing speeds up to 10 times faster than Verizon Wireless' 3G network. Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network currently reaches one-third of all Americans, with plans to expand the network to the company's entire 3G coverage area over the next three years.For more information about the LTE Innovation Center and Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network, visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte. For more information about Verizon Wireless at CES, visit www.verizonwireless.com/ces and follow the company on Twitter at http://twitter.com/verizonwireless.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

