
   Verizon Wireless is releasing a pair of worldwide mobile hotspots from ZTE and Novatel Wireless, both called the Jetpack. Not confusing at all, eh? At any rate, the Novatel-sourced MiFi 4620L is the larger of the two (3.76- x 2.36- x 0.53-inches; shown after the break), supporting quad-band EDGE and HSPA technology. It's capable of sharing 4G LTE and 3G with up to ten WiFi-enabled devices, and it also touts an OLED display that allows customers to scroll through menu options, check security settings, view battery life and manage connected devices at any given time. Customers in the US can expect download rates between 5Mbps and 12Mbps when located in an LTE zone, and the "global" aspect allows 'em to enjoy wireless data service in more than 205 countries, including more than 125 with 3G speeds (for a princely sum, naturally). Over on the ZTE side, the cube-styled EuFi890 (3.49- x 3.49- x 0.70-inches; pictured after the break) also offers an OLED display, and there's an interactive keypad to help manage connections and settings and to display data usage alerts. Regrettably, we've no pricing details to share, but the new LTE duo should hit VZW stores "in the coming weeks."
 

       Show full PR text  Verizon Wireless Introduces the Verizon Jetpack™, a Global Ready™ 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot Developed by ZTE  LAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J., Jan. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- From the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Verizon Wireless and ZTE today announced the Verizon Jetpack™ – EuFi890. Developed by ZTE, the Jetpack is a Global Ready™ 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot. Harnessing the power of the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network, the Jetpack allows customers to share blazing fast internet connectivity with up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices. The Jetpack will be in the Verizon booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, Booth #30259) and ZTE booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, Booth #35466).   The compact Jetpack comes equipped with an OLED screen and interactive keypad to help manage connections and settings and to display data usage alerts. Consumers and international business travelers alike can enjoy Web access in more than 205 countries, including more than 125 with 3G speeds, on their Wi-Fi-enabled devices using the Jetpack to watch movies, listen to music and conduct business. Verizon Wireless leads the way in 4G with the fastest and most reliable 4G network in the United States, covering more than 200 million Americans in 190 markets.   Key features:   4G LTE – Customers can expect fast download speeds of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps in 4G LTE Mobile Broadband coverage areas  Global Ready, allowing customers to enjoy wireless data service in more than 205 countries, including more than 125 with 3G speeds  Support for up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices  OLED display with interactive keypad  Backward-compatible with the Verizon Wireless 3G network  Data usage alerts via text message displayed on the Jetpack  Wireless Connectivity: 802.11 b/g/n  Supports Windows®, Macintosh® and Linux operating systems  Security: WEP/WPA/WPA2 and VPN pass-through support  Dimensions: 3.49" x 3.49" x .70"  Weight: 4.7 oz   The Verizon Jetpack, developed by ZTE, will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com in the coming weeks.   For additional information on Verizon Wireless products and services, visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store, call 1-800-2 JOIN IN or go to www.verizonwireless.com.    ---  LAS VEGAS, NV and BASKING RIDGE, NJ - From the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Verizon Wireless and Novatel Wireless (NASDAQ: NVTL) today announced the new Verizon Jetpack™- MiFi® 4620L. This Verizon Jetpack is a Global Ready™, 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot and the next generation of the Novatel Wireless MiFi Intelligent Mobile Hotspot portfolio for Verizon Wireless, building on award-winning innovation and design, proven performance and industry-leading user experience. The Jetpack provides ultimate global support allowing consumers to stay connected while traveling abroad, supporting Quad Band EDGE and HSPA technology. The Jetpack will be in the Verizon booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, Booth #30259).   The Verizon Jetpack - MiFi 4620L creates a personal Wi-Fi cloud, capable of sharing high-speed 4G LTE and 3G Mobile Broadband Internet connectivity with up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices simultaneously. The Jetpack supports the latest security requirements, complying with the strictest corporate VPNs, including VPN pass-through and NAT firewall. It includes new features such as an interactive OLED display, allowing customers to scroll through menu options, check security settings, view battery life and manage connected devices at any given time.   Key features:   4G LTE – Customers in the United States can expect fast download speeds of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps in Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband coverage areas  Global Ready, allowing customers to enjoy wireless data service in more than 205 countries, including more than 125 with 3G speeds  Support for up to 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices  Backward compatible with the Verizon Wireless 3G network  Simple one-touch connectivity  OLED display and multi-color LED status indicator  Security: WEP/WPA/WPA2 and VPN pass-through support  Supports Windows®, Macintosh®, Linux, and most other Wi-Fi-enabled devices  No software installation required  Advanced integrated antenna technology  Wi-Fi Connectivity: 802.11b/g/n  Dimensions: 3.76" x 2.36" x 0.53"   Verizon Wireless leads the way in 4G with the largest 4G LTE network and most reliable 4G network in the United States, which now covers more than 200 million people in 190 markets. The Verizon Jetpack - MiFi 4620L will be in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com in the coming weeks.  
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

