
 

Big Red's finding its pipes cluttered with all of the young people's streaming video, audio and cloud services. That's why it's busting out the credit card to order a fresh new 100G IPv6 network for Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York and Seattle. It'll need Cisco's CRS-3 Carrier Routing System to help the network scale to areas of highest demand, but since it's already using CRS-1, it should be a simple matter of swapping out the old kit. FiOS customers will also see network improvements when the upgrade is finished in the first half of next year, just be on the look out for repairmen huddling 'round your nearest junction box.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Verizon Upgrades Its IP Network Access to Enable 100G Technology 		Cisco CRS-3 Provides Foundation for Traffic Growth Driven by Video, Mobile, and Cloud Services  NEW YORK, Dec. 13, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- To meet the growing traffic demand created by video, mobile and cloud services, Verizon will upgrade its IP network infrastructure in selected U.S. markets, including Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York and Seattle. 		Verizon will extend its next-generation 100G capabilities by deploying Cisco's CRS-3 Carrier Routing System platform to terminate high-speed connections closer to the "edge" – the part of the network nearer to the customer's network facilities. This advanced platform, which will be deployed in the first half of 2012, will enable the network to seamlessly accommodate growth where traffic demand is the greatest. 		"We're constantly seeking to improve the Verizon IP network to support traffic growth, improve performance and increase functionality," said Ihab Tarazi, vice president of global IP and transport planning and technology for Verizon. "Upgrading the network using Cisco's CRS-3 platform provides better scale and expanded capabilities that support traffic growth areas such as broadband access and content delivery." 		Verizon will deploy the CRS-3 platform to provide 100G edge access to the IP network and upgrade its FiOS core network. Verizon has relied on Cisco's CRS-1 platform in the network for more than four years, allowing the company to easily transition to the CRS-3 platform, thereby simplifying network operations while enabling comprehensive system redundancy and network resiliency. 		"Cisco's CRS and ASR technologies were designed for trail-blazing service providers, such as Verizon, that are looking to create and deploy the next generation of great services and applications." said Surya Panditi, senior vice president and general manager, core technology group for Cisco. "These routing platforms will seamlessly accommodate the extraordinary future growth of video traffic, mobile devices and new online services, and we are confident these technologies will play a key role in enabling Verizon to continue delivering advanced new FiOS experiences to its customers." 		The Cisco platform will enable content providers and large-enterprise customers to benefit from more efficient and quicker access in delivering traffic to Verizon's wireline and wireless consumers. 		The CRS platform also plays a key role in Verizon's network evolution strategy to IPv6, the new Internet addressing system, by providing the flexibility to support the anticipated wave of IPv6 services while continuing to expand and sustain IPv4 services. 		Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, with more than 107 million total connections nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers integrated business solutions to customers in more than 150 countries, including all of the Fortune 500. A Dow 30 company with $106.6 billion in 2010 revenues, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 195,000. For more information, visit www.verizon.com
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

