
 Verizon's had a couple days to mull over its response to AT&T's Windows Phone 8 pricing, and it's now ready to make its intentions known: the Nokia Lumia 822 and HTC Windows Phone 8X will both be available for pre-order beginning tomorrow and will officially be on store shelves before Thanksgiving. Nokia's model can be yours in white, black and grey for $100 after $50 mail-in rebate, while HTC's WP8 flagship will be offered in blue, red or black for $200. (Verizon also confirmed that red and black will be carrier-exclusive.) Big Red also confirmed that the ATIV S Odyssey will arrive before the end of the year, but no pricing or dates were offered.



  Show full PR text    UPDATE: The Windows Phone 8X by HTC and the Nokia Lumia 822 will be available for pre-order starting tomorrow, November 9, at 1am ET.

   There is no "one size fits all" when it comes to mobile operating systems (OS) and the announcement by Microsoft of Windows Phone 8 will soon give customers another choice when shopping for a new Verizon Wireless smartphone.

   This new OS brings new features to explore and new ways to further personalize your smartphone. Windows Phone 8 will debut on a number of new smartphones, which means you never need to relearn the OS when moving from one smartphone to another.

   The Start screen is always the most personal screen and Live Tiles on Windows Phone 8 makes that personalization possible. Live Tiles let you create a Start screen that's exactly right for you by letting you not only pin apps but also people, bookmarks and more all on one screen to view at a glance. The Live Tiles and Apps pinned on the Start screen animate and update as notifications come in so you see which apps are calling for your attention. The tunes that you rock out to and the games that keep you busy go where you go with Xbox Music and Xbox Games. All of this together is what makes the phone, you.

   Managing data use on a Windows Phone 8 from Verizon Wireless is just as simple and helps relieve the stress of data use. The Data Sense app, exclusive for a limited time, tells you how much data you have used in a given time period. It also allows you to set data limits and even reports how much data each app has used. Data Sense doesn't stop there, as it has a suite of features like Wi-Fi mapping to find hotspots and compressing images and HTML while browsing the Web to help reduce data usage.

   Work and play don't need to be separated with Windows Phone 8. Having Microsoft Office Mobile built-in means using Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote from your phone to create, edit and view documents. Windows Phone 8 takes the mobile office farther with SkyDrive integration, including 7 GB of free space, for storing pictures, files and data on the cloud and built-in support for Office 365 for email and SharePoint access.

   A brand new OS needs a powerful network to run on, and with 4G LTE coverage in more than 410 markets across the United States, Windows Phone 8 customers will be browsing and streaming at blazing speeds. That same Verizon Wireless advantage also includes access to the exclusive apps like VZ Navigator for turn-by-turn navigation and maps with millions points of interest, Backup Assistant Plus to store your contacts and sports apps including one for football aficionado.

   Verizon Wireless will soon have three 4G LTE smartphones running Windows Phone 8, two of which will be available in the coming weeks.

   -Windows Phone 8X by HTC – available by Thanksgiving in Blue, Red or Black color models for $199.99 with a new two year contract. The Red and Black color models are Verizon Wireless exclusives.  -Nokia Lumia 822 – Exclusive to Verizon Wireless and will be available by Thanksgiving in Black, White and Grey color models for $99.99 after a $50 mail-in rebate and with a new two year contract  -Samsung ATIV Odyssey – Exclusive to Verizon Wireless and will be available by the end of the year. More information soon to come.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

