
 

3G wireless is now less a privilege than a right, and and with any luck our 4G networks will be similarly self-evident soon. Verizon is doing its part, flipping the switch on 28 new LTE markets today. This boosts the total number of covered areas to 102. Added highlights include: Colorado Springs, Colorado; Augusta, Georgia; Louisville, Kentucky; and Hilo, Hawaii. Meanwhile, folks in Phoenix, Los Angeles, San Diego, Las Vegas, Dallas, San Antonio, and Seattle can now roam a little further from city center without losing LTE. The full list is after the break, but if you're feeling lucky just go ahead and enable everything on your handset. We've got our fingers crossed for you.
      

 

New Markets:  		Decatur and Huntsville, Ala. 		Colorado Springs, Colo. 		Lakeland and Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla. 		Augusta, Ga. 		Hilo, Honolulu, Kahului-Wailuku and Lahaina, Hawaii 		Carbondale, Ill. 		Wichita, Kan. 		Louisville, Ky. 		Baton Rouge and Hammond, La. 		Springfield, Mass. 		Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point and Raleigh-Durham, N.C. 		Toledo, Ohio 		Tulsa, Okla. 		Portland, Ore. 		Wilkes Barre/Scranton, Pa. 		Charleston, S.C. 		Chattanooga and Knoxville, Tenn. 		Olympia and Tacoma, WashExpanded Markets: 		Phoenix, Ariz. 		Los Angeles and San Diego, Calif. 		Las Vegas, Nev. 		Northern New Jersey 		Dallas-Ft. Worth and San Antonio, Texas 		and Seattle, Wash. 		Show full PR text  On Thursday, Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE Network Will Be Available In More Than 100 Markets 		Wireless Leader Turns On 28 Additional 4G LTE Markets and Expands Its 4G LTE Network in Eight Cities On July 21 		07/18/2011 		BASKING RIDGE, NJ - Verizon Wireless is turning on the world's most advanced wireless network in 28 additional markets this week, bringing the blazingly fast speed of 4G LTE to a total of 102 cities across the country. Today, consumers and businesses can choose from nine 4G devices – including three smartphones, a tablet, two hotspots and three USB modems – to connect to the fastest 4G LTE network in the country. 		The new areas where Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network will be available Thursday include Decatur and Huntsville, Ala.; Colorado Springs, Colo.; Lakeland and Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla.; Augusta, Ga.; Hilo, Honolulu, Kahului-Wailuku and Lahaina, Hawaii; Carbondale, Ill.; Wichita, Kan.; Louisville, Ky.; Baton Rouge and Hammond, La.; Springfield, Mass.; Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point and Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Toledo, Ohio; Tulsa, Okla.; Portland, Ore.; Wilkes Barre/Scranton, Pa.; Charleston, S.C.; Chattanooga and Knoxville, Tenn.; Olympia and Tacoma, Wash; and Charleston, W.Va. The company is also expanding its 4G LTE network in Phoenix, Ariz.; Los Angeles and San Diego, Calif.; Las Vegas, Nev.; Northern New Jersey; Dallas-Ft. Worth and San Antonio, Texas; and Seattle, Wash. 		"On Thursday, when we light up 28 additional 4G LTE markets, we will offer consumers and businesses in 102 metropolitan areas the most advanced 4G wireless network on the planet, while continuing to offer the nation's most reliable 3G network coast to coast," said David Small, chief technical officer of Verizon Wireless. "In fewer than eight months we have introduced our 4G LTE network to more than 100 markets and we are continuing to aggressively expand our 4G LTE network; by the end of 2013 we plan to bring 4G LTE mobile broadband to our entire 3G coverage area." 		4G LTE Devices 		Consumers can choose from several devices to access the blazingly fast speeds of the 4G LTE network, including the Revolution™ by LG, DROID Charge by Samsung and ThunderBolt™ by HTC smartphones, Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 10.1, as well as the MiFi® 4510L 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot and Samsung 4G LTE Mobile Hotspot. Laptop users can enjoy speeds up to 10 times faster than the company's 3G network with three USB modems from Novatel, Pantech and LG. In real-world, fully-loaded network environments, 4G LTE users should experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink. 		When customers travel outside of a 4G coverage area, the devices automatically connect to Verizon Wireless' 3G network, enabling customers to stay connected from coast to coast. Verizon Wireless' 3G network is the most reliable network in the country, allowing customers with laptops and smartphones to download and use cool apps – from mobile social networking platforms to GPS-enabled maps – rapidly browse the Web to keep up with news, sports and stock quotes and stream must-see video and customized radio stations. Customers in 3G coverage areas today who purchase 4G devices will be able to take advantage of 4G speeds when the faster network becomes available in their areas. 		Reliability: In and Beyond Major Cities 		As the first wireless company in the world to broadly deploy game-changing 4G LTE technology, Verizon Wireless is committed to building its 4G network with the same performance and reliability for which it has long been recognized. Verizon Wireless' consistent focus on reliability is based on rigid engineering standards and a disciplined deployment approach year after year. The company's 700 MHz spectrum gives Verizon Wireless specific advantages with 4G, including a contiguous, nationwide network license. 		Verizon Wireless' vision also includes bringing its 4G LTE network beyond major cities. The company is working with rural communications companies to collaboratively build and operate a 4G network in those areas using the tower and backhaul assets of the rural company and Verizon Wireless' core 4G LTE equipment and premium 700 MHz spectrum. Already, 10 rural companies have announced their participation in the LTE in Rural America program and have leased spectrum covering, in total, more than 2.1 million people in rural communities and nearly 62,000 square miles. These companies include: Bluegrass Cellular, Cross Telephone, Pioneer Cellular, Cellcom, Thumb Cellular, Strata Networks, S&R Communications, Carolina West/Clear Stream, Custer Telephone Cooperative and Convergence Technologies. 		4G LTE Markets as of July 21, 2011 		While Verizon Wireless' 3G network covers more than 290 million Americans, the company's 4G LTE network will be available in 102 areas on Thursday, including: 		Decatur, Ala.		Huntsville, Ala.		Mobile, Ala.		Montgomery, Ala.		Phoenix, Ariz.		Fresno, Calif.		Los Angeles, Calif.		Oakland, Calif.		Sacramento, Calif.		San Diego, Calif.		San Francisco, Calif.		San Jose, Calif.		Colorado Springs, Colo.		Denver, Colo.		Greater Fairfield and New Haven, Conn.		Hartford, Conn.		Washington, D.C.		Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.		Gainesville, Fla.		Jacksonville, Fla.		Lakeland, Fla.		Miami, Fla.		Orlando, Fla.		Pensacola, Fla.		Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla.		Tallahassee, Fla.		Tampa, Fla.		West Palm Beach, Fla.		Athens, Ga.		Atlanta, Ga.		Augusta, Ga.		Hilo, Hawaii		Honolulu, Hawaii		Kahului-Wailuku, Hawaii		Lahaina, Hawaii		Boise, Idaho		Carbondale, Ill.		Chicago, Ill.		Fort Wayne, Ind.		Indianapolis, Ind.		West Lafayette, Ind.		Wichita, Kan.		Louisville, Ky.		Baton Rouge, La.		Hammond, La.		New Orleans, La.		Baltimore, Md.		Boston, Mass.		Springfield, Mass.		Detroit, Mich.		Flint, Mich.		Grand Rapids, Mich.		Lansing, Mich.		Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minn.		St. Louis, Mo.		Las Vegas, Nev.		New York, N.Y.		Rochester, N.Y.		Charlotte, N.C.		Fayetteville-Lumberton, N.C.		Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point, N.C.		Raleigh-Durham, N.C.		Wilmington, N.C.		Akron, Ohio		Cincinnati, Ohio		Cleveland, Ohio		Columbus, Ohio		Dayton, Ohio		Toledo, Ohio		Oklahoma City, Okla.		Tulsa, Okla.		Portland, Ore.		Allentown/Bethlehem/Easton, Pa.		Erie, Pa.		Harrisburg, Pa.		Philadelphia, Pa.		Pittsburgh, Pa.		Wilkes Barre-Scranton, Pa.		State College, Pa.		Charleston, S.C.		Columbia, S.C.		Greenville-Spartanburg, S.C.		Hilton Head, S.C.		Sioux Falls, S.D.		Chattanooga, Tenn.		Clarksville, Tenn./Hopkinsville, Ky.		Cleveland, Tenn.		Knoxville, Tenn.		Nashville, Tenn.		Bryan-College Station, Texas		Dallas-Ft. Worth, Texas		Houston, Texas		San Antonio, Texas		Temple-Killeen, Texas		Salt Lake City-Ogden, Utah		Olympia, Wash.		Seattle, Wash.		Spokane, Wash.		Tacoma, Wash.		Charleston, W.Va.		Madison, Wis.		Milwaukee, Wis.		Since 2007, when Verizon Wireless jump-started the global 4G LTE ecosystem with its selection of LTE for its 4G technology, the company has developed deep partnerships to spearhead a broad LTE ecosystem, with many being fostered at the LTE Innovation Center, which was officially opened in Waltham, Mass. on July 12, and the Application Innovation Center, slated to open in San Francisco later this year. 		Visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte for more information about Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

