
  Well, what do we have here? Yes, it's the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7 with LTE for Verizon and it's just officially landed in the US. We're not terribly surprised, but we're not complaining, either. This 7.9mm (0.31 inches) thin tablet packs a 7.7-inch 1280x800 Super AMOLED Plus (non-pentile) high-definition display, Android 3.2 (Honeycomb), an unnamed 1.4GHz dual core processor (likely the same Exynos CPU as its HSPA+ cousin), 1GB of RAM, 16 GB of built-in storage, up to 32GB of microSD-based storage, an infrared transmitter, a three megapixel AF camera with flash and a two-megapixel front-facing camera. Of course, you'll also find TouchWiz on board, along with Samsung's media and social hubs, plus Peel Smart Remote, Wi-Fi Direct and AllShare (DLNA) -- at 340g (12oz), it's pretty lightweight, too. Connectivity is provided via Verizon' LTE and CDMA networks as well as support for WiFi a/b/g/n. A few optional accessories will be offered for the device, including a keyboard dock, a multimedia dock, a USB/SD adapter connection kit, an HDTV adapter and a book cover case.We did have the opportunity to play with Verizon's Galaxy Tab 7.7 and the most striking feature is definitely the screen -- it's simply phenomenal, with incredible viewing angles and amazing contrast. The brushed-metal back cover further contributes to the premium feel of the device. Oh, and did we mention it's super thin? It's interesting to note that like most of Verizon's recent LTE phones, this tablet uses a micro-SIM instead of a standard-sized card. As for performance, it's top-notch with a fluid experience all around. Sadly, pricing and availability remain a mystery for now. We'll keep you posted, but in the meantime take a look at the galleries below and be sure to peek after the break for our hands-on video and the press materials.


Richard Lai contributed to this post.


   Show full PR text  SAMSUNG MOBILE AND VERIZON WIRELESS UNVEIL 4G LTE-ENABLED SAMSUNG GALAXY TAB™ 7.7 AT 2012 CES  World's Thinnest 4G LTE Tablet and First Tablet in the United States to Feature Super AMOLED™ Plus Display  LAS VEGAS and BASKING RIDGE, N.J. – From the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Samsung Telecommunications America (Samsung Mobile), today announced that the Samsung Galaxy Tab™ 7.7 will be available on the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Mobile Broadband network in the coming weeks. Verizon Wireless leads the way in 4G with the fastest and most reliable 4G network in the United States, covering more than 200 million people in 190 markets. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7 will be on display at CES 2012 in Verizon Wireless' booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall, Booth #30259) and in the Samsung booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, Central Hall, Booth #12004). The Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.7 boasts a brilliant Super AMOLED™ Plus touchscreen display, allowing customers to watch movies, view pictures and play games that come to life in high-definition 720p (1280x800) resolution. The Galaxy Tab 7.7 features a 1.4 GHz dual-core processor and HTML 5 Web browser to quickly access the Web, stream music and more at blazing speeds using the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network. The Galaxy Tab 7.7 measures just 7.9 millimeters thin (less than half an inch) and weighs only 340 grams (roughly 12 oz), making this tablet one of the most portable premium and stylish tablets available. The Galaxy Tab 7.7 features Peel Smart Remote that allows customers to find and watch their favorite TV shows and discover new shows based on their preferences through built-in infrared blaster. Customers can also control their home entertainment system using Peel Smart Remote regardless of manufacturer with the Tab 7.7, all with the tap of a finger. Additionally, the Galaxy Tab 7.7 will launch as a SAFE™ certified device. The SAFE certification signifies that the Tab 7.7 is equipped with an exclusive suite of security features that deliver enterprise-friendly capabilities to help safeguard sensitive data and communications, including Mobile Device Management (MDM), on-device Encryption, Virtual Private Network (VPN) and corporate email, calendar and contacts. Additional features: • Samsung TouchWiz™ - Designed with Live Panels for customizing the home screen with digital pictures, favorite Web sites and social network feeds. In addition, the TouchWiz UX includes a Mini Apps tray of commonly used features, such as task manager, calendar and music player which can be launched while other apps are already in use. The clipboard feature allows customers to copy and paste texts and images. • Mobile Hotspot capability – Share your 4G LTE connection with up to 10 Wi-Fi enabled devices or 3G connection with up to 5 Wi-Fi enabled devices • Android™ 3.2, Honeycomb – Supports Google™ Mobile Services including Gmail™, YouTube™, Google Talk™, Google Search™, Google Maps™, and access to Google Books™, movie rentals, and more than 400,000 apps on Android Market™ • Samsung Apps – Samsung Apps is a recommendation engine that aggregates over 50,000 apps from the Android Market that are optimized for Honeycomb. Samsung Apps also adds a social element by allowing consumers to share the apps they like with friends on Facebook®. • Samsung Media Hub – Offering a vast lineup of critically acclaimed films and TV programs for rent or purchase (TV content can only be purchased) • Samsung Social Hub – Built around messaging, which allows customers to send and receive information, whether it is email (Exchange, POP3/IMAP), social network updates (Twitter™, Facebook and LinkedIn®) • 3-megapixel rear-facing camera with LED flash and full 720p recording and 1080p playback (1080p playback through HDMI dock or adapter) • Front-facing 2-megapixel camera for video chat • QuickOffice® Pro HD - Get the most powerful office productivity suite for Android Honeycomb tablets with advanced Microsoft® Office editing, SmartTouch™ technology and Connected File Manager with integrated remote storage access • Wi-Fi Direct – Customers can connect to their Wi-Fi-enabled portable devices and seamlessly transfer music, videos and other data over an adhoc Wi-Fi connection • AllShare™ App – Enables inter-device connectivity through Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA), so customers can send multimedia content wirelessly to other DLNA-enabled devices such as TVs and laptops • Wi-Fi Connectivity (802.11 a/b/g/n) • 16 GB on board storage (actual formatted capacity is less) • Support for up to 32 GB microSD™ card Accessories: • Keyboard Dock – Full-size dock with tablet hotkeys that activate key features of the Galaxy Tab 7.7 including Internet, email and music/video controls; charging and data sync capabilities (cables not included); 3.5mm stereo audio output for connection to external speakers (cable not included) • Multimedia Dock – Portrait viewing format for desktop display; fitted cradle and weighted base to keep your Galaxy Tab in place; built-in HDMI out port; 3.5mm stereo audio output for connection to external speakers (cable not included) and charging capabilities • USB/SD Adapter Connection Kit – 30-pin to SD adapter for sharing multimedia files with your Tab via an SD or microSD device. USB adapter allows customers to connect an array of USB capable devices such as a mouse, keyboard, thumb drive, camera, Samsung printers, and more • HDTV Adapter – Powered HDMI cable for video and audio streaming from your Tab to a compatible HDTV; support for HD video up to 1080p; simultaneous charging while streaming • Book Cover Case – Ultra-slim fit with full access to all buttons and ports. Stands the tablet in landscape for optimal media viewing or as a keyboard stand for typing
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

