
 
 Big Red's push to blanket the entire US with those lovable Long Term Evolution waves just got a heck of a lot closer, as the carrier's announced it's bringing true 4G to 34 new markets and expanding coverage in other parts of the country. For starters, folks around Hot Springs, Arkansas, Reading, Pennsylvania, Longview, Washington and Laredo, Texas will finally be able to get the most out that marvelous Galaxy S III -- or, perhaps, something like the newfangled Galaxy Tab 2 7.0. Meanwhile, Verizon's also let it be known it's expanding LTE coverage in previously covered markets, including big-name cities such as New York, Boston, Los Angeles, Las Vegas and New Orleans. There are more cities involved in the process, but for that our friends, you'll have to peek at the presser located right after the break.



  Show full PR text   Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Network Available To More Than 75 Percent Of The U.S. Population
   Addition of 34 New Markets on August 16 Brings Verizon Wireless 4G LTE to More Than 370 Markets

   BASKING RIDGE, NJ - Verizon Wireless, owner of America's largest 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) network, today announced that its 4G LTE network will cover more than 75 percent of the U.S. population when it introduces the network in 34 new markets and expands in 38 other markets on Aug. 16. With Thursday's market launches and expansions, the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network will be available to customers in 371 markets across the country.

   "Our 4G LTE network is currently in more markets than all other U.S. wireless providers combined, and our team is continuing to expand the network so that more customers across the nation can take advantage of 4G LTE speed and capabilities," said Nicola Palmer, chief technical officer of Verizon Wireless. "We are ahead of schedule with our 4G LTE market roll out and will provide 4G LTE network coverage to more than 400 markets in the near future."

   Products, Services and Plans

   The Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network enables customers to upload images on their social channels, download documents, connect with family and friends and more, all at speeds up to 10 times faster than before. The company gives customers the largest selection of 4G LTE devices offered by any wireless provider. Devices range from tablets and mobile hotspots to the latest smartphones and more, including the Samsung Galaxy S® III and the DROID INCREDIBLE 4G LTE by HTC. Details on available devices can be found at www.verizonwireless.com/4GLTE and information on plans and pricing is available at www.verizonwireless.com/plans.

   Verizon Wireless customers can take advantage of HomeFusion™ Broadband, a solution that leverages the power and speed of the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network to deliver high-speed, in-home Internet access for residential broadband, particularly in areas where Internet options are limited or are not currently available.

   Verizon Wireless also offers in-store and online Wireless Workshops that provide customers with the information they need to maximize their wireless experience on smartphones and tablets. For customers new to 4G LTE or looking to purchase a 4G LTE device, Verizon Wireless is now offering a 4G LTE workshop online and in select stores about the power and benefits of the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network as well as the basic and advanced features of 4G LTE devices.

   New and Expanded Markets

   The new markets launching on Thursday include: Hot Springs, Ark.; Redding, Calif.; Valdosta and Waycross, Ga.; Centralia and Danville, Ill.; Parsons, Salina and Topeka, Kan.; Alexandria and Monroe, La.; Pittsfield, Mass.; Battle Creek and Muskegon, Mich.; Mankato and Worthington, Minn.; Joplin and Sedalia, Mo.; Bismarck, Grand Forks and Minot, N.D.; Chillicothe, Ohio; Reading, Pa.; Aberdeen, S.D.; Laredo, Odessa and Texarkana, Texas; Brattleboro and White River Junction, Vt.; Charlottesville, Va.; Longview, Wash.; and Eau Claire, La Crosse and Manitowoc, Wis.

   The company will also expand its 4G LTE network in 38 markets on the same day. The expanded areas include: Los Angeles and Santa Barbara/Santa Maria, Calif.; Orlando, Fla.; Macon/Warner Robins, Ga.; Bloomington, Champaign/Urbana, Decatur/Effingham and Springfield, Ill.; Elkhart, Ind.; Des Moines, Iowa City and Sioux City, Iowa; Dodge City, Garden City and Great Bend, Kan.; Lexington and Louisville, Ky.; New Orleans, La.; Boston, Mass.; Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minn.; Missoula, Mont.; Las Vegas, Nev.; Manchester/Nashua, N.H.; Las Cruces, N.M.; New York, N.Y.; Cincinnati, Ohio; Greenville/Spartanburg, S.C.; Sioux Falls, S.D.; Chattanooga, Tenn.; and Salt Lake City/Ogden, Utah; Roanoke, Va.; Charleston, W.Va.; and Green Bay, Wis. Additional areas include: Little Rock, Ark., expanding into Batesville, Ark.; Tallahassee, Fla., expanding into Thomasville, Ga.; Burley, Idaho, expanding into Twin Falls, Idaho; Chicago, Ill., expanding into DeKalb, Ill.; and Cedar City, Utah, expanding into St. George, Utah.

   Speed and Coverage

   In real-world, fully loaded network environments, 4G LTE users should experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink. When customers travel outside of 4G LTE coverage areas, devices automatically connect to Verizon Wireless' 3G network, where available, enabling customers to stay connected from coast to coast.

   Verizon Wireless' 3G network is the most reliable high-speed data network in the country and allows customers in 3G coverage areas who purchase 4G LTE devices today to take advantage of 4G LTE speeds when the faster network becomes available in their area or when they travel to areas already covered by Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network.

   Visit www.verizonwireless.com/lte for a full list of 4G LTE markets and additional information on the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network. For street-level detail of coverage and more, please visit www.verizonwireless.com/4GLTE.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

