
 Verizon is trying to put the final nail in the coffin of its DSL service. Of course, that's still a long way off but, for those outside of reach of its FiOS tentacles, Big Red is pushing HomeFusion. The LTE to the home solution, which started rolling out in early March, is now available nationwide... provided your definition of "nationwide" jibes with Verizon's. Still, with a claimed two-thirds of the US population covered by 230 distinct 4G markets, VZW is hoping to expand its residential broadband footprint without running those costly and ugly wires. The five to 12 Mbps down, and two to five Mbps up speeds aren't going to beat a fiber to the home connection, but it should run circles around your average DSL line. One thing it wont do, though, is save you money. With plans starting at $60 a month for 10GB of data and climbing to $120 for 30GB (not to mention the $10 per GB overage fees) HomeFusion isn't exactly a bargain. For more info check out the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   HomeFusion Broadband From Verizon Now Available Nationwide on America's Largest 4G LTE Network
   Innovative Service Brings Customers High-Speed In-Home Internet Access

   BASKING RIDGE, N.J., May 2, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Verizon Wireless today announced that HomeFusion Broadband(SM), a service that provides high-speed in-home Internet access leveraging the power and speed of the nation's largest 4G LTE network, will be available throughout the country starting Thursday, May 3.

   HomeFusion Broadband offers customers a reliable alternative for residential broadband, especially in areas with limited broadband choices. It provides connectivity for a wide range of devices, including computers and gaming consoles, using the Verizon 4G LTE network, which is now available in 230 markets covering more than two-thirds of the population in the United States.

   "HomeFusion Broadband is another example of Verizon Wireless' commitment to providing our customers with the most innovative products and services," said Tami Erwin, vice president and chief marketing officer, Verizon Wireless. "With HomeFusion Broadband, customers across the United States, in towns large and small, will have the chance to link devices to the Internet and take advantage of the speed, coverage and connectivity offered by our 4G LTE network."

   How it works  HomeFusion Broadband uses a professionally installed, cylinder-shaped antenna attached to a customer's home. The antenna's innovative design includes multiple internal antennae, allowing the device to pick up the best Verizon 4G LTE signal available and transmit it to a broadband router inside the home. The router can connect up to four wired and at least 20 wireless devices inside the home using Wi-Fi.

   In real-world, fully loaded network environments, Verizon 4G LTE customers, including HomeFusion Broadband customers, should experience average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 Mbps on the uplink.

   Pricing and availability  Customers who choose HomeFusion Broadband can opt for one of several usage-based plans specifically designed for the service: $60 monthly access for 10 GB of data, $90 monthly access for 20 GB or $120 monthly access for 30 GB ($10 per GB after allowance). A one-time equipment fee of $199.99 applies and installation is free. Customers get 50 percent more data allowance for the first two full billing cycles of service.

   HomeFusion Broadband has been available in six markets since March, and beginning later this week, it can be purchased in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores across the nation. For more information about HomeFusion Broadband, go to www.verizonwireless.com/homefusionbroadband or visit a Verizon Wireless Communications Store.

   About Verizon Wireless  Verizon Wireless operates the nation's largest 4G LTE network and largest, most reliable 3G network. The company serves 93.0 million retail customers, including 88.0 million retail postpaid customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 80,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.

   SOURCE Verizon Wireless

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

