
 
Don't worry, gang, we've still got our eyes peeled for that Tegra-based smartpad Notion Ink promised us. In the meantime, did you know that Verizon, NVIDIA, and Innovative Converged Devices have put together a 1080p HD Internet tablet of their own? Well, now you do. The Tegra-powered Ultra tablet supports streaming HD media and rocks a Motorola 4G wireless modem operating over Verizon's pre-commercial LTE network. There's no word on a price or release date (we're guessing it'll coincide with the big roll out), but we do have some pretty fresh PR for you. Peep it after the break, yo.
 
 

Show full PR textNVIDIA, Verizon Wireless Demonstrate Full HD Internet Tablet for 4G Wireless NetworkNew Tablet Powered by NVIDIA Tegra Puts 1080p Web Experience Just One Touch AwayLAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwire - January 7, 2010) - 2010 INTERNATIONAL CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW (South Hall 4 - Booth #35912) -- NVIDIA and the Verizon Wireless LTE Innovation Center said today they are demonstrating a full 1080p HD Internet experience on touchscreen tablets.The demonstration -- on an NVIDIA Tegra-powered Ultra tablet, designed by Innovative Converged Devices (ICD) utilizing the ultra-broad bandwidth of a Motorola 4G wireless modem, operating over a pre-commercial Verizon Wireless LTE network -- brings to life the vision of high-speed Internet everywhere.The collaboration was fostered at Verizon Wireless' LTE Innovation Center, which provides an environment for diverse companies to work together in developing innovative products that leverage 4G LTE technology.Highlights / Key Facts:* NVIDIA® Tegra™ mobile processors enable an uncompromised full HD web experience, such as streaming YouTube HD, for hours on a single charge.* Verizon Wireless has announced plans to build a 4G LTE network in the United States, with 25 to 30 markets rolling out in 2010. The LTE network will be able to support high-quality, high definition web experiences.* Motorola provides the 4G wireless modem and data card to deliver visually rich HD content that consumers expect, away from home and hot-spots.* ICD, a Seattle-based engineering and design firm, built the Ultra tablet, working in conjunction with NVIDIA, Verizon and Motorola.Quotes:* "We know consumers want full internet access and we are pleased to be working with NVIDIA in our LTE Innovation Center on a solution that can process full HD content with the battery life of a smartphone." Brian Higgins, Executive Director, LTE Ecosystem Development at Verizon Wireless* "Verizon Wireless' planned LTE network will deliver what consumers demand -- bandwidth for a full HD web experience. This coupled with our Tegra processor will deliver amazing streaming content, all on the go." Michael Rayfield, GM of Mobile business, NVIDIA
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

