
 
 Comcast and Verizon sitting in a tree -- well, you know how the rest of that song goes. Although the relationship between Comcast and Sprint has been a bit frosty as of late, the cable operator continues to make nice with Verizon after last year's spectrum agreement, inking a deal to sell each other's services in six additional markets. This means consumers in Atlanta, Chicago, Denver-Colorado Springs, Kansas City, Minneapolis-St. Paul and Salt Lake City can now sign up for Verizon services via Comcast and vice-versa. The cross-selling service was first launched in San Francisco, Portland and Seattle earlier this year. To sweeten the pot, both companies are also including deals such as prepaid Visa cards valued between $50 and $300, a double data offer for Comcast's Xfinity Blast! high-speed internet service and a double data plan for Verizon's 4G LTE service. For now, both companies are likely keeping their fingers crossed as they wait for regulatory approval for the aforementioned spectrum deal. In the meantime, folks looking for more details on this kumbaya moment can peruse the PR after the break.



  Show full PR text   Verizon Wireless And Comcast Team Up In Atlanta To Deliver Great Video Entertainment, Communications And Internet Experiences
   New and Existing Customers Now Get More Value, Convenience and Choice with Top-Notch Offers and Incentives

   ATLANTA, April 30, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Verizon Wireless and Comcast today announced they will offer each other's services in Atlanta and roll out a variety of offers and incentives for both new and existing customers. Now, more consumers in Atlanta looking to stay connected to the people and things they love while on-the-go or at home have new options for outstanding video, phone, Internet and wireless services.

   Depending on the package chosen, new and existing customers of both Comcast and Verizon Wireless could qualify for a variety of offers and incentives including Visa® prepaid cards valued between $50 and $300, and/or a "double your data package" offer consisting of a complementary 12-month upgrade to Blast!, the Xfinity® Internet service that provides download speeds of up to 30 Mbps with PowerBoost®, and a doubling of a 4G LTE data plan from Verizon Wireless.

   "Because mobility is a top priority of the consumer, we co-developed an offering that provides a terrific wireless, entertainment and communications experience in one spot," said Jonathan LeCompte, president, Verizon Wireless Georgia-Alabama Region. "Comcast continues to deliver exceptional entertainment and communications services and the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network is the ideal complement to complete the package."

   Comcast Vice President of Marketing Kerry McKelvey said, "Through our agreement with Verizon Wireless, we're delivering even more value for more consumers by providing an entertainment and communications solution that fits their lifestyles. Now, both current and new Comcast customers in Atlanta will have the option of building a great in-home experience through our Xfinity services, along with the reliability of Verizon Wireless' network while on-the-go."

   In addition to Atlanta, Comcast and Verizon Wireless are expanding the offer to five additional markets today: Chicago; Colorado; Kansas City, Mo.; Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn.; and Salt Lake City. Earlier this year, Verizon Wireless and Comcast launched in Portland, Ore.; San Francisco; and Seattle.

   Consumers have the flexibility to order these services in person at select Verizon Wireless Communications Stores or by calling 1-855-704-7400. More details, including availability and eligibility, can be found at www.verizonwireless.com/xfinity or www.comcast.com/wireless.

   About Verizon Wireless  Verizon Wireless operates the nation's largest 4G LTE network and largest, most reliable 3G network. The company serves 93.0 million retail customers, including 88.0 million retail postpaid customers. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, N.J., with 80,000 employees nationwide, Verizon Wireless is a joint venture of Verizon Communications (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) and Vodafone (LSE, NASDAQ: VOD). For more information, visit www.verizonwireless.com. To preview and request broadcast-quality video footage and high-resolution stills of Verizon Wireless operations, log on to the Verizon Wireless Multimedia Library at www.verizonwireless.com/multimedia.

   About Comcast Cable  Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communications products and services. Comcast is principally involved in the operation of cable systems through Comcast Cable and in the development, production and distribution of entertainment, news, sports and other content for global audiences through NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential and business customers. Comcast is the majority owner and manager of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates entertainment and news cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, local television station groups, television production operations, a major motion picture company and theme parks.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

