

The shackles have been officially removed. If you're one of the many folks using FiOS Mobile on Android or iOS, then you're aware the app's live TV streaming feature has only worked while being connected to one's own home network. Beginning today, though, Verizon will allow FiOS TV subscribers to view real-time content even when away from their humble abode, via the FiOS Mobile Android and iOS applications. The number of networks supported is pretty short, with only nine being onboard at the moment -- this includes the Travel Channel, BBC America, BBC World News, EPIX, HGTV, DIY, Tennis Channel and, on the iPad, the NFL Network. But, as they say, you've got to start somewhere, and chances are this channel lineup will become more robust in the weeks ahead.



Show full PR textFiOS TV Customers Can Now Watch TV Shows and Movies on Mobile Devices While Away From Home
Enhanced FiOS Mobile App Offers Live TV and Video on Demand on iPad, iPhone, Kindle Fire, and Android Tablets and Smartphones
NEW YORK, Sept. 20, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- The new commuter check list: Keys. Check! Wallet or purse. Check! And now, the enhanced FiOS Mobile App, which enables Verizon FiOS TV customers to watch live linear content as well as video on demand while away from home.

To support the Borderless Lifestyle – anytime, anywhere access to what customers want – The FiOS Mobile App offers access to popular television shows and movies via select iOS and Android mobile devices and tablets, and Kindle Fire, with more content choice to be added later this year.

"The FiOS Mobile App has a wide variety of content choice for all ages and interests, from the do-it-yourselfer to the moviegoer, and this is just the beginning," said Maitreyi Krishnaswamy, director of FiOS TV's consumer video services. "Close collaboration with content and software partners, allows us to deliver a seamless customer experience, which will become even better as the content choices grow over time."

Starting today, customers can watch up to nine popular live TV channels, depending upon their current FiOS TV package, via the iPad and select Android tablets and phones. In addition, the app is now available on the iPhone and Kindle Fire tablets.

Channels available with this initial rollout, out of the home include BBC America, BBC World News, EPIX, NFL Network (tablet only) including "Thursday Night Football," Tennis Channel and networks from Scripps Networks Interactive including Food Network and Travel Channel.

FiOS TV customers have been able to use their mobile devices and tablets to watch up to 76 live linear channels at home. Now, FiOS customers in New York, New Jersey, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., can use their tablets and mobile phones to also watch local news and weather at home on the local affiliates of ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox and Spanish-language channels such as UniMas and Univision.

(Note: For screenshots of the application and additional details, click here).

For movie lovers, the FiOS Mobile App offers on-demand content including more than 45,000 Flex View titles. Customers can now access thousands of free and subscription-on-demand content from brands like HBO, Cinemax, Starz, Encore, Food Network, HGTV, Travel Channel and more.

One FiOS Entertainment App for Everything From Live TV to On Demand

The new enhanced FiOS Mobile App also condenses existing apps and incorporates functionality from FiOS Mobile Remote and Verizon Media Manager into one single FiOS TV entertainment destination. The unified app provides a simple and elegant user-friendly experience that enables easy content discovery and video viewing.

The app has numerous easy-to use functions including TV listings, My Bookmarks, My Library, On Demand, DVR, Settings and Help.

In addition, the FiOS Mobile App offers parental controls, so parents can decide what content they want their children to access.

FiOS TV offers a broad collection of programming on TV, with more than 520 all-digital channels including up to 142 HD channels and 19,000 monthly video-on-demand titles. FiOS also provides next-generation interactive services including an advanced interactive media guide; social networking, news and entertainment widgets; remote DVR management via broadband or cell phone; and more.

For the latest news, updates and information about FiOS TV, visit www.verizon.com/newscenter and http://www.verizon.com/athomeblog.

Note: Verizon FiOS TV subscription required and only available on select devices. In-home live TV streaming requires Internet and TV subscription and use of FiOS router. Remote control functionality requires use of FiOS router and HD Set Top Box. Subscription to premium movie channels or highest-tiered TV package required to access certain channels. NFL Network streaming only available on tablets. Flex View service usage and content availability restrictions apply. Wireless data charges may apply.

Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, with more than 100 million retail connections nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers integrated business solutions to customers in more than 150 countries. A Dow 30 company with nearly $116 billion in 2012 revenues, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of 180,900. For more information, visit about.verizon.com.

VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts and other information are available at Verizon's online News Center at newscenter.verizon.com. The news releases are available through an RSS feed. To subscribe, visit newscenter.verizon.com/corporate/feeds.

SOURCE Verizon



*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

