
 
Verizon's showing off the full capabilities of its Flex View service, already available on a number of its mobile phones, which brings FiOS TV On Demand even when you're away from the cable box. Up to five devices (all set-top boxes in the home collectively count as one device) can be authorized for viewing of any titles rented through VOD and can even be played offline on PCs running its Media Manager software or smartphones. The feature that allows users to keep personal content like music, video files and pictures synced across all three screens is due next year, but still no word on exactly when that live TV-to-iPad streaming will launch.
      

 

Show full PR textVerizon Takes FiOS Anywhere With the Launch Of Flex View - On-Demand Programming Anytime, AnywhereCustomers Now Can Rent or Purchase Movies - and (Soon) TV Shows - Online, on TV, and on Select Mobile Devices; Personal Photos, Videos and Music Also Soon AccessibleNEW YORK – November 10, 2010 –Verizon continues to pioneer the future of TV with the introduction of Flex View, giving FiOS TV customers anywhere, anytime access to on-demand video entertainment. Flex View enhances FiOS TV Video on Demand to let customers take video programming outside of the home and view it on various portable devices, including a growing number of compatible smartphones, tablets and laptops. The new feature is now available to most FiOS subscribers and will be in all FiOS markets by the end of the month.With more than 1,400 currently available movie titles - which are expected to grow to more than 2,000 titles by year-end and at least triple that by next year, including TV shows - customers can enjoy the ease of watching their favorite titles any time, anywhere. Unlike typical streaming services, Flex View lets users download titles to computers and smartphones so users can watch even when there is no Internet connection available. In addition, next year users will be able to access their personal content - including photos, videos and music - on the go. There is no additional subscription fee required to use Flex View."Verizon is taking the triple play to the triple screen, making on-the-go video programming quick and easy," said Shawn Strickland, vice president of consumer strategy and planning for Verizon. "This is a valuable extension of our FiOS TV VOD service, enabling customers to rent or purchase video programming and enjoy it anytime, anywhere - even outside of Verizon service areas. On planes, trains and automobiles; in hotel rooms and waiting rooms; at work or at play - you name it - Verizon's new Flex View capability puts video content at customers' fingertips."Where to Find Flex ViewFiOS TV customers can find Flex View videos in the Interactive Media Guide under "Video on Demand" or by pressing the "On Demand" button on the FiOS TV remote control. Flex View titles will be found in a "Flex View" folder within the "Featured" or "Browse All" sections of the VOD menu.Customers also can access Flex View online through their personal computers by downloading Media Manager, a free software application from Verizon that provides a rich interface for FiOS customers to store and access personal content. Media Manager already lets users organize and enjoy their personal content, including photographs, music and home videos. Customers can click the Flex View store icon on the Media Manager interface to purchase or rent a title, watch a trailer or bookmark a title. Subscribers already using Media Manager don't have to do anything to receive the free Flex View software update, which will be added automatically to their service by Verizon.In addition, customers can access Flex View via a mobile device. The Flex View Mobile application - called "Media Manager Mobile" - is available for download at https://m.verizon.com/apps/ and is also available free of charge in a growing number of app stores. Currently, Flex View is supported by the following mobile devices, with more to come soon: Blackberry Storm2, HTC HD2, HTC Imagio, HTC Touch Pro2, LG VS750, DROID 2 by Motorola, DROID X by Motorola, Samsung Omnia II, Archos 605 Wi-Fi Portable Media Player and Toshiba Satellite T230.Subscribers can authorize Flex View on up to five devices per account, including mobile devices, PCs or laptops, and FiOS TV set-top boxes (all set-top boxes in the home count collectively as one device). Once a subscriber purchases or rents a title, it automatically becomes available for viewing on each of the authorized devices. Customers who opt to rent a title have up to 30 days following the purchase to play the movie, and will have 24-48 hours to watch it.Personal Content on the goNext year, FiOS customers also will enjoy expanded access to their personal content - including photos, videos and music - through Flex View. Customers can upload their personal content from digital cameras, mobile phones, home storage, the Internet and more by using Media Manager. Once the content is uploaded, the customer will be able to access it on the TV screen, online or on select mobile devices."With the introduction of Flex View, we are developing an offer that goes beyond the traditional idea of phone, TV and Internet, providing customers with access to their personal and commercial content - any time, anywhere, and on any device," said Strickland. "FiOS has always been the catalyst for innovation in our industry, being the first to introduce an advanced widget offering, social media applications on TV, multi-room DVR, and now Flex View."Flex View is part of Verizon's next-generation FiOS service, which also includes interactive services like an advanced interactive media guide; social networking, news and entertainment widgets; DVR management via broadband or cell phone; and more. FiOS TV offers a broad collection of programming that includes more than 520 all-digital channels with up to 140 HD channels and 18,000 monthly video-on-demand titles. FiOS Internet offers the country's top-rated broadband service, with download speeds of up to 50 Mbps (megabits per second) and upload speeds of up to 35 Mbps.For the latest news, updates and information about FiOS TV, visit www.verizon.com/newscenter and http://www.verizon.com/athomeblog.Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, NASDAQ:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving more than 93 million customers nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers innovative, seamless business solutions to customers around the world. A Dow 30 company, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 195,000 and last year generated consolidated revenues of more than $107 billion. For more information, visit www.verizon.com.####
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

