
 
 While we saw cable and IPTV providers promising pay-TV channels without a box (at least in that room) at CES 2012 we were skeptical, since we've been burned before, but now Verizon FiOS TV has followed up the launch of its app on Xbox 360 by quietly releasing the version for Samsung's Smart TVs and Blu-ray players. Like the Xbox 360 app of course, you will need to already be a Verizon FiOS TV customer, so if it's not in your area you're still out of luck. One of our readers noticed the app pop up on his 2011 model Samsung HDTV, and Verizon just posted a quick video trailer (embedded after the break) previewing the app's ability to tune into 26 live channels, as well as FlexView video on-demand content. Tipster ProphetBeal noted the channel changes seemed quicker than on the Xbox 360 app, although they were otherwise very similar. There's a few more screens awaiting you at the source link, as well as a list of compatible devices.

 Update: The two companies have finally issued some official press information on the app, although it mostly repeats the same info from the video, check it out after the break.  [Thanks, ProphetBeal]



   Show full PR text   SAMSUNG and Verizon Release FiOS TV App; Deliver Incredible Flexibility to Consumers  on Aug 07, 2012  FiOS TV subscribers can now stream live TV channels and Flex View video-on-demand content directly on compatible Samsung Smart TV™s and Smart Blu-ray™ players – no set-top box required
    NEW YORK, August 7, 2012-Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the availability of the FiOS TV app on compatible Samsung Smart TV™s and Smart Blu-ray™ players. The first-of-its-kind app on the Samsung Smart Hub platform lets Verizon's FiOS TV and FiOS Internet subscribers watch 26 live FiOS TV channels and more than 20,000 FlexView on-demand movies and TV shows on these TVs and blu-ray players without requiring a set-top box. This furthers both Samsung's and Verizon's commitment to developing ways to help consumers enjoy "TV Everywhere." Verizon is the first TV provider in the US to offer video content directly through Samsung's Smart Hub App Store.

   FiOS subscribers that have either FiOS TV or FiOS Internet subscriptions can easily download the free FiOS TV app on their compatible Samsung Smart devices without requiring a secondary set-top box. The app will offer access to 26 channels at launch, including CNN, MTV, HBO, TBS, TNT, Food Network and HGTV, based on the subscribers' current FiOS TV package. The app also offers access to more than 20,000 movie and TV show titles available monthly through FiOS TV's Flex View, which offers FiOS customers the ability to buy or rent these titles and watch them on the TV, PC or mobile device and now compatible Samsung devices.

   To see how the app works, click here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4s2pKpYBLZc&feature=plcp.

   "TV Everywhere Applications like this new FiOS TV app push the boundaries of content delivery to meet consumer demand for more control, choice and access to their favorite content," said Eric Anderson, vice president of content and product solutions, Samsung Electronics America. "By broadening accessibility through Smart TV applications, Verizon FiOS is providing consumers more flexibility for where they want to locate their Samsung Smart TV™ within their home without the need for a set-top box. This is another example of how Samsung is allowing the consumer to enhance their home entertainment experience."

   "Verizon is committed to delivering the best possible viewing experience to the multiple devices that our customers already own and use," said Maitreyi Krishnaswamy, director of product development for FiOS TV. "We are continuing to develop more ways for our customers to enjoy their FiOS TV experience on their own terms, meeting the needs of their borderless lifestyle."

   The FiOS TV application has parent friendly features such as parental PIN options to restrict mature content as well as a purchase PIN requirement for authorization of any rental and purchases of On Demand content through the application. The application also offers traditional features such as closed captioning, help and FAQs.

   To download the FiOS TV App, customers can go to the "Smart Hub" on eligible Samsung devices. For more information on the FiOS app on Samsung devices, please visit verizon.com/fiostv.

   About Samsung Electronics America, Inc.  Headquartered in Ridgefield Park, NJ, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., markets a broad range of award-winning, digital consumer electronics, IT and home appliance products, including HDTVs, home theater systems, digital imaging products, notebook PCs, tablets, refrigerators and washing machines. A recognized innovation leader in consumer electronics design and technology, Samsung is the market leader for HDTVs in the U.S. Please visit www.samsung.com for more information.

   About Verizon Communications, Inc.  Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, with more than 94 million retail customers nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers integrated business solutions to customers in more than 150 countries, including all of the Fortune 500. A Dow 30 company with $111 billion in 2011 revenues, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 188,000. For more information, visit www.verizon.com.

 
 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

