
 
Flippin' finally, right? Verizon Wireless put the long-awaited Android 2.1 update on hold for its cadre of Motorola Droid owners earlier in the month, with an all-too-vague "TBD" as the only detail as to when we could look for it to actually, really land. We've just happened upon what looks to be an internal Verizon email that went out this morning, and sure enough, it sounds as if the update will at long last begin hitting Droid owners in just a few minutes. At noon on 3/30 (that's today, vaquero), a grand total of 1,000 users will receive notification of the update, while 9,000 more will get a similar alert just before midnight. If all goes well, the rest of ya will see v2.1 slide down starting on Thursday, though it looks as if patience will be your only friend as you await your turn. Head on past the break for the full memo, but don't get your hopes up too high -- wouldn't want to be let down again, would you buttercup?
      

 

Starting 03/30/2010, Verizon Wireless is pleased to announce a new software update for the DROID by Motorola. Users will be able to upgrade their software to version AP: ESE81/BP: C_01.3E.03P to receive new improvements and enhancements.*Key Advantages:*o Email - Yahoo Mail is now supported - customers can simplysign in with their Yahoo! Email address and password. Note:Yahoo! Email is not available over Wi-Fio Pinch to Zoom now available in the Browser, Maps, and Galleryo Speech-to-Text - Customers can now use their voice insteadof typing whenever a text-entry box appearso Google Goggles is now preloadedo The new Gallery application uses 3D layout and shows bothpictures taken with the customer's Android device and imagesfrom Picasa Web Albums account online*Software Schedule:*Below is the software-upgrade notification schedule (All times listed are Eastern Time):o At noon on 03/30, 1,000 users will receive notification ofthe update.o At 11:59 PM on 03/30, 9,000 more users will receive theupdate notification.o After the first 10,000 users receive the update on 03/30,there will be a 24-hour period when no additional upgradeswill be delivered.o On Day 3 (04/01), 200,000 users will receive the updatenotification at 11:59 PM. This schedule will continue eachday thereafter until the update has been delivered to all users.*Download & Install Conditions:*o An OTA download requires 40% or more power availability ifthe device is not connected to an external power source or20% or more power if it is connected to an external sourceo If roaming, the customer will not receive the update. Theonly option in this scenario is for the subscriber to enableWi-Fi and wait for a mandatory OTA. The wait period in thiscase will not be more than 12 hourso User must wait to receive the upgrade via OTAo User is unable to make or receive calls, including emergencycalls during this timeo Users will see the following information when they select*More info* on the update screen:/ This software updateincludes new enhancements to support Yahoo! Email,pinch-to-zoom, and many other improvements for your DROID byMotorola. You will be unable to use your device or makeemergency calls for the duration of the install. Thesoftware updates automatically, and your DROID will poweroff and on as part of this software upgrade. 
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

