
While Viacom hasn't always understood how this whole internet video thing works, it's showing some tech savviness today with confirmation of rumors that it's joining Twitter's Amplify program. Beginning with the MTV Video Music Awards on August 25th, Viacom will deliver ad-backed video highlights on Twitter for shows and events across its channel range, including MTV, Comedy Central and Nickelodeon. In theory, the agreement is a win for everyone: Viacom and Twitter get more revenue, while we get a legal way to revisit those inevitable celebrity slip-ups. The two sides haven't said how long their partnership will last, although we wouldn't be surprised if results from the VMA broadcast help shape the deal's future.



Show full PR textViacom and Twitter Partner to Deliver Social Video Campaigns for Marquee Shows and Events, Beginning with the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards
NEW YORK, June 19, 2013 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIAB, VIA) and Twitter today announced a partnership to deliver social video advertising campaigns around the most popular shows and biggest events throughout Viacom's network portfolio, which includes MTV, VH1, CMT, Nickelodeon, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, Spike and more. Viacom is the latest media company to join the Twitter Amplify program.
The partnership will launch with the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards, during which MTV will deliver real-time, sponsor-supported highlights of the show's most outrageous moments, buzzworthy performances, backstage access, interviews and more via Twitter. The 2013 MTV Video Music Awards air live from Brooklyn's Barclays Center on Sunday, August 25.
"The VMAs virtually pioneered the social TV moment, triggering a demand among marketers to tap into the fan conversations and trending topics that Viacom networks create every day," said Jeff Lucas, Head of Sales, Music and Entertainment, Viacom Media Networks. "Through this partnership, we're allowing marketers to insert their brands seamlessly into the torrent of fan activity and engagement around our networks on Twitter."
"As events happen in life, we continue to see Twitter as the place people share those moments, especially when those events happen on TV," said Adam Bain, President of Global Revenue at Twitter. "Twitter Amplify will allow Viacom to connect people across screens, and tap into the social conversation on Twitter with complimentary TV video clips across all devices."
Viacom networks' shows and events consistently drive significant activity on Twitter, and the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards generated among the most Tweets of any news event last year. According to Twitter, more than 52 million votes were cast via Tweets for the "Most Sharable Video" for the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards. The show itself generated 14.7 million Tweets. The biggest peak of the night went to the moment One Direction won Best Pop Video with 98,307 Tweets per minute. Taylor Swift's performance was the night's second biggest moment, generating 86,275 Tweets per minute.

