
 

Still fancy some of that 12Mbps satellite broadband ViaSat announced last week? Well, the service finally got a name: Exede. Also, that suggested January 16th date for consumer roll-out has been confirmed. If you're still undecided whether you want some of that "feels like fiber" service, then maybe the freshly revealed package details might sway you? The $50 basic bundle will get you 7.5GB monthly quota which can be increased to 15GB ($80) or 25GB ($130) if that doesn't fill your data belly. Tap the PR if you want to read more.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Announcing exede by ViaSat 12Mbps High-Speed Broadband Service for $50 		Unprecedented satellite broadband speed and user experience to begin rollout in U.S. January 16 		Carlsbad, Calif. – January 10, 2012 – For millions of consumers with a need for high speed internet, the broadband choices just got a lot better. ViaSat Inc. (NASDAQ: VSAT) will launch exede by ViaSat high-speed Internet service on January 16, offering speeds up to 12 Mbps (megabits per second) downstream and up to 3 Mbps upstream beginning at $50 per month. 		Although satellite Internet has been available for years, ViaSat has completely transformed satellite broadband technology and now delivers a broadband experience similar to some of the fastest terrestrial broadband services for most applications. "With our new exede broadband service, customers across the United States will have a way to get exceptional speed whether they live in a city, suburbs or a more rural area," said Tom Moore, senior VP of ViaSat. "Our new exede service speeds make us very competitive with both wireless home broadband service as well as legacy DSL and many cable services." 		The rollout of service is a major milestone in a process that began in 2008 when ViaSat introduced its next-generation satellite system representing the most significant capacity leap in the history of satellite technology. Our system integrates ViaSat-1, the world's highest capacity satellite, with an advanced, next generation ground system. 		Our exede service also includes advanced web acceleration technology to provide an Internet web browsing experience with "feels like fiber" performance. Through a constantly evolving variety of techniques that go far beyond simple caching of web content, this new web acceleration technology quickly delivers web pages, even on media and video intensive websites. 		exede by ViaSat Residential Service Packages 		The new exede by ViaSat residential broadband packages all feature the same high speed with successively higher data allowances at each price point. For the first time, satellite broadband delivers an attractive alternative to wireless and many wireline offers.  		exede12 Services  		Up to 12 Mbps downloads		and up to 3 Mbps uploads – all packages 		Data Allowance (monthly) / Package Price (monthly)  		7.5 GB $49.99  		15 GB $79.99  		25 GB $129.99  		The data allowances for the exede service have been established to ensure that a compelling mix of speed and volume can be offered to a large segment of the nation's typical broadband users, many of whom would otherwise not have access to high-speed internet service. 		For more information and to subscribe, go to www.exede.com or call 1-866-974-7174. 		Professional Broadband Services 		In addition to residential service, the new ViaSat high-capacity satellite system is designed to simultaneously deliver a wide range of enterprise and mobile broadband services. Professional customers can choose from a family of terminals for enterprise, on-the-move, and portable applications. 		ViaSat is also working with JetBlue to create the industry's best in-flight broadband for commercial aviation, with a planned service launch by the end of 2012. 		About ViaSat 		ViaSat delivers fast, secure communications, Internet, and remote network access to fixed sites or on-the-move. The company provides networking products and managed network services for enterprise IP applications; is a key supplier of network-centric military communications and encryption technologies and products to the U.S. and allied governments; and is the primary technology partner for gateway and customer-premises equipment for consumer and mobile satellite broadband services. Based in Carlsbad, Calif., ViaSat has established a number of worldwide locations for customer service, network operations, and technology development. 		Forward-Looking Statements 		This press release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements that refer to future dates that ViaSat-1 will enter into commercial service. Readers are cautioned that actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include: satellite failures, performance degradation, or in-orbit risks and anomalies. In addition, please refer to the risk factors contained in ViaSat's SEC filings available at www.sec.gov, including ViaSat's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. ViaSat undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason.
 