
 
You know those voice minutes you've been coaxed into buying for, like, ever? Now would be an awesome time to bid 'em adieu. Out of nowhere, Viber has swooped in to crush the dreams of Skype and every other VoIP provider out there, and if these guys can reach critical mass, avid iPhone users will certainly be able to buy a mobile plan with fewer minutes. It works as such: install the free app on your iPhone, provide just your phone number (no "registration" is necessary) and then fire it up. Viber uses your existing contact and favorites list, and you can make Viber or standard voice calls from within the app; naturally, a Viber logo pops up beside any contact who is also a user, making it easy to see who you can VoIP call for free. As our brethren over at TUAW point out, there's simply no catch to be found -- well, except for those of you counting your kilobytes on AT&T's newer, metered data plans. Call quality was said to be excellent over 3G and WiFi, and potentially best of all, gratis SMS and an Android version are both on the way. Head on past the break if you need any additional convincing, and tap that iTunes link to get your download on. So, AT&T, what's the value proposition on those "rollover minutes" again?
      

 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textFree Your Calls with ViberThis iPhone app lets you call family and friends for free no matter where they are in the world.New York City, NY – December 2, 2010 – Forget "using up minutes" and paying for long-distance calls. Thanks to the worldwide launch of Viber, you can now call anyone in the world for free!Viber uses the latest in VoIP technology to offer completely free calling with superior sound quality. Better yet, you can dial phone numbers directly without having to register a username or add friends to a contact list! Once you and your friends have the app installed, you can call each other for free directly from your 3G- or Wi-Fi-enabled phones. Click here to watch Viber's promo video.Despite debuting with a limited "friends and family test" on the Israeli App Store on November 10, Viber took only 16 days to become the most-downloaded app in Israel. Out of 400,000 iPhones in Israel, 6,000 people are downloading it to their iPhones each day, Viber is now the #1 app in the Israeli App Store with a four out of five stars rating. Viber is totally free to download and has no hidden costs, in-app purchases or in-app ads. It's fully compatible with iOS 3.X and 4.X on the iPhone – partially supported by the iPad and iPod Touch – and is coming soon to Android, Blackberry and Symbian operating systems.Unlike other popular VoIP apps, Viber isn't a battery hog; you can leave the app running all day without it draining your battery or heating up your iPhone. It also offers Bluetooth support so you can switch in and out of Bluetooth at any time with your headset. And to top it all off, upcoming features include free text messaging, custom ringtones, wallpapers and location-based services.Breaking the VoIP BarrierThanks to the massive growth of smartphones with wireless connectivity, Viber is poised to revolutionize the way we make mobile calls. People can save bundles of money by migrating from expensive voice/data/text plans to cheap data-only plans, while still enjoying the mobility and versatility of their mobile devices.Viber overcomes the biggest barrier to using VoIP on your mobile device – it's modeled after an actual phone rather than an instant messaging client. With Viber you can call ordinary numbers just like you would with a regular phone... the calls just happen to be free! Furthermore, a Viber icon indicates which of your contacts also have Viber, so you'll know whom you can call for free. Watch this video to see how Viber works.Since there's no need to register, build a friends list and keep the app open to use it, you can even make free calls to people who aren't on your contact list. This means businesses can advertise themselves as having a "global toll-free number," letting their clients know "it's a free call with Viber".No other app offers this game-changing combination of simplicity, versatility and totally free service between mobile phones. Simply, Viber is the most useful VoIP app to date.Be among the first to download Viber from the Apple App Store – the sooner you tell your friends and family about it, the sooner you can start calling them for free! You can also find out about Viber updates on Facebook and Twitter. About Viber MediaViber Media was founded in 2010 by the same people who started iMesh, the world's longest-standing P2P client and the first to offer authorized file-sharing. Viber Media is now taking the digital revolution one step further by offering a free mobile VoIP service.
 