

It's been less than a week since Viber brought a handful of improvements to older versions of BlackBerry OS, and now the time has come for Windows Phone 8 to get a similar treatment. Today, the VoIP service announced version 3.1 of the app, bringing with it a completely redesigned user interface, improved notifications and support for Live Tiles. Perhaps more importantly, this update enhances integration between the Viber Desktop and WP8 applications, making the experience smoother when transferring calls from one to the other. On paper, Viber's refreshed app would appear to be a much better one, but we'll let you be the judge of that after downloading the update from the Windows Phone Store. 





Show full PR textVIBER UPDATES WINDOWS PHONE VERSION WITH IMPROVED DESKTOP INTEGRATION, REDESIGNED USER INTERFACE
Viber 3.1 For Windows Phone Ensures Calls Are Transferred Seamlessly To Desktop Platforms; Update Also Includes Multiple Enhancements And New Features

LONDON – October 29, 2013, Viber released an upgraded version for Windows Phone 8 today that provides significantly improved integration with Viber Desktop, along with multiple additional enhancements.

The improved integration with Viber Desktop ensures seamless call transfers between Windows Phone 8 and Desktop (PC and Mac computers running Viber).The new version also includes the following new features:

Select new backgrounds from an all new Background GalleryWindows Phone 8 Live Tiles, which let you pin your favorite conversations to your Start screen and see them update in real timeImproved push notifications ensure you never miss a message or callRefreshed look and feel, focused on improved readability and usability"This release is squarely focused on providing a completely seamless experience for the growing community of Viber users on the Windows Phone platform. Starting with flawless call transfers and moving on to a brand new design that leverages the unique design of the Windows Phone platform, Viber for Windows Phone is now easier to use and more functional than ever before," said Talmon Marco, CEO of Viber.

The new release is the first step of an elevated focus on the Windows Phone platform and the company has plans to provide additional new features and updates in the near term.

About Viber:

Viber is developed by Viber Media, a pioneering mobile messaging and VoIP company. Viber lets everyone in the world connect. Freely. Viber users can send free text messages, photo messages, share locations anywhere in the world, and make free, HD-quality calls on iPhone®, Android,™ Windows Phone, BlackBerry®, Windows®, Mac, Symbian, Nokia S40 and Bada devices over 3G/4G or WiFi connections. With more than 200 million users in 193 countries, Viber is constantly innovating by introducing new platforms and adding fun new features including stickers and emoticons.


