
 VoIP-over-3G app Viber broke down in tears when it learned that, after Android, iOS and Windows Phone, there were no new worlds to conquer. Then a helpful soul pointed out that there were more than 1.5 Billion S40 devices in the world, and it set about adding that to the existing 100 million users of its service. In addition, it's bringing its free-calls platform to Symbian and Bada handsets while current Nokia Lumia owners running Windows Phone 7 will find they can now access HD voice calls and group calls. iOS users shouldn't feel left out, however, since an update to their app will add support for a variety of languages including Simplified Chinese, Hebrew and Portuguese.



  Show full PR text   Viber Reaches 100 Million Users, Takes Aim at New Platforms with Hundreds of Millions of Users
   Viber Unveils Simultaneous Expansion to Three New Platforms, Brings Voice Calling to Windows Phone Version, and Adds Localization to iPhone App

  LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Viber, the leading mobile communications platform offering free HD-quality phone calls and text and photo messages, announces today that it has surpassed the 100 million users milestone across the multiple phone platforms that it supports. Additionally, the company unveiled that it is simultaneously releasing three new messaging versions of its application for popular phone platforms and is adding free HD-quality phone calls and group messaging to the Nokia Windows Phone 7 version of the app. This expansion will allow hundreds of millions of users to gain access to free communications via Viber.

   Nokia S40, Symbian and Bada Platforms

   The new version features Viber's popular text messaging service. The app is being released to the popular S40, Symbian and Bada platforms that power hundreds of millions of mobile devices around the world. More than 1.5 billion phones using the Nokia S40 platform have been sold since the platform was first released. These new platforms represent a huge and untapped market for Viber and allow the startup to provide even more people with the ability to communicate freely.

   Viber for Windows Phone 7 on Nokia Devices

   Viber is also releasing a completely new version for Nokia Lumia phones running the Windows Phone 7 platform. Viber now offers Nokia Windows Phone 7 users free HD-quality phone calls and group messaging in addition to free text and photo messages. This version was developed in partnership with Nokia and is currently available exclusively on Nokia Lumia phones.

   "We are committed to our users and to our mission – to let people all over the world connect freely," said Talmon Marco, CEO of Viber Media. "By adding the S40, Symbian and Bada platforms to our list of supported mobile OSs, we are expanding the community of individuals who can communicate for free, no matter what platform they use."

   Viber for iPhone – iOS Platform Update

   Also being released is an update to the iOS platform. Viber for iPhone now contains localization to: Arabic, Traditional Chinese, Simplified Chinese, French, German, Spanish, Russian, Hebrew and Portuguese.

   Viber currently handles over 2 billion minutes of calls and over 6 billion messages every month, as well as over 10 million calls per day. Viber recently released version 2.2 of its popular mobile application bringing group messaging to the millions of Viber users around the world.

   Viber is developed by Viber Media, the pioneering mobile VoIP and messaging company. First released on December 2, 2010, Viber lets everyone in the world connect. Freely. Viber users can make free, HD-quality calls, send text and photo messages, and share locations anywhere in the world, on iPhone®, Android™, Blackberry®, Windows Phone 7, Symbian, Nokia S40 and Bada devices over a 3G/4G or WiFi connection. With more than 100 million users in 193 countries, Viber is constantly innovating by introducing new features, platforms and possibilities.

 
