
 
Cameras with projectors? That's old tricks by now. Samsung wants you to know the new, hip differentiator in the point and shoot market is two LCDs -- one in the back like usual, and a 1.5-inch LCD in the front, right next to the lens, such as what you see with the new TL220 and TL225 (also known as ST500 / ST550, respectively). That should be good for making sure your self-portraits are just right, or alternatively, it can play "cute animations to capture kids' attention." We also think it might also be useful for capturing the exact moment of horror from a coulrophobist. Both 12.2 megapixel cameras sport a 4.6x optical zoom, image stabilization, 720p video capabilities in H.264 format, and a touchscreen rear LCD with haptic feedback. The TL220 has a 3-inch display in the back, while the TL225 (pictured) features a 3.5-inch display that's also much, much sharper. Price is $299.90 / $349.99 for TL220 and TL225, respectively, and both are due out in September. Full presser -- and video -- after the break.Update: The video (after the break) is now live. 




 SAMSUNG UNVEILS TL225 AND TL220 DIGITAL COMPACT CAMERAS FEATURING DUAL LCD SCREENS ON FRONT AND BACK  Samsung DualView Cameras Help Consumers Take the Perfect Self-Portrait on the Move  RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J. – August 13, 2009 - Samsung Electronics America, Inc., today announced the Samsung DualView Cameras, the TL225 and TL220. These 12.2 mega-pixel, innovative compact digital cameras feature Dual LCD screens, with one LCD on the front of the camera, and a second one on the back of the camera, to give consumers the ability to truly step out from behind the camera and put themselves in the picture.  Delivering an unrivalled user experience, the 1.5" LCD located on the front of the Samsung DualView Cameras now allows consumers to take first-rate photos whether they are behind the camera or in front of it. Samsung's new TL225 also features a 3.5" wide touch-screen back LCD. At 1,152K resolution, the TL225's LCD delivers almost four times more resolution than traditional cameras and also comes complete with haptic vibration feedback for ease of use. A 12.2 mega-pixel CCD and 27mm wide-angle Schneider-KREUZNACH lens with 4.6x optical zoom gives a wider shooting range from a shorter distance, producing clear, clean images with balanced resolution from the center of the image to the edges.  "These cameras are the very first of their kind," said Sang Jin Park, CEO of Samsung Digital Imaging Company. "The use of digital imaging technologies has evolved and we are offering functionality and capabilities that no other digital camera manufacturer has yet addressed. It has become more common for the photographer to switch roles and become the subject of his or her photo, especially given the rise in popularity of self-portraits or profile pictures for use with today's popular social networking sites. The Dual LCD on the TL225 and TL220 allows consumers to become part of the picture in a way that they simply were unable to do so before. These cameras will be must-haves for those individuals that use popular social networking Web sites and for families that want to get everyone, including the photographer, in the picture."  Showcasing further innovations, Samsung's Smart Gesture User Interface (UI) with built-in Gravity sensor means that once the camera is on, a simple tap on the front LCD activates it and the camera is automatically set to Self Portrait mode with smile detection. This means that if users want to take a self portrait, they only need to tap and smile, and the picture will be taken automatically without pressing the shutter button. Teamed with innovative Samsung technologies such as Smile Shot, Smart Face Recognition and Smart Auto, users are given the ability to take the perfect image with ease.  Additionally, just by tilting the camera in a certain direction, users can go directly to a different mode or view their saved images. A simple touch or hand gesture is all it takes to access the cameras' full range of key features. For example, with Samsung's Smart Auto feature, the worry of photos being washed out, too dark, or out of focus is also now a thing of the past. Smart Auto, which is able to recognize 16 different potential scenes, analyzes key elements of your composition and subject, and then selects the appropriate scene settings in response. Samsung's innovative Smart Face Recognition technology will memorize up to 20 faces and adjust the focus and exposure to the most high-ranked faces on the camera. It also allows users to sort images by registered faces and scroll through to find images of people in their Smart Album instead of viewing every single photo.  Alongside professional-grade photos, the TL225 and TL220 record 720p HD video at 30 frames-per-second in H.264 format, providing twice as much recording capacity as MPEG4 format, and four times more than using MJPEG format, all in the palm of your hand. HDMI connectivity means that your HD videos can be enjoyed on any HDTV or HD Monitor.  Samsung DualView Cameras: TL225 and TL220 SPECIFICATIONS  Dual LCD Displays Samsung DualView Cameras provide the easiest way to take the perfect self-portrait every time with Dual LCDs. On the front of the cameras is a 1.5" LCD that shows you what the picture will look like, so you can now be a subject of the picture, as well as the photographer. Key features of the Dual LCDs include:  When the camera is turned on, activate the front LCD by tapping the screen. It will automatically be set in Self-Portrait mode, ensuring that the user will always be framed exactly the way they want. You can also turn on the front LCD with a simple selection through the intuitive interface. When in Self-Portrait mode, the camera will also engage its smile detection technology, automatically taking a photo when it recognizes a smile. In Child Mode, the front LCD plays a fun animation to capture a child's attention while taking their photo. Shutter Info ensures you take a photo of your subject while they're smiling. When using Shutter Info, the front LCD will display a "smiley face" when the photographer has the shutter button pushed halfway down, giving the subject a signal that you're ready to take the photo. Function Info helps you keep track of what flash and macro value you're currently using, as the front LCD provides a visual readout of key camera settings. When taking a group photo using the Self-Timer, the front LCD will show a preview of the shot as well as a visual countdown timer so that everyone knows exactly when the photo will be snapped. Smart Gesture User Interface (UI) When it comes to smart, user-friendly features, the TL225 and TL220 lead the way. Take for example the cameras' innovative Smart Gesture UI with built-in Gravity sensor, which lets you quickly access and use key features with either a simple tilt or a hand gesture. To turn on the front LCD, simply tap the screen to activate the display automatically and immediately.  Using other advanced features is just as simple. With the Smart Gesture UI you can quickly scroll through your photos by slightly tilting the device in either direction or by selecting the appropriate photos for a slide show. You can also easily delete photos from your library using the Smart Gesture UI by marking an "X" on the screen using your finger, or you can simply save your favorite photos into a separate folder. Additionally, if you want to rotate an image, you can draw a circle (O) on the screen, and if you want to see the next image in your library you can drag it on to the screen with a sweep of your finger or by simply tilting the device.  3.5" Wide Touch-Screen Back LCD With 1,152K resolution, the 3.5" wide touch-screen LCD located on the back of the TL225 offers some of the sharpest images of any camera available today, delivering almost four times more resolution than traditional displays. Unlike other digital cameras, the LCD touch-screen uses Samsung's unique haptic technology, providing users with a slight vibration and audible beep whenever they select an option within the touch-screen display.  12.2 Mega-Pixel CCD, 27mm Wide-Angle Lens with 4.6x Optical Zoom Samsung DualView Cameras come fully equipped with a true color-filtered 12.2 mega-pixel CCD and boast a powerful 4.6x optical zoom, providing sharp and detailed images. Whether you're indoors or out, shooting a landscape or friends around a table, the 27mm-wide angle lens plus 4.6x optical zoom gives you a wider shooting range from a shorter distance, delivering greater flexibility than traditional 35mm lenses. Capture images of beautiful landscapes, entire wedding parties, and skyscrapers without having to back up to get the shot. The precisely cut, high-quality 27mm optical lens from Schneider-KREUZNACH delivers clear, clean images with balanced resolution from the center to the edges. Each lens surface is multi-coated to minimize ghosting or flaring for a great shot every time.  Advanced Dual Image Stabilization (IS) Samsung's Advanced Dual Image Stabilization (IS) technology allows you to capture crystal-clear, blur-free images. The TL225's and TL220's true Dual IS combines both Optical and Digital Image stabilizers to produce sharp images without the confusion commonly found in other cameras. The Optical IS intelligently compensates for hand trembling by shifting the lens in the opposite direction. When Optical IS isn't quite enough, the Digital IS automatically takes over to ensure blur-free images.  HD Video Recording Besides the ability to take high-quality digital still images, Samsung DualView Cameras also offer impressive 720P HD video recording at 30 frames per second. The TL225 and TL220 use the H.264 format which allows you to record twice as much content as MPEG4, and four times more than MJPEG, the format typically used in other digital cameras. The TL225 also offers HDMI connectivity (adapter sold separately) so that you can enjoy your HD video, as well as digital still images, on an HDTV or HD monitor.  Smart Auto Samsung's Smart Auto feature ensures that users never have to worry about their photos being washed out, too dark or out of focus. Smart Auto analyzes key elements of your composition such as color, brightness, motion and subject and then selects the appropriate scene mode which will produce the best results possible. Smart Album With Samsung's convenient Smart Album feature, you can quickly scroll through your entire library of images and organize them in the way that's best for you. This unique feature allows you to organize photos by Favorite (if tagged as a "favorite" photo), Face (someone you've taken many photos of), Timeline (date photos were taken), Week, Color, and Content (photos, videos, voice-note).  Perfect Portrait System Picture-perfect moments at their best Samsung's Perfect Portrait System takes the guess work out of shooting beautiful portraits. Key features of this system are Samsung's Smile Shot and Blink Detection technologies which automatically detect when your subjects are smiling and if their eyes are closed, allowing you to capture them looking their best. Another advanced feature is the Red-eye Fix mode. This in-camera feature automatically fixes the typical red-eye associated with the use of the flash, before the photo is produced, a significant time saver as you don't have to spend time afterwards removing red-eyes from your photos.  Smart Touch Shooting and Auto-Focus Sometimes the focal point of your picture is not always in the center of the frame. In cases like this, the TL225's and TL220's Smart Touch Auto Focus feature allows you to focus on a different part of the shot by simply touching the desired area. That means your subject, no matter where in the frame it may be, will always be in focus. Once you've selected the focal point, you can simply leave your finger on the screen for two seconds or push the shutter button to take the picture.  Smart Face Recognition The TL225 and TL220 feature Samsung's advanced Face Recognition technology which automatically stores up to 20 preferred faces to the cameras' internal memory. While taking a portrait, the TL225 and TL220 will automatically recognize if one of the user's preferred faces is in the frame and identify them as a priority for focus and exposure. Users can also save time sorting through their photos by searching only for those that contain a specific face.  Beauty Shot Samsung's Beauty Shot feature lets you remove all the imperfections on your subject's face such as wrinkles, blemishes, and moles. Simply select one of two editing options to even out skin tone and complexion.  Photo Style Selector and Highlight Feature Samsung DualView Cameras are designed to help you enhance your creativity when it comes to digital imaging. Samsung's Photo Style Selector allows you to transform your photos from simple memories to works of art. Choose from a wide selection of artistic treatments ranging from classic black and white to something more vivid, giving you full control over the color tones of your image. Additionally, with Samsung's unique highlight feature, you can focus on one area of your photo and blur everything around it, turning a normal photo into something much more complex.  Specifications About Samsung Electronics America, Inc. Headquartered in Ridgefield Park, NJ, Samsung Electronics America, Inc. (SEA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., markets a broad range of award-winning, digital consumer electronics and home appliance products, including HDTVs, home theater systems, MP3 players, digital imaging products, refrigerators and washing machines. A recognized innovation leader in consumer electronics design and technology, Samsung is the HDTV market leader in the U.S. Please visit www.samsung.com for more information. # # #
 