
 You might remember ViewSonic's slightly strange VCD22 Smart Display from our journey to Computex. If the sight of that 22-inch, Android-based all-in-one desktop set your heart aflutter, you'll be glad to know the finished version is coming to the US as the VSD220 by mid-to-late October. It's decidedly less portable what we saw in Taipei this June and strips out the battery we suspect most buyers wouldn't have used. For better or worse, though, most everything else is the same: while we didn't expect a change to the TI OMAP 4 processor, the VSD220 will be clinging to Android 4.0 instead of upgrading to Android 4.1 for its trip across the Pacific. The micro-HDMI video input, 1.2-megapixel front camera, microSD slot, three USB ports and Ethernet (yes, Ethernet) do help justify a space on the desk, especially for those who want a secondary display for another mobile device or PC. The VSD220 faces a stiff fight from traditional all-in-ones that don't always cost much more -- but we'll at least get a price drop to a more palatable $399 in return for our patience.



  Show full PR text   ViewSonic Revolutionizes the Display Experience
  ViewSonic's brand new VSD220 Smart Display transforms PC computing; pairs full-HD monitor with OMAP™ 4 processor from Texas Instruments, and Android™ 4.0 OS
  WALNUT, Calif. – September 11, 2012 – ViewSonic Corp., a leading global provider of computing, consumer electronics and communications solutions, today announced its touch screen desktop display, aimed at changing the way people think about computing. The 22" (21.5" Vis.) VSD220 Smart Display pairs a 1920x1080 full-HD resolution monitor with the dual-core, ARM®-based OMAP™ 4 processor from Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) and an Android 4.0 "Ice Cream Sandwich" operating system, resulting in a whole new way to experience the web.
  "The VSD220 Smart Display is engineered for today's cloud connected world," said Jeff Volpe, president of ViewSonic Americas. "ViewSonic is embracing the post-PC transition with what will be a full range of connected display solutions. For consumers, the VSD220 is perfect for surfing the web, engaging on social networks and enjoying a world of Android apps. For commercial opportunities, the VSD220 serves as a flexible solution that can address the needs of Android compatible vertical market applications such as signage, hospitality, point of information, and kiosk. Whatever the need, our new Smart Displays are the future of connected computing."
  "We are proud to see the leading capabilities of our OMAP 4 processor come to life on ViewSonic's new VSD220 Smart Display," said Ketan Malani, business development manager, OMAP platform business unit, TI. "At home, at work and at play, consumers across all levels of the computing market demand full-HD capabilities, rich user interfaces, robust interactivity and other compelling features. With our OMAP 4 processor at its core, the Smart Display delivers all this and more, in a way that revolutionizes how and where people experience the Web."
  The VSD220 provides users a PC-less web connection in an affordable format that is both self-contained and easy to use. With a dual point optical touch screen and an integrated Android operating system with full Google GMS certification, users can enjoy a tablet-like browsing experience, a 22" touch-enabled Full HD display, and a traditional PC computer all wrapped up into one device.
  Powered by TI's smart multicore OMAP 4 processor, the VSD220 delivers the snappy responsiveness and efficiency ideal for ensuring fast web browsing; smooth, glitch-free video viewing; graphic-rich gaming and app multitasking. For those wishing to use the VSD220 as a traditional PC, the Smart Display is compatible with a wide variety of keyboards and mice, including both USB and wireless models enabling the user to further personalize their experience to fit their individual needs.
  For further functionality, the VSD220 offers versatile connectivity options including a Micro HDMI for plugging in a notebook or tablet for an expanded screen space, as well as three USB ports, a Micro SD card and plenty of network connection options including RJ45 Ethernet, 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth® technology. Paired with a built-in 1.2MP webcam with integrated microphone for videoconferencing and photo taking, and integrated SRS Premium Sound speakers, the VSD220 is the complete multimedia package.
  ViewSonic's VSD220 Smart Display will be available in North America in mid-to-late October for an ESP of only $399. For further information, visit ViewSonic.com or follow ViewSonic on the Company blog, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter.
 
