
   Vimeo is unleashing a handful of mobile apps here at CES. First, the company has announced mobile software is now available for Android (Gingerbread) and Windows Phone (Mango) sporting upload functionality and 'watch later' queue management. Absent from the PR below is the upcoming iOS overhaul what will welcome iPads to the party -- due out later this month. Enabling Full HD streaming on the Apple slate, the updated app includes an editor with access to the Vimeo Music Store, browse-while-watching capabilities and functions of the regular ol' apps. For a smattering of screens shots from the aforementioned devices, hit the gallery below. 




  Show full PR text  VIMEO EXPANDS ITS MOBILE APPS TO INCLUDE ANDROID AND WINDOWS PHONE  Vimeo Soon To Be Available On Most Smartphones And Tablets  NEW YORK, Jan. 9, 2012 – Vimeo®, an operating business of IAC [NASDAQ: IACI], today announced its Apps for Android, Amazon Kindle Fire, and Windows Phone. The Apps are free to download from the Android Market, Amazon App Store for Android, and Windows Phone Marketplace. "With the widespread accessibility of high-quality video on mobile devices and high- speed mobile Internet access, people use their mobile devices not only to watch video but to shoot and then upload video to share online," said Joe Schmitt, lead mobile developer at Vimeo. "With mobile devices making up approximately 15 percent of our site traffic, we recognize the importance of expanding our platforms to allow people to access Vimeo from as many devices as possible."  Available today, both the Vimeo for Android and Vimeo for Windows Phone Apps enable users to browse and watch the full range of videos on Vimeo, in addition to the ability to like, comment on, or add videos to their Watch Later queue. Personalized access to member's Inbox, Watch Later list or prior Liked videos is also available in the new beautiful, easy-to-use interfaces.  "Windows Phone is backed by a rich developer ecosystem that continues to build a variety apps and games, like Vimeo, that take advantage of the phone's unique features and design," said Todd Brix, senior director, Windows Phone Marketplace, Microsoft Corp. "The new Vimeo app on the Windows phone is a deeply integrated video experience that lets users shoot, upload and share content."  Android and Windows Phone Vimeo App Features: · Free to download from the Android Market, Amazon App Store for Android, and Windows  Phone Marketplace · Compatible with all Android devices running Android version 2.3 (Gingerbread) and above,  Amazon Fire and Windows Phone devices running Windows Phone 7.5 (Mango) and above · Easily upload your raw footage or previously edited creations in HD or SD · Pause/resume uploads and get reminded when a video is paused · Replace existing videos · Edit titles, descriptions, tags, privacy settings, and credits · Share videos via Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, WordPress, Email, and SMS · Watch and manage all your Vimeo videos and download them to your camera roll · Watch videos from your Vimeo Inbox, Watch Later queue, and videos you like · Easily like videos, comment on videos, and add videos to your Watch Later queue · Discover new and interesting videos curated by Vimeo Staff · Add videos to Groups, Channels, and Albums · Access stats on daily plays, likes, and comments
 