
 There's no doubt Vimeo's constantly working on various enhancements with the outlook of making it a better place for content makers and viewers alike. Today, following a relatively brief beta phase, the video-focused company's officially launching its pay-to-view service dubbed Vimeo On Demand. Essentially, this will allow Vimeo Pro members to sell their video productions directly to the public, eliminating the need for a middleman of sorts (even though technically Vimeo would be acting as such), as well as allowing them to name their own price and select preferred distribution countries. What's more, Vimeo says that creators are set to keep 90 percent of the earnings "after transaction costs," which, naturally, includes content sold throughout its many applications on different platforms -- including, but not limited to, Android, iOS, Windows Phone, Xbox Live and Apple TV. According to Vice President of Creative Development, Blake Whitman, there's a lot more where the adequately named Vimeo On Demand came from, as the team's "already working on another suite of creator-focused features to release in the near future."


  Show full PR text   'VIMEO ON DEMAND' ENABLES CREATORS TO SELL THEIR WORKS DIRECTLY TO AUDIENCES
   NEW YORK, Mar. 12, 2013 –Vimeo today launched its open self-distribution service, Vimeo On Demand. Available now to all Vimeo PRO members, Vimeo On Demand empowers creators to sell their works directly to their audiences and retain a 90 percent share of the revenue after transaction costs. In addition to its creator-friendly revenue share, Vimeo On Demand gives creators the flexibility and control to choose their price; select country-by-country availability; customize their page design; and offer content on Vimeo, their own website, or both.

   "Vimeo is committed to empowering creators with tools to display and distribute their work in beautiful HD quality," said Vimeo CEO, Kerry Trainor. "With the addition of Vimeo On Demand, creators can now use Vimeo to control the way they earn revenue and retain a significant portion of the proceeds."

   Videos purchased through Vimeo On Demand are accessible across devices, connecting creators to Vimeo's 93 million monthly viewers across desktop, mobile (Android/iOs/Windows), connected TV devices (Apple TV/Roku/Google TV/Xbox Live), and major smart TV platforms (Samsung/Panasonic/Phillips).   "What used to be a confusing and labor-intensive process is now open and simple with Vimeo On Demand," said Blake Whitman, Vice President of Creative Development. "We always strive to provide our community and visitors with the best experience possible, and this opens up a new world of viewable content and support for creators. We are proud of this first phase of Vimeo On Demand, and we're already working on another suite of creator-focused features to release in the near future."

   Vimeo On Demand will launch at the SXSW Interactive + Film Festival with a screening of It's Such a Beautiful Day, the latest work by Academy Award-nominated animator and self-distribution pioneer Don Hertzfeldt. The film will screen on Tuesday, March 12, at the Vimeo Theater at SXSW from 11:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m., and will be followed by a Q&A with Don Hertzfeldt and Vimeo CEO Kerry Trainor. Vimeo is thrilled to offer the newly re-mastered and expanded version of It's Such a Beautiful Day, which brings together the entire tragicomic story of a troubled man named Bill, for $2 rental or $6 sale, exclusively through Vimeo On Demand.

 
