
   Back at CES, we first got wind of Vimeo's impending plans to welcome the iPad to its iOS party. Today at MWC, the outfit has announced that the new version of its app for iDevices is now available -- and it'll play nice with your Apple slate. If you're in need of a refresher, the update features browse-while-watching, a watch later queue, access to the Vimeo Music Store and a built-in video editor for managing those clips while you're on the move. Looking to take the leap? The free app is just a few clicks away via the source link and a bit more info waits in the PR below.
 

  Show full PR text  Vimeo Announces New Apple iOS App at Mobile World Congress New Vimeo iOS App with Native Support for iPhone and iPad Added to Vimeo's Suite of Apps  BARCELONA, Spain, Feb. 27, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Vimeo®, an operating business of IAC [NASDAQ: IACI], today announced the availability of its second-generation Apple iOS app, which includes native support for iPhone and iPad.  "We've seen mobile traffic triple since we launched our original iPhone app in early 2011," said Joseph Schmitt, lead mobile developer at Vimeo. "Now, we've taken what we learned while creating our previous apps and applied it to the updated iOS to improve overall design and usability. We're especially pleased with the awesome iPad user interface, which the Vimeo community has eagerly awaited."  Available today, the new Vimeo Apple iOS app delivers a discovery-focused experience. Users can browse while playing videos, just like on the Vimeo site. Vimeo members can "like" videos; access their Feed, Watch Later queue, and previously liked videos; comment on videos; add videos to their Watch Later queue; and browse and watch all the videos on Vimeo. In addition, the app features a built-in video editor that enables users to create and upload videos on the go. The editor also integrates the Vimeo Music Store, making it easy to add a soundtrack to a video.  The Vimeo iOS app is available for download free from the iTunes App Store and is compatible with iPhone 3GS and above, iPad, iPod Touch, and iOS4.3 and above.  Vimeo Apple iOS App Features:  Free to download from the iTunes App Store Compatible with iPhone 3GS and above, iPad, iPod Touch, and iOS4.3 and above Watch and manage all your existing Vimeo videos and download them to your camera roll Watch videos from your Feed, Watch Later queue, or previously liked videos Easily "like" videos, comment on videos, and add videos to your Watch Later queue Discover new and interesting videos curated by Vimeo Staff Easily upload your raw footage or edited videos in HD or SD Use the built-in editor to edit your footage on the go and add music from the Vimeo Music Store Pause/resume uploads and receive reminders when an upload is paused Replace existing videos Edit titles, descriptions, tags, privacy settings, and credits Share via Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, WordPress, email, and/or SMS Add videos to Groups, Channels, and Albums Access stats on plays, likes, and comments
 