
 Whether it was inspired by the recent Instagram craze or not, Vimeo's new "Looks" have a pretty good chance of being welcomed with open arms (and eyes) by the video creators on its well-known platform. In partnership with Vivoom, the company announced today that it's bringing over 500 visual effects to the service as part of its Enhancer toolbox, giving folks the ability to easily add some flavor to their own video productions straight from a web browser. Furthermore, Vimeo's made it possible to preview these filters in real-time, as well as letting them be somewhat customizable by implementing various editing options, such as trimming and adjusting the intensity of each one. Vimeo also says the novel feature will be able to make recommendations based on "technical analysis of the user's video and social data," -- in other words, the more you use it, the more likely it is to learn your very own visual preferences.

 Thanks to Vivoom's 16-year experience in the video effects field, Vimeo tells us it only expects the current Looks selection to grow and deliver more of the "highest quality effects," adding that the main goal is for each and every user to "find what's best for their personal needs." Speaking of which, all Vimeo account holders can play with the new Looks at no cost for the next 90 days, although the company wasn't quite clear as to what we can expect after that period comes to an end.

 Update: Vimeo has reached out to let us know that following the 90-day trial, the Looks will cost 99 cents each.



  Show full PR text   VIMEO MAKES HOLLYWOOD-STYLE EFFECTS AVAILABLE TO ANYONE BY EXPANDING ENHANCER TO INCLUDE "LOOKS"   Partners with Vivoom™ To Bring Superior Visual Enhancing Technology To Vimeo   NEW YORK, Feb. 28, 2013 –Today, Vimeo adds visual enhancements called Looks to its video Enhancer toolbox, so now everyone can apply high quality, stylistic visual effects to their videos in addition to the licensed music options currently available.

   "By adding Looks, Vimeo continues to provide the tools that help people easily make better videos," said Vimeo CEO, Kerry Trainor. "Nearly every minute you see on TV or in movies has been visually enhanced. Everyone wants the same quality as the pros, but it's out of reach for most people. Our aim is to make these types of high quality visual effects easy and accessible to everyone."

   Vimeo users can search through a robust library of more than 500 Looks, dynamically see each Look applied to a frame of their own video (not a stock image), compare against their original and preview the enhanced video in real-time. People can browse by genre or mood, browse recommended Looks, and save their favorites. Vimeo offers innovative customization options, including the ability to adjust the intensity for each Look from 0-100% and trim the Look to apply to any part of the video.

   The Looks Engine is powered by Vivoom, the visual enhancing platform built on the same cutting-edge technology that has been used by top TV and film production studios for the past 16 years. For the first time, Vimeo users can leverage this powerful engine easily through the portfolio of video filters or "Looks" to make their video look amazing. The Enhancer recommends the optimal set of creative choices based on technical analysis of the user's video and social data to remove guesswork and make the experience fun and creative. Vimeo users can instantly try on and play with each Look to find the perfect one for their video.

   "Vivoom is a great partner for Vimeo because they bring innovative technology and deep expertise in creating visual effects of the highest quality," said Vimeo President Dae Mellencamp."Theirs is the only Looks solution designed specifically for the unique requirements of video."  "Vimeo understands that making video look better is a really complex problem. Users need an easy way to not only significantly improve the visual quality of their video but also add their individual style," said Vivoom CEO Katherine Hays. "This partnership allows everyone to do that for the first time."

   Vimeo will provide Looks to its registered users for free for the next 90 days. For more information, please visit vimeo.com/enhancer, https://vimeo.com/blog/post:555.

 
