
 Tweeting about the obnoxious individuals you share a tube platform with was expected to be a one-time thing if you weren't a Virgin Media customer. The Branson-backed provider had said that, once the summer games had finished, it would make the service exclusive to its own broadband subscribers. Now, however, the company has reversed that decision, extending the free period through until the end of the year. The Telegraph is reporting that the turnaround is in part thanks to wholesale talks with other ISPs, who are keen to offer the service as part of their own packages. Given that we're unlikely to make it into the stratosphere or the bottom of the ocean any time soon, we'll settle for pretending we're a daring explorer of the Piccadilly line.



  Show full PR text   Tube WiFi smashes one million connections in 24 hours
   WiFi on London Underground to remain free for everyone in 2012

   Following a landmark day which saw Virgin Media's WiFi service deliver over one million tweets, Facebook posts, emails and web pages in its busiest 24 hours yet1, Virgin Media today announced that WiFi on London Underground will remain free for everyone throughout 2012.

   Over 661,000 people are now online underground, with Waterloo, Victoria, King's Cross, and Oxford Circus some of the busiest connected Tube stations. WiFi from Virgin Media is already available in 72 London Underground stations, from the ticket halls to the platforms, with more stations due to be brought online in 2012.

   Jon James, executive director of broadband at Virgin Media, said: "WiFi on London Underground has been an incredible success with hundreds of thousands of people kept up-to-date and entertained whilst travelling around our capital city. Commuters and visitors will be able to make use of the internet throughout 2012 and we're in positive talks with potential wholesale partners to ensure a fantastic experience for all Tube passengers throughout 2012 and beyond."

   Gareth Powell, London Underground's Director of Strategy and Service Development, said: "WiFi at Tube stations is proving to be a very popular service with up-to-the-minute travel information and journey planner at passengers' fingertips. There are already 72 London Underground stations online and our engineers are working in partnership with Virgin Media to continue the roll-out in 2012."

   The comprehensive WiFi portal with TfL travel information, updates and London news and entertainment will remain free for all Tube passengers throughout 2012 and beyond. From next year, Virgin Media's broadband and mobile subscribers will continue to have full online access and Virgin Media is engaged with potential wholesale partners to provide the service to their own customers on an ongoing basis.

 
