
 
 Virgin Media is announcing a new set of tariffs in order to compete with its UK network rivals. The Premiere plan is an attempt at winning the hearts and minds of customers used to Three UK's One Plan and T-Mobile's Full Monty. For £21 per month, users will get all-you-can-eat data, unlimited texts, unlimited calls to UK landlines and 2,500 minutes to other cellphones. Meanwhile, a lower-spec Starter tariff will offer a teasing deal for new customers for £18 per month, but that figure drops to £13 if you also sign up for the company's other Cable TV and Broadband services. Subscribers will also have free and unfettered access to all of that Underground WiFi when the service starts charging users of other mobile networks in the autumn.



  Show full PR text   Virgin Media challenges mobile operators to keep up
   Incredible value with unlimited data from just £21  Insurance and backup service included  Combating bill shock with alerts and 'My Account' app

   Virgin Media today unveiled an incredible range of mobile tariffs that will set a new standard in unbeatable value which will challenge the rest of the industry to keep up. The star of the show is the hero 'Premiere' tariff which combines all-you-can-eat data, unlimited texts, unlimited calls to UK landlines and 2,500 anytime minutes.

   To make the most of the largest 3G network in the UK* as well as the hottest smartphones of the summer, Virgin Media has created some of the most competitive tariffs on the market designed to be simple, affordable and flexible, with amped up benefits for loyal Virgin Media** customers

   'Premiere' starts at an incredible £21 per month for Virgin Media** customers as the company looks to help people to stay connected on the go and whilst making the most of the benefits and savings to be had from taking a mobile with their existing Virgin Media services.

   The new tariffs include options for every mobile phone user with prices starting from as little as £18 per month for the new 'Starter' tariff, or £13 per month for Virgin Media customers. Not only do Virgin Media customers enjoy reduced costs, saving £5 per month on each tariff, but they also benefit from unlimited calls and texts to other Virgin Mobiles.

   Jamie Heywood, director of mobile at Virgin Media said: "When we launched over ten years ago as the worlds first mobile company of its type, we revolutionised the market, and this is another such landmark. As people look for the best value, we're rewarding loyalty with some amazing tariffs with unlimited offerings that our customers can enjoy without worrying about hidden extras, as well as helping to combat bill shock."

   In a pioneering move, all the new tariffs will include insurance*** for no extra cost for the length of the contract for new and existing Virgin Media customers. It follows a recent study by Virgin Media that found a staggering proportion of Brits (72 per cent) don't have insurance for their mobiles, despite 70 per cent also admitting to breaking or losing up to seven phones in the last decade – often within the typical 24 month contract period****.

   Smartphones can cost as much as £500 and often contain invaluable data such as contacts, texts, emails and photos, so losing one can be a costly and incredibly frustrating experience. The new insurance service (worth £7.99 per month) provides 24 hour guaranteed handset replacement in the UK if it goes missing or is stolen***** and includes Mobile Rescue which will automatically back-up all contacts as well as lock and locate the handset remotely.

   Heywood added: "An overwhelming number of consumers don't believe that mobile insurance is necessary and won't consider taking insurance through their mobile provider because it's too expensive. For too long mobile providers have failed to offer insurance that represents value for money. We were astounded to find so many people were prepared to gamble when it came to protecting their handsets, which is why we are now the only provider to offer inclusive insurance as standard for our loyal customers at no extra cost."

   The new range of pay monthly tariffs are subject to 24 month****** contracts and in order to help ensure they have the perfect tariff for their needs, Virgin Media will automatically text customers when they are nearing the limits of their allowances (where applicable) to help ensure manageable costs. Virgin Media's smartphones also come preloaded with the 'My Account' app so customers can keep track of how much they've used of their monthly allowance, and if needed, customers have the flexibility to move up or down the tariffs at any point in their contract without penalty.

   For customers already with their own data-hungry smartphones Virgin Media is also launching a new range of flexible 'SIM Only' tariffs. The 'SIM Only' tariffs work on a rolling monthly basis with 'Premiere' starting at £20 for cable and national customers who will benefit from unlimited data, text, calls to other Virgin Mobiles and UK landlines.

   Virgin Media customers will also be able to take advantage of free WiFi access at up to 120 London Underground stations.

   For more information on Virgin Media's products and services, head to www.virginmedia.com

 
