
 
 Companies might not be able to mention that big sporting event, but that doesn't stop them from being clever. Virgin Media UK is one such enterprise, which decided to award its millionth TiVo customer with a gold medal in the form of a similarly-colored TiVo box. Rather than risk the ire of the IOC's lawyers, the company used the moment to (perhaps sarcastically) celebrate the release of Spandau Ballet's Gold. Bundling bassist-turned-soap-star Martin Kemp into a van, he turned up at the door of customers Allan and Christine Ward with the glistening PVR and a 3D-ready TV to surprise the couple. We don't know if he told the husband and wife from Nottinghamshire that the HDTV market is like a high prison wall, but we hope the gift of a new home entertainment system leaves them standing so tallllllllllll...



  
    Show full PR text    Nottinghamshire pair stunned by surprise celebrity visit as Virgin Media celebrates reaching one million TiVo® customers
   Bramcote residents Allan and Christine Ward had the surprise of their lives this week when their favourite television personality Martin Kemp arrived to install the couple's new television service from Virgin Media.

   Mrs Ward opened their front door to find the soap star and music legend, complete with a one-off, specially created, golden Virgin Media TiVo set-top box. The surprise was arranged to celebrate Virgin Media reaching a landmark one million customers of its TiVo service, the fastest growing pay TV service in the UK.

   Bringing together broadcast television, thousands of hours of on-demand programming and the best of the web in a single box, Virgin Media TiVo boasts a TV guide that goes back as well as forward in time and an unbeatable ability to record three shows simultaneously while watching another recorded earlier.

   In homage to Martin Kemp's biggest 80s music hit with Spandau Ballet, 'Gold', the Wards were delighted with their celebrity surprise and thought their glistening new gold TiVo box was a "winner".

   Mrs Christine Ward, age 60 of Eastcote Avenue, said: "I'd been nagging Allan for ages to get TiVo but little did I know it would come complete with Martin Kemp! I've been a huge fan of Martin for years now so to have him arrive on my doorstep was incredible – it has been an amazing day! We feel very lucky with our new TV and can't wait to get to get watching and using all the TiVo services."

   Martin Kemp, the multi-award winning actor famous for his portrayal of EastEnders villain Steve Owen, said: "Being here to surprise the Wards was a great way to brighten up the start to the week and I hope they are delighted with their new TiVo service – it was a pleasure to meet both!"

   As well as their new TiVo service, Mr and Mrs Ward were treated to a full-scale red carpet surprise, with Kemp arriving in a limo rather than the usual engineer's van, ready to get to work installing TiVo. The couple were also spoilt with a new HD Ready 3D TV so they can enjoy the full range of leading services from Virgin Media.

   Cindy Rose, Virgin Media's executive director of digital entertainment, said; "Reaching one million customers for our TiVo service in such a short time is a huge milestone for Virgin Media and celebrating it with our customers felt right. Being able to present Mr and Mrs Ward with a golden TiVo box and their favourite TV personality as well as a new television was a real pleasure. With Virgin Media TiVo, Christine need never miss anything Martin Kemp ever appears in ever again! We hope they had as much fun as we did in planning the surprise and seeing their reaction."

  
