
 

Virgin Mobile was originally intending to celebrate the new month by flipping the switch on throttled data, but it decided to push those plans back and announce a couple new phones instead. The prepaid carrier announced the upcoming launch of the LG Optimus Slider (note: it's not the Optimus Note) and the HTC Wildfire S in October and, in the same press release, nonchalantly mentioned that it would delay reducing throughput speeds for heavy users until sometime next year. No word on why this came about, but we'll take good news whenever we can get it. The LG Optimus Slider is an Android 2.3 device with a 3.2-inch HVGA display, a 3.2MP camera and 1,500mAh battery, and will be available online beginning October 16th for $200 and in Sprint stores October 30th. The HTC Wildfire S will show up in silver at Best Buy and in white at Radio Shack starting October 23rd, and can be yours for $200 as well. We can imagine which announcement you're most excited for. Check out both press releases in their glory after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  LG Optimus Slider Delivers Ease of a Full Keyboard to Popular Virgin Mobile USA Android-Powered Smartphone  		WARREN, N.J. – Sept. 30, 2011 – Virgin Mobile USA expands its Android™-powered smartphone lineup with the upcoming availability of LG® Optimus™ Slider, providing a new smartphone option with an easy-to-use slide out keyboard. Perfect for the heavy social networker, LG Optimus Slider will be available Oct. 17 at www.virginmobileusa.com for $199.99. The smartphone will be available Oct. 31 in Best Buy and RadioShack stores; Nov. 6 at Target; and Nov. 13 in Sprint Stores. 		LG Optimus Slider is the second generation of the popular LG Optimus V™, which launched in early 2011 and is currently available at www.virginmobileusa.com for $149.99. It remains one of the most popular smartphones on Virgin Mobile USA. 		"With the new LG Optimus Slider we're bringing our customers an updated operating system and slide-out keyboard," said Mark Lederman, Business Line director, Virgin Mobile USA. "According to NPD Group, year-over-year preference for a touchscreen has tripled among prepaid buyers, and 21 percent[[1] According to The NPD Group's Mobile Phone Track consumer tracking service.1] of all customers say that having a QWERTY keyboard is a motivating factor in making a purchase. Coupled with the popularity we've seen on the LG Optimus V we're looking forward to bringing this fresh option to Virgin Mobile." 		"LG Optimus Slider delivers the convenience of a full QWERTY keyboard with the sleek lines of the LG Optimus series," said Tim O'Brien, vice president of marketing for LG Mobile. "We look forward to providing Virgin Mobile USA consumers the ideal device for on-the-go messaging, emailing and social networking." 		Virgin Mobile USA Beyond Talk plans start at just $35 a month for 300 minutes of voice and include unlimited messaging and data. For those looking for a bit more talk time the $45 plan offers 1,200 minutes of voice, and the $55 plan offers unlimited voice minutes each month. All plans include unlimited messaging and data. 		LG Optimus Slider offers users:		An easy to use 3.2-inch touchscreen with a slide out QWERTY keyboard and bright screen		Enjoy all of the apps in the constantly growing Android Market with Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)		Surf the Web and run apps on the Nationwide 3G Sprint Network		MicroSD support (<32GB) and a 3.2MP camera		Bluetooth® 3.0 		LG Optimus Slider comes preloaded with Virgin Mobile Live 2.0 social networking lifestyle application used to access the Virgin Mobile branded music stream, hosted by DJ Abbey Braden. The app also provides users of Android-powered devices free access to live music performance videos and "check in" features at special events. All status updates made using the app will also sync with Facebook® and Twitter®. 		The previously announced decision to reduce throughput speeds when any Beyond Talk customer reaches 2.5GB of data usage within a current monthly cycle has been postponed to 2012.  			Show full PR text  The HTC Wildfire S Marks the First HTC Smartphone for Virgin Mobile USA; Brings Stylish Options in Silver and White 			WARREN, N.J. – Sept. 30, 2011 – Virgin Mobile USA strengthens its Android™-powered smartphone lineup with the upcoming availability of the HTC Wildfire S™ in Silver at Best Buy® and White at RadioShack® built for consumers looking to express their personal style without a contract. The HTC Wildfire S in Silver is exclusive to Virgin Mobile. Social networkers and app users will enjoy the bright screen of the HTC Wildfire S and access to the Android Market. The HTC Wildfire S will be available Oct. 23 at Best Buy and RadioShack for $199.99. 			"The HTC Wildfire S is the first HTC smartphone on Virgin Mobile and we couldn't be more thrilled to bring the Wildfire S™ to our customers," said Mark Lederman, Business Line director, Virgin Mobile USA. "It is an attractive, easy-to-use and fast smartphone perfect for both the technically savvy and those looking to make the leap to a smartphone for the first time." 			Martin Fichter, president of HTC Americas, said, "The HTC Wildfire S is a compact and playful smartphone offering a unique silver color exclusive to Virgin Mobile customers. HTC offers intuitive and powerful technology for the smart consumer and that perfectly aligns with Virgin Mobile." 			Virgin Mobile USA Beyond Talk plans start at just $35 a month for 300 minutes of voice and include unlimited messaging and data. For those looking for a bit more talk time the $45 plan offers 1,200 minutes of voice, and the $55 plan offers unlimited voice minutes each month. All plans include unlimited messaging and data. 			HTC Wildfire S offers users: 			Color options of White (RadioShack) or Silver (Best Buy)			3.2-inch HVGA touchscreen			5MP camera with flash			3G and Wi-Fi capability			Android 2.3 (Gingerbread)			600MHz processor			HTC Sense – HTC's custom-built experience, which puts information most important front and center by providing further customizable widgets and applications.			HTC Wildfire S comes preloaded with the Virgin Mobile Live 2.0 social networking lifestyle application used to access the Virgin Mobile branded music stream, hosted by DJ Abbey Braden. The app also provides users of Android-powered devices free access to live music performance videos and "check in" features at special events. All status updates made using the app will also sync with Facebook® and Twitter®. 			The previously announced decision to reduce throughput speeds when any Beyond Talk customer reaches 2.5GB of data usage within a current monthly cycle has been postponed to 2012. 
 