
  While there's no doubt that Virgin Media customers have taken well to the company's TiVo HD DVR offering, so far switching has meant giving up certain interactive TV services supported elsewhere. they're getting one back now, as the company announced it's kicking off the rollout of Red Button interactivity to the TiVo on Sky Sports HD, letting footy fans catch more extended highlights of Premier League games. There's more on the way too, with support planned for the upcoming F1 channel and BBC services in April. Check out the press release after the break for more details on what will be supported and when, assuming one will be watching the games on TV instead of diving into hooliganism, or whatever it is fans of football do, we'll keep our handegg thank you very much.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Sky Sports Interactive Red Button services start to roll out on TiVo  Virgin Media today started the roll-out of next generation red button services for its TiVo-powered digital TV service.  With 2012 promising to bring Brits a stunning year of sport, customers with Virgin Media's TiVo service will now able to take advantage of a whole host of sporting extras, including multi-screen services becoming available through the red button. Red Button interactive services form part of an exciting roadmap of new features and functionality destined for TiVo throughout the year.  Leading the line-up of services through TiVo are interactive Sky Sports Red Button services. From today Sky Sports* and Sky Sports HD** subscribers on TiVo will be able to take full advantage of interactivity provided by multiple background events, allowing customers to enjoy more of their favourite sports through alternative views. On Saturday 3rd March Football First also makes its debut through the Red Button on TiVo, giving die-hard footy fans the ability to catch extended highlights from Premier League games.  Following the launch of Sky Sports Red Button services on TiVo, further interactive services will be added over the coming weeks and months. Sky has also developed interactive Red Button services for the launch of its Sky Sports F1™ channel which Virgin Media digital TV customers will also be able to take advantage of.  Simon Hunt, Product Director of TV at Virgin Media said: "With so much excitement building for the biggest sporting events this year we know our customers are going to love the extra dimension these interactive services will bring. From clips and interviews to selectable camera angles and even red button exclusive shows, we're thrilled to offer Sky Sports subscribers on Virgin Media new ways to experience their favourite sports with even more depth than ever before."  Virgin Media is working with a variety of partners for a range of new apps and next generation interactive services to make the most of the advanced features and connectivity built into the TiVo service. For further information about Virgin Media's TiVo Service visit www.virginmedia.com/tivo.
 