
 After roughly a year since its unveiling, Visa's digital payment platform V.me has emerged from beta with support from a total of 53 banks, including PNC and U.S. Bank, and 23 retailers. If V.me has escaped your memory thanks to the proliferation of electronic payment options, you'd be forgiven. For those in need of a refresher, the service lets users check out at participating online stores using a one-click solution that remembers credit card details from multiple providers (American Express, Discover, MasterCard and Visa) in addition to billing and mailing addresses. Visa's Global Head of eCommerce, Jennifer Schulz, told TechCrunch that the firm is planning on making mobile apps and bringing the service to checkout terminals next year. How does the company plan on standing out from the sea of options? Visa's banking on its brand-name and ability to spread the service far and wide. If V.me has piqued your interest, leap past the break to catch the full list of supported banks and retailers.

 [Image credit: Philip Taylor, Flickr]



  Show full PR text   More than 50 Financial Institutions Adopt V.me by Visa, Simplifying Online Holiday Shopping
  Tweet this: More than 50 financial institutions adopt V.me by #Visa, simplifying online holiday shopping for as many as 55 million people #digitalwallet
  FOSTER CITY, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today expanded the reach of V.me by Visa, landing more than 50 additional financial institution partners. V.me, Visa's new digital wallet service, frees online shoppers from having to repeatedly enter account number, bill-to and ship-to information at checkout. This will change the way tens of millions of people shop and pay by making online checkout simple and secure. Account holders will be able to make payments online using V.me and check out simply by entering a username and password.
  These relationships bring the addressable base of cardholders to as many as 55 million, allowing account holders to easily enroll Visa and other U.S.-issued payment cards through V.me and begin shopping online from a PC, tablet or mobile phone. Consumers can visit www.V.me to enroll and shop immediately at any of the 23 top eCommerce retailers live with V.me, including 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Shoebuy.com, cooking.com, Rakuten Buy.com, Blue Nile, and many more.
  "Whether you're shopping for holiday gifts or shopping for yourself, V.me is now available to anyone in the U.S. looking for a more simple, secure, and personal online shopping experience," said Jennifer Schulz (@Jen_Schulz), global head of eCommerce, Visa. "V.me is built around a single concept, to help people shop online simply and securely. We understand that need and believe our long-standing relationships with financial institutions, merchants and acquirers put Visa in a strong position to deliver the very best digital wallet experience."
  Visa is working closely with the brands below to drive consumer adoption by allowing people to sign up through their issuer, on a merchant checkout page or online directly at www.V.me.
  53 financial institution partners offering V.me: A + Federal Credit Union, Affinity Bank, Affinity Plus Federal Credit Union, Alliant Credit Union, America First Credit Union, Arvest Bank, Bank of Tennessee, BB&T, BBVA Compass, Cabela's World's Foremost Bank, Capitol Federal Savings Bank, CEFCU (Citizens Equity First Credit Union), Commerce Bank, Commonwealth Credit Union, Community Credit Union of Florida, Credit Union of Colorado, CSCU, Deere Employees Credit Union, Digital Federal Credit Union, Directions Credit Union, First Financial Bank of Ohio, Greater Texas Federal Credit Union, IBC Bank, ICBA, Listerhill Credit Union, Members 1st Credit Union, Mercantile Bank of Michigan, Meritrust Credit Union, Michigan State University Federal Credit Union, Motorola Employees Credit Union, New Mexico Educator Federal Credit Union, Patelco Credit Union, Pentagon Federal, PNC, PSCU, Royal Credit Union, SCE Federal Credit Union, State Employees Credit Union of Maryland, StellarOne Bank, Susquehanna Bank, Synovus Bank, TCF Bank, The Members Group, Union Bank & Trust, University Federal Credit Union, U.S. Bank, Xceed Financial Federal Credit Union, and more.
  23 merchant partners offering V.me: 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, 88Hours.com, Beach Camera, Bidz.com, Blue Nile, Buy.com, BuyDig, Cooking.com, CozyBoots.com, Events.Shoebuy.com, Modnique.com, MovieTickets.com, OpticsPlanet, PacSun.com, Rangefinders, Scentiments.com, Shoebuy.com, Shoplet.com, StudentUniverse, Zoostores.com, and more.
 
