
A review of a smartphone that's primarily sold in China? Yes, that's exactly what this is, and with good reason. The Vivo Xplay merits attention because of the components it contains -- some of which are exotic, like its "HiFi grade" audio chips, and some of which are straightforward but desirable, like its huge, 5.7-inch 1080p display and Snapdragon 600 processor. The handset also helps to set a benchmark for what smartphone hardware is actually worth, since its $480 street price puts it closer to the smaller, Google-sponsored Nexus 5 ($350) than typical big-phones like the Galaxy Note 3 or HTC One Max, which fetch around $800 unlocked. Although US customers can import the Xplay for $520, it lacks the right bands for proper 3G support in North America and is actually more suitable for HSPA+ networks in the UK, where it costs £495. So, let's find out what China can deliver for that sort of money.





Hardware
The Xplay looks big enough, and different enough from common Western smartphones, to attract a bit of attention from other people. Strangely, a number of encounters began with the question, "Is that a Sony?" We think some folks may have subconsciously connected the rear VIVO logo with Sony's VAIO branding on laptops, even though the two are actually quite different when compared side by side. In any case, Vivo should probably take this as a compliment, since Sony has a reputation for decent build quality and pleasing aesthetics.

The non-removable metal backplate adds a premium feel, as do the gently illuminated capacitive navigation buttons. The metal is sandwiched between a plastic top and bottom that contain the stereo speakers, the 3.5mm jack (top-center) and the micro-USB port (bottom-center), and that are presumably important for radio reception.The front of the Xplay is covered with a single piece of toughened glass, punctuated only by the earpiece speaker at the top. This glass is bordered by a chrome band that is actually plastic, which is susceptible to dents and scratches and which brings the tone down quite a bit. Finally, on the right-hand edge there's a volume rocker and well-positioned power button, and on the left edge there's a SIM drawer that pops out by means of a pin.
Overall, we'd rate the Xplay's build quality as average to good, while reserving special praise for its dimensions. Thanks to its moderate bezels, sub-8mm thickness and relatively low weight, the phone is easy to hold despite its size, even if it does inevitably bulge in most pockets.

    Vivo Xplay     Dimensions 153.8 x 79.68 x 7.87mm (6.06 x 3.14 x 0.31 inches)   Weight 6.56 ounces (187g)   Screen size 5.7 inches   Screen resolution 1,920 x 1,080   Screen type LCD   Battery 3,400mAh (non-removable)   Internal storage 16GB/32GB   External storage None   Rear camera 13MP stills (1/3.06-inch CMOS with f/2.0 lens)   Front-facing cam 5MP stills, 1080p video   Video capture 1080p   NFC Yes   Radios  GPRS, EDGE, HSPA+, GSM (850/900/1800/1900), WCDMA (2100)

    Bluetooth v4.0   SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 600   CPU 1.7GHz quad-core   GPU Adreno 320   RAM 2GB   Connectivity micro-USB 2.0, USB OTG, DLNA, IR   WiFi Dual-band, 802.11a/ac/b/g/n   Wireless Charging No   Operating system Android 4.2.2 with Vivo skin  Display and audio
If you could strip the LCD panels out of a Vivo Xplay and a Sony Xperia Z (or Z1), and if you could show them to passersby on the street, the Xplay would win every time. In fact, its 1,920 x 1,080 display is right up there with some of the best we've seen in terms of how close icons look to the surface of the glass, viewing angles and outdoor visibility.

Video watching is something of a letdown thanks to the tiny stereo speakers at the rear of the device, which do the job, but don't come anywhere close to the NXP-controlled speakers found in HTC's BoomSound phones, let alone the speakers in a full-sized tablet like a Kindle Fire HD or iPad Air.

Thankfully, things improve when you plug in some headphones. The Xplay has two different audio modes: one for playing regular audio in any app, and one that can only be activated when playing content through the stock audio and video apps. According to Vivo, engaging this second mode routes the audio through a HiFi-grade DAC (Cirrus Logic's CS4398) and amplifier (Texas Instrument's OPA2604). It's impossible for us to tell exactly what's going on in there, but we have no reason to doubt Vivo's assertions, especially since the battery appears to drain more quickly when playing music in the second mode. It's also true, with this mode activated, that the phone's output through the 3.5mm jack can be pushed a lot higher with no perceptible loss of quality -- something that could come in handy if the phone is being used as an analog audio source for a speaker dock or in-car system.

Then again, there are software and hardware limitations that prevent this extra audio circuitry from being much use, even before you get to the point of trying to decide whether it's noticeably better. The software limitation is that you can only turn on HiFi audio when playing locally stored music in the stock player, rather than listening to Spotify or other sources. The hardware limitation is the lack of expandable storage, which limits the amount of space for high-bit-rate music (such as FLAC files) that could exploit the superior audio circuitry. In our 16GB version, the system took 5.35GB out of 14.68GB of internal storage space, and our apps and media quickly took this down to a paltry 600MB of spare capacity. So the more expensive 32GB version will be a must for anyone with a decent music collection.

The only other way to get locally stored music onto the device is through a USB drive attached via an OTG cable -- a solution that burns the battery and gets in the way of keeping the device charged up. This will be a particular issue for someone who wants to use the Xplay for car audio -- you'd need some sort of 12v powered hub setup that, frankly, could be more effort than it's worth unless you feel the Xplay's analog output sounds particularly good through your car speakers.

Camera
A nice surprise! While we're going to hazard a guess that the Xplay's camera module is a relatively standard, off-the-shelf Sony affair, its 13-megapixel still-image output is excellent in well-lit conditions. Quality falls off sharply as soon as the light dims and the camera has to pump up its ISO, so this isn't in the same league as what you'd find in the Sony Xperia Z1. But the Xplay has already provided us with some memorable shots and we can't see any reason to rank it below the non-stabilized camera module in the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 or HTC One Max. The stock camera app is basic at best, but there are plenty of decent third-party camera apps to get around that problem, not to mention better gallery apps too.




