
 
Say hello to the new VIZIO XVT 3D series, while the XVT Pro line announced earlier this year (and that 72-inch model we were drooling over) were not to be, these 42-, 47- and 55-inch HDTVs are real and on sale today through Amazon, Sam's Club and Target's online shops and should be on shelves later this month. Features like the number of LED backlighting zones (for the 47- and 55-, the 42-inch features edge LED lighting), claimed contrast ratio, WiFi N and VIZIO Internet Apps are consistent with existing models, so the big addition this time around is 480Hz refresh rate and obviously, 3D readiness (active shutter glasses not included). VIZIO's also announced two new 3D compatible Blu-ray players to match for $189, plus a new router and some high priced HDMI cables to fill out the lineup. Full specs and prices are in the press release after the break, but with a premium of $300-$400 on Amazon over the award winning 2D-only XVT3SV lineup (we have one in for review, hint: it's excellent), most will probably want to wait for some kind of package deal unless there's a copy of NBA 2K11 3D or Black Ops burning a hole in their console right now.

Update: It appears VIZIO's made one other change since its initial 3D announcement, including RealD technology and using their glasses. We asked if these glasses will be compatible with those from other manufacturers but haven't gotten an answer to that question yet.
      

 

Show full PR textVIZIO's Six-time Award Winning XVT Series Goes 3D - VIZIO's XVT Series brings 3D to America with three Full HD 3D TVs, Full HD 3D Glasses, 3D Blu-ray Players with Wireless Apps, Wireless Internet Routers and High-Speed HDMI Cables-VIZIO XVT3SV Series Wins awards from CNET, Home Theater Magazine, The Perfect Vision, HDTVSolutions, PC World, and TopTenReviews-VIZIO kicks off new ad campaign with TV commercial featuring Grammy Award winner Beyoncé and VIZIO's XVT3 Series with Internet AppsIrvine, CA - November 17, 2010 - VIZIO, America's HDTV and Consumer Electronics Company, announced today that its six-time award winning XVT3SV Series is adding 3D technology to its most coveted line. VIZIO's 3D launch will feature three Full HD 3D XVT Series TVs with VIZIO Internet Apps™ (VIA) available in 42", 47" and 55" screen sizes. The units are now available online at Amazon.com, SamsClub.com, Target.com, VIZIO.com and will hit retail shelves later this month with wider availability in December.These three HDTVs headline a 3D Home Theater Ecosystem that also boasts VIZIO Full HD 3D glasses, 3D Blu-ray Players with Wireless Apps, Wireless Internet Router and High-Speed HDMI® Cables. The XVT3SV Series has recently won the CNET Editor's Choice, Home Theater Magazine Top Pick, ThePerfectVision's Highly Recommended Components, HDTVSolutions #1 Rated 55" and 32" TVs, PC World's Best Buy 40- to 42-inch HDTV, TopTenReviews Gold Award as the #1 LCD HDTV and was recognized by Mashable.com as one of the five gadgets that broke new ground in 2010. At the same time VIZIO will debut a new TV spot featuring 16-time Grammy Award winner Beyoncé that promotes the award winning XVT3SV Series. VIZIO's new TV spot features a performance face off of a live performing Beyoncé battling herself on a VIZIO XVT TV with VIZIO Internet Apps™ (VIA). The creative was developed by Venables Bell & Partners of San Francisco and directed by Jake Nava who also directed Beyoncé's "Single Ladies" and "Crazy In Love" videos. "Working with the team at VIZIO has been a great experience. They are at the top of the TV industry and have created an award-winning product. I admire VIZIO's drive to take entertainment to the next level," stated super star Beyoncé. "The VIZIO XVT line is an incredible, award-winning product that has earned the title of the best LED LCD HDTV on the market," stated Randy Waynick, VIZIO CSO. "We are thrilled to launch our new XVT television campaign featuring Beyoncé a true leader in entertainment and look forward to the upcoming release of our new 3D XVT sets which will continue to set the bar for performance, design, and value, challenging all others to improve." VIZIO XVT 3D HDTVsVIZIO's latest XVT series of HDTVs now adds advanced technologies such as Full HD 3D, High Speed HDMI inputs, SRS TruSurround HD™ and 480Hz SPS™ to their award winning picture quality. With VIZIO Full HD 3D, Smart Dimming™, VIZIO Internet Apps with built-in Dual Band 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth remote with sliding QWERTY keypad, these feature-rich sets are state of the art entertainment hubs for both 3D and 2D broadcasts, discs, online streams, games and more. The 55" (XVT3D554SV) and 47" (XVT3D474SV) HDTVs offer full array TruLED™ backlighting with Smart Dimming. These 3D HDTVs work with VIZIO Full HD 3D active shutter glasses (sold separately) and also feature VIZIO's 480Hz SPS high frame rate technology with Smooth Motion to produce amazing 3D and 2D images. VIZIO's 42" (XVT3D424SV) XVT 3D HDTV produces stunning 3D images with VIZIO's Razor LED™ backlighting with Smart Dimming and works with VIZIO Full HD 3D active-shutter glasses (sold separately). These HDTVs also utilize VIZIO's 480Hz SPS high frame rate technology with Smooth Motion.VIZIO Internet Apps™ (VIA™) All XVT sets feature the VIZIO Internet Apps (VIA) Connected HDTV platform, delivering unprecedented choice and control of web-based content directly to the television without the need of a PC or set-top box. Current Apps from top online content and service brands include: Amazon Video On Demand, Facebook®, Flickr®, Netflix, Rhapsody®, Pandora®, Twitter™, VUDU®, and Yahoo!® TV Widgets, as well as several new apps recently released, including: Fandango, Yahoo Fantasy Football, NBA® Game Time, Wiki TV, My-Cast® ,MediaBox™, TuneIn Radio™, Web Videos and iMemories.VIZIO XVT Series HDTVs with VIA are able to connect to the Internet using the built-in high definition wireless (802.11n dual-band) or a wired connection, accessing on demand movies, TV episodes, music and other online content is easy. Each XVT Series HDTV includes a Bluetooth universal remote control with sliding QWERTY keyboard that makes thumb-typing easy.Model Size Res Refresh Rate Smart Dimming HDMI 1.4 Inputs VIZIO Internet Apps (VIA) Bluetooth SRS Audio In Store MSRP XVT3D554SV TruLED 55" FHD 480Hz SPS 120 Zones 5 Yes Yes TruSurround HD Q4 $2,399. XVT3D474SV TruLED 47" FHD 480Hz SPS 160 Zones 5 Yes Yes TruSurround HD Q4 $1,799. XVT3D424SV Razor LED 42" FHD 480Hz SPS 160 Zones 5 Yes Yes TruSurround HD Q4 $1,399. VIZIO 3D Blu-ray® Players with Wireless AppsVIZIO delivers the ultimate movie experience! The VBR333 and VBR334 3D Blu-ray Players with Wireless Apps unlock a new dimension with breathtaking, crystal-clear 2D and Full HD 3D. Built-in Wi-Fi means you get easy wireless connectivity to more entertainment from top online services like Netflix, VUDU, Pandora, and more. With up to 7.1 channels of digital surround sound, Dolby TrueHD™ and DTS HD™, you feel like you are in the middle of the action and can enjoy sound just like in a movie theater or at a live event. This is one powerful 3D movie machine, transforming your movie nights into immersive theater-like events! Buyers can now get a free HD movie rental from VUDU and a free Netflix trial too! Both VIZIO 3D Blu-ray Players will be available in November and have a SRP of $189.99.VIZIO Dual Band Wireless Internet RouterVIZIO has created the XWR100 802.11n Dual Band Wireless Internet Router, a media-centric router, designed for maximum performance when streaming content such as HD video. Optimized for VIZIO Internet Apps (VIA) devices, the XWR100 automatically prioritizes Internet traffic destined for VIA devices like VIA HDTVs and Blu-ray players with Wireless Apps. This universal wireless router works with just about any Wi-Fi device and is the ideal solution over conventional routers for households that want to enjoy streaming media along with traditional web surfing and other data-centric activities. In addition, the router operates simultaneously at both 2.4 and 5 GHz bands, effectively acting like two wireless hotspots in one by providing a separate network for each band. The XWR100 is shipping now with a SRP of $99.99.High-Speed HDMI® Cables-VIZIO Extreme Slim SeriesVIZIO's latest series of HDMI cables deliver the best in both HD video and audio. They include an integrated Smart Chip that cleans and boosts signals for optimized digital audio and video including Blu-ray and 3D entertainment. Not only 60% slimmer than conventional HDMI cables, the XCH606 cable is 3D Ready to bring 3D gaming and movie titles to your 3D TV. Getting ready for today and tomorrow's highest definition audio and video formats and functions they support? VIZIO's HDMI cables support "4k" 4096 x 2160 resolution and bandwidth of up to 10.2 Gbps, Advanced 7.1 Audio Surround Sound, and even Audio Return Channel (ARC) which enables your TV to send and receive audio signals without additional cables. The XCH606D1 cables are shipping now with a SRP of $59.99.About VIZIOVIZIO, Inc., "Entertainment Freedom For All," headquartered in Irvine, California, is America's HDTV and Consumer Electronics Company. In 2007, VIZIO skyrocketed to the top by becoming the #1 selling brand of flat panel HDTVs in North America and became the first American brand in over a decade to lead in U.S. TV sales. Since 2007 VIZIO HDTV shipments remain in the TOP ranks in the U.S. and was #1 for the total year in 2009. VIZIO is committed to bringing feature-rich consumer electronics to market at a value through practical innovation. VIZIO offers a broad range of award winning consumer electronics. VIZIO's products are found at Costco Wholesale, Sam's Club, Walmart, Target, BJ's Wholesale, and other retailers nationwide along with authorized online partners. VIZIO has won numerous awards including a #1 ranking in the Inc. 500 for Top Companies in Computers and Electronics, Fast Company's 6th Most Innovative CE Company of 2009, and made the lists of Ad Age's Hottest Brands, Good Housekeeping's Best Big-Screens, CNET's Editor's Choice, PC World's Best Buy and OC Metro's 10 Most Trustworthy Brands among many other prestigious honors. For more information, please call 888-VIZIOCE or visit on the web at www.VIZIO.com.The V, VIZIO, TruLED, Extreme VIZIO Technology XVT, VIZIO Internet Apps, 480Hz SPS, 240Hz SPS, Thin Line, Smooth Motion, Razor LED, Smart Dimming, Entertainment Freedom For All names, phrase and symbols are trademarks or registered trademarks of VIZIO, Inc. All other trademarks may be the property of their respective holders.Source: VIZIO, Inc.VIZIO Licenses RealD 3D TechnologiesVIZIO Full HD 3D HDTVs to Support RealD Format and RealD Active Eyewear TechnologyLOS ANGELES, CA (November 17, 2010) – RealD Inc. (NYSE: RLD), a leading global licensor of 3D technologies for cinema, consumer electronics and professional applications, today announced that VIZIO, a leading LED LCD HDTV manufacturer, has licensed RealD's 3D technologies for their upcoming line-up of 3D TVs. Current VIZIO XVT series Full HD 3D HDTVs in 42", 47" and 55" class sizes will support the stereoscopic RealD Format for the delivery and display of high-definition 3D content. VIZIO active eyewear compatible 3D HDTVs will also utilize active shutter glasses that integrate RealD 3D lens and synchronization protocol. "VIZIO is a leader in North American flat panel HDTV sales and we look forward to working with them as they introduce their line-up of 3D HDTVs utilizing RealD 3D technology," stated Robert Mayson, President of Consumer Electronics at RealD. "RealD active eyewear technology is known worldwide for delivering exceptional 3D, giving viewers of VIZIO 3D TVs the opportunity to see content in crisp, clear and fully immersive 3D." "VIZIO is committed to delivering a great 3D experience and RealD's 3D technology has helped make this a reality," said Matthew McRae, CTO, VIZIO. "Consumers purchasing 3D televisions expect compatibility with all formats including RealD." The RealD Format is based on RealD's patented side-by-side 3D display technology. It combines left eye and right eye 3D image streams into a single channel for delivery of high-definition 3D video to 3D-enabled displays using today's HD infrastructure, including existing HD set-top boxes and DVRs.RealD's active eyewear technologies are recognized industry-wide for delivering a high-quality 3D image. Through decades of research and development, RealD has advanced active shutter glasses technologies for the best Stereo3D™ clarity. Using infra-red communication, the RealD active eyewear protocol synchronizes the TV with the eyewear lens for optimal image brightness and 3D effect.About RealD Inc.RealD is a leading global licensor of 3D technologies. RealD's extensive intellectual property portfolio is used in applications that enable a premium 3D viewing experience in the theater, the home and elsewhere. RealD licenses its RealD Cinema Systems to motion picture exhibitors that show 3D motion pictures and alternative 3D content. RealD also provides its RealD Display, active and passive eyewear, RealD Format and gaming technologies to consumer electronics manufacturers and content producers and distributors to enable the delivery and viewing of 3D content. RealD's cutting-edge 3D technologies have been used for applications such as piloting the Mars Rover. For more information, please visit our website at www.reald.com.Cautionary note on forward-looking statementsThis press release includes forward-looking information and statements, including but not limited to: statements concerning VIZIO's license of the RealD Format and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are based on RealD's current expectations and beliefs, as well as a number of assumptions concerning future events. Such forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which are outside RealD's control that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. RealD's annual and quarterly reports include a more detailed discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may cause that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.RealD undertakes no obligation to update publicly the information contained in this press release, or any forward-looking statements, to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date they were made, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.© 2010 RealD Inc. All Rights Reserved
 