
 
The first of the portable edge lit LED TVs from VIZIO that were announced at CES is now shipping, as the 7-inch VMB070 is available at the company's online store and Wal-mart stores everywhere. In case you've forgotten, it's still a 1-inch thick, 1 pound 800x480 resolution LCD screen with edge LED lighting that can tune into 1080i or 720p ATSC broadcasts through a flip up antenna, packs a battery with a claimed 3.5 hours of life and display video from a composite input or pictures via USB. You'll have to wait for the step-up 9- and 10-inch models if features like ATSC M/H tuning for viewing on the go or HDMI inputs are a necessity but with its $159 MSRP some cuts may be excusable to avoid running down your cellphone / laptop battery watching Slingboxed broadcasts at the tailgate party or out in the backyard on Saturdays and Sundays. 






Show full PR textVIZIO's new 7" Edge Lit Razor LED™ Portable delivers digital picture quality to personal TV experience -- Edge Lit Razor LED™ backlighting for brilliant color and contrast with an 800x480 widescreen high resolution panel - twice the picture quality of conventional analog portable TV's -- ideal for tailgating, anywhere around the house and even away from home- Receives free-to-air ATSC or NTSC broadcast signals without subscription required-- Edge Lit Razor LED TV is less than 1" deep, with integrated folding antenna and kickstand as well as a sleek design with touch sensitive TV controls -- Doubles as a digital photo frame for perfect bedside, desktop, side table companionIRVINE, CA - - September 21, 2010--- VIZIO, America's HDTV and Consumer Electronics Company, announced today nationwide availability of their 7" Edge Lit Razor LED™ LCD Portable TV. By expanding VIZIO TVs to portable models it enables consumers to enjoy TV and entertainment from almost anywhere. With an 800x480 widescreen high resolution Razor LED panel, an integrated antenna, and a sleek design of less than 1" thick, consumers now have the perfect entertainment for tailgating, around the house, or away from home -anyplace you want to catch your favorite broadcast or pictures with a brilliant, LED high-resolution picture.The Edge Lit Razor LED LCD Portable TV launch is the first terrestrial handheld sized TV to include an LED panel, delivering a brighter picture, more vibrant images, high resolution, better contrast, richer colors and a slimmer design. With a built-in fold-away antenna, touch sensitive TV controls, superior battery life of up to 3.5 hours, it doubles as a LED digital picture frame and provides the ultimate portable TV experience to enjoy TV on the go."People want to take entertainment on the go, and there is no reason to sacrifice a quality picture in order to do so," stated VIZIO Co-founder and V.P. Laynie Newsome. "We have been able to add back the fun in watching TV and given it a great picture too. I know how popular it is going to be first-hand - I had to fight my family for it again this morning."VIZIO VMB070 7" Edge Lit Razor LED™ LCD Portable TVVIZIO's 7" Edge Lit Razor LED™ LCD Portable TV packs a lot of technology into a sleek, 1" thin frame, including a built-in fold-away antenna and Dolby Digital sound. With up to 3.5 hours of battery life, it's perfect for backyard barbeques, tailgating parties, or in the bleachers at the game-anyplace you need a brilliant, high-resolution picture. Watch your favorite cable programs in the kitchen, then hook up to a game console in the living room for some action! It also doubles as a digital photo frame-just connect a USB drive to share photos with family and friends.The VMB070 is only 8.2" x 5.75" x .75" (7" class size) and weighs just 1 lb. It is now available at select Walmart stores or at VIZIO.com with an MSRP of $159.99. About VIZIOVIZIO, Inc., "Where Vision Meets Value," headquartered in Irvine, California, is America's HDTV and Consumer Electronics Company. In 2007, VIZIO skyrocketed to the top by becoming the #1 selling brand of flat panel HDTVs in North America and became the first American brand in over a decade to lead in U.S. TV sales. Since 2007 VIZIO HDTV shipments remain in the TOP ranks in the U.S. and was #1 for the total year in 2009. VIZIO is committed to bringing feature-rich consumer electronics to market at a value through practical innovation. VIZIO offers a broad range of award winning consumer electronics. VIZIO's products are found at Costco Wholesale, Sam's Club, Walmart, Target, BJ's Wholesale, and other retailers nationwide along with authorized online partners. VIZIO has won numerous awards including a #1 ranking in the Inc. 500 for Top Companies in Computers and Electronics, Fast Company's 6th Most Innovative CE Company of 2009, and made the lists of Ad Age's Hottest Brands, Good Housekeeping's Best Big-Screens, CNET's Top 10 Holiday Gifts and PC World's Best Buy among others. For more information, please call 888-VIZIOCE or visit on the web at www.VIZIO.com.The V, VIZIO, TruLED, Extreme VIZIO Technology XVT, VIZIO Internet Apps, 480Hz SPS, 240Hz SPS, Thin Line, Smooth Motion, Razor LED, Smart Dimming, Where Vision Meets Value names, phrase and symbols are trademarks or registered trademarks of VIZIO, Inc. All other trademarks may be the property of their respective holders.Source: VIZIO, Inc.
 