
 

Can't wait to get your hands on Vizio's upcoming budget tablet? Good news, beginning today, you can put your $400 where your mouth is, by pre-ordering the device straight from the company's site, starting at 1:30PM ET. That amount will get you the Gingerbread tablet, along with a 16GB MicroSD card, and a folding folio case. Pre-ordered devices will start shipping on July 18th. Those who snoozed and therefore lost will be able to pick one up in stores that same week.

Update: Let the pre-orders begin!
      

 

 		Show full PR text  VIZIO Tablet Bundle Pre-order is Now Available! 		Keep entertainment freedom at your fingertips with the VIZIO 8" Tablet with WiFi Bundle. Designed to help you get the most out of your Tablet, the bundle includes the VIZIO Tablet, a custom-fit folio case and a 16GB MicroSD™ card for $399.99 (tax and shipping not included)*. Estimated Ship Date: 07/18/2011 		Meet the VIZIO Tablet		Featuring a high definition 8" touchscreen – the VIZIO Tablet delivers more choice, more fun and more freedom in a thin, ultra-light design. Access hundreds of thousands of apps from the Android Market™ to enjoy movies, TV shows, music and more†. 		Control Your Entire Home Theater		Master your domain with the Tablet's built-in IR blaster and universal remote control app. This VIZIO-exclusive app enables the Tablet to communicate with your home theater devices‡ and control them all with the Tablet. You can also set up a profile for each room in your house and then control those devices as you move from room to room. The built-in HDMI® port is fully HDCP compliant so you can output HD video to multiple TVs and monitors, making it a breeze to watch HD content on your big screen HDTV**. 		Stereo Sound x 3		Any way you look at it, you get superior sound - literally. As you change the Tablet's orientation, it intelligently transfers the sound to two of the three strategically placed speakers to deliver stereo audio in both landscape and portrait modes for movies, music, games or video chats. 		Well Connected: WiFi & Bluetooth®		Built-in 802.11n WiFi and Bluetooth® capability offer optimum connectivity with multiple devices. Together with the front facing camera, the Tablet is ideal for video chats. 		Built-in GPS		Find your way with the Tablet's built-in GPS. It doesn't need WiFi or 4G to operate, so even when you're on the go, getting lost may be a thing of the past. 		Flexible Storage		No need to pick favorites, the VIZIO Tablet has room for all your media. In addition to the 4GB of internal memory††, you can add additional storage with the MicroSD™ slot. We'll even get you started with a 16GB MicroSD™ card included in this bundle. Now that's entertainment freedom. 		Custom-fit Cover		Add another level of convenience with the VIZIO Tablet folio case. The form-fitting case included with this bundle is ultra-thin and lightweight for protection on the go and conveniently converts into a stand with three viewing angles.
 