
 
It's been a hot minute since we've seen any new kit from the cats at VIZIO, but it has evidently been hoarding up sets in anticipation for today. This morning, the company has let loose details on a veritable smorgasbord of new TVs, all of which fall within the XVT, M and E series. The XVT line is getting a boost from the new TruLED VF551XVT, which packs 240Hz dejudder technology, as well as a number of other companions ranging from 32- to 55-inches in size. The M series is amongst the prettiest of the bunch, boasting a JAVA design, 1080p panels and 120Hz technology. Finally, the E series (E is for Eco, get it?) sucks down far less energy than most, with screen sizes spanning from 19- to 42-inches. Far too many new sets are being unveiled to detail here, but you can feel free to dig in after the break.





 VIZIO America's #1 HDTV Company Delivers NEW High Performance TV Collection - Number One shipper of Flat Panel HDTVs in USA unveils wide range of high- performance, high-value televisions - Flagship Extreme VIZIO Technology, XVT™ Series advances television's state of the art with NEW TruLED™ and 240Hz SPS™ (scenes per second), and Thin Line™ 120Hz models. (New XVT Models are in 55 - 32" screen sizes) - JAVA™ designer collection within the NEW "M" Series combines high style with Full HD 1080P resolution and 120Hz with Smooth Motion™ LCD HDTVs (New M Series Models are in 47 - 32" screen sizes) - "E" Series provide energy efficient EcoHD™ (20% below Energy Star 3.0), essential performance and exceptional value in small to mid screen sizes (New E Series Models are in 42 – 19" sizes)  - All models are energy efficient, meeting and exceeding Energy Star 3.0 requirements Irvine, CA – June 8, 2009 -- VIZIO, America's #1 HDTV and Consumer Electronics Company, has unveiled its 2009 TV product lineup, with 31 new models in three product groups. With a comprehensive range that includes cutting-edge Smart Dimming™ backlight TruLED™ LCD technology, high-style/high performance products, and the best everyday value HDTVs, VIZIO's products are energy efficient, with each earning and exceeding Energy Star 3.0 qualification. Product releases are scheduled throughout the year, with numerous products now in-store and due to hit shelves soon.  "VIZIO's 2009 line of LCD HDTVs advances our mission to deliver the most advanced video and audio technologies to our customers with unequalled value and style," says Laynie Newsome, VIZIO Co-Founder and VP Sales and Marketing Communications. "Our customers have come to expect superior performance and design from VIZIO, and this new line has unprecedented value in every screen size."  Superior Performance Video & Audio This year's Extreme VIZIO Technology XVT™ series again advances VIZIO performance with a Full HD 1080p lineup featuring both 120Hz with Thin Line™ stylish designs and 240Hz SPS models using Smooth Motion™ technology, with the most sophisticated models incorporating TruLED and Smart Dimming™ backlight technology. In all models, VIZIO has integrated USB video inputs that are enhanced and offer high quality 1080p video playback, along with Mega Dynamic Contrast Ratio™ of up to 2,000,000:1 makes for incredible black levels and almost three-dimensional imagery, they also include advanced user interface control with picture in picture and picture on picture functionality. VIZIO XVT models all include a universal learning backlit remote control.  All models have superior audio, thanks to SRS Labs Technology with TruSurround HD™, which enhances clarity and produces surround sound without external speakers, and TruVolume™, which eliminates annoying volume fluctuations when switching channels or when commercials come on and off.  Full HD in New Colors and Styles VIZIO's designer lines combine 1080p Full HD performance with distinctive looking designs such as the VL series brushed JAVA™ color treatment, and VT series TVs that resemble luxurious wood picture frames to bring a stylish touch to consumers' viewing environments. Select models feature a 120Hz refresh rate with Smooth Motion technology, as well as VIZIO's new USB Multi-Media Feature that can display MPEG-2, H.264 and WMV9 video, JPEG photos, and MP3 music from a thumb drive or FAT32 hard drive. Many models have VIZIO's new "Pause Live TV" feature, which allows viewers to pause their programs without the need for a separate cable or satellite box. VIZIO's Mega Dynamic Contrast Ratio™ of up to 50,000:1 increases contrast ratio and picture quality, providing incredibly deep blacks. Each model also has multiple HDMI inputs and many include a side panel HDMI Game or Camera Input Port. HDTV Value in Every Size With screen sizes ranging from 19" to 32", VIZIO's "E" series HDTVs provide incredible value in small to midsized packages with stylish white or black piano colored bezels. Many of these sets offer Full HD 1080p performance, and all utilize SRS Labs' TruSurround technology to provide superior audio. Some models feature VIZIO's EcoHD™ technology, which lowers energy consumption as much as 20% below Energy Star 3.0 standards. About VIZIO VIZIO, Inc., "Where Vision Meets Value," headquartered in Irvine, California, is America's HDTV Company and Consumer Electronics Company. In 2007, VIZIO skyrocketed to the top by becoming the #1 selling brand of flat panel HDTVs in North America and became the first American brand in over a decade to lead major categories in U.S. TV sales. Since 2007 VIZIO HDTV shipments remain in the TOP ranks in the U.S. and are again #1 in Q1, 2009 with over 20% market share. VIZIO is committed to bringing feature-rich flat panel televisions to market at a value through practical innovation. VIZIO offers a broad range of award winning Plasma and LCD HDTVs including the new XVT series. VIZIO's products are found at Costco Wholesale, Sam's Club, Sears, Walmart, Target, BJ's Wholesale, and other retailers nationwide along with authorized online partners. VIZIO has won numerous awards including a #1 ranking in the Inc. 500 for Top Companies in Computers and Electronics, Good Housekeeping's Best Big-Screens, CNET's Top 10 Holiday Gifts and PC World's Best Buy among others. For more information, please call 888-VIZIOCE or visit on the web at www.VIZIO.com.  The V, VIZIO, XVT, TruLED, 240Hz SPS, Thin Line, Smooth Motion, JAVA, Where Vision Meets Value names, phrase and symbols are trademarks or registered trademarks of VIZIO, Inc. All other trademarks may be the property of their respective holders.  ### 
 