
Today, Vizio announced its followup to last year's inexpensive Co-Star Stream Player: the Co-Star LT. While you won't get the same full Google TV experience the Co-Star supplies, this humble set-top box may be enough to suit your needs as it offers 1080p Full HD, 3D and advanced HTML5 support. Additionally, Vizio's Internet Apps Plus platform lets you watch live TV while browsing apps like Netflix, Hulu Plus and YouTube. The box comes with a remote that's far more streamlined than the Co-Star's, and you can sync up your smartphone to select content. Your mobile device can also be used as a second screen, as the LT lets you switch between your HDTV and phone or tablet without interrupting your program. Though it isn't the swankiest TV box around, the modest $80 price tag might be enough to lure customers in. For more info, follow the source link below.



Show full PR textVIZIO Introduces the Co-Star™ LT Stream Player, Bringing Industry's Most Popular Connected Smart TV Experience to Any HDTV
New Stream Player Delivers VIZIO Internet Apps Plus®, Next Generation Smart TV Experience with Live TV Overlay, Advanced App Browsing and Seamless Second Screen Interactivity for Smarter Smart TV Experience

IRVINE, Calif., Oct. 16, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- VIZIO, America's #1 Smart TV company5, today announced the launch of Co-Star LT, a versatile new stream player that allows consumers to conveniently and easily transform any HDTV into the ultimate smart TV, seamlessly merging live and streaming entertainment into one simplified TV-watching experience. The Co-Star LT stream player is the latest addition to VIZIO's stream player line-up and provides an easy-to-use solution for those looking to upgrade their home entertainment experience. The Co-Star LT stream player includes the more intuitive smart TV platform, VIZIO Internet Apps Plus, as well as HDMI input and HDMI output, allowing users to browse apps while still watching live TV. Other features include built-in Wi-Fi® and smartphone/tablet second screen interactivity.

Delivering the same leading smart TV experience now available on the latest VIZIO M-Series Smart TVs, the Co-Star LT stream player upgrades any HDTV with VIZIO Internet Apps Plus*, providing smart TV lovers with advanced next generation features including full-screen app browsing and discovery. Designed to support up to 1080p Full HD and 3D content, VIZIO's latest stream player also gives users the ability to control apps from a mobile device, a new, convenient app launcher and advanced HTML 5 app support. The Co-Star LT stream player is also equipped with a USB port for simple playback from media devices, bringing even more versatility to living rooms everywhere.

VIZIO Internet Apps Plus provides access to a newly expanded full-screen app library, making it a cinch to find, organize and browse from favorite apps like Amazon Instant Video™, Hulu Plus, iHeartRadio, M-GO, Netflix, YouTube™, VUDU and more. The new interface allows users to easily browse apps while watching live TV uninterrupted. With the selected app now in center focus of the convenient app launcher, users can better view the previous three and next three apps in the carousel for faster navigation.

Committed to providing an exceptional experience with the latest technology, the VIZIO Co-Star LT stream player not only adds smart TV features to standard HDTVs, but also delivers intuitive second screen interactivity. Allowing users to seamlessly discover and play content from apps like YouTube or Netflix with a simple tap from the app on their smartphone or tablet, VIZIO Internet Apps Plus enables a truly seamless multi-screen viewing experience. With this added convenience, users can easily lean forward on mobile devices to search for videos, then lean back to enjoy them on the big screen. Consumers can even easily transition from watching content on their TV back to their mobile device, allowing for continuous viewing while venturing from room to room without missing a beat.

"The latest generation of VIZIO Internet Apps Plus represents years of forward-looking development and design. Delivering more power through a new full-screen mode and enhanced multi-screen viewing features, the platform offers an incredibly intuitive and seamless entertainment experience," said Matt McRae, VIZIO Chief Technology Officer. "The Co-Star LT stream player's unique ability to integrate live TV and streaming apps, offers standard HDTV owners a simple upgrade option. One of the most advanced smart TV experiences on the market, the new VIZIO Internet Apps Plus platform also gives users access to the added convenience of second-screen interactivity."As part of VIZIO's unwavering commitment to providing consumers with the best technologies, VIZIO Internet Apps Plus also supports HTML 5 apps, allowing for richer app experiences through better interactive design and features.

The new Co-Star LT stream player is now available at VIZIO.com for $79.99. Consumers can also find the Co-Star LT stream player at Amazon, BestBuy.com, Target.com, Walmart, and Walmart.com later this month. For more information, please visit www.VIZIO.com/CoStar.*Compatible with high definition televisions with HDMI-HDCP connectivity. Internet connection required and sold separately.


