
Vizio's 42-inch soundbar is all fine and dandy, but not everyone has the TV or budget to justify that kind of audio -- college students, anyone? The company is clearly aware of this problem, as it just announced three soundbars built for smaller screens like those in the M-Series. The 29-inch S2920w ($80) and 38-inch S3820w ($120) cater to simple setups with 2.0-channel sound, while the 38-inch S3821w ($180) adds a wireless subwoofer for some extra oomph. All three support Bluetooth streaming from nearby devices, and they use DTS audio processing to both fill out the frequency range and hush noisy commercials. The soundbars will ship between late August and September, or just in time for the annual dorm room invasion.



Show full PR textVIZIO Unveils Three New Home Theater Sound Bars, Delivering High Performance Audio, Built-In Bluetooth and Deep Bass Technology Ideal for Small and Mid-Size HDTVs
Throughout the month of August, VIZIO Fandemonium Gives Fans A Chance Weekly to Win a 5.1 Home Theater Sound Bar and Explore VIZIO's Award-Winning Home Audio Collection with Advanced DTS Audio
IRVINE, Calif., Aug. 7, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- VIZIO America's #1 sound bar company5, announced today three new additions to its portfolio of home audio solutions with the 29" and two 38" sound bars in various home theater configurations. With a focus on premium design, amazing audio performance and advanced features such as built-in Bluetooth and integrated deep bass technology, VIZIO's latest additions to its award-winning audio collection give consumers more ways to conveniently upgrade any room with the home theater experience this summer. To celebrate the new solutions, through its online social community, VIZIO Fandemonium, fans get exclusive access to a custom Pandora station and a chance to win a home theater sound bar featuring DTS audio technology to enhance their summer entertainment experience.
Joining VIZIO's audio ranks are a new 29" 2.0 Home Theater Sound Bar (S2920w), 38" 2.0 Home Theater Sound Bar with Integrated Deep Bass (S3820w) and 38'' 2.1 Home Theater Sound Bar with Wireless Subwoofer (S3831w). Not only do the three additions round out VIZIO's audio portfolio, giving consumers with all screen sizes audio upgrade options, but they also complement varying room configurations and consumer audio preferences. The 29" and 38" sound bars all share a modern design inspired by VIZIO's sleek and near borderless M-Series Razor LED™1 smart TV collection and feature advanced DTS audio technology, enabling an immersive surround environment and a consistent listening volume, and built-in Bluetooth for direct streaming from smartphones or tablets.
Thanks to its compact size, the 29" 2.0 channel Home Theater Sound Bar is not only the perfect complement to small size HDTVs, but can even be used as a standalone wireless sound system in the kitchen, patio or other room using built-in Bluetooth to stream music from Bluetooth-compatible mobile devices without the need for a TV. The 29" 2.0 sound bar packs 95 dB6 of rich, room-filling audio into a small package for an instant audio upgrade, regardless of where it is placed. For consumers looking to add an extra bass boost to their movies and music without an external subwoofer, VIZIO's 38" 2.0 Sound Bar with Integrated Deep Bass is a great option. Adding low-end frequency typically missing from today's thin HDTVs, the 38" 2.0 configuration provides 98 dB of premium audio and enhanced bass performance that is superior to a standard 2.0 channel sound bars. It also features built-in Bluetooth and is a great way to enjoy music in any room. Audiophiles seeking deep, room filling bass for their mid-size HDTVs will appreciate the 38" 2.1 Home Theater Sound Bar with Wireless Subwoofer. Rated at 100 dB, the 38" 2.1 sound bar pumps out crystal clear audio and adds explosive bass to movies, music, sports and games, delivering the ideal home theater experience.
"Our new 29" and 38" sound bars have been engineered to elevate the home audio experience, regardless of screen size or room configuration," said John Schindler, VIZIO Vice President of Product Management. "We are excited to further expand our home audio collection, adding to the already popular 42" 2.1 and 5.1 Home Theater Sound Bars which are great for consumers looking to pair immersive audio with their larger screens."
These new 29" and 38" sound bars are the latest editions to an expanding portfolio of sound bars that already includes the award winning 42" 5.1 Home Theater Sound Bar with Wireless Subwoofer and Satellite speakers, as well as the 42" 2.1 Home Theater Sound Bar with Wireless Subwoofer. All new VIZIO sound bars feature the latest in DTS audio enhancement solutions providing deep bass, crisp details, clear vocals, and level volume of overly loud commercials as well as built-in Bluetooth to wireless stream your favorite music from a smartphone, tablet, or other compatible Bluetooth device.
VIZIO and DTS are celebrating throughout the month of August with an ode to audio fanatics. Consumers are encouraged to sign up for VIZIO Fandemonium, explore VIZIO's custom Pandora station, "Summer Soundemonium" and register to win one of four 42" 5.1 Home Theater Sound Bars featuring DTS audio technology and a one year subscription to Pandora One™. A unique online social community, VIZIO Fandemonium provides fans the chance to rally together and earn points by sharing and expressing their enthusiasm for sports, music, movies, games and more. Registered fans can accrue points through a wide range of activities, from social media interaction to visiting retailer web sites and registering products on VIZIO.com. Points can then be redeemed for a wide range of prizes and unique fan experiences.
"We're excited to team up with Pandora and DTS to celebrate the final days of summer with a great collection of tunes and the opportunity for VIZIO fans to check our award-winning audio collection that gives audiophiles the best and most convenient home audio experience," said Lily Knowles, Vice President of Product Marketing. "While fans check out the 'Summer Soundemonium' playlist on Pandora, they can have the chance to take their audio experience to the next level by entering to win great prizes."
VIZIO's 42" 2.1 and 5.1 Home Theater Sound Bars are available now and new 2013 sound bar offerings will be available across a variety of VIZIO retailers later this summer. For more information on VIZIO's home audio solutions visit www.vizio.com or for a chance to win one of four 42" 5.1 Home Theater Sound Bar with Subwoofer and Satellite Speakers with DTS audio technology and a one year Pandora One™ subscription, sign up for VIZIO Fandemonium by visiting www.VIZIOFanZone.com. VIZIO fans can also check out the "Summer Soundemonium" mix tape by at www.pandora.com/summersoundemonium.
VIZIO 29" 2.0 Home Theater Sound Bar (S2920w) - $79.99Available September 2013 at Amazon.com, Costco.com, Target.com, VIZIO.com, Walmart and Walmart.com.
VIZIO 38" 2.0 Home Theater Sound Bar with Integrated Deep Bass (S3820w) - $119.99Available beginning late August 2013 at select retailers such as Amazon.com, Best Buy, Costco, Costco.com, Sam's Club, Sams.com, Target, VIZIO.com, Walmart and Walmart.com.
VIZIO 38" 2.1 Home Theater Sound Bar (S3821w) - $179.99Available beginning late August 2013 at select retailers such as Amazon.com, Costco, Costco.com, Sam's Club, Sams.com, VIZIO.com, Walmart and Walmart.com.

