
In one sense, many budget smartphones aren't budget enough; they often require some substantial financial discipline for the typical buyer. Not so Vodafone UK's new Smart Mini: at just £50 ($78) on pay as you go service, it's very nearly an impulse purchase. You're even getting a bit more than you'd expect for that small cash outlay. While the 3.5-inch HVGA screen, 2MP camera, 1GHz MediaTek chip and 4GB of storage won't floor anyone, the Smart Mini ships with Android 4.1 Jelly Bean -- we've seen more expensive phones that carry older software. Those who like the Smart Mini's back-to-basics proposition can pick up a black or white model today.



Show full PR textVodafone Smart Mini now available
Enjoy the full Vodafone experience with the great value Smart Mini
The Vodafone Smart Mini is the latest and most affordable addition to the Vodafone Smart line-up, bringing you a sleek, compact smartphone without any compromise on performance - for just £50 on Pay as you go.
The Vodafone Smart Mini offers a large, 3.5 inch display and 2MP camera with digital zoom so you can easily capture all those precious moments. Plus, as it runs on up-to-date Android Jellybean you can enjoy smooth navigation and seamless browsing.
Full of powerful messaging features - including push email, Facebook integration and pre-loaded Twitter – the Vodafone Smart Mini lets you share your snaps with friends and family instantly, while the easy access online app store brings a wealth of games, tools, social apps and entertainment to your fingertips.
With Vodafone Freebees on Pay as you go, when you top up your new Vodafone Smart Mini you can get free calls, text and internet. Also, if you buy your Smart Mini before the end of July, to help you find your feet, you can use as much data as you like, for whatever you like for 30 days with our Freedom Freebee, so you can get to grips with your new smartphone.
The Vodafone Smart Mini will be available to buy on Vodafone.co.uk later today in either black or white, with a pink version coming soon.
Specifications:
Dimensions (mm) 115 x 62.3 x 12.2TouchScreen 320 x 480 HVGA CapacitiveProcessor 1 GHz MT6575 single-coreScreensize (inches) 3.5RAM & Internal memory 512 MB + 4GB / 2.4GB End user (microSD up to 32GB)Camera 2MPOperating system Android Jellybean

