
 
The new V60 is billed by its creators as being a "naughty Volvo," and while the reviews we've read of its sedan counterpart haven't exactly found it to be particularly uncouth, we're thinking the upcoming plug-in wagon version should be even more friendly. Volvo has announced it will unveil the PHEV V60 in Geneva in March before releasing it for sale in 2012. When fully charged it will offer 50km (31 miles) on pure electricity -- about the same as the Volt -- thanks to a 70hp electric motor mounted in the rear and driving the wheels out back courtesy of a 12kWh Li-ion battery pack. Up front, meanwhile, is a 215hp, 2.4 liter, five-cylinder turbodiesel. It remains to be seen whether there is any mechanical link between the disparate power systems or whether they remain alone, working together yet apart, but we should be getting all the details shortly.
      

 

Show full PR textThe Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid- another world-first from Volvo Car CorporationAt the 2011 Geneva Motor Show, Volvo Cars will be unveiling the V60 Plug-in Hybrid - a virtually production-ready car with carbon dioxide emissions below 50 g/km, which translates into fuel consumption at 1.9 l/100 km.In 2012 Volvo Cars will be the first manufacturer on the market with this new breed of hybrid - which is the result of close cooperation with the Swedish energy supplier Vattenfall.The V60 Plug-in Hybrid features the very best properties from three different car types in one, single attractive sports wagon. This includes a possibility for the driver to drive up to 50 kilometres on pure electricity."This second-generation hybrid is the perfect choice for the uncompromising buyer who wants a superbly carbon dioxide-lean car packed with driving pleasure," says Stefan Jacoby, President and CEO of Volvo Cars.D5 engine and Electric Rear Axle DriveThe front wheels of the V60 Plug-in Hybrid will be driven by a five-cylinder 2.4-litre D5 turbodiesel, which produces 215 horsepower and maximum torque of 440 Nm. The rear axle features ERAD (Electric Rear Axle Drive) in the form of an electric motor producing 70 horsepower, which receives its power from a 12 kWh lithium-ion battery pack. The car features a six-speed automatic transmission."In order to get true car enthusiasts to think green, you have to offer them the opportunity to drive with low carbon dioxide emissions without taking away the adrenaline rush that promotes genuine driving pleasure. The V60 Plug-in Hybrid has all the traditional properties of a genuine sports wagon. What we've done is to spice it up with spearhead technology," says Stefan Jacoby.The Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid will be revealed at a press conference in Geneva on March 1st 2011.
 