
 

Ok, so the name isn't great, but the Voomote One is actually kinda neat. It's not the first universal remote adapter we've seen for the iPhone and, unlike the Surc IR case, you probably wouldn't want to leave this bulky add-on attached to your handset when not in use. But, the app does have some convenient features, like the ability to create custom layouts that can easily be switched based on the devices in a particular room. So you can setup a living room profile to control your big screen and cable box, and a separate bed room one for your more modest set and a stereo. You can also create command macros that fire up multiple devices with the tap of a single virtual button. The Voomote app is available for free in the app store, but the actual IR-blasting sleeve will set you back $99. Check out the gallery below and head on after the break for some PR.





 		Show full PR text  Zero1.tv Introduces the Future of Remote Controls, the VooMote		One for iPhone and iPod Touch 		This new, sleek designed device transforms your iPhone and iPod touch into a		fully functioning universal remote 		Berlin, Germany (July 25, 2011) – Zero1.tv, leading provider of user interfaces		for home entertainment solutions, is proud to announce its latest creation-		VooMote One. This device, when paired with the free app, effortlessly converts		your iPhone and/or iPod touch into an impressively smart universal remote		control, and offers additional features unlike any other on the market. 		The VooMote One slides onto your iPhone with ease, while still allowing full		control of the iPhone itself. Once the device is connected and the app loaded, it		instantly transforms your iPhone into a fully functional universal remote for your		TVs, DVD players, stereo systems, consumer electronics and more, ultimately		eliminating the need to have several remotes to control your consumer		electronics. 		What sets the VooMote One apart from the rest is its innovative customization		options, and easy setup. With VooMote One you can utilize the "One View"		feature, which allows the user to create personalized and multiple device remote		control layouts. Meaning you can easily lower the volume on the stereo while		pressing play on your favorite DVD in a matter of seconds. By also using the		"One Touch" feature you can create an entire chain of commands with a single		click. So with the press of one button you can turn on your TV, turn on your DVD		player, and hear all of the action on your surround sound speakers. 		The VooMote One setup wizard only entails a few quick steps. Once setup is		complete you have the option to further organize your universal remote with the		"Room Control" feature. This groups all of your electronic devices by location,		such as living room, kitchen, etc. Also, the "Teach-In" feature is accessible		should the VooMote One need to "learn" some of your products, by simply		pointing the device at your original remote control. 		The VooMote One automatically captures more than 30,000 infrared codes and		thousands of electronic devices. It recognizes 574 TV brands, 995 Top Box/DVR		brands, and 151 audio and CD brands. The VooMote One code library is also		constantly being update to ensure that virtually all IR (infrared) codes are		available. 		VooMote One is also especially easy to set up, no PC necessary. All settings can		be adjusted using the software on your iPhone or iPod touch. The app itself also		automatically updates via iTunes to add the most up to date infrared codes. 		"With the abundance, and variety of consumer electronics, we wanted to offer		consumers an incredibly simple and convenient means to control all of their		devices with just ONE remote stemming from a device they likely already have in		their pockets, said Alex Gruber, CEO, Zero1.tv. "Unlike our competitors,		VooMote One is the only like-product on the market right now that makes set up		effortless, reduces clutter, and streamlines the control of all of your devices with		your iPhone." 		The VooMote One will be available on August 5th for $99 at www.zero1.tv and		www.BestBuy.com. Additional retailers to be announced soon. The VooMote		One app can also be downloaded for free at the iTunes® store. 		For more information on Zero1.tv and its latest innovation, VooMote One, please		contact PR representative Kristen Bean at kristenbean@maxborgesagency.com		or 305-576-1171 ext. 123. 		About Zero1.tv		Zero1.tv is a Berlin based company focused on user interfaces for home		entertainment solutions. The company's technological patents provide the		practical expertise to improve remote control and user interface experiences		unlike any other. Zero1.tv is the leading platform provider for smartphone-based		control solutions, with a mission to expand the access of multi-media content,		and enhance user experiences. The company recently developed and		manufactured VooMote One, a universal remote control solution for iPhone and		iPod touch
 