
 
First Netflix, then Hulu Plus, and now VUDU. The movie rental service is making its way onto PlayStation 3 just in time for Thanksgiving later this month -- November 23rd, to be exact. If you're familiar with Walmart's recently-acquired video service, you know the drill: on-demand HD titles streamed for a fee, up to 1080p and Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound. The interface will be the same as every other VUDU iteration -- until mid-December, that is. That's when, as we've been told, the company plans to roll out version 2.0 of its UI. In addition to being more streamlined, there's ratings, recommendations, and most interestingly, support for PS3's Move controller. Pictures below, press releases after the break. 





Show full PR textPlayStation®Network Continues to Expand its Industry Leading Entertainment Offerings with VUDU™ HD Streaming Movie ServiceVUDU Brings High Definition Movies On-Demand to PlayStation®3FOSTER CITY, Calif., November 16, 2010 – Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC (SCEA) today announced that on-demand movie service VUDU™ will launch on PlayStation®Network in the United States with an application that allows for High Definition (HD) and Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound streaming to the PlayStation®3 (PS3™) computer entertainment system. VUDU delivers a massive library of movies to PS3 in true 1080p HD format, providing another choice for PS3 users to experience cinema-quality entertainment in the comfort of their living rooms. When the VUDU application launches on November 23, PS3 will be the first and only system with dedicated gaming functionality to offer this service. This partnership further establishes PlayStation Network as the complete home entertainment hub, which includes the latest in gaming, movies, television shows, sports, original programming, internet browsing and social networking. Using the VUDU streaming movie service, PS3 owners will be able to conveniently and instantly access more than 4,000 HD movies for all major Hollywood studios on-demand, including new releases available the same day they are released to DVD or Blu-ray Disk. The VUDU streaming movie service also offers great value to PS3 households, with an enormous collection of titles available for only $2 for a two night rental."PlayStation® has long been the leader in providing living room entertainment. PlayStation Network has emerged as the industry leading entertainment hub for experiencing an unmatched amount of digital content," said Peter Dille, senior vice president, marketing and PlayStation Network, SCEA. "With the addition of the VUDU application to our free PlayStation Network, users will have another way to access entertainment, with thousands of HD movies available instantly in the comfort of their own home.""PS3 is tailor-made for the high-quality, high-speed VUDU streaming experience," said Edward Lichty, general manager, VUDU. "Now with VUDU on PS3, we are able to deliver a completely immersive experience to those loyal to their entertainment system when they want, where they want."Customers that have a free PlayStation Network account can download the VUDU application in the "Media" category on PlayStation®Store and then access it under the "Video" icon on the XMB™ (XrossMediaBar) menu. New VUDU customers receive a $5.99 credit, enabling them to watch their first HD movie on the service for free.About Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC. Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC continues to redefine the entertainment lifestyle with its PlayStation® and PS one® game console, the PlayStation®2 computer entertainment system, the PSP® (PlayStation®Portable) handheld entertainment system, the ground-breaking PlayStation®3 (PS3™) computer entertainment system and its online and network services the PlayStation®Network and PlayStation®Store. Recognized as the undisputed industry leader, Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC markets the PlayStation family of products and develops, publishes, markets and distributes software for the PS one, PlayStation 2, PSP and PS3 systems for the North American market. Based in Foster City, Calif., Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC serves as headquarters for all North American operations.About VUDUA leader in digital entertainment, VUDU offers the world's largest selection of streaming HD movies, including thousands of blockbusters, Hollywood classics, and indies available in stunning HDX 1080p with Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound. Movies are available the same day they are released on DVD or Blu-Ray, and can be rented or purchased without a subscription. VUDU comes built in on select internet connectable HDTVs and Blu-Ray Disk Players from, LG, Mitsubishi, Samsung, SANYO, Sharp, Toshiba and Vizio, and is also available on PC or Mac via the Boxee platform. VUDU is a wholly owned subsidiary of Walmart Stores, Inc., and is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA. For more information, visit HYPERLINK "http://www.vudu.com/"http://www.vudu.com/.# # #"PlayStation", "PSP" and "PS one" are registered trademarks of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. "PS3" is a trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. Visit us on the Web at HYPERLINK "http://www.us.playstation.com"www.us.playstation.com.Show full PR textVUDU Unveils its Next Generation User InterfaceNew Design Offers Unparalleled Experience to VUDU UsersNovember 16, 2010 – San Francisco, CA –VUDU today revealed its new 2.0 user interface, to be delivered before the end of the year to all VUDU-enabled platforms and devices. VUDU 2.0 features an elegant new design optimized for high definition, wide-format TVs and provides many new options to help users discover the best film to fit their mood. Because VUDU is fully cloud-based, users will be able to receive and experience VUDU 2.0 with no downloads, discs or hassles.While retaining the rich cinematic feel of VUDU's original, highly acclaimed user interface, the new design provides an easy, intuitive structure organized around tabs, allowing users to navigate more quickly with fewer screen changes and fewer clicks. VUDU 2.0 also provides users with several powerful new tools, including personalized recommendations based on viewing history and ratings and enhanced browse and filter capabilities. A major new feature in 2.0 is support for next-generation motion-based input devices, such as the PS3 Move, mice, and pointer remote controls. This capability will initially be supported on the Sony PlayStation 3 with the Sony Move controller."Since our founding, our core mission has been to deliver the best movie watching experience available anywhere, and VUDU 2.0 substantially raises the bar," said Edward Lichty, VUDU's General Manager. "With our sleek new design and killer new discovery tools, we've been able to build on what people have always loved about VUDU and make it even better. Finding and enjoying a movie from our extensive library of HD movies has never been easier or more fun."Today VUDU also announced availability on Sony PlayStation®3, adding a leader in gaming consoles to existing partnerships with top manufacturers of HDTVs and Blu-ray disc players. VUDU is also available on the PC and Mac via the Boxee platform and on the Boxee Box by D-Link. All VUDU devices and platforms will be updated with VUDU 2.0 before the end of the year.About VUDUA leader in digital entertainment, VUDU offers the world's largest selection of HD movies, including thousands of blockbusters, Hollywood classics, and indies available in stunning HDX 1080p with Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound. Movies are available the same day they are released on DVD or Blu-Ray, and can be rented or purchased without a subscription. VUDU is available on internet-capable HDTVs and Blu-ray disc players from Funai, LG, Mitsubishi, Samsung, SANYO, Sharp, Toshiba and Vizio and on the PlayStation 3 computer entertainment system from Sony. VUDU is a wholly owned subsidiary of Walmart Stores, Inc., and is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA. For more information, visit HYPERLINK "http://www.vudu.com/"http://www.vudu.com/.
 