
 
3D glasses are nothing new -- we've been tossing on RealD specs at the theater for at least a couple of years. But in typical Vuzix fashion, the Wrap 1200 brings a pair of displays directly to the glasses, simulating a 75-inch 3D screen. Tiny 852 x 480-pixel monitors display native 16:9 content on the three-ounce specs, and iPhone and component video cables are included in the box, letting you plug in to a variety of content (there's no HDMI support, however). The display supports side-by-side and anaglyph 3D, and you can also revert back to 2D content if things don't pan out as expected. The Vuzix Wrap 1200 is rated at three hours of playback with the pair of included rechargeable AA batts, or you can substitute lithium ion batteries for up to seven hours of use. Jump past the break for the full rundown from Vuzix, or hit up the source link to grab your own pair for $500.

Update: Originally, we reported that the Vuzix Wrap 1200 only supports anaglyph 3D, when it is in fact capable of side-by-side display as well. The post has been updated to reflect this correction.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Vuzix Launches Wrap 1200 3D Video Eyewear 		New Wrap 1200 boasts industry best 16:9 widescreen display equivalent to a 75" screen viewed from 10 feet 		Rochester, NY – August 11, 2011 – Vuzix Corporation (TSX-V: VZX, OTC:BB: VUZI, FMB: V7X), award-winning manufacturer of video eyewear, is excited to announce the availability of the new Wrap 1200 Video Eyewear. The plug and play, sunglass style Wrap 1200 features an industry best 16:9 aspect ratio widescreen 3D display that is equivalent to viewing a 75" display from 10 feet. The Wrap 1200 is the ideal travel companion to watch movies or catch up on television shows on a long flight and supports both 2D and 3D content. 		"We spent over a year developing the Wrap 1200, ensuring it is one of the most advanced, feature rich video eyewear ever produced," said Paul Travers, CEO Vuzix Corporation. "The combination of a 16:9 high resolution widescreen display along with our AccuTilt® display angle technology provides our customers with an unmatched mobile viewing experience." 		The Wrap 1200's AccuTilt® technology allows the user to adjust the eyewear up or down 15 degrees to achieve the optimum viewing angle and a customized fit. The Wrap 1200 also has optics that allow the user to position the displays to match the user's IPD (Interpupillary Distance or eye separation) allowing for the optimum placement in front of each eye (much like binoculars). 		The Wrap 1200 features convenient on-screen display controls (brightness, contrast, hue and color saturation), independent left and right eye focal adjustment and both component and composite video connections for superior video quality and maximum compatibility with devices including, game consoles, media players, phones, DVD players and tablets. Optional VGA connectivity is available along with a full line of accessories. 		The stylish Wrap 1200 is wearable over most prescription glasses and features an adjustable hypoallergenic nosepiece and detachable premium quality noise-isolating stereo earphones to ensure an unmatched user experience. Two included rechargeable AA batteries and charger provide up to 3 hours of video playback or users can substitute two lithium ion batteries for up to 7 hours. 		The Vuzix Wrap 1200 is available now at Vuzix.com for $499.99.
 