
 We saw Vuzix shift to a more Google Glass-esque set of smart glasses at CES in January, but it looks like it's not about to abandon the more traditional wrap-around headsets it's been churning out year after year. The company's latest is the Wrap 1200AR, which is a lot like its Wrap 1200VR headset, but with a focus on augmented reality instead of virtual reality. That means you'll get two (VGA) cameras mounted on the front to capture stereoscopic video of your surroundings, along with a pair of displays (852 x 480 each) to view that video -- augmented or otherwise -- in 3D. As with the Wrap 1200VR, the glasses also come equipped with head-tracking technology, but they don't come cheap. These will set you back a hefty $1,499, and are available to order now. 


  Show full PR text   Vuzix releases the Wrap 1200AR, its next generation digital see-through AR eyewear system.
   ROCHESTER, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2013 /CNW/ - Vuzix Corporation (TSX-V: VZX.V, OTC:BB: VUZI.D, FMB: A1KCVK) today announced that it is now shipping the next generation of its award winning digital see-through Augmented Reality eyewear, the Wrap 1200AR. This new gen product retains the familiar sunglass style look, now with a wider field of view, adjustable eye-separation and other enhanced features not previously available in digital see-through AR eyewear.

   "We are excited to be shipping these new digital ARglasses, offering a huge 75-inch screen, as seen from 10 feet. New features such as adjustable eye-separation, synchronized camera and display tilt combine for the best digital see-through AR user experience on the market," said Paul Travers, President and CEO, Vuzix Corporation. "AR is taking the world by storm and is gaining momentum in many markets. We provide these AR tools to research facilities, universities, game developers and enthusiasts, enabling them to develop affordable and compelling Augmented Reality solutions," he said.

   As a bonus, the Wrap 1200AR includes a free copy of maxReality, an AR content authoring plug-in for Autodesk 3ds Max. By utilizing industry standard video capture and display technologies, the Wrap 1200AR is compatible with virtually all leading AR authoring systems. Vuzix also provides a royalty free VR/AR SDK to assist software developers in enabling direct support for Vuzix technologies. The VR/AR SDK for Windows demonstrates stereoscopic 3D video, head tracking and utilization of the AR camera data. See www.vuzix.com/developer for additional information on downloading the SDK.

   About Vuzix Corporation  Vuzix is a leading supplier of Video Eyewear products in the consumer, commercial and entertainment markets. The Company's products, personal display devices that offer users a portable high quality viewing experience; provide solutions for mobility, wearable displays and virtual and augmented reality. Vuzix holds over 47 patents and patents pending and numerous IP licenses in the Video Eyewear field. The company has won 14 Consumer Electronics Show Innovations Awards and several wireless technology innovation awards, among others. Founded in 1997, Vuzix is a public company (TSX-V:VZX.V - News, OTC:BB: VUZI.D, FMB: A1KCVK) with offices in Rochester, NY, Oxford, UK and Tokyo, Japan. For more information visit www.vuzix.com.

   Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer  Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Forward looking statements contained in this release relate to, among other things, its new and existing intellectual property, future product releases, including the Wrap 1200AR and its capabilities, new opportunities, the Company's ability to capitalize on new opportunities, ability of third party developers to support the Wrap 1200AR, and the Company's leadership in the Video Eyewear industry. They are generally identified by words such as "believes," "may," "expects," "anticipates," "should'" and similar expressions. Readers should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which are based upon the Company's beliefs and assumptions as of the date of this release. The Company's actual results could differ materially due to risk factors and other items described in more detail in the "Risk Factors" section of the Company's Annual Reports and MD&A filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and applicable Canadian securities regulators (copies of which may be obtained at www.sedar.com or www.sec.gov). Subsequent events and developments may cause these forward-looking statements to change. The Company specifically disclaims any obligation or intention to update or revise these forward-looking statements as a result of changed events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release, except as required by applicable law.

 
