
 
 Hot off the heels of the more modest Wacom Cintiq 22HD's introduction, the outfit has announced a new version of its 24HD pen display as well. Labeled the 24HD touch, the upcoming offering adds multi-touch functionality to the company's 24-inch input device -- just as the name would suggest. The added features don't stop there. A touch-enabled 24HD also touts an improved display that shows 1.07 billion colors while covering 97% of Adobe's RGB gamut and implementing RGB backlighting that improves on-screen color rendition. Similar to the sans-touch offering, you can expect to utilize Express Keys and Touch Rings to customize your workflow for maximum efficiency in addition to the touchscreen. When the 24HD touch hits shelves, it'll play nice with upcoming Windows 8 operating system. In order to customize those pricey multi-touch commands, though, you'll need the requisite software.

 If you splurged for the regular ol' 24HD, we can understand your frustration. However, Wacom says that it intended for the touch model to be released at the same time as the pen-only version, but the development took a bit longer than anticipated. Part of the reason for the delay was the extra time needed to perfect features like palm rejection in the kit's software. The peripheral company also hopes that software developers will take the gesture tech and create features that will showcase its full range of potential -- your move, Adobe. Itchin' to snag one already? Well, you'll have to wait until sometime in August to get your hands on this model and be prepared to shell out $3699 for the pen display ($1100 more than the previous release). Need a bit more info before emptying your savings account? Hit the PR button for all the particulars or take closer look in the gallery below.



  Show full PR text   New Wacom Cintiqs Paint a Pretty Picture
  The Cintiq 24HD touch and Cintiq 22HD provide an immersive and natural  pen-on-screen experience for professional creators of digital content
   Vancouver, WA – July10, 2012 – Tailored around the increasing demands of creative  professionals, Wacom® announces two new members of the Cintiq® family of  interactive pen displays, the Cintiq 24HD touch and Cintiq 22HD. Artists and  designers now have two new options for working directly on screen. As with the Cintiq  24HD, Wacom's latest Cintiqs feature best-in-class widescreen HD displays, ultrawide viewing angles and premium color performance. To give professional artists and  designers enhanced focus on their work and creativity, Wacom introduces the  powerful combination of a precision pen and natural multi-touch. With the addition of  these models to the Cintiq lineup, anyone, from freelance industrial designers  sketching in a small studio to Hollywood animators creating the next blockbuster  movie, can find a Cintiq that best fits their workflow.

   The Cintiq 24HD touch: Hot Color, Cool Touch!  To offer users an immersive experience and a more intuitive and natural way to work,  the new Cintiq 24HD touch combines Wacom's multi-touch with its renowned pen  technology. The Cintiq 24HD touch closely replicates the experience of working with  two hands when using traditional materials such as paints, markers and clay while  giving the artist powerful capabilities that only exist in today's creative software  applications. "Increasingly, as creative software incorporates multi-touch interaction  and gesture support, the Cintiq 24HD touch provides a natural input experience for all  related activities including concept sketching, illustration and especially 3D activities  such as sculpting, modeling and animation," says Don Varga, Professional Products  Brand Director. "The ability to manipulate a 3D model or pan, zoom and rotate an  image with one hand while simultaneously sculpting or sketching with the other  delivers a completely natural experience enabling artists to stay completely in their  creative zone."

   Support for Wacom's advanced multi-touch is available in Corel®'s latest Painter™ 12.2  update and provides a harmonious digital painting experience to artists. "With the  introduction of multi-touch, Wacom has created a highly evolved environment for  Corel Painter users to work with the power of digital tools but in a completely natural  and intuitive way. Multi-touch allows users to directly manipulate their work by  spinning, pinching and moving it around, instead of searching for buttons or quick  keys to perform the same actions," said Nick Davies, Executive Vice President of  Graphics and Productivity at Corel.

   Professionals with color critical workflows, such as photographers, graphic designers,  video and film editors as well as animators and game developers will benefit from the  Cintiq 24HD's life-like color quality which displays 1.07 billion colors and 97 percent of  Adobe's color gamut. "For many creative workflows the calibration of color for the  entire project is a necessity," continues Varga. "Given the color gamut of the Cintiq  24HD touch, artists can be certain that the colors they see while working on the Cintiq  can be calibrated to match the printing or other output phases of a project."

   As with the Cintiq 24HD, the Cintiq 24HD touch offers best-in-class ergonomics.  Professionals working long hours will appreciate the counter-weighted stand that  adjusts to their favorite positions for maximum comfort. For example, one can bring  the display surface over the edge of the desk so that it rests comfortably just above  the lap or the display can be adjusted to more vertical, easel-like positions.

   In addition, frequently used shortcut commands are available at the user's fingertips  through the application-specific, customizable ExpressKeys and Touch Rings of the  Cintiq 24HD touch. Employing these shortcuts can save valuable time by minimizing  keyboard dependency.

   The Cintiq 22HD: Express Yourself!  With Wacom's new Cintiq 22HD widescreen interactive pen display, illustrators,  designers and artists can interact with their artwork on a more personal level. By  offering a pen-on-screen experience that delivers the same natural feel, response and  results derived from working with traditional brushes, pencils and pens, the Cintiq  22HD workflow allows users to unleash their creativity and express themselves just  like they would with real paint on canvas or real ink on paper. Additionally, the Cintiq  22HD's unique stand is ideal for artists who prefer to rotate their entire display as part  of their workflow.

   "Creative professionals want their technology to be invisible," says Varga. "That is,  they need their tools of the trade to be natural, seamless and comfortable. The Cintiq  22HD meets these requirements with ergonomic features to help increase comfort and  productivity."

   To improve workflow and creative output, the Cintiq 22HD offers eight customizable,  application-specific ExpressKeys located on each side of the display's bezel.  Additionally, user-defined Touch Strips, conveniently placed on the back of each side  of the display, can be used for such functions as zoom, scroll, brush size and canvas  rotation. "Artists and designers appreciate the comfort and freedom that the Cintiq  provides, especially during long sessions of drawing or sketching," continues Varga.

   Scintillating Cintiq Pen  Pen performance remains the key ingredient to the whole interactive pen display  experience and Wacom's two new Cintiqs do not disappoint. Delivering virtually the  same feel and feedback as traditional brushes and pens, both Cintiqs feature  Wacom's professional-level pen performance to produce dazzling artistic effects within  creative software applications from Adobe®, Corel®, Autodesk® and many more. Both  the Cintiq 24HD touch and Cintiq 22HD support the Art Pen and Airbrush accessory  pens to deliver natural brush effects within Adobe® Photoshop® and Illustrator® (CS3  and above) as well as Corel® Painter™ (10 and above).

   Choosing a Cintiq  With four Cintiqs now in the family (Cintiq 12WX, Cintiq 22HD, Cintiq 24HD and Cintiq  24HD touch), Wacom offers a line of interactive pen displays that each have their own  set of unique features and characteristics. Choosing the best model ultimately boils  down to matching personal workflows with the right Cintiq.

   Availability and Pricing  The Cintiq 22HD ($1999 USD) will be available after July 10, 2012 and the Cintiq  24HD touch ($3699 USD) is expected to ship in August.

 
