
If you're the type to digitally doodle on the slate that you already own rather opt for a professional-grade unit, Wacom just announced its latest accessory for doing just that. The Intuos Creative Stylus works in tandem with iPads for "a realistic pen-on-paper feel" for tablet-style drawing and painting with 2,048 levels of pressure sensitivity alongside Bluethooth 4.0 and shortcut buttons. The brushed aluminum-clad device comes in black and blue color options with a case, spare nibs and a replacement battery all while resembling Wacom's Pro Pen more than previous Bamboo offerings. A new version of the company's Bamboo Paper app has been retooled for the peripheral that was designed for use on both third and fourth-generation iPads and the iPad mini. More specifically, version 2.0 of the software tacks on Tumblr and Dropbox sharing, premium notebooks, enhanced palm rejection, new tool collections and expanded color palettes. If all of that sounds too good to pass up, the stylus will hit Best Buy stores at the beginning of October with a $99 price tag and the free Bamboo Paper app is now available via iTunes. 





Show full PR textWacom Delivers Serious Creative Fun To The iPad
New Intuos Creative Stylus offers professional-grade performance to iPad users

Vancouver, Wash. - Aug.19, 2013 - Wacom® today introduces the new Intuos® Creative Stylus, a pressure-sensitive digital pen for sketching, drawing and painting on an iPad. It inspires creativity anytime, anywhere through a realistic pen-on-paper feel and an intelligent design so you can rest your palm naturally on the iPad when using compatible creative apps.

Offering the best drawing experience on an iPad, the Intuos Creative Stylus allows the ad agency creative to do a quick concept drawing on the train, or the art student to sketch out an idea before class. As iPads are used more and more for developing ideas and experimenting with concepts, the new stylus fills a gap in the marketplace. It works seamlessly with the iPad and a series of creative apps, providing an authentic experience for whenever inspiration strikes.

One of the many compatible iPad apps is Wacom's own digital notebook app, Bamboo™ Paper. The new version available now has been optimized for the Creative Stylus and offers great new tools that allow being even more expressive and getting more out of one's creativity. This is also confirmed by Mario Klingemann, code artist and CTO at Psykosoft who developed the innovative Psykopaint application: "The Intuos Creative Stylus enables us to explore a new level of innovative painting techniques on the iPad that we could never achieve with touch alone".

Providing the power to produce professional results on an iPad, the Intuos Creative Stylus's advanced technology comes in form of a best-in-class pen experience and pressure sensitivity of 2048 pressure levels. This means that it can reproduce the feel and artistic control of traditional brushes and markers, so it's ideal for sketching, illustrating and image editing. It is also highly responsive, even reacting to light strokes, while rejecting unintentional touches when used with compatible creative apps that integrate Wacom's industry-leading technology. Bluetooth® 4.0 Smart technology ensures seamless connection to the latest iPad devices.

Designed for the iPad 3, 4 and Mini, the Intuos Creative Stylus is compatible with popular creative apps such as Autodesk SketchBook® Pro for iPad®, ArtRage (by Ambient Design), Bamboo™ Paper, ProCreate (by Savage Interactive) and Psykopaint. "It's great to finally see the trusted Wacom Intuos brand enter the creative mobile landscape. We're very excited to announce that ProCreate supports the new Intuos Creative Stylus and we can't wait to see what artists achieve with these two powerful mobile tools", says James Cuda, co-founder of Savage Interactive and developer of ProCreate for iPad.

The Intuos Creative Stylus is designed with a brushed aluminium housing in two color versions – black and blue/black – and ergonomically shaped thanks to the iconic flared tip, which makes it particularly comfortable when used for many hours. Additionally, artists can save time with the convenient shortcut buttons.Highlighting its mobile credentials further, a thin but powerful AAAA battery ensures days of constant use. The Creative Stylus comes with a convenient case that holds the stylus, spare battery and two replacement nibs.

"iPad users are often on the lookout for new and improved tools that can offer an authentic experience", says Hartmut Woerrlein, head of Global Product Management at Wacom. "We've had lots of customer requests for a pen solution that adapts pressure-sensitivity to the iPad, as this is something they're used to when working with our pen tablets. It's also a great thing that Wacom offers an iPad app that is fully compatible with our new Creative Stylus. As the pioneer in pen technology, we've used our extensive experience to develop the Intuos Creative Stylus and we're excited to see what artists achieve with it."

Pricing and AvailabilityThe Intuos Creative Stylus ($99 USD) will be available at the beginning of October from Best Buy.


