
 Sure, Wacom's Cintiq 24HD is an excellent piece of kit for design pros, but the unit is quite the behemoth and the 22-inch offering still requires a lot of desk space. There's no need to worry about that anymore, though, as the graphics peripheral outfit has outed the Cintiq 13HD: a 13-inch HD pen display with an adjustable stand and a retooled Pro Pen. Much like its larger siblings, the 13HD offers customizable ExpressKeys and Rocker Ring to keep that workflow as efficient as possible. The aforementioned stand can be situated flat or positioned at angles of 22, 35, and 50 degrees for that next Illustrator session. Details are scarce on the full list of improvements for the Pro Pen, but we do know that it sports 2,048 levels of sensitivity and tilt recognition to boot. If all of that sounds too good to resist, these bad boys will start shipping in early April with a price tag of $1,000 or £749.99 (incl. VAT). The full press release and a couple more snapshots await just past the break. 



  Show full PR text    Wacom's Cintiq Line Draws Attention with its Slim, New 13-inch Interactive Pen Display

   The Cintiq 13HD offers creative professionals a compact interactive pen display with high quality HD resolution and improved pen feel for a digital experience consistent with Wacom's family of Cintiqs

   Vancouver, Wash. - Mar. 19, 2013 - Wacom® today announces the Cintiq® 13HD, a new addition to its lineup of Cintiq interactive pen displays aimed at creative professionals working in areas such as design, art and image editing. Wacom's newest pen display combines a 13-inch HD screen, an adjustable stand and an improved Pro Pen for a digital workflow that feels just like drawing or painting with traditional media. Offering a natural experience, the Cintiq 13HD is easily integrated into any environment, making it an ideal tool to support creativity and enhance  productivity.

   Key to the Cintiq 13HD is its compact, slim design and easy setup with both Mac and PC.computers. For complete comfort, whether positioning it on your desk or in your lap, the Cintiq 13HD's stand is optimized for use in a choice of four settings – flat, 22°, 35° and 50°.

   HD Quality Screen  Perfect for professional artists, graphics designers and photographers, the Cintiq 13HD 's best-in-class screen displays 16.7 million colors to ensure crisp color quality. In addition, the wide-format HD LED display's 178° viewing angle and 1920x1080 resolution are particularly beneficial to those working with intricate graphics or images.

   The Full Cintiq Experience  As with all Wacom interactive pen displays, the Cintiq 13HD enables users to create directly on screen for a seamless process that feels natural and speeds production. Offering 2048 levels of pressure sensitivity as well as tilt recognition, the new and improved cordless and battery-free Pro Pen delivers superior comfort, precision and control.

   To further improve workflow and productivity, frequently used shortcut commands are available at the user's fingertips through the Cintiq 13HD's four customizable and application-specific ExpressKeys™ and Rocker Ring. Making use of these shortcuts can save valuable time by minimizing dependency on the keyboard.

   With the proven Cintiq 22HD, Cintiq 24HD and Cintiq 24HD touch already in service, Wacom's Cintiq 13HD is a valuable addition to its pen display portfolio, which increasingly supports a variety of workflow requirements and budgets.

   Pricing and Availability  The new Cintiq 13HD is priced at $999.95 (USD) and is scheduled to be available in early April at Wacom's eStore and other select retailers.

 
