
 If the regular ol' S-Pen that arrived inside your Galaxy Note 10.1's packaging just isn't cutting it, Wacom is looking lend a hand with its latest offering. The outfit has announced the Bamboo Stylus Feel that touts performance similar to a ball-point pen (or S-Pen) for Windows 8 and Android slates outfitted with the company's "feel IT" pen tech. Of course, this means that these styli make use of electromagnetic signals to interact with devices, differing from their capacitive Bamboo siblings that we've seen. Two options are set to arrive on January 7th with replacement nibs in tow and carrying price tags of $39.95 and $79.95, respectively. The full PR resides just beyond the break should you need a few more particulars before deciding.



  Show full PR text   Wacom Announces Bamboo Stylus feel for Mobile Devices  New digital pens offer precision performance and ergonomic comfort to Windows 8 and Android tablets with embedded Wacom feel IT pen technology

   Tokyo, Japan and Vancouver, Wash. - December 4, 2012 - Today Wacom® announces Bamboo Stylus feel, a new addition to the Bamboo Stylus family that features two digital pens with Wacom's patented EMR (Electro-Magnetic Resonance) technology for tablets that integrate Wacom feel IT into their designs, such as the Samsung® Galaxy Note 10.1. Marketed under the Bamboo Stylus feel  brand, these high-quality, pressure-sensitive pens provide precise note-taking, sketching and navigating for mobile device users seeking a natural-feeling experience.

   Different from Wacom's capacitive Bamboo Styluses available for iPad, iPhone and other touchscreens, the Bamboo Stylus feel delivers a powerful combination of "active" pen and sensor technology for a digital pen experience that emulates the feel of a traditional ball-point pen or pencil. Pen and tablet communicate with each other via electromagnetic signals, an ingenious and intuitive technology which was created by Wacom and highly coveted by millions of users worldwide.

   Availability and Price  Bamboo Stylus feel, available January 7th In North America on Wacom's eStore and at select retailers, is being offered in two high-quality versions. The carbon fiber pen (available in smart executive-silver/black) is priced at $79.95 USD. The second pen, priced at $39.95 USD, will be available in both black and white versions. Both pens have a smooth coating on the tip, which feels incredibly comfortable and natural to use on the screen. Nib replacements are included inside the retail packaging.

 
