
Touch pads are nice for navigating with gestures, but what about when you need to scribble a signature or mark up a draft by hand? Well, Wacom has an option with its new stylus-friendly Bamboo Pad. The peripheral enables multitouch gestures alongside a pressure-sensitive Wacom stylus. Compatible with both Mac and Windows PCs, the add-ons can employ a wireless connection or be tethered via USB and come in one of four accent-hued options: grey, blue, green or purple (violet unit is wireless only). If you've already gotten cozy with a Bamboo Stylus feel, that input device will work alongside this new Bamboo Pad as well. Wired units will set you back $49 while the wireless model is priced at $70 with both arriving later this month. For now, you can snag a closer look at the goods in the gallery down below. 





Show full PR textThe new Bamboo Pad: The Two-in-One Experience
Wacom introduces the first touch pad on the market with a stylus for diverse and natural feeling computer input
Vancouver, Wash. - Sept. 10, 2013 - Bamboo™ Pad is Wacom's latest solution for adding navigation gestures as well as drawing and handwriting capabilities to a typical, everyday PC or Mac®experience. Once plugged into any Windows® 8 (or Windows 7) operated laptop or desktop computer, Bamboo Pad immediately delivers an authentic and more natural navigation experience to the user.

"Bamboo Pad is not just the next touch pad on the market. For people who would love to add a personal signature, a drawing or some handwritten comments to their documents, this new product offers the wonderful feel of a pressure-sensitive Wacom stylus," states Rick Peterson, director of consumer products for Wacom Americas.

Bamboo Pad's ultra-slim design offers comfortable usage even throughout long working hours. Compared to a traditional computer mouse the new pad offers natural feeling multi-touch gestures (particularly under Windows 8). Communication becomes even more visual and fun by adding sketches, drawings or handwriting with the included stylus. "Add a personal signature to an e-mail or highlight words and paragraphs to support an important point or message," says Peterson. "Windows 8 users also have the chance to download the new Bamboo Page app from theWindows Store for free. This software allows a head start into note-taking and light sketching."

Wacom's two-in-one human interface device feels natural, looks stylish and gives users an opportunity to not only work in a relaxed and comfortable fashion, but add a little bit of fun and creativity to home or office computer input. Wacom's technology makes sure that gestures and handwriting never interfere with each other as the pad automatically recognizes whether a pen or finger are first to come into proximity with the pad's surface. For Windows 7 and 8 users, simply plug in Bamboo Pad to activate the device. For Apple computers (MacOS 10.7 or later) a driver has to be installed first, which can be downloaded from the Wacom support website.

The Bamboo Pad is available with a wireless or a USB cable connection. Users can choose from four designs. Either a discrete grey with a shiny surface or a basically white pad with one of three fresh and fashionable color accents in blue, light green or purple (wireless connection only). Of course every feel ™ enabled Bamboo Stylus can also be used on the Bamboo Pad.


