
 
 For those looking to get their feet wet with a Wacom pen tablet, but not looking to make an Intuos-sized investment, the company's Bamboo family has been a solid choice. The outfit has now added one more option to the entry-level peripheral line with the Splash. Sporting hardware identical to the Connect tablet that's already available, the latest offering includes an updated software duo in the same box. Art Rage Studio offers painting that'll keep your shiny new MacBook Pro clean while Sketchbook Express provides tools for good ol' sketching. In case you need a refresher on the Bamboo accessory's specs, the pen tab plays nice with both Windows and Mac, offers a 5.8 x 3.6 inch active area, USB connectivity and a pen that touts 1,024 pressure levels. The good news is that the new bundle won't cost you a penny more, as the kit will remain priced at $79. Truth be told, the Splash is actually a solid pick-up for someone looking to test drive a graphics tablet without committing a larger sum of cash.



  Show full PR text    Wacom Makes a Splash

   Dive into digital art with Bamboo Splash and discover a fun, simple way to draw, sketch and paint

   Vancouver, WA – June 19, 2012 – Wacom® Technology Corp. introduces Bamboo™ Splash, a new member of the Bamboo family of pen tablets that enable creative and artistic people to experience digital art in a fun and affordable fashion. Ideal for the aspiring artist at home, school, work or play, Bamboo Splash's ($79 USD) modern tablet design and its world-renowned pressure-sensitive pen are combined with a playful suite of value added software to deliver a fresh new way to draw, sketch and paint on the computer.   When it comes to creative input, the Bamboo Splash pen is the ideal tool to use when creating art or drawing digitally on your computer. Bamboo's pressure-sensitive, battery-free and cordless pen is the heart and soul of the brand experience. It offers incredible comfort and freedom of movement for hours of stress-free input. Whether navigating, painting a landscape or drawing a portrait, the pen's natural feeling pressure provides users a direct link to precise input control and a realistic pen-on-paper feel. Additionally, the pen works seamlessly with creative software applications to produce natural-feeling pen and brush strokes, culminating in finished artwork that is nothing short of spectacular.

   Software Adds Value and Fun  Bamboo Splash allows the novice or budding creative type to explore digital art in a natural way. "Users will find that the creative software bundle, consisting of ArtRage® Studio and Sketchbook® Express from Autodesk®, blends wonderfully with the Bamboo Splash pen for a simple and powerful way to communicate and express themselves artistically," says Rick Peterson,Director of Consumer Products for Wacom Technology Services, Corp. "Never before has an entry-level pen tablet from Wacom come with such a full-featured suite of software." ArtRage is a hyper-realistic painting application that boasts an intuitive user interface and loads of paint effects. It provides users with the ability to create some amazing works of art in an easy and efficient manner. Sketchbook Express delivers an intuitive way to draw and sketch with a variety of media (brushes, pencils and pens) that produces authentic and natural results.

   Compatibility and Availability  Bamboo Splash works with Mac® and PC operating systems and will support Microsoft®'s next generation operating system, Windows® 8. Bamboo Splash is currently available at most consumer electronics retailers and online at Amazon and Wacom's online store.

   The Rest of the Bamboo Tablet Family  Bamboo Capture ($99 USD) offers pen and multi-touch input in a single device. The silver and black accented tablet is geared to the photo enthusiast or novice designer seeking a fun way to turn ordinary photos into extraordinary ones using Wacom's advanced pen feel and pressure with included software, Adobe® Photoshop® Elements and Autodesk's Sketchbook Express. For Bamboo Capture users on the go, a wireless module accessory kit is available at Wacom's online store.   Bamboo Create ($199 USD), also in stylish silver and black, provides twice the work space than Bamboo Capture to give creative customers more freedom of movement when making broad pen, pencil or brush strokes on the tablet surface. Make a mistake? No worries. Just use the pressure-sensitive eraser on the other end of the pen to fix your error. Bamboo Create is ideal for home arts and crafts projects, photo editing as well as scrapbooking. Although larger than its tablet brethren, it is still totally portable and will fit easily into any laptop bag or backpack. Bamboo Create supports the Bamboo wireless module and ships with Corel® Painter™ Essentials, Adobe Photoshop Elements and Autodesk Sketchbook Express for the most complete creative software application bundle in the Bamboo line. Like Bamboo Capture, it also offers both pen and multi-touch.

 
