
  Tired of reaching for the stylus, then your pen, oh, and then the stylus again? Wacom saw that, and updated the Bamboo Stylus with the new "Duo." Half pen, half stylus, and all yours for £34 (about $50) next month.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Double the pen experience with Wacom's Bamboo Stylus duo Bridging two worlds: best-in-class Bamboo Stylus for touch screens now also features analogue inking and sketching  10 April 2012 – Wacom launches Bamboo Stylus duo – a new, dual-purpose stylus for the iPad and Android tablets that combines a proven capacitive pen tip for on-screen input at one end, and a premium ball-point ink pen at the opposite end for use on traditional paper. With an elegant design and quality craftmanship synonymous with all Wacom products, Bamboo Stylus duo is the ideal tool for writing, drawing or doodling in both a digital and analogue world.  While consumers are using media tablets more and more in daily life, traditional paper is still being used for free-flowing creative expression. The Bamboo Stylus duo, with its simple clean shape and satin textured metal body, serves the needs of the analogue and digital user with just one tool. At one end of the Stylus, there is a smooth, best-in-class and responsive pen tip for on-screen usage, while the other end houses a high quality inking pen for traditional writing and drawing. The pen cap can be conveniently attached to either end of the pen.  The flexible Bamboo Stylus duo and the colourful Bamboo Stylus solo range – offering a rubber nib only – form the growing family of touch screen Styluses designed by Wacom. With any member of the Stylus family, people can visualise their thoughts in personal and business life: from note-taking, annotating and drawing, to creating visual communication aids such as mind maps, charts and sketches. Whether using a digital or traditional medium, the user experience is intuitive and natural.  Bamboo Paper app comes to Android Wacom is continuously looking into the needs of users to make interaction with digital devices and technology easy. As such, Wacom announces the introduction of Bamboo Paper for the Android market - the free digital notebook app that recently passed the 2.5 million download mark on the iPad, Bamboo Paper allows users to create and share handwritten notes, doodles and sketches on their mobile devices. In combination with Bamboo Stylus, Bamboo Paper becomes the perfect companion for all touch screens. The app will be available as a free download from the Google Play Android marketplace in May. More features, such as multiple notebooks, will be added in the coming months.  Features and Benefits of Bamboo Stylus duo · Easy access to both touch screen and traditional paper with just one tool  · Natural experience with both stylus and refined ball-point pen  · Enhanced stylus user experience with an authentic and intuitive note-taking app (Bamboo Paper)  · Colour material finish  · High-value plated metal  · Satin texture and elegant colour scheme (platinum silver / black)  · Soft rings for a smooth elegant fit of the cap on both tip ends  · Smooth and soft conductive rubber tip (6mm)  · Black ball-point ink cartridge, 0.7 mm ball point-size  · Balanced and optimised pen weight: 24g  · Replaceable standardised stylus nib – compatible with all Bamboo Styluses  · Replaceable standardised inking pen cartridge   Availability and pricing Available from May 2012, Bamboo Stylus duo is priced at £34.90 including VAT. From May 2012, Bamboo Paper for iPad and Android will be available as a free download from Apple's App Store and the Google Play Android marketplace respectively. -ends-  Information about the Bamboo Stylus duo and the Bamboo Paper app can be found at www.wacom.eu/bamboo. 
 