
 With its new Balance Smartphone Scale, Wahoo Fitness clearly has designs on Withings' corner of the fitness gadget market. There's no phone dongles or shoe clips here -- simply step on the scale and your weight will be recorded and synced to the companion iOS app. The Balance can record up to 130 weigh-ins before needing to push the information to your iPhone or iPad via Bluetooth, which you can then share with the usual cloud services (should you need further reason to feel ashamed). The scale can manage the profiles of up to 16 different users and keep tabs on everyone's weight and BMI goals. Unlike its competition, there's no WiFi option, which means you can't sync your shame directly to the web. But, having to take the intermediary step of pulling out your phone presumably has helped the company shave the price down to $99. You can pre-order the Balance now for delivery the first week of December.



  Show full PR text   Track Your Weight and Meet Your Goals with the New Wahoo Fitness BALANCE Smartphone Scale
   New $99 Bluetooth Smart body scale sends weight and BMI to your favorite iPhone® health & fitness Apps

  Atlanta, Ga. – November 20, 2012 – Wahoo Fitness, the leader in iPhone powered fitness, running and cycling, reveals the Balance Smartphone Scale. Using Bluetooth Smart technology, the Wahoo Balance tracks your weight and BMI over time, sending weigh-ins instantly to your iPhone or iPad App. Pre-order today for $99 on www.WahooFitness.com, shipments will go out first week in December and customers will receive their new Wahoo Balance iPhone body scale in time for the holidays.

   Simply step on the scale and your weight and BMI are sent wirelessly via Bluetooth Smart technology direct to the new Wahoo Wellness App (coming soon to the Apple App Store) or to any compatible health & fitness App. Set different profiles and weight goals for up to 16 different users, syncing weight info to one or multiple devices. The Wahoo Balance's internal memory holds up to 130 weight readings, allowing you to weigh-in at any time with or without your iPhone and sync when it's convenient for you. Using today's top health & fitness Apps like TactioHealth, users can track their progress with a plethora of charts, graphs and data points.  "The Wahoo Balance is the latest addition to Wahoo's line of iPhone powered fitness gear," says Chip Hawkins, CEO of Wahoo Fitness. "Daily weight monitoring is an important key in reaching your weight loss or fitness goals. With Balance, Wahoo Fitness has fully integrated the iPhone into all aspects of fitness, allowing users to keep all workout and health data conveniently in one device."

   Currently Wahoo products are compatible with over 110 different health & fitness apps. At launch, the Balance Smartphone Scale will be compatible with TactioHealth, Target Weight Pro, Target Weight for Adults, MyNetDiary, Monitor Your Weight, Monitor Your Weight HD, iBody, Lose it! (coming soon), as well as the Wahoo Wellness App. "We've integrated the Wahoo Balance body scale into all our iPhone and iPad offerings from TargetWeight to TactioHealth tracking apps," says Michel Nadeau, P.Eng, President and CEO of Tactio Health Group, a top ten Personal Health Management App in 30 countries. "Wahoo's work with iPhone powered fitness technology is providing us with simple, direct and easy-to-use solutions for personal health monitoring. Now our users can simply buy a Wahoo Balance off-the-shelf, download a Tactio

   App from iTunes and voilà, both work together right out of the box. With the Wahoo Balance, we can now provide users with a Live Weigh-In experience, making it fun for the whole family."

   Wahoo Balance Smartphone Scale features include:   Set profiles and weight goals for up to 16 different users   Easy-to-use one step activation, makes it quick and simple to generate weight and BMI  data   Sync with the Wahoo Wellness App or your favorite compatible health & fitness App to  see weight/BMI charts and graphs   Internal memory holds up to 130 weigh-ins, so you can weigh yourself with or without  your iPhone and sync when convenient   Compatible with iPhone 5, iPhone 4S, iPad (3rd and 4th generations), iPad mini and iPod  touch (5th generation)   Available today in the U.S. for pre-order at WahooFitness.com.  Ships: First week in December, will arrive in time for holidays.  Price: $99

 
