
 

Remember that Wahoo Fitness Bluetooth 4.0 heart rate monitor we showed you last month? Here she is again. The company's proper unveiling of the device will come at CES 2012, linking up exclusively (at first, anyway) with the iPhone 4S and other Bluetooth Smart Ready devices. By tapping into the Blue HR and harnessing your fitness app of choice (a nice touch, we must say), you'll have access to heart rate data, music playlists, phone, maps, etc., all in one place. It'll start shipping in January for $79.99, and we're told that the product will launch with "full support of several of Wahoo Fitness' app partners, who have been working with Wahoo's Open API to support the Blue HR." A few compatible apps have already filtered into the App Store, including MapMyFitness, RunKeeper, 321Run, Runmeter, and MotionX, and the company's expecting even more in 2012. Full PR is after the break, no galloping required.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Wahoo Fitness Reveals the Blue HR, the World's First Bluetooth Smart Heart Rate Monitor 		Unveiling at CES 2012, the Blue HR harnesses the power of Bluetooth Smart Ready Devices, transforming your smartphone into an all-in-one training partner 		Atlanta, GA – December 22, 2011 – Wahoo Fitness, the leader in smartphone fitness technology, announces the Wahoo Fitness Blue HR, the world's first Bluetooth Smart heart rate monitor. Using the latest in Bluetooth technology, the Blue HR (Heart Rate) will communicate directly with the iPhone 4S and other Bluetooth Smart Ready devices, providing users with real-time heart rate readings on their smartphone. With Wahoo's Blue HR and the fitness app of your choice, you now have your heart rate data, music playlists, phone, GPS maps and more, all in one place. Priced at $79.99, Wahoo's Blue HR will hit stores nationwide in January of 2012. 		To see Wahoo Fitness' Blue HR product test, click HERE 		Blue HR is launching with full support of several of Wahoo Fitness' app partners, who have been working with Wahoo's Open API to support the Blue HR. Already tested and released in the App Store are several of the most popular fitness apps - MapMyFitness, RunKeeper, 321Run, Runmeter, and MotionX – with more to come in 2012. Without ties to a specific app, Wahoo's heart rate strap provides the millions of users already using these apps, with the heart monitoring information they need, regardless of sport, in a customizable application of their choice. 		"So many smartphone fitness monitors limit you to using their own smartphone application," says Chip Hawkins, CEO of Wahoo Fitness. "Wahoo has been working with the top fitness app developers on other smartphone fitness monitors for years, so the Blue HR is simply the next step. Our partnerships allow users to easily incorporate all their fitness data into the app they already know and love. Whether you log your miles on Runkeeper, MapMyRide, or one of the other top 100 fitness apps, the Blue HR will seamlessly integrate your heart rate data into the interface of your choice." 		The Blue HR also marks the first release of a Bluetooth Smart app enabled accessory for the iPhone 4S. Like the iPhone 4S, by the end of 2012, virtually all new smartphones will include the Bluetooth v4.0 technology that is in all Bluetooth Smart Ready devices. Bluetooth Smart is a low-energy wireless technology that provides longer battery life, enhanced range, and creates new opportunities for Bluetooth product developers and manufacturers, specifically in the markets of health care, sports, fitness, security, and home entertainment. 		Wahoo Fitness Blue HR features include: 		• Wirelessly relays heart rate information via Bluetooth Smart technology to your iPhone 4S and other Bluetooth Smart Ready devices, no additional hardware or key needed		• Generates heart rate information in real-time, providing the most accurate number of calories burned during workout		• Compatible with the most popular fitness apps, including Runkeeper, MapMyRun, and the free Wahoo Fitness App		• Optional Wahoo Armband provides comfortable protection for your iPhone 4S with full touch screen access 		The Wahoo Fitness Blue HR will hit store shelves in January of 2012.
 