
 Redbox and Warner Bros. were at odds in January when Warner wanted to extend the window before discs hit kiosks to 56 days, but now the two have come to an agreement that keeps it at a 28 day delay. When their previous deal expired Redbox said it would find other ways to obtain discs and offer them day and date to its customers, although actually finding them in kiosks could be tough. The new two-year deal covers movies that debut after January 1st, 2013, and claims to improve economics for both Warner (which has apparently seen fit to eliminate the delay entirely for brick & mortar renters) and Redbox. Additionally, Redbox has joined with the DECE team and will support UltraViolet with its upcoming Redbox Instant service. With the new deal, it can offer UltraViolet digital access to Warner movies, and distribute movies through its subscription service. We'll have to wait for Redbox Instant to launch to know more information about that, for now check out the details in the press release after the break.



  Show full PR text   REDBOX, REDBOX INSTANT BY VERIZON AND WARNER BROS. HOME ENTERTAINMENT ANNOUNCE MULTI-YEAR CONTENT-LICENSING AGREEMENTS   OAKBROOK TERRACE, Ill. (October 25, 2012) – Redbox, a wholly owned subsidiary of Coinstar, Inc. (Nasdaq: CSTR), and Warner Bros. Home Entertainment have signed a multi-year agreement to bring Warner Bros.' Blu-ray Disc™ and DVD titles to Redbox® kiosks 28 days after their retail release dates.   In addition, Redbox announced plans to join the Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem (DECE) and has agreed to promote UltraViolet through a program of mutually agreed-upon promotions and marketing tactics designed to help retail customers discover UltraViolet.   "For the past 10 years, Redbox has been committed to giving consumers affordable access to new-release entertainment," said Galen Smith, senior vice president, Redbox. "This new agreement continues this commitment and represents an exciting new chapter in our relationship with Warner Bros., and an opportunity to explore our consumers' interest in UltraViolet."   For titles with street dates between January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2014, the studio will grant Redbox the rights to offer Warner Bros. theatrical titles on Blu-ray Disc and DVD 28 days after their retail release dates. The arrangement will improve the economics for both Warner Bros. and Redbox while ensuring consistent availability of Warner Bros. titles for the consumer.   "We are pleased to once again have a direct relationship with Redbox, providing their consumers access to our movies," said Ron Sanders, president, Warner Home Video. "In addition, we look forward to working together on other key initiatives such as UltraViolet and creating promotional opportunities to offer consumers great content when and where they want it."   Warner Bros. Extends Digital and UltraViolet Deal to Redbox InstantTM by Verizon  Warner Bros. Home Entertainment has also inked a separate deal with Redbox Instant by Verizon, the joint venture of Redbox and Verizon set to launch later this year, which plans to offer digital movies together with the convenience and value of Redbox DVD and Blu-ray Disc rentals.   Redbox/Warner Bros. Agreement – PAGE TWO  This agreement will make Warner Bros. titles available in VOD and EST formats and allow Redbox Instant by Verizon to support and distribute Warner Bros. UltraViolet-enabled movies. The deal also covers a multi-year SVOD agreement supporting feature-length content.   "This agreement fits perfectly with Redbox Instant by Verizon's vision for bringing people the movies that matter, wherever and whenever they choose, using the devices and media they prefer, at home or away," said Shawn Strickland, CEO, Redbox Instant by Verizon.   "We look forward to working with Verizon and Redbox to offer consumers a wide selection of great content that can be enjoyed, whether buying or renting, on a variety of devices, and in any format that fits their individual preferences," said Thomas Gewecke, president, Warner Bros. Digital Distribution. "We are also pleased to have a new, direct relationship with the Verizon and Redbox joint venture to ensure their customers have consistent access to our movies."  ###

 
