
 
It'll be a good spring for classic movie lovers, as Warner Bros. has announced plans to deliver Stanley Kubrick's classic A Clockwork Orange (MSRP: $34.95) in a Digibook Blu-ray release, as well as a ten-disc, nine-movie boxed set of the director's movies. The boxed set (MSRP: $148.95) includes Spartacus, Dr. Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket, Eyes Wide Shut and two other films not currently available or yet announced on Blu-ray in Lolita and Barry Lyndon. Check the press release after the break for a pic of the A Clockwork Orange set and details on extras and packaging for both releases.
      

 

Show full PR textClockwork Orange, A: 40th Anniversary (BD)Synopsis: Stomping, whomping, stealing, singing, tap-dancing, violating. Hooligan Alex (Malcolm McDowell) has a good time – at the tragic expense of others. His journey from amoral punk to brainwashed proper citizen and back again forms the dynamic arc of Stanley Kubrick's future-shock vision of Anthony Burgess' novel. Controversial when first released, A Clockwork Orange won New York Film Critics Best Picture and Director Awards and earned four Oscar nominations,* including Best Picture. Its power still entices, shocks and holds us in its grasp.Disc 1: • Feature Film • 2 New Bonus Features: • Malcolm McDowell Looks Back: Introduction and Prologue • Turning like Clockwork Considers the Film's Ultra-violence and its Cultural Impact • Plus: • Commentary by Malcolm McDowell and historian Nick Redman • Documentary Still Tickin': The Return of Clockwork Orange • Great Bolshy Yarblockos!: Making A Clockwork Orange • Theatrical TrailerDisc 2: • Jan Harlan's Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures (Harlan is a world renown film producer and the brother of Christiane Kubrick, Stanley Kubrick's widow). Kubrick's career comes into sharp focus in this compelling documentary narrated by Tom Cruise. Fascinating footage glimpses Kubrick in his early years, at work on film sets and at home, augmented by candid commentary from collaborators, colleagues and family. • Career Profile O Lucky Malcolm! Featuring Malcolm McDowellMAIN FEATURE* 1080p High Definition 16x9 1.66:1. PCM: English 5.1; Dolby Digital: English 5.1, Français 5.1, Español 5.1. Subtitles – English SDH, Français & Español.SPECIAL FEATURES* May not be in High Definition; Audio & subtitles may vary.Stanley Kubrick: Limited Edition Collection (9-Films, 10-Discs) (BD)Synopsis: 9 Groundbreaking Movies. 10 Discs. One Visionary Moviemaker.SPARTACUS (1960) The genre-defining epic tale of a bold gladiator (Kirk Douglas) who leads a triumphant Roman slave revolt. Special Features: • Deleted Scenes • Archival Interviews with Peter Ustinov and Jean Simmons • Behind-the-Scenes Footage • 5 Vintage Newsreels • Image Galleries Including Production Stills, Concept Art, Costume Design, Storyboards and Print AdsLOLITA (1962) Academic Humbert Humbert (James Mason) is obsessed with a blithe teen (Sue Lyon) in a dark comedy from Vladimir Nabokov's novel.DR. STRANGELOVE (1964) "Accidental" nuclear apocalypse, anyone? Peter Sellers heads the cast of one of the most blazingly hilarious movies of all time. Special Features: • The Cold War: Picture-in-Picture and Pop-Up Trivia Track • No Fighting in the War Room: Dr. Strangelove and the Nuclear Threat • Inside the Making of Dr. Strangelove • Best Sellers or: Peter Sellers and Dr. Strangelove • The Art of Stanley Kubrick from Short Films to Strangelove • An Interview with Robert McNamara • Original Split-Screen Interviews with Peter Sellers and George C. Scott2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY (1968) "The most awesome, beautiful and mentally stimulating science-fiction film of all time" (Danny Peary, Guide for the Film Fanatic). Special Features: • Commentary by Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood • Documentary 2001: The Making of a Myth • Standing on the Shoulders of Kubrick: The Legacy of 2001 • Vision of a Future Passed: The Prophecy of 2001 • 2001: A Space Odyssey – A Look Behind the Future and What Is Out There? • 2001: FX and Early Conceptual Artwork • Look: Stanley Kubrick! • Audio-Only Bonus: 1966 Kubrick Interview Conducted by Jeremy BernsteinA CLOCKWORK ORANGE: 40th Anniversary Edition (2-Discs) (1971) Future world neo-punk Malcolm McDowell becomes the guinea pig for a government cure of his tendency toward "the old ultraviolence." Special Features: • Malcolm McDowell Looks Back: Introduction and Prologue • Turning like Clockwork Considers the Film's Ultra-violence and its Cultural Impact • Commentary by Malcolm McDowell and historian Nick Redman • Documentary Still Tickin': The Return of Clockwork Orange • Great Bolshy Yarblockos!: Making A Clockwork Orange • Theatrical Trailer • Jan Harlan's Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures • Career Profile O Lucky Malcolm! Featuring Malcolm McDowellBARRY LYNDON (1975) The visually spellbinding tale of an 18th-century Irish rogue's (Ryan O'Neal) climb to wealth and privilege.THE SHINING (1980) In a macabre masterpiece adapted from Stephen King's novel, Jack Nicholson falls prey to forces haunting a snowbound mountain resort. Special Features: • Commentary by Steadicam inventor/operator Garrett Brown and historian John Baxter • Vivian Kubrick's Documentary The Making of the Shining with Optional Commentary • View from the Overlook: Crafting The Shining • The Visions of Stanley Kubrick and Wendy Carlos, ComposerFULL METAL JACKET (1987) Marine recruits endure basic training under a leather-lunged D.I., then plunge into the hell of Vietnam. Special Features: • Commentary by Adam Baldwin, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey and critic/screenwriter Jay Cocks • Full Metal Jacket: Between Good and EvilEYES WIDE SHUT (1999) A wife's admission of unfulfilled longing plunges a Manhattan doctor into a bizarre erotic odyssey. Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman star. Special Features: • Three -Part Documentary The Last Movie: Stanley Kubrick and Eyes Wide Shut • Lost Kubrick: The Unfinished Films of Stanley Kubrick • Interview Gallery Featuring Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman and Steven Spielberg • Kubrick's 1998 Directors Guild of America D.W. Griffith Award Acceptance SpeechMAIN FEATURES* 1080p High Definition 16x9 Lolita, Dr. Strangelove and A Clockwork Orange – 1.66:1, Barry Lyndon, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket and Eyes Wide
 