
 
A few weeks back we learned that the US would be getting 310 quick-charging CHAdeMO stations, 480V AC/DC converters that can get a Nissan Leaf to 80 percent charge in under 30 minutes. Most are destined for major metropolitan areas, but we were intrigued to find out that Washington State is going to put two or three of them out in the country, on a 120 mile scenic portion of Route 2 that runs over the Cascade Mountains. It's a popular tourist destination and, with EVs becoming more popular in the area, soon even tourists with cutting-edge transportation to enjoy the ride. After all, everybody likes a good view.
      

 

Show full PR textJanuary 12, 2011Contacts:Gustavo Collantes, Commerce Energy Policy, 206.256.6135Ron Johnston-Rodriguez, Port of Chelan County, 509.663.5159Amanda Watkins, Edelman Seattle for Washington State Tourism, 206.268.2277Washington to create nation's first electric vehicle-friendly scenic byway along U.S. 2Popular Visitors' Destinations in North Central Washington Announce Plans forElectric Vehicle Charging StationsOLYMPIA, WA –The Department of Commerce and the Washington State Department of Transportationtoday announced plans to make the Stevens Pass Greenway the first electric vehicle-friendly NationalScenic Byway route. With Federal Recovery Act funding through the State Energy Program, the state willinstall two to three electric vehicle (EV) fast charging stations along U.S. Highway 2. This route willconnect to the I-5 "electric highway" enabling electric vehicle drivers to travel from across the westcoast to North Central Washington by the end of 2011.In addition to the state's investment, the Port of Chelan County and the Advanced Vehicle InnovationsConsortium in Wenatchee have catalyzed private investment to install Level II charging stations atpopular travel destinations along the U.S. 2 byway route. These destinations include Stevens Pass SkiArea; Leavenworth's Sleeping Lady Resort and Icicle Ridge Winery; and Wenatchee's Convention Center,Town Toyota Center and SpringHill Suites by Marriot Wenatchee Hotel. Each of these venues plans toinstall Level II charging stations that will allow electric vehicle drivers to "fuel up" while they are enjoyingthe location's activities. Level II charging stations will complement the fast-charging stations installed bythe state, which can charge the battery of some electric vehicles from zero to 80 percent in an estimated20 minutes."Washington State is proud to announce another important step toward enabling broad adoption ofelectric vehicles," said Rogers Weed, Director of the state Department of Commerce. "Partnering todeliver charging infrastructure is essential in Washington, and this initiative keeps us moving in the rightdirection, promoting local jobs, rural businesses and clean energy."Over a half-dozen additional destination property owners and public entities from Leavenworth toChelan are also expected to announce their intentions to purchase and install charging stations by thetime the EV fast charging stations are deployed on U.S. 2."Enthusiasm and preparation for electric vehicles arriving in North Central Washington has beenramping up for the past six years," said Ron Johnston-Rodriguez of the Port of Chelan County,coordinator of the Advanced Vehicle Innovation (AVI) Consortium and its PluginCenter Charging Stationproject. "The State of Washington's collaboration with the Port and its AVI partners has proven to be anenergizing catalyst for community-wide efforts to facilitate and promote charging station deployment inthe region. This investment in electric vehicle infrastructure by both private and public sectorsaccelerates the Consortium's timetable for multiple activities to demonstrate and integrate electricvehicle technology into the fabric of this rural area's tourism industry cluster."In addition to furthering the state's vision for improving the energy efficiency of Washington'stransportation system, Washington State Tourism plans to promote eco-tourism opportunities inconjunction with the electrification of U.S. 2. The planned fast-chargers will be strategically located tosupport zero-emission, zero-oil travel along the 120-mile byway. The Stevens Pass Greenway is one ofthe richest scenic byways in Washington. Originally developed for the Old Great Northern Railroad, thisroute winds its way through dense forest, mountain ranges and green valleys, past orchards andwineries of Wenatchee, family farms and the Bavarian village of Leavenworth."Businesses along U.S. 2 rely on tourism," said Marsha Massey, Executive Director of Washington StateTourism. "With fast charging stations along this scenic byway, travelers will be able to drive electric carsto popular destinations such as Stevens Pass, Leavenworth and Wenatchee."For more information, please visit:www.westcoastgreenhighway.com/electrichighways.htmwww.PluginCenter.netwww.experiencewa.com###About CommerceCommerce is the lead state agency charged with enhancing and promoting sustainable community andeconomic vitality in Washington. For more information, visit www.commerce.wa.gov. For informationon locating or expanding a business in Washington State visit www.choosewashington.com .
 