
 
 Gamers yearning for the promise of more than just ESPN 3 on the Xbox 360 have finally gotten what they've been waiting for. As of today, WatchESPN has landed for Xbox Live Gold Members, packing live network programming through channels including ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, ESPN3 and ESPN Goal Line / Buzzer Beater. In order to take advantage of the app on Ballmer and Co.'s gaming box, you'll need service from a cable provider that offers WatchESPN. Those who're content with only ESPN 3 will still just need an Xbox Live Gold subscription and an internet connection from an "affiliated provider." Along with live content, the app also brings split screen channel viewing, game reminders, a personalized "My Sports" section and more. According to Microsoft's Major Nelson, an Xbox SmartGlass companion experience for ESPN, NBA and SportsPicks will be available come December. For those eager to spend some quality time with Sports Center and Mike an Mike in the Morning, look out below for more details in the press release.



  Show full PR text   WatchESPN Officially Launches in New Update for ESPN on Xbox
  Live programming from ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, ESPN3 and ESPN Goal Line/Buzzer Beater now available on the Xbox 360 console to Xbox LIVE Gold members with an affiliated video provider
  ESPN and Microsoft today officially launched WatchESPN as part of their expanded service for ESPN on Xbox. With today's launch, ESPN on Xbox will deliver live content from ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU, ESPN3 and ESPN Goal Line/Buzzer Beater through WatchESPN to Xbox LIVE Gold members who receive these networks through a video subscription from an affiliated provider.
  The new ESPN on Xbox delivers HD-quality live programming and events through WatchESPN in a unique interactive sports viewing experience. Fans will be able to access popular shows like SportsCenter, PTI, First Take, NFL Live, Baseball Tonight, College GameDay, Mike & Mike in the Morning and others as well as live events from the NFL, MLB, NBA, soccer, tennis, golf, motor sports and more. ESPN on Xbox features include:
   My Sports – by choosing favorite sports and teams, fans are able to find games and content most important to them.  Mini Guide – gives fans a preview and quick access to all live events and highlights right at the bottom of the screen.  Split Screen – watch two events at once. Watch live events on both screens or a live event on one and highlights on the other.  Kinect – allows fans to navigate through the entire experience all with the wave of a hand or through voice control.  ESPN BottomLine – provides breaking news and score updates from around the world of sports.   WatchESPN through ESPN on Xbox adds another platform for the authenticated networks service, which is also accessible online at WatchESPN.com and on smartphones and tablets via the WatchESPN app to 40 million households that receive ESPN's linear networks as part of their video subscription. Affiliated providers include Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks, Verizon FiOS TV, XFINITY® TV from Comcast, and Midcontinent Communications.
  ESPN3 will continue to be available to Xbox LIVE Gold members who receive their Internet subscription from an affiliated provider. The live multi-screen sports network is available in 79 million households nationwide. A full list of affiliated Internet providers for ESPN3 can be found at: http://espn.go.com/watchespn/affList.
  All Xbox LIVE Gold members have access to customized ESPN.com video-on-demand clips and sports highlights.
 
