
Nintendo's making its E3 announcements digitally this year, so if you're looking to hear more on the Wii U, 3DS and all those presumably incoming games, we'd advise you gaze into the embedded video stream right after the break. We'll be reporting all the notable news as it develops and it all kicks off in a few minutes  now!


Update: And here's what Nintendo had to show. We've embedded the full presentation after the break.


Super Mario 3D World announced for Wii U, coming this December

The Legend of Zelda: the Wind Waker HD launches in October, boasts faster sailing

Mario Kart 8 launching on Wii U in spring 2014

Super Smash Bros for Wii U and 3DS coming in 2014, brings Megaman along for the ride

Nintendo says Wii Fit U now delayed until December


Show full PR textNintendo Systems Will Offer the Widest Array of Exclusive Games and the Most Fun and Compelling Experiences in 2013
New Adventures in the Super Mario, Donkey Kong, The Legend of Zelda, Luigi, Pokémon and Pikmin Franchises All Coming This Year for Wii U and Nintendo 3DS

E3 Expo 2013

LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nintendo today unleashed a strong list of powerhouse games that will be available for Wii U this year, and provided first looks at key titles coming in 2014. These include some of the video game industry's most beloved franchises and characters, from Mario and Donkey Kong to Luigi, Pikmin and Pokémon to The Legend of Zelda, Mario Kart and Super Smash Bros.

"Nearly every major piece of Nintendo IP will be represented on our platforms in 2013, with even more coming in 2014"Nintendo Global President Satoru Iwata introduced many of the games during a Nintendo Direct announcement.

"Nearly every major piece of Nintendo IP will be represented on our platforms in 2013, with even more coming in 2014," said Reggie Fils-Aime, Nintendo of America's president and chief operating officer. "There's one fundamental truth in the video game industry: Software sells hardware. That was true with Wii and Nintendo DS, it's starting to happen with Nintendo 3DS and will be on display this summer and holiday season with Wii U. When gamers are making their purchasing decisions this year they're going to find that the games and experiences they want are either unique or entirely exclusive to a Nintendo platform."

In addition to all of the game experiences available right now at E3, Nintendo has partnered with Best Buy to bring four upcoming Wii U games to the public for the first time. Visitors to participating Best Buy stores will be able to play demo versions of Super Mario 3D World, Mario Kart 8, The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD and Donkey Kong Country Returns: Tropical Freeze. The games will be playable 4-8 p.m. local time on Wednesday, June 12, and 1-5 p.m. local time on Saturday, June 15. A complete list of participating stores can be found at http://www.bestbuy.com/NintendoEvents.

Some of the key Wii U game info announced today by Nintendo includes:

Super Mario 3D World: For the first time ever, Nintendo has created a four-player Mario game set in a 3D world. The game, developed by the same team that created Super Mario 3D Land for Nintendo 3DS and the Super Mario Galaxy games for Wii, lets up to four players play as Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach and Toad. Each character has his or her own unique characteristics, and people can play cooperatively or competitively. The new cat transformation turns characters into adorable felines that can scratch enemies and even scamper up the flagpole at the end of levels. Clear warp pipes add some new puzzle elements to game play. The game is scheduled to launch this December.Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze: The first Wii U installment in the franchise comes from Retro Studios. The side-scrolling platformer has beautiful HD graphics that show fine details, such as Donkey Kong's fur. Dixie Kong joins the adventure, which features the Kongs swimming underwater and moving from the foreground to the background. This time, the camera changes perspective on certain levels to enhance the sense of motion and to deliver new experiences. The game is scheduled to launch this November.The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker HD: The classic Nintendo GameCube game has been enhanced with beautiful HD 1080p graphics. In one change from the original, the Tingle Tuner has been replaced by the Tingle Bottle, which uses the Wii U GamePad controller to post comments about the game to Miiverse. Comments from players wash up on the shores of beaches in the game. Players also have the option to sail faster than they did in the original version. The game is scheduled to launch this October.Mario Kart 8: The newest installment of the gold-standard racing game introduces an anti-gravity feature that has karts racing up walls and clinging to inverted tracks. Elements from previous Mario Kart games have made their return, including gliders and motorbikes. The game will support online multiplayer and will have deep integration with Miiverse. The game is scheduled to launch in spring of 2014.The Wonderful 101: This PlatinumGames original launches Sept. 15. Players take on the role of Wonder-Red, leader of a group of superheroes. Individually they are overpowered by invaders from space. But by working together, they can transform into a fist or blade and unleash massive attacks on their enemy. The polished, over-the-top look and music evoke classic superhero comics and cartoons.Bayonetta 2: Developed by PlatinumGames, the game's title character has had a makeover that gives her a new hairstyle and costume. Her climactic abilities are more powerful and the action is as intense as ever. The game is scheduled to launch in 2014.A brand-new title developed by MONOLITH SOFTWARE INC.: Monolith Soft, the creative force behind The Xenoblade Chronicles, is creating an open world for players to explore. Players can ride human-shaped robots at certain points in the game, or use the robots to battle enemies in the sky. The game is scheduled to launch in 2014.Wii Party U: Enjoy board games and mini-games on the TV, play familiar tabletop games using the Wii U GamePad controller or transform your living room into a game show floor. No matter what kind of party you're throwing, Wii Party U offers something for everyone. The game is scheduled to launch this October.Super Smash Bros. for Wii U: The highly anticipated new entry in Nintendo's popular fighting franchise will arrive for Wii U in 2014.Wii Fit U: Although this game was previously announced to launch in spring or summer this year, it is now scheduled to launch this December.

Nintendo 3DS News

Pokémon X and Pokémon Y: The first games in the core Pokémon series to appear on Nintendo 3DS launch worldwide on Oct. 12. The games introduce an 18th Pokémon type: Fairy-type Pokémon, and have an upgraded graphical look that is an artistic pinnacle for the franchise. A new feature called Pokémon-Amie lets players create a deeper connection with their Pokémon. Trainers can pet them, feed them and play mini-games with them, which makes their Pokémon more effective in battles.Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS: The hand-held counterpart to the Wii U version will also arrive in 2014.


