
 Look, you've always known that you were the next Kelly Slater, but you've never had the outlay to hire a professional recording team to capture your rides off of Oahu's stunning north shore. Thankfully for you, your extreme sporting dreams are about to become a reality courtesy of a $39.99 waterproof case, which has just been released to encase VholdR's ContourHD and ContourHD1080p helmet cams -- which we just so happened to take a look at ourselves earlier this year. Said case can withstand liquids for up to ten meters deep, and just in case you're in the accessorizing mood, the outfit has also released a handlebar mount, vented helmet mount, and a lens kit to its accessory range. Granted, all of this stuff will be rendered pointless when we start embedding HD cameras into our retinas, but we suppose it'll do the trick until that fateful day.
      

 

Show full PR textVholdR Announces a Waterproof Case and New Accessories for the ContourHD Wearable CamcorderNow You Can Capture Lifelike HD Video Anywhere...Including Underwater!Seattle, WA–December 2, 2009– VholdR, the market leader for HD Wearable Camcorders, is introducing several new accessories in time for the holiday shopping season. The award winning ContourHD and recently released ContourHD1080p models are adding a waterproof case, handlebar mount, vented helmet mount, and a lens kit to their accessory line-up. The much-anticipated waterproof case means ContourHD can capture Lifelike HD video while surfing, river rafting, kayaking, or any sports going less than ten meters deep. "We are excited to introduce the first waterproof case for the ContourHD camera lines," says Marc Barros, VholdR's CEO. "Now we can bring our crisp HD video and easy to use camcorders underwater!"Along with the announcement of the company's new waterproof case, VholdR is introducing the first lens kit to the HD Wearable Camcorder market. The new lens kit includes a replacement lens cover, as well as adaptable rings for standard 37mm lens filters. In conjunction with being the most configurable wearable camcorder (video resolution, bit rate, lighting, and microphone sensitivity), ContourHD is now the only camera on the market to enable the user to configure their lens. All of the new accessories will be available through the hundreds of VholdR retailers this holiday season. Visit www.vholdr.com to learn more about these new additions as well as the ContourHD and ContourHD1080p camera lines. To learn more about ContourHD visit www.vholdr.comAbout VholdRVholdR is the market leader in HD Wearable Camcorders, enabling modern day explorers to tell their stories of action, adventure, and travel through video. Leading the way in making action video easy to shoot and share, VholdR is dedicated to creating simple tools that enable hands-free capture and effortless sharing of video online with the world. For more information about VholdR please visit www.vholdr.com.
 