
 After bumping its Thunderbolt and regular MyBook line with a couple of extra terabytes, Western Digital turned its attention to its shiny MyBook Studio offerings to kick those up a notch too. WD's family of premium aluminum-clad drives finally gets USB 3.0 across the line, along with a new top-of-the-pack 4TB capacity model. All the Studio drives feature WD Security, seamless integration with Time Machine and a 3-year limited warranty. Pricing for the 1TB, 2TB, 3TB and 4TB drives are $159.99, $189.99, $239.99 and $299.99 respectively. Western Digital says they'll continue to offer older USB 2.0 and FireWire 800 models, just in case you're still struggling along with a storage-starved relic from the past.



  Show full PR text    WD® Offers Mac Users USB 3.0 Connectivity With New My Book® Studio™ External Hard Drive   4 TB Capacity; Premium Aluminum Enclosure and Hardware-Based Encryption That Protects Against Unauthorized Access to Valuable Content

   IRVINE, Calif., Nov. 13, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- WD®, a Western Digital company (NASDAQ: WDC), and a world leader in external storage and connected life solutions, today announced a new version of the My Book® Studio™ external hard drive. USB 3.0 capability is now extended to this family of My Book Studio hard drives and provides data transfer speeds up to three times faster than USB 2.0. WD has also introduced the addition of a massive 4 TB capacity in a single-drive configuration making it a perfect solution for backing up large amounts of digital content. The My Book Studio drive is designed with a premium aluminum enclosure and will be available in 1 TB, 2 TB, 3 TB and 4 TB capacities.

   The My Book Studio drive's features and benefits have made it a favorite among creative professionals and Mac computer enthusiasts, including working seamlessly with Apple® Time Machine, for protecting and backing up their valuable professional and personal content. The My Book Studio external hard drive includes WD Security™, which allows users to password protect their drive along with 256-bit hardware-based encryption for added security against unauthorized access to the drive and its contents.

   "WD's My Book Studio with USB 3.0 delivers extreme transfer speeds while maintaining the standard USB and FireWire connections computer users prefer," said Jim Welsh, executive vice president and general manager of WD's branded and CE products. "Its large capacity, combined with a premium aluminum enclosure, hardware-based encryption, and compatibility with Apple Time Machine, provide Mac users with a fast, secure and complete system for preserving their valuable content."

   Pricing and Availability  The My Book Studio external hard drive comes with a 3-year limited warranty and is available on the WD store at www.wdstore.com and at select retailers and distributors. MSRP for My Book Studio 1 TB is $159.99 USD; the 2 TB is $189.99 USD; the 3 TB is $239.99 USD and the 4 TB is $299.99. WD will continue to offer its My Book Studio drive with USB 2.0 and FireWire® 800 connectivity for legacy systems.

   PR Newswire (http://s.tt/1tdAm)

 
