
       
Surely you recall Western Digital's earlier 2TB effort, the Caviar Green -- right? While said drive was just perfect for the casual storage junkie, performance gurus know that it left something to be desired on the speed front. Thankfully, WD is looking out for that crowd too with a new pair of 7200RPM 2TB drives: the Caviar Black (shown left) and RE4 (shown right). Both four-platter drives boast 64MB of cache, a dual stage actuator, 3Gbps SATA interface and an integrated dual processor. The latter also promises 1.2 million hours MTBF, Active Power Save, a multi-axis shock sensor and a few other high-end advancements designed for enterprise users seeking long-term reliability. The pain? Try $299 for the now-available 2TB Caviar Black, while the RE4 awaits an MSRP as it's "being qualified by OEMs." Check the full release just past the break.





 WD® LAUNCHES HIGH-PERFORMANCE, 7200 RPM 2 TB HARD DRIVES FOR DESKTOP AND ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS  WD Caviar® Black™ and WD RE4 Four-platter Hard Drives Set New Benchmarks in High-Feature, High Performance Storage  LAKE FOREST, Calif. – Sept. 1, 2009 – WD (NYSE: WDC) today announced that it is now shipping desktop 7200 RPM 2 TB hard drives and is qualifying with OEMs enterprise-class hard drives based on WD's 500 gigabytes-per-platter technology. The popular family of WD Caviar Black drives, now led by the new 2 TB capacity, is perfect for gaming, high-performance desktop systems and workstations; while the WD RE4 2 TB is suited for servers, network attached storage and storage networks.   High-performance hard drives by an industry leader in performance, WD Caviar Black and WD RE4 2 TB drives combine 7200 RPM spin speed, 64 MB cache, dual stage actuator technology, SATA 3 gigabits per second (Gb/s) interface, and an integrated dual processor to deliver ultimate performance in a maximum-capacity drive.   "WD Caviar Black 2 TB hard drives maximize the features and functionality of power computing applications such as gaming, photo editing, user generated multimedia and video," said Jim Morris, senior vice president and general manager of WD's client storage systems. "With the selection of WD Caviar Black hard drives, WD desktop customers receive the best possible mix of capacity, performance and reliability that is required for intense desktop computing."   "Specifically designed for enterprise-class applications, WD's RE4 2 TB drives incorporate the best combination of features, optimum performance, and superior reliability that customers have come to expect from WD," said Tom McDorman, vice president and general manager of enterprise storage solutions for WD. "Our enterprise products are directly aimed at customers who require additional features and extensive testing that are necessary for high-end enterprise environments."   WD Caviar Black 2 TB and WD RE4 2 TB hard drives feature the following:  Dual processor – Twice the processing power to maximize performance. Dual actuator technology – A head positioning system with two actuators that improves positional accuracy over the data track(s). The primary actuator provides coarse displacement using conventional electromagnetic actuator principles. The secondary actuator uses piezoelectric motion to fine tune the head positioning to a higher degree of accuracy. IntelliSeek™ – Calculates optimum seek speeds to lower power consumption, noise, and vibration. StableTrac™ – The motor shaft is secured at both ends to reduce system-induced vibration and stabilize platters for accurate tracking, during read and write operations. NoTouch™ ramp load technology – The recording head never touches the disk media ensuring significantly less wear to the recording head and media as well as better drive protection in transit. Additional Features for WD RE4 2 TB Enterprise Hard Drives   WD RE4 drives feature 1.2 million hours MTBF, Active Power Save™, enhanced RAFF™ technology, multi-axis shock sensor, native command queuing (NCQ), pressure sensors, third generation dynamic fly height, time limited error recovery (TLER), and an extensive and enhanced testing process to ensure long-term reliability for demanding enterprise applications.  Price and Availability   The WD Caviar Black 2 TB GB (model WD2001FASS) hard drives are available through select distributors and resellers. Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) for the WD Caviar Black 2 TB drive is $299 USD. The WD RE4 2 TB (model WD2003FYYS) drive is currently being qualified by OEMs. Both drives are covered by a five-year limited warranty. More information about WD Caviar Black 2 TB desktop hard drives may be found on the company's Web site at http://www.wdc.com/en/products/Products.asp?DriveID=733 and the WD RE4 2 TB enterprise hard drives at http://www.wdc.com/en/products/Products.asp?DriveID=732.  About WD   WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company designs and produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. Its advanced technologies are configured into applications for client and enterprise computing, embedded systems and consumer electronics, as well as its own consumer storage and media products.   WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading OEMs, systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital® and WD® brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site (www.westerndigital.com) to access a variety of financial and investor information.   This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements relating to qualification by OEMs of the WD RE4 2 TB drive. These forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations, and actual results may differ materially as a result of several factors, including: challenges faced in new product development, business conditions generally, and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent SEC filings, including its Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2009. WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect new information or events or for any other reason.
 