
 
Too broke to spring for an SSD? Fret not, as you're most definitely not alone. Thankfully for you, Western Digital's still cranking out lust-worthy hard drives, with its latest Scorpio Black being particularly so. Offering 750GB of capacity, 16MB of cache and a 7200RPM spindle speed, the WD7500BPKT relies on Advanced Format technology to make the magic happen. It's on sale starting right about now for $149, giving you little reason to continue to conserve space on that 128GB drive you've been living with for the past three years.
      

 

Show full PR textWD Scorpio® Black™ Drives Offer 750 GB of High-Performance Storage, for Capacity-Hungry SystemsIRVINE, Calif., Jan. 5, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- Western Digital® (NYSE: WDC) today announced it is now shipping its new WD Scorpio® Black™ 750 GB (photo) 7200 RPM 2.5-inch SATA hard drives for high-performance notebook computers and portable storage devices. One of the fastest hard drives on the market, WD Scorpio Black drives combine class-leading 7200 RPM spin speed and 16 MB cache to deliver maximum notebook performance. Now available in capacities up to 750 GB, the WD Scorpio Black hard drives provide creative professionals, gamers and PC enthusiasts with additional capacity they need to get their job done. Using Advanced Format (AF) technology, the WD Scorpio Black 750 GB hard drives also incorporate a variety of data-protection features to actively monitor and protect valuable data.The entire family of WD Scorpio Black hard drives is designed for use in OEM notebook systems and has been tested across multiple platforms to allow anyone a successful upgrade of speed and performance to their current notebook system."Our most demanding customers have come to expect "no compromises" from all of our Black series products," explains Matt Rutledge, vice president of product marketing for WD. "The new WD Scorpio Black drive does not disappoint, providing users of portable devices the necessary speed, significant storage and efficient power management needed to enjoy their favorite HD content, high resolution images, powerful office applications or gaming at home, in the office or on the road."Price and AvailabilityWD Scorpio Black 750 GB hard drives (model number WD7500BPKT) are available now in the U.S. at select resellers and distributors. MSRP for the WD Scorpio Black 750 GB hard drive is $149.00 USD. WD Scorpio Black 750 GB hard drives are covered by a five-year limited warranty. More information about WD Scorpio Black hard drives may be found on the company's website at http://www.wdc.com/en/products/products.aspx?id=130.
 