


2016 is shaping up to be huge for Netflix. That's when the streaming juggernaut's Disney deal starts bearing fruit and it also marks the start of a multi-year pay-TV exclusivity agreement with The Weinstein Company (TWC). This means the first stop for TWC's flicks after home video will no longer be Showtime, but (almost) everybody's favorite place to watch movies instantly instead. While the studio has a pretty impressive back catalog -- Django Unchained, Silver Linings Playbook, The Road and ... Scary Movie 5 -- it isn't in the class of, say, Universal or Fox in terms of sheer blockbusters. With the rate 'flix is signing contracts though, who knows what could happen within the next three years.



Show full PR textNetflix and The Weinstein Company Announce Multi-Year Premium Pay TV Window Agreement in the United States
Netflix to become the Exclusive Pay TV Home of High Quality TWC Feature Films in the U.S.
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Aug. 20, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Netflix Inc. (Nasdaq: NFLX) and The Weinstein Company today announced a new multi-year licensing agreement that will make Netflix the exclusive U.S. subscription television service for first-run films from TWC beginning in 2016.

Starting with its 2016 theatrically released feature films, new TWC and Dimension Films titles will be made available for Netflix members to watch instantly in the pay TV window on multiple platforms, including televisions, tablets, mobile phones and computers.

Netflix is already the Pay TV home to TWC documentaries and foreign films, including the Academy Award winning Best Picture, The Artist, and Best Documentary Feature, Undefeated, as well as to a wide-range of movies released by multi-platform distribution label RADiUS-TWC.

"Harvey and Bob Weinstein are in a class of their own when it comes to choosing and producing the best films in the world," said Ted Sarandos, Chief Content Officer for Netflix. "They are as innovative in business as they are creative in their storytelling. We look forward to reinventing the pay TV window with the Weinsteins."

"The deal that we've just completed with Netflix is probably the biggest deal in the history of The Weinstein Company and together, we are discussing ways to reinvent the pay TV experience so that the audience can get even more for their money," said Harvey Weinstein. "Their enthusiasm for movies of all kinds was the big factor in our choosing Netflix. Moving forward when people see The Weinstein Company name on a movie they know that our pay TV partner is the most significant new force in the entertainment industry - Netflix."


