
 
Hello, and welcome to Engadget. I'll be your new host, Tim Stevens, taking over as Editor-in-Chief and leading you through this wonderful land of technology and innovation... maybe checking out a couple of KIRFs on the way, too. Though our site isn't changing I wanted to introduce myself because, well, we're going to be spending a lot of time together, you and I. So come on in, let's get to know each other.
      

 

If you read my Growing Up Geek feature from a few months back you'll not only know that I'm a country-bred gadget lover at heart but also that I cut a pretty dashing figure in a set of Underoos. To give the CliffsNotes version of how I got here: I got my start writing professionally doing videogame reviews about 15 years ago and never looked back. I'm a PC, but after many years of software design and development in many languages on many environments I am truly platform-agnostic. I've been with Engadget for about three years now.Our site has obviously come a long, long way too since it launched in 2004 and became part of AOL in 2005. In that time we've had a string of amazing editors, including Peter Rojas, Ryan Block, and of course the man we've all learned to know and love since he took over in 2008, our own Joshua Topolsky.As we all know, that man is sadly leaving to do some amazing things elsewhere, but I'm going to do my very best to fill the very large shoes that were formerly occupied by Josh's rather sizeable feet. Over the past few weeks Engadget has lost some incredibly talented people as well. We're going to miss those folks madly, deeply, but turn that frown upside down, dearie, because a far greater number of equally incredible people are still here doing incredible things, and we'll soon be joined by some other new folks who you're going to really like. We sure do.Our award-winning Darren "Machine Gun" Murph has already taken the reins as Managing Editor and is working his posterior off like only he can to keep the whole team fit and trim. Somehow he's still managing to hit about three-dozen posts a day, too.He and I are supported by a ton of hugely talented editors, the ones who keep the text and photos flowing, all listed here. Most of those names should be familiar if you've read the site for some time. You should be comfortable with them and, indeed, the content you see on here in the coming months should feel mighty comfortable too. The podcast will return soon and, while we do have some exciting things coming in the weeks and months ahead, we absolutely won't be making any fundamental changes to what we do or how we do it. And yes, we are going to keep covering techy cars, but I promise not to inundate you with them. After all, we have Autoblog for that.The entire Engadget team is just going to keep bringing you the news as it happens, we're going to keep reviewing every detail of every gadget that's worth reviewing, and we're going to keep blowing your minds with other killer features. That's the Engadget Way, our way, the only way.-Tim Stevens@Tim_Stevens(The Velvet Sledgehammer)
 