
 

Not only is it the chunkiest My Book we've ever seen, but it possesses the otherworldly ability to live in the here and now and the hereafter. Analogies aside, the new My Book Live Duo is hailed as such: "a personal cloud storage system that combines the benefits of shared storage and remote access with double-safe backup or increased capacity of a dual-drive system with RAID." It's compatible with Mac and PC systems (and yes, Time Machine support is thrown in for good measure), and you'll find a pair of drives within the casing alongside an 800MHz CPU and an Ethernet port. WD's hawking these in 4TB (2 x 2TB) and 6TB (2 x 3TB) capacities, and if you weren't already sold, the units ship with support for the company's WD2go remote access platform -- something that's accessible via the web, iPad, iPhone, iPod touch or Android. Finally, there's a DLNA-certified media streaming badge, and it's available as we speak at select US retailers for $399.99 (4TB) / $499.99 (6TB).
      

 

 		Show full PR text  WD'S MY BOOK® LIVE™ DUO PERSONAL CLOUD STORAGE WITH DUAL DRIVES OFFERS HIGH CAPACITY OR DOUBLE-SAFE FILE PROTECTION 		Provides Anytime, Anywhere Access to Stored Media and Files from Computers, Tablets or Smartphones 		IRVINE, Calif. - Jan. 5, 2012 - Western Digital (NYSE: WDC), the world's leader in digital storage solutions, today introduced My Book Live Duo, a personal cloud storage system that combines the benefits of shared storage and remote access with double-safe backup or increased capacity of a dual-drive system with RAID (Redundant Array of Independent Disks) technology. 		Double-Safe Backup		Compatible with Mac® and PC operating systems, My Book Live Duo continuously maintains a second copy of all your files for real-time data backup in mirrored mode (RAID 1). Half the capacity is used to store users' data and half is used for a second copy. In the unlikely event that one drive fails, data is protected because it's duplicated on the other drive. For automatic backup Windows® users can use the included WD SmartWare® software and Mac users can utilize all the features of Apple® Time Machine® backup software to protect their data. 		Maximum Performance and Storage Capacity		In spanning mode the two-drive system combines both drives into one large volume acting as one drive for maximum storage capacity, while its built-in 800 MHz CPU delivers the power and performance needed for today's most demanding applications. Designed around the most recent advances in Ethernet chip technology, My Book Live Duo personal cloud delivers best-in-class read speeds faster than traditional USB 2.0 drives. My Book Live Duo is currently available in 4 TB and 6 TB capacities. 		WD's Personal Cloud		As with WD's My Book Live™ personal cloud storage solution, My Book Live Duo connects to the home network to create shared storage that users can access within the home or anywhere in the world through secure remote access. Remote access to My Book Live and My Book Live Duo is available on any computer through www.WD2go.com and with WD mobile apps for iPad®, iPhone®, iPod touch® or Android™ smartphones and tablets. 		Home Entertainment Hub		Additionally, the My Book Live Duo system's built-in media server streams movies, photos and music to any DLNA™-certified multimedia device such as a WD TV® Live™ streaming media player, Blu-ray Disc™ player, PlayStation® 3, as well as Xbox® 360s and smart TVs. Users can also stream movies, photos and music to their tablet or smartphone directly from My Book Live Duo through the WD 2go™ mobile application. 		"My Book Live Duo is really the ideal, all-in-one storage and entertainment solution for today's ultra-connected consumer," explains Chris Bull, director of marketing for WD's Connected Home Solutions group. "The ability for consumers to safely backup all their digital content, as well as access and share content from anywhere in the world on their tablet, smartphone or any computer, truly provides a unique and rewarding experience for anyone who wants to enjoy, and needs to protect, valuable digital content." 		Compatibility		My Book Live Duo is compatible with Windows XP, Windows Vista®, Windows 7, Mac OS® X Leopard®, Snow Leopard®, or Lion™, as well as DLNA/UPnP® enabled devices. 		Price and Availability		My Book Live Duo personal cloud storage is available at select U.S. retailers and online at wdstore.com. MSRP is $399.99 USD for 4 TB and $499.99 USD for 6 TB.
 