
 
We've always had pleasant aural experiences with Westone earphones, and it's not hard to hazard a guess that the outfit's latest will also impress. The W4 is being hailed as the planet's first four-driver universal fit earphone, boasting a foursome of balanced armature drivers, a three-way crossover and a self-proclaimed EPIC cable, which is supposedly able to "guard against microphones." Further details are expected to be spilled at CES in just a couple of weeks, and they'll be loosed on the public in early Q1 2011 for $449. Yeah, not exactly cheap, but nothing fit for an audiophile ever is.
      

 

Show full PR textWestone 4 the World's First Four Driver Universal Fit EarphoneWestone Laboratories, Inc. Introduces the World's First Universal Fit Earphone With Four Balanced Armature DriversCOLORADO SPRINGS, CO--(Marketwire - December 14, 2010) - Westone Laboratories, Inc. introduces the Westone 4, the world's first four driver balanced armature universal fit earphone designed specifically for the serious audiophile and music enthusiast."The earphone market has become quite crowded in the last several years with lots of 'me too' types of products. Westone was an early pioneer back in the early 90's working with bands like Def Leppard and Rush to develop an in-ear monitoring solution to combat excessive stage noise," explains Lynn Kehler, President & CEO, Westone. "Developing the first universal four driver product is a statement of our commitment to leading the market with products that are superior in both sound and quality."Pushing the limits of both technology and ergonomics, the Westone 4 uses a four driver balanced armature design with 3-way crossover to achieve breathtaking clarity and realism. The EPIC Cable (Earphone Precision Interconnect Cable) is both durable and guards against microphonics. Westone's exclusive True-Fit technology, based on over 50 years of experience with in-ear applications, results in an earphone that is extremely comfortable, lightweight and compact."A Westone customer expects a truly engaging music experience. Not only does the Westone 4 take the experience to the next level, but these earphones can lend themselves to so many applications due to their compact size and sound signature," describes David Slepak, Manager of Marketing. "For the audiophile it's pure heaven, gamers will feel like the action is surrounding them, we've even had exceptional feedback from the home and field recording community as an alternative to bulky over-the-ear headphones and difficult to use near field monitors."The Westone 4 will be revealed to the world in Westone's exhibit located within the iLounge Pavillion at the Consumer Electronics Show January 6th in Las Vegas. The world's first four driver universal fit earphone will carry a suggested retail price of $449 and start shipping early in the first quarter of 2011.Westone, The In-Ear Experts since 1959, has been at the forefront of in-ear monitoring technology since the early 1990's. Offering a wide range of custom and universal-fit products for music lovers and musicians the world over, Westone musicians' monitors are used by acts ranging from Third Day and Playing for Change to Flyleaf and Nine Inch Nails. Westone is committed to superior customer service, with musicians on the development team, experienced audiologists on staff and knowledgeable technical support personnel available to answer any questions.
 