
 
 Westinghouse is already jockeying for CES 2013 position in the crowded connected-TV arena, saying it'll announce a bevy of MHL-compliant models at the show that'll work with Roku's HDMI Streaming Stick. That would presumably give the panel maker Smart TV options without having to bake the circuitry into the new models, letting Roku take the load in providing WiFi connectivity along with 400 channels like Netflix, Amazon Instant Video and Hulu Plus -- all accessible with the TV's remote. Westinghouse teased LED side-lit models ranging from 27- to 60-inches that'll have the option, along with UHDTV sets like the 110-incher it trumpeted earlier. Pricing and availability are still in the air until at least CES, of course, but considering the company's lack of a premium reputation and the fact that you'd also need to purchase the $99 Roku stick, we don't see them looking at the haut de gamme set.

 Follow all the latest CES 2013 news at our event hub.


  Show full PR text   Westinghouse Digital Unveils Next Generation of Connected TVs with Roku
   Lineup Of MHL-Compliant HD Displays Are Roku Ready, Opening New Worlds Of Entertainment And Convenience

  Las Vegas, NV -- Westinghouse Digital, one of the leading LED TV manufacturers in the U.S., announced a new line of LED TVs for 2013 that are Roku Ready® for an unmatched combination of entertainment choices, convenience and value. The new line will be introduced at the 2013 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, NV, January 8-11 in the Las Vegas Hotel, Hospitality Suite 360.

   The Westinghouse Digital Roku Ready line of LED TVs feature the Mobile High Definition Link (MHL), which allows users to simply plug in a Roku Streaming Stick™, a flash-stick sized device that features the popular Roku streaming platform. Within moments, the TV is recognized by the consumer's home Wi-Fi network allowing the user to connect to the world of content provided by Roku.

   "The new Westinghouse TVs with Roku are designed to be future-proof," said Rey Roque, Senior Vice President of Marketing at Westinghouse Digital. "Westinghouse Digital believes MHL-Compliant displays are the future of the connected TV market. Consumers are no longer forced to buy a smart TV only to have it become outdated two years later when new technology is released. With The Roku Streaming Stick, the consumer can simply upgrade a fairly inexpensive piece of hardware instead of being forced to spend hundreds of dollars to buy a new HDTV in order to gain the latest and greatest streaming options."

   In addition to the 60-inch IPTV introduction, Westinghouse Digital will also introduce a full line of edge-lit LED TVs for 2013 at CES, with models ranging from 28 to 60-inches, as well as a new series of 4K UHDTV models.

  About Westinghouse Digital
   Westinghouse Digital is one of the leading LED and LCD TV manufacturers in the U.S. The company offers a complete suite of innovative LED and LCD displays for the consumer market, that deliver the latest digital content for the ultimate viewing experience. Westinghouse Digital's award-winning consumer HDTV lineup includes a complete family of eco-friendly LED and LCD HDTVs in a wide range of sizes and formats. Westinghouse Digital has made a strong commitment to producing eco-friendly, energy-saving displays with their Greenvue and LED product lines which have earned the Energy Star for meeting Federal energy efficiency standards and also meet California Energy Commission (CEC) standards. For more information, please visit www.westinghousedigital.com.

 
