

Some would say that a good set of earphones are a dime a dozen nowadays, but that's not stopping outfits like Westone from trying to give you more (and, perhaps, even better) options to choose from. Enter the Adventure Series Alpha. These newly introduced in-ear headphones are, as the company puts it, tailored to bring "exceptional audio performance, fit, and design for the active user." How so, you ask? Well, the ADV earphones boast an array of notable features, such as IPX-3 attributes for water resistance and in-line controls for iOS devices. Most importantly, however, is the 6.5mm micro driver found inside the Adventure Series Alpha, which Westone's suited with an audio tech dubbed Precision Fine Tuning that "delivers sonic accuracy with extended bass." If all that sounds good, then you best be ready to pony up $200, as that's the price to pay before you can call 'em your own.




Show full PR textWESTONE BRINGS PREMIER SOUND TO THE ACTIVE LISTENER WITH ADVENTURE SERIES ALPHA EARPHONES
Colorado Springs, CO, and Manhattan Beach, CA, June 04, 2013 – Westone, the leader in high performance audio and in-ear monitoring technology, announces the availability of the Adventure Series (ADV) Alpha earphones. The Adventure Series Alpha is the culmination of Westone's two decades of experience with audio and in-ear musicians' monitors. Designed for the active user, Adventure Series creates a new category of cross-over earphones that deliver exceptional audio performance, fit and design for use in all environments.

With IPX-3* water resistance, the Adventure Series earphones are protected against spraying water and adverse conditions for everyday use, rain or shine. Westone's first-ever Adventure Warning and Control System (AWACS Reflective Cable) allows for improved visibility in low-light conditions with a reflective, replaceable cable along with the MFi (Made for iPhone, iPad, iPod) system with three-button volume control and inline microphone. The earphone is constructed from a magnesium uni-body, which allows for durability and unmatched design performance.

Keeping sound quality a priority, Westone integrated their rich heritage of signature driver technologies into the Adventure Series Alpha. A proprietary extended range 6.5mm micro driver with PST™ (Precision Surface Tuning), 20Hz -18kHz frequency response, and impedance of 21 ohms, delivers sonic accuracy with extended bass.

Westone Adventure Series Alpha also features:

- Active Fit System - Up & Over™ cable routing and patented STAR™ Tips ensure superior fit, comfort, and retention for even the toughest adventure.- Magnesium Uni-body Construction – A Low-profile lightweight magnesium uni-body and aluminum faceplate for strength, durability and style.-The MFI control allows the listener to rewind, fast-forward, skip songs, play/pause, activate Siri interface and answer/hang-up calls without interruption of the their activity.

"You can see our customer focus in our Adventure Series. Our fans have been asking for Westone products that they can wear during every activity, whether it is travel, workout or play. The ADVs are our first cross-over MFi earphones and the embodiment of ruggedness with exceptional sound," said John F. Lowrey, Vice President, Audio Group at Westone. "The Adventure Series is a new standalone product line from Westone that will attract listeners who want performance as well as comfort, durability, weather-resistance and the dynamic Westone sound signature."

Included with Adventure Series Alpha are Westone's patented STAR™ silicone tips, True-Fit™ foam tips, wax removal tool, and special weather resistant rigid travel case.

Adventure Series Alpha is available with a MSRP of $199.99 through authorized dealers and e-retailers.

*Source: IPX-3 Liquid Ingress Protection Rating

About WestoneFounded in 1959, Westone is the world's premier manufacturer of high performance in-ear musicians monitors, earphones and innovative speaker technology. After five decades of in-ear and acoustic innovation, Westone has developed a sizable portfolio of exclusive technologies, which incorporate only the most premium materials and optimal processes into all its products. Westone continues to pioneer new innovation into the world of audio and hearing. Their in-ear earphone product lines are actively endorsed by musicians and have won acclaim in countless reviews among audiophiles and artist worldwide. Find out why Westone is Pure Music. For more information, please visit www.westoneaudio.com or call 800-525-5071.


