
  Remember those impressive Westone 4 in-ear monitors that came out late last year, priced at a whopping $450? Well, the company's ready to best itself again -- and have audiophiles open their wallets a bit wider -- with its new 4 R-Series. This latest set is relatively similar to the 4, still packing Westone's EPIC cable (now detachable) and four balanced armature drivers, but will set you back an extra fifty bucks in the name of Acoustic Symmetry. Westone claims the 'phones achieve an "extremely tight tolerance of +/- 2dB between earpieces," meaning your sound should be extra consistent from both buds. The 4 R-Series buds are expected to arrive before the year's out, so in the meantime we'll just direct you to the PR past the break.
 

  Show full PR text  Westone Introduces R-Series Ultra High-Performance Earphones  Westone Laboratories, Inc. introduces the Westone 4 R-Series, the first in a new line of ultra high-performance audiophile earphones.  Colorado Springs, CO., October 24, 2011 – Westone Laboratories, Inc. introduces the Westone 4 R-Series, a new line of ultra high-performance earphones engineered for a new level of in-ear performance.  The new Westone 4 R-Series builds on Westoneʼs unique four driver balanced armature architecture and introduces exclusive Acoustic Symmetry. Achieving an extremely tight tolerance of +/- 2dB between earpieces, Acoustic Symmetry sets the new standard for an audiophile grade in-ear system. R-Series earphones also add Westoneʼs new EPIC Removable Cable. This high-strength, ultra-low resistance tensile wire design with aramid fiber gives the user the ability to replace cables should they become damaged as well as the option to add the new EPIC MICS smartphone interface cable (coming soon). Additional accessories include an inline volume control, 1/8 to 1/4 adapter and premium fit kit with multiple foam and silicone ear tips.  "Our team is constantly pushing the envelope in acoustics, usability and comfort. The Westone 4 R-Series sets a new level of audio performance and packs features aimed at the most sophisticated earphone buyer," explains David Slepak, Marketing Director.  In addition, Westone 4 R-Series earphones ship with Westoneʼs new Monitor Vault. Designed specifically for transporting high-end earphones and manufactured in Colorado of a high-impact polymer, itʼs the perfect size for travel and storage. Each Monitor Vault features a protective foam interior and weather resistant design.  "Set to release in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Westone 4 R-Series has a suggested retail price of $499. With our rapidly expanding network of retailers, the Westone 4 R-Series will be available at e-retailers and retailers worldwide," explains Jeff Kwiatkowski, Director of Westone Music Products.
 