
 

Verizon has confirmed that it will begin selling a "flashy new white" version of the Droid RAZR just in time to make an appearance under the tree, with a pair of Xboard tablets shipping this month as well. The Xyboard (Xoom 2) will be available in five flavors -- the 10.1-incher will come in 16GB, 32GB and 64GB capacities for $530, $630 and $730, respectively, while the 8.2-inch model will ship with 16GB of storage for $430, or 32 gigs for $530. All models require a two-year customer agreement, and include a stylus in the box. And Verizon will help soften the damage if you opt for a complete Droid makeover -- customers who pick up both a $300 RAZR and one of five Honeycomb Xboards will be eligible for a $100 discount when buying the phone with a two-year contract. Thinking about picking up an ICS-ready Droid? Jump past the break for the full feature rundown from VZW.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  VERIZON WIRELESS AND MOTOROLA MOBILITY INTRODUCE NEXT-GENERATION DROID XYBOARD TABLETS ON THE VERIZON WIRELESS 4G LTE NETWORK 		New Tablets Elevate Customers into an Unprecedented Realm of Communication, Entertainment and Productivity; Verizon Wireless Also Offering New DROID RAZR™ by Motorola in White, Just in Time for the Holidays 		BASKING RIDGE, N.J, and LIBERTYVILLE, Ill. – Motorola Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: MMI) and Verizon Wireless today introduced two new additions to the DROID family to deliver new and unparalleled experiences on America's fastest, most reliable 4G network, the DROID XYBOARD tablets. The two new DROID tablets present new options for consumers looking to stay connected, productive and entertained. Additionally, Verizon Wireless will debut the trendsetting DROID RAZR™ by Motorola in a flashy new white color, a unique gift for the winter holidays. All three products will be upgraded to Android™ 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich. 		The new DROID XYBOARD tablets both boast the blazing speeds of Verizon Wireless' 4G LTE network and the power of dual-core 1.2 GHz processors, 1 GB of RAM and MotoCast™ for remote access to non DRM-protected music, pictures, videos and documents stored on work or home computers' hard drives. Both are equipped with scratch-resistant displays that use Corning® Gorilla® Glass to stay brilliant and a coating of water-repellent nanoparticles makes them resistant to accidental spills and splashes. 		Lighter than a paperback book and thinner than an AAA battery, the DROID XYBOARD tablets feature Android™ 3.2 Honeycomb, brilliant high-definition displays with wide viewing angles, magnesium-reinforced bodies with aluminum housing and super portable form-factors. Both tablets offer robust Business Ready features, including enterprise-grade security and apps such as Quickoffice HD® for document editing and creation, Citrix® GoToMeeting™ for productivity and collaboration and Google Talk™ for video conferencing. 		The DROID XYBOARD 10.1 is optimized for productivity with stylus support for easy notetaking and markup using a precision tip stylus, included in the box. The XYBOARD 8.2 is perfect for portable entertainment with 2.1 adaptive virtual surround sound and a high-definition display for enjoying Netflix™ movies in up to HD quality, concert-like music and serious gaming. Powered by the Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network, DROID XYBOARD 10.1 and 8.2 customers can soar through the Web at blazing speeds of 5 to 12 megabits per second (Mbps) and upload speeds of 2 to 5 Mbps within 4G LTE Mobile Broadband coverage areas. 		Additional features for DROID XYBOARD tablets:		· 10.1-inch and 8.2-inch high-definition In-Plane Switching (IPS) display for DROID XYBOARD 10.1 and DROID XYBOARD 8.2 respectively 		· Mobile Hotspot Capability – share 4G LTE connection with up to eight Wi-Fi-enabled devices 		· 5-megapixel rear-facing HD cameras with digital zoom, autofocus and LED flash, optimized for capturing the moment 		· 1.3-megapixel HD front-facing cameras perfect for video chatting with friends and family 		· Dijit™ app allows DROID XYBOARD tablets to double as a universal remote control with an electronic programming guide for TVs, Blu-ray Disc™ players, digital video records (DVR), and most other consumer electronics 		· Support for Google™ Mobile Services including Gmail™, YouTube™, Google Talk, Google Search™, Google Maps™ and access to millions of books from Google Books™ 		· Supports a wide array of separately purchased accessories including an HD station for connecting to speakers and a larger screen, an HD dock to send content via HDMI out to HDTVs and home theater speaker systems and a stylish portfolio with Bluetooth®-enabled keyboard and mouse 		· Wi-Fi Connectivity (802.11 a/b/g/n)  		Pricing:		· Both DROID XYBOARD tablets will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com this month. 		· The DROID XYBOARD 10.1 will be available in three models: 16 GB for $529.99, 32 GB for $629.99 and 64 GB for $729.99 all with a new two-year customer agreement. 		· The DROID XYBOARD 8.2 will be available in two models: 16 GB for $429.99 and 32 GB for $529.99 both with a new two-year customer agreement. 		· Customers that purchase a DROID XYBOARD tablet will need to subscribe to a Verizon Wireless Mobile Broadband data plan starting at $30 monthly access for 2 GB of data. 		DROID RAZR in white will be available in Verizon Wireless Communications Stores and online at www.verizonwireless.com this month for $299.99 with a new two-year customer agreement. Customers that purchase a DROID RAZR will need to subscribe to a Verizon Wireless Nationwide Talk plan beginning at $39.99 monthly access and a smartphone data package starting at $30 monthly access for 2 GB of data. 		Special promotion:		· Customers will receive $100 off a DROID XYBOARD tablet and $50 off select Motorola accessories for a limited time when a customer purchases a DROID RAZR by Motorola with a new two-year customer agreement.
 
*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

