
       
Jumpin' Jehosaphat! Just when you thought America's first 4G phone couldn't get any hotter, along comes this: a striking white version of the HTC EVO 4G (so much for that unavailable white iPhone 4, eh?). We've received confirmation that this here handset will be sold exclusively through Best Buy (as in, don't even bother heading to your local Sprint store), with the official launch date set for July 11th. We're told that Sprint will eventually gain access on August 8th, with other retailers snapping it up in September. If you somehow managed to hold off on snagging the existing black EVO 4G, you can get your pre-order in starting on June 18th -- yeah, today, Junior! We're assuming the price will remain at $199.99 on a 2-year contract, but be sure to drop us a line if you wander in and find out otherwise. 

Update: And it's official; the presser is after the break confirming the same $199.99-on-a-2-year-contract price as well as the dates mentioned already.

Update 2: Turns out this thing was around way back at Google I/O! Head on past the break and mash play -- that's definitely a white-backed EVO 4G on stage. Thanks, Omar!

[Thanks, Anonymous] 






Show full PR textBest Buy® Offers Exclusive Launch of HTC EVOTM 4G from Sprint in WhiteHTC EVO 4G in white goes on pre-sale June 18 and lands in Best Buy and Best Mobile stores July 11MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Best Buy Mobile, the mobile specialty retail unit of Best Buy Co. Inc (NYSE: BBY), is proud to announce the exclusive launch availability of HTC EVO 4G from Sprint in white, an eye-catching sibling of the HTC EVO 4G that continues to create buzz in the mobile phone marketplace."We are proud to help HTC and Sprint bring such a unique, fashionable and versatile mobile phone to consumers. It is a true connectivity device and exclusively launching this product affirms the position Best Buy Mobile has taken as a preferred destination for smartphones."Beginning June 18, Best Buy is taking pre-orders for the white version of the popular mobile device, which is the first 4G smartphone in America. It officially launches in all Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile stores, as well as BestBuy.com/Mobile on July 11. It retails for $199.99 for a new or eligible upgrade with a new two-year agreement on select plan with Premium Data add-on.As the only retail and online location to launch HTC EVO 4G from Sprint in white, Best Buy is showcasing a new way to bring smartphones, accessories, applications and other services to market for consumers."We know that people turn to Best Buy for the latest consumer electronics, and now with our ability to exclusively debut great smartphones like the white version of HTC EVO 4G, they are turning to us for the best smartphones as well," said Jude Buckley, chief merchant and marketing officer for Best Buy Mobile. "We are proud to help HTC and Sprint bring such a unique, fashionable and versatile mobile phone to consumers. It is a true connectivity device and exclusively launching this product affirms the position Best Buy Mobile has taken as a preferred destination for smartphones."Like the original model, the white version of HTC EVO 4G from Sprint allows consumers to create their own mobile hotspot and share the Sprint 3G or 4G network with up to 8 Wi-Fi enabled devices. Consumers will also get the powerful AndroidTM operating system, including access to thousands of great apps.Customers lucky enough to get their hands on the this white-hot smartphone at Best Buy will enjoy the added benefit of no mail-in rebates and can Walk Out Working with access to their email, contacts and favorite content set up by a Best Buy Mobile sales associate.
 