
 The ability to transmit audio-visual content over WiFi is poised to launch a bit of a cable-free revolution in the living room, but before that happens, the Wi-Fi Alliance hopes that manufacturers will rally behind its standard set of technologies known as Miracast -- in the process, burying WiDi and giving AirPlay a run for its money. While the certification program itself has yet to be finalized, it's said to launch later this year and will bless all compatible devices with the "Wi-Fi Certified Miracast" mark. Everything from televisions and set-top boxes, to notebooks, smartphones and tablets will be eligible for certification, which means that we may begin to see the seal in a hell of a lot more places. The PR itself provides scant additional details, but if you're so inclined, feel free to hop the break.



  Show full PR text   Wi-Fi Alliance® To Launch Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Miracast™ To Deliver Display Applications
   Certification program to launch later in 2012

   AUSTIN, Tex., May 31, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- The Wi-Fi Alliance® announced today that it is finalizing its certification program for Wi-Fi® devices to support display applications, and that it has defined a new mark to designate products that have passed certification. The new certification mark will be Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Miracast™.

   Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Miracast devices make use of a Wi-Fi connection to deliver audio and video content from one device to another, without cables or a connection to an existing Wi-Fi network. These devices connect directly, so you can do things like watch videos from a smartphone on a big screen television or share a laptop screen with the conference room projector to collaborate in real-time. Televisions, set-top boxes, notebooks, handsets and tablets are among the device types which will be certified.

   Wires are giving way to Wi-Fi in the digital home. There were over one billion Wi-Fi devices shipped in 2011, and ABI Research forecasts a more than 30 percent annual growth rate for consumer devices over the coming four years. In 2011, the Wi-Fi Alliance certified almost 1,500 digital home and mobile devices.

   Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Miracast products will have implemented the Wi-Fi Alliance Wi-Fi Display Specification, which will be published in August, and will have proven interoperability through testing at an authorized laboratory.

 
