
 

DLNA and WiFi Direct are both pretty sweet technologies on their own but, together, they offer the promise of simple, wireless media streaming without the need for that pesky router middleman. The Digital Living Network Alliance has officially incorporated WiFi Direct into its interoperability guidelines, which means you could soon be streaming movies and music between devices (like your laptop and smartphone) without connecting to a home (or public) network. And don't forget, only one part of the equation needs to be WiFi Direct certified -- so don't worry that your aging computer doesn't support it, as long as your smartphone does you're golden. Check out the PR after the break.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Wi-Fi Direct™ Now Included in DLNA® Interoperability Guidelines  		DLNA® and Wi-Fi Direct™ Make It Easier Than Ever for Consumers to Connect Devices		WI-FI ALLIANCE LOGO WI-FI ALLIANCE LOGO. (PRNewsFoto/Wi-Fi Alliance) AUSTIN, TX UNITED STATES 		PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 15, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The Digital Living Network Alliance® (DLNA®) today announced that Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Wi-Fi Direct has been incorporated into its Interoperability Guidelines. Wi-Fi Direct is a certification by the Wi-Fi Alliance® for products that are capable of device-to-device connections without the presence of a traditional home, office or hotspot network. Through incorporation into the DLNA Interoperability Guidelines, Wi-Fi Direct will expand on the existing Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™ devices supported by DLNA to enhance wireless connectivity for consumers globally. 		(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20070516/SFW029LOGO) 		"Wi-Fi Direct meets an important need for today's consumers to enjoy seamless product interoperability," said Nidhish Parikh, chairman and president of DLNA. "DLNA has supported Wi-Fi CERTIFIED devices since 2005 and the inclusion of Wi-Fi Direct in our Interoperability Guidelines is a logical extension of our relationship with the Wi-Fi Alliance. We continue to advance the connected home by providing consumers with new, innovative ways to connect and enjoy their digital content." 		ABI Research recently examined key market and technology trends for the integration of home networking capability in mobile devices and expects DLNA Certified® and Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Wi-Fi Direct smartphones to grow strongly through 2016. The firm stated that both will help consumers when connecting devices at home and will bring wireless technology further into the mainstream market. 		"Worldwide demand for interoperable, security-protected Wi-Fi® products has grown exponentially in recent years, and the device-to-device usages enabled by Wi-Fi Direct are fundamental to digital home usages for Wi-Fi," said Edgar Figueroa, CEO of Wi-Fi Alliance. "Wi-Fi continues to evolve and to enhance the connected consumer experience. The incorporation of Wi-Fi Direct into the DLNA Interoperability Guidelines will aid the proliferation of Wi-Fi Direct in today's connected home." 		DLNA and the Wi-Fi Alliance are also jointly distributing a holiday edition Gadget Guide (http://www.nxtbook.com/nxtbooks/wifi/gadgetguide_dlnawfa) which highlights great DLNA Certified® and Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™ gift ideas available today for consumer purchase. The 2011 Wi-Fi® and DLNA® Gadget Guide: Holiday Edition is available now. 		About DLNA 		Members of Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) share a vision of an interoperable network of personal computers (PC), consumer electronics (CE), mobile devices and service providers in and beyond the home, enabling a seamless environment for sharing and growing new digital media and content services. Founded in 2003, the group established and maintains a platform of interoperability based on open and established industry standards that, when used by manufacturers will support the sharing of media through wired or wireless networks. More than 200 multi-industry companies from around the world have joined DLNA, committing the time and resources necessary to achieve their vision. DLNA's Promoter Members include: ACCESS, AT&T, AwoX, Broadcom, CableLabs, Cisco, Comcast, DIRECTV, DTS, Dolby Laboratories, Ericsson, HP, Huawei, Intel, LG, Microsoft, Motorola, Nokia, Panasonic, PROMISE Technology, Qualcomm, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Technicolor and Verizon. Additional information about the Alliance, its participating companies and membership benefits is available at www.dlna.org or find the Alliance on Facebook at www.facebook.com/dlnacertified or on Twitter at @DLNA. 		About the Wi-Fi Alliance 		The Wi-Fi Alliance is a global non-profit industry association of hundreds of leading companies devoted to seamless connectivity. With technology development, market building, and regulatory programs, the Wi-Fi Alliance has enabled widespread adoption of Wi-Fi worldwide. 		The Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™ program was launched in March 2000. It provides a widely-recognized designation of interoperability and quality and it helps to ensure that Wi-Fi enabled products deliver the best user experience. The Wi-Fi Alliance has completed more than 11,000 product certifications, encouraging the expanded use of Wi-Fi products and services in new and established markets. 		Wi-Fi®, Wi-Fi Alliance®, WMM®, Wi-Fi Protected Access® (WPA), the Wi-Fi CERTIFIED logo, the Wi-Fi logo, the Wi-Fi ZONE logo and the Wi-Fi Protected Setup logo are registered trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™, Wi-Fi Direct™, Wi-Fi Protected Setup™, Wi-Fi Multimedia™, WPA2™ and the Wi-Fi Alliance logo are trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Additional details on the Wi-Fi Alliance and Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Wi-Fi Direct can be found at http://www.wi-fi.org/Wi-Fi_Direct.php. Follow Wi-Fi Alliance on Twitter @wifialliance.
 