
Care to be one of the first to buy a Wii U this weekend? Then start layering on the outerwear, swallowing that pride and making your way to Nintendo's flagship Rockefeller Plaza store in New York City. Starting at midnight this Saturday, the company will begin selling its next-gen console along with other "premium items" to the extreme fanpersons in attendance. And as a special treat for whomever's waiting at the front of the line, NOA's prez, Reggie Fils-Aime, will be there to hand over that very first console - effectively doubling your bragging rights. So, if you like your launch day cold and a little bit crazy (yes, there will be folks walking around with Mii heads), November 18th's one to mark down in the calendar.



Show full PR textNovember 16, 2012 10:00 AM Eastern TimeNintendo to Celebrate the U.S. Launch of Wii U with Midnight Gathering at Nintendo World
First Wii U consoles go on sale in New York on Nov. 18 with midnight launch event

WHAT:

Consumers will have the chance to be among the first in the world to purchase the Wii U console when the clock strikes midnight on Nov. 18 at Nintendo World in New York's Rockefeller Plaza. Nintendo of America President and COO Reggie Fils-Aime will be on hand to count down the launch and sell a new Wii U to the first consumer in line. Fans waiting in line will get premium items (while supplies last) during the event. Note that supplies are limited, and systems will be sold on a first-come, first-served basis.Nintendo is also selling New York-themed T-shirts with Mario's image at the event. All proceeds from sales of the shirts will be donated to the American Red Cross in support of relief efforts from the effects of Hurricane Sandy.The new Wii U home console offers entirely new ways for consumers to play games in HD and enjoy their favorite programming. More than 20 games will be available for Wii U at launch, which will be offered in two different colors and configurations. The Basic Set will be offered in white at a suggested retail price of $299.99, while the Deluxe Set, which includes higher storage capacity, additional accessories and the new Nintendo Land video game, will be offered in black at a suggested retail price of $349.99.

More information about Wii U can be found at http://www.nintendo.com/wiiu.

WHO:

Adults, teens, tweens, parents, video game fans and consumers

WHEN:

Saturday, Nov. 17, 2012Launch event: 6 p.m. - midnight

WHERE:

Nintendo World at Rockefeller Plaza10 Rockefeller PlazaNew York, NY 10020

VISUALS:

Scores of fans lined up in front of Nintendo World for a chance to be among the first people in the world to purchase the new Wii U consoleNintendo of America President and COO Reggie Fils-Aime welcoming consumers to the Wii U launch eventAttendees joining together for a midnight countdown as the launch approachesNintendo of America President and COO Reggie Fils-Aime presenting the first consumer in line with a Wii UMii costumed characters


