
 The Nintendo Wii U will launch in the US on Sunday, November 18, Nintendo America president and CEO Reggie Fils-Aime revealed in a New York City press conference this morning. It'll arrive in Europe on November 30, though no price was given for our friends abroad. Like its Japanese release, the console comes in two varieties: a base level bundle in white with just 8GB of internal memory for $300 and a premium bundle in black with 32GB of internal memory for $350.

 Each version contains the console itself, a WiiPad, a charging stand, a play stand, and a stand for the console. The premium version, however, adds a subscription to Nintendo's Premium Network, which offers various rewards for digital purchases -- it also gets a full 32GB of internal memory, which is a pretty major step up over the 8GB model. It's hard to imagine either having enough internal storage compared with current-gen consoles, but the Wii U's memory is expandable via USB.

 Fils-Aime also said that Wii remotes are getting rebranded for the Wii U, and will be available in retail shops shortly. Check out the official PR and an additional shot of the basic set after the break. 




 
  Show full PR text    NINTENDO ANNOUNCES NOV. 18 LAUNCH DATE AND DETAILS FOR REVOLUTIONARY Wii U CONSOLE  More Than 50 Games Confirmed for Launch Window, Including Super Mario Bros., Call of Duty and Assassin's Creed Titles

   New Nintendo TVii Application to Change the Way Viewers Experience TV and Video Content Using Wii U GamePad Controller

   REDMOND, Wash., Sept. 13, 2012 – Nintendo today revealed full details about how the new Wii U™ home console and its groundbreaking touch-screen Wii U GamePad controller can revolutionize not only video game play but also the way people find and watch TV and video content. The new HD system will offer entirely new ways for consumers to play games and enjoy their favorite programming when it launches in the Americas on Nov. 18. During the launch window, more than 50 games will be available for Wii U, which will be offered in two different colors and configurations. The Basic Set will be offered in white at a suggested retail price of $299.99, while the Deluxe Set, which includes higher storage capacity, additional accessories and the new Nintendo Land™ video game, will be offered in black at a suggested retail price of $349.99.  At a special Wii U preview event in New York, Nintendo also unveiled Nintendo TVii, an application that will let Wii U owners in the United States and Canada find, watch and engage with their favorite video entertainment in fun new ways. Using the GamePad controller, Nintendo TVii lets viewers seamlessly explore available video content from a variety of sources – including live TV, their TiVo DVR and video-on-demand services such as Netflix – all in one easy-to-use interface.

   Additionally, Nintendo shared new information about dozens of games on the way for Wii U, including Nintendo Land, New Super Mario Bros.™ U, LEGO® City: Undercover, BAYONETTA 2, The Wonderful 101™, Capcom's Monster Hunter™ 3 Ultimate and Activision's Call of Duty®: Black Ops II. New Super Mario Bros. U offers unprecedented ways for friends and families to play together and explore Mario's world using the GamePad. Nintendo Land, which will be available as a standalone game or included with the Wii U Deluxe Set, is a virtual theme park featuring a lineup of 12 playable attractions based on Nintendo's greatest game worlds, including The Legend of Zelda™, Metroid™, Mario™, Animal Crossing™ and Donkey Kong™. As an added bonus for consumers, a Chase McCain LEGO minifigure will come as a special pre-order bonus for those who pre-order a copy of LEGO City: Undercover at participating retailers while supplies last. All of these games will instantly immerse players in a variety of new game-play experiences that are available only on Wii U.

   "The wait is almost over - in just 66 days, Wii U will arrive with the strongest lineup of launch software in Nintendo history," said Nintendo of America President and COO Reggie Fils-Aime. "With the integrated second screen of the included GamePad and features that instantly enhance the way people play games, watch video and interact with each other, consumers will see how Wii U delivers a completely unique experience and a remarkable value right out of the box. The new system also creates extraordinary new possibilities for game developers, bound only by the limits of their imaginations."

   The Wii U Basic Set includes a white Wii U console with 8 GB of internal storage, one white GamePad controller, AC adapters for both the console and controller, a sensor bar and an HDMI® cable. In the Wii U Deluxe Set, components are black. This bundle includes all elements from the Basic Set, as well as the Nintendo Land game, increased console storage capacity of 32 GB, a console stand, GamePad charging cradle and a stand that allows users to place the GamePad vertically on a table. Consumers who purchase the Deluxe Set also will be enrolled in the Deluxe Digital Promotion, which lets Wii U owners receive points for each digital download and redeem those points for future downloadable content from the Nintendo eShop. The promotion is currently planned through 2014.

   Both configurations offer a wealth of one-of-a-kind entertainment experiences, including an online gaming community called Miiverse™ and the new Nintendo TVii application. Using the touch screen on the GamePad controller, Nintendo TVii users will be able to browse programming from sources they subscribe to, including cable and satellite channels, Netflix, Hulu Plus, Amazon Instant Video, YouTube and even their recorded TiVo shows – all from a single starting point.  The selection of third-party games on the way for Wii U will include some of the industry's biggest names and most beloved franchises. Activision is set to bring several  of its leading properties to Wii U during the launch window, including Call of Duty: Black Ops II, Skylanders Giants™ and TRANSFORMERS PRIME™. Other third-party games coming soon to Wii U include Assassin's Creed® III, ZombiU™, Rayman Legends® and Just Dance® 4 from Ubisoft, Madden NFL 13 and Mass Effect™ 3 from Electronic Arts, Scribblenauts™ Unlimited and Batman: Arkham City™ Armored Edition from Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and Disney Epic Mickey 2: The Power of Two from Disney Interactve.

   "The integrated second screen of the GamePad creates new possibilities for how games can be played, and further reflects the innovation Nintendo has poured into the Wii U," said Eric Hirshberg, Activision Publishing's CEO. "We're excited for our fans to experience the biggest franchises, like Call of Duty: Black Ops II, Skylanders Giants and Transformers Prime, in new ways made possible on Wii U."

   Below is a list of upcoming Wii U games that will be available on launch day or during the launch window*. (For information about third-party games, check with the individual publishers.)  Publisher  Title  505 Games  Funky Barn  2K Sports  NBA 2K13  Activision Publishing, Inc.  007™ Legends  Call of Duty®: Black Ops II  TRANSFORMERS PRIME™  Wipeout 3  Skylanders Giants™  Cabela's Dangerous Hunts 2013  Rapala Pro Bass Fishing  Capcom  Monster Hunter™ 3 Ultimate  D3Publisher  Rise of the Guardians: The Video Game  Ben 10: Omniverse™  Family Party: 30 Great Games Obstacle Arcade  Disney Interactive  Disney Epic Mickey 2: The Power of Two  Electronic Arts  Mass Effect™ 3  Madden NFL 13  EA SPORTS™ FIFA Soccer 13  Frozenbyte  Trine 2™: Director's Cut  Gaijin Games  Runner2: Future Legend of Rhythm Alien  Majesco Entertainment  Zumba® Fitness Core  Maximum Games  Jett Tailfin™  NAMCO BANDAI Games America Inc.  TEKKEN TAG TOURNAMENT™ 2 Wii U Edition  TANK! TANK! TANK!™  Nintendo  Nintendo Land™  New Super Mario Bros.™ U  NINJA GAIDEN™ 3: Razor's Edge  SiNG PARTY™  LEGO® City: Undercover  Wii Fit™ U  Game & Wario™  Pikmin™ 3  The Wonderful 101™  SEGA  Aliens: Colonial Marines™  Sonic & All-Stars Racing Transformed  Shin'en  Nano Assault Neo  Tecmo Koei America Corporation  WARRIORS OROCHI® 3 Hyper  THQ  Darksiders® II  Wheel of Fortune®  JEOPARDY! ®  Two Tribes  Toki Tori 2  Ubisoft  Assassin's Creed® III  Just Dance® 4  Marvel Avengers™: Battle for Earth  Rabbids® Land  Sports Connection™  Your Shape®: Fitness Evolved 2013  ZombiU™  Rayman Legends®  Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment  Scribblenauts™ Unlimited  Game Party Champions  Batman: Arkham City™ Armored Edition  * Launch window is defined as the period beginning Nov. 18, 2012, and ending March 31, 2013.  Broadband Internet access is required for online features. For more information, go to http://support.nintendo.com.  Remember that Wii U features parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about this and other features, visit http://www.nintendo.com/wiiu.

 
