
 
 If a copy of Nintendo Land, 32GB of internal memory and a black paint job weren't enough for you to drop an extra $50 for the Wii U Deluxe Set, Nintendo's hoping fresh details on its Deluxe Digital Promotion will further sweeten the pot. When deluxe console owners buy a game through the firm's eShop or purchase a download code at a brick-and-mortar store, they'll receive roughly 10 percent of the price in points. For example, gamers will net 599 points for a title with a $59.99 price tag. For every 500 points, users can snag a code redeemable for $5 in eShop credit useable on the Wii U or 3DS digital storefronts. The house that Mario built will keeping track of points between the system's launch day and December 31st, 2014, but won't issue credits until the promotion's website launches sometime in December. Look out below for more details in the press release.



  Show full PR text   Nintendo's Deluxe Digital Promotion Makes Wii U an Even Bigger Holiday Value
  Wii U Deluxe Set Owners Can Earn Points for Digital Purchases Through 2014 and Redeem Them for Even More Downloadable Games and Content
  REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- As Nintendo prepares to launch the revolutionary Wii U home console on Nov. 18, consumers in the United States can look forward to a special promotion that will give select Wii U owners even more bang for their entertainment buck. Nintendo today revealed details about the Deluxe Digital Promotion, which lets consumers who buy the Wii U Deluxe Set earn points when they purchase downloadable games and redeem those points for even more fun digital content in the online Nintendo eShop. The promotion gives Wii U Deluxe Set owners a big incentive to connect their systems to the Internet and discover a constantly expanding array of downloadable games, entertainment offerings and cool ways to connect with family and friends.
  All Wii U Deluxe Set owners who purchase digital content for Wii U, including downloadable games in the Nintendo eShop for Wii U and download codes sold at select retail stores, will earn points with a value equivalent to approximately 10 percent of the Nintendo eShop list price of each purchase. For example, a game priced at $59.99, such as New Super Mario Bros. U, would earn 599 points. For every 500 points they earn, participants will receive a code worth $5 in credit to be used in the Nintendo eShop for either Wii U or Nintendo 3DS. Points will be earned on all digital purchases made on a Wii U Deluxe Set from Nov. 18, 2012, until Dec. 31, 2014. When the Deluxe Digital Promotion website launches in December, participants can see the points they've earned and receive codes for Nintendo eShop credit by signing in with their Nintendo Network ID and password. Codes must be received at the website by March 31, 2015. Received codes must be exchanged for Nintendo eShop credit on Wii U or Nintendo 3DS by June 30, 2015. Nintendo eShop credit on Wii U and Nintendo 3DS does not expire.
  "From day one, we want Wii U owners to experience the full breadth of great downloadable games and content available for the console," said Scott Moffitt, Nintendo of America's executive vice president of Sales & Marketing. "The Deluxe Digital Promotion is our way of encouraging Wii U Deluxe Set owners to explore the Nintendo eShop and discover how Wii U offers an incredible combination of fun, innovation, convenience and value."
  The Wii U Deluxe Set offers extraordinary value right out of the box. Launching Nov. 18 at a suggested retail price of $349.99, it includes a black Wii U console, black touch-screen Wii U GamePad controller, sensor bar, AC power adapters and stands for both the console and the controller, a charging cradle for the GamePad, an HDMI cable and a copy of the Nintendo Land game, which features 12 playable attractions based on Nintendo's most imaginative and beloved game franchises. Consumers who purchase the Wii U Deluxe Set can use the Deluxe Digital Promotion with a Nintendo Network Account.
  Qualifying Nintendo eShop purchases in the Deluxe Digital Promotion include games and content published by Nintendo as well as games from third-party publishers. Digital content purchases from the Wii Shop Channel are not eligible for Deluxe Digital Promotion points. Purchases from the Nintendo eShop via Nintendo 3DS hand-held and Wii U Basic Set systems are also ineligible.
 
