
 
 Wikipad's Android 4.0 gaming tablet still hasn't received a definitive release date despite having just half a season left to meet its launch target, but that hasn't stopped its creator from boosting the feature set. When the tablet does arrive, it will now bake in Gaikai's game streaming service for you to start playing games as soon as the shrink wrap's off the box. In return for the long wait since CES, Wikipad is also giving its slate a heavy makeover: the 8.1-inch screen is ballooning to 10.1 inches, while a lighter body will carry an unnamed quad-core processor and an option for 3G. Otherwise, you're looking at much of the same formula that first emerged in January, which includes traditional gamepad-like controls on either side as well as front and back cameras, 1080p video support and 8GB of space to store your games when you don't want to bring a microSD card. We're looking forward to getting our paws on those dual analog sticks soon, but for now you can check the news release after the break.



  Show full PR text   GAIKAI AND WIKIPAD PARTNER TO DELIVER CLOUD GAMING ON THE WORLD'S FIRST GAMING TABLET
   (Cision (English) Via Acquire Media NewsEdge) Innovative Tablet Maker Wikipad Partners with Gaikai as the Provider for Streaming High-end Console Quality Games Directly onto its State-of-the -Art Media Tablet LOS ANGELES, CA – May 2, 2012 - Gaikai (http://www.gaikai.com/) (http://www.gaikai.com/)Inc (http://www.gaikai.com/). (http://www.gaikai.com/), the innovative cloud gaming service, today announces the signing of a partnership with Wikipad Inc., makers of the first tablet to offer an attachable, console-quality gamepad controller. The partnership will see the Gaikai client integrated into the tablet, making game streaming available to Wikipad users.

   Cloud gaming is changing the way video games are consumed. Today gamers have to either drive to a store, wait for games to arrive in the mail, or download games, which can take as long as visiting the store itself. Cloud gaming removes the friction and makes games -- no matter how large -- appear instantly. The Wikipad is capable of running games locally but will also offer extremely high performance games from Gaikai's cloud gaming platform. Without cloud gaming, many incredible console quality games could never appear on tablets.

   "We chose to partner with Gaikai's game streaming service for its leading performance, graphics, and content," stated Fraser Townley, President of Sales for Wikipad. "It is the leading game streaming solution with the best library of AAA games and we are thrilled to offer these high quality experiences to our users where Gaikai's network is deployed." "The Wikipad is one of the most exciting devices for gaming to date. The tablet was designed with the needs of gamers in mind, enhancing the mobile gaming experience with a set of controls on par with today's consoles and PC gamepads, enabling gameplay mechanics that have been previously unavailable with just touchscreen controls," said Robert Stevenson, EVP of Business Development & Strategic Partnerships at Gaikai. The Wikipad concept was announced earlier this year with an enthusiastic response from gamers and press at CES 2012. The tablet offers the first-of-its-kind combination of HD graphics, optional 3G module and game console style controls that feature dual-analog sticks as well as a d-pad and video game buttons. Wikipad also features a unique Wifi-Direct optional accessory which will allow games to be played on HDTV monitors or televisions, allowing players to use the tablet as a portable console gamepad as well as a premium Android tablet.

   Wikipad has listened to feedback from gamers worldwide since CES and will launch its tablet with a full suite of the latest immersive entertainment features and enhanced specifications including replacing the 8.1" version with a premium 10.1" screen, ultra-light chassis, optional 3G antenna for mobile provider subscriptions and a quad core processor. The official launch date for the enhanced Wikipad has yet to be announced.

 
