
 We just had a chance to see and handle the colorful Windows Phone 8X by HTC, but where will we find it in the US? On stage, the company told us that the new device will be heading to three major carriers: AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile. All three operators should be pushing the device out sometime in November, though we're still waiting to hear specifics on pricing -- and we also haven't been told details on the availability of the lower-end Windows Phone 8S.

 Note: We're hearing whispers that the 8X will be $199 on AT&T and T-Mobile, but both carriers have responded to our request for more information, stating that no pricing has been released yet. The press releases can be found below.

 Check out our liveblog coverage of HTC's Windows Phone 8 launch event!


  Show full PR text   AT&T Confirms Windows Phone 8X by HTC and Samsung Galaxy Note II Launching on Nation's Largest 4G Network
   Dallas, Texas, September 19, 2012

    AT&T* today confirmed plans to offer Windows Phone 8X by HTC and the Samsung Galaxy Note® II, both within the coming months, following earlier announcements by both handset makers.

   Windows Phone 8X by HTC

   The stunning Windows Phone 8X boasts an iconic design, immersive studio-quality sound and incredible camera capabilities. The first-ever Windows Phone 8 device with built-in Beats Audio™ technology, Windows Phone 8X offers authentic, studio-quality sound that delivers the spirit of the original recording. The 4.3-inch 720p HD (1280 x 720) display comes to life in the phone's slim, sculpted design and improvements to the rear-facing camera let you capture great photos and record video in 1080p HD.

   Samsung Galaxy Note II

   Samsung's Galaxy Note II continues to expand the smartphone category created by the Galaxy Note with improved battery life, a thinner and narrower design and enhancements to the S Pen. Arriving later this year running Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean), the Galaxy Note II with 4G LTE combines the productivity of a tablet with the convenience of a smartphone so you can do more with a single device. With a 5.5-inch HD Super AMOLED™ display and 1.6 GHz quad-core Exynos™ processor, the Galaxy Note II provides PC-like processing power in a truly pocketable device.

   The Samsung Galaxy Note II and Windows Phone 8 X by HTC will be available in all AT&T channels and online in the coming months.

   Show full PR text    Statement: Windows Phone 8X by HTC  Bellevue, Wash. - Sep. 19, 2012  2012-09-19 12:32:30  T-Mobile is excited to partner with HTC to bring our customers the Windows Phone 8X by HTC. As a premium Windows Phone 8 device, the 8X by HTC features a beautiful 4.3" Super LCD HD screen, a powerful dual-core processor and will run on T-Mobile's fast HSPA+42 network. Customers will enjoy access to Windows Phone's Live Tiles, an iconic design, immersive studio-quality sound with Beats Audio™ and incredible camera capabilities.   Information about the Windows Phone 8X by HTC can be found at T-Mobile.com and T-Mobile will share additional details including pricing, availability and other features soon.

 

*Verizon owns AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands.

