
 
  More Info   Windows Phone 7 review  Windows Phone 7.5 (Mango) review  Microsoft introduces Windows Phone 8  Two years ago, the mobile landscape was quite different than what it is today. Android flagship phones sported 1GHz single-core CPUs and were in the process of upgrading to Froyo, the iPhone 4 was the Apple phone of choice and the word "phablet" was sure to be followed by a "Gesundheit." (It still is, arguably.) This is just a brief glimpse at the world in which Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 was born. Destined to be the replacement solution for an obsolete Windows Mobile 6.x platform, WP7 did its best to disrupt the industry by offering its unique Metro user interface and slick performance across the board.  There was one growing problem, however; the mobile industry was rapidly changing, and the Windows Phone honeymoon didn't last as long as Microsoft would've liked. Today, the company enjoys less than 5 percent of the world's smartphone market share as it prepares to launch its next major revision, Windows Phone 8. The new firmware promises to resolve concerns surrounding hardware limitations and the platform's ecosystem, add a plethora of long-awaited features and integrate the OS with Windows 8. It's a hefty task for Microsoft to undertake, to say the least, but we're hoping that two revolutions around the sun were enough for the software giant to impress us with its struggling mobile platform. Did it pull it off? Take a look at what makes Windows Phone 8 tick after the break.



 Hardware It's not very often that we feature a hardware section in a mobile OS review, and it's even rarer for us to put such a strong emphasis on it. Yet, one of the most anticipated enhancements to the Windows Phone platform has been support for several long-overdue hardware components. Ever since WP7 (and WP7.5, also known as Mango) came out, Microsoft's approach has been to standardize nearly every aspect of its hardware: OEMs are restricted to single-core processors, WVGA displays, no external storage and so on. The company has always defended these decisions, as standardized support seemed to help keep WP7 running efficiently and smooth -- not to mention it was less work for developers to make apps for multiple devices. With WP8, Microsoft has either had a change of heart or found a way to keep its platform running as efficiently as before even with the new additions. Either way, it's a necessary change for the outfit if it hopes to be relevant in today's competitive market. Let's take a look at the most significant changes to the hardware capabilities in WP8.

  Multiple cores. Until now, Microsoft's restriction on multi-core processors has been a move that has frustrated power users for the last two years. Critics have argued that the company wasn't keeping up with the times or matching Android and iOS. Microsoft, meanwhile, repeatedly assured us that the move to two cores and beyond would take place once the company found a way to preserve battery life. No matter which argument you agree with, the fact is that now WP8 can support anywhere from two cores to 64. Devices running the OS will start out with dual-core Snapdragon S4 processors, but we doubt it will be long before Microsoft gives the green light to quad-core chipsets. We'll save performance reviews for when we test out these individual devices. Suffice to say, we were already fans of how smooth and quick the OS was on WP7, and our first impressions of the Windows Phone 8X definitely continues (and improves) that trend with the new specs.  Screen resolution. With WP7, only one display resolution was allowed: WVGA, or 800 x 480. Again, this was par for the course on flagship Android devices in 2010 (and way behind the iPhone's Retina display). As you can imagine, this has been another sore point for users -- especially since 720p resolution became the norm. Windows Phone 8 devices can now support one of three options: WXGA (1,280 x 768), 720p (1,280 x 720) and the old-fashioned WVGA standard (ideal for entry-level smartphones). This brings WP8's screens back into the modern age for now, but we're already starting to see Android phones with 1080p displays, and it won't be long before that becomes the new standard for flagship handsets. WP8 is off to a good start, but we're hoping that we'll see even more options available in the near future.  Expandable storage. With the mysterious exception of the Samsung Focus, Microsoft put the kibosh on removable storage for WP7 devices. It was an odd situation, since plenty of phones using the OS actually had a slot for microSD hidden in inaccessible places. The whole thing naturally sparked a controversy when the platform launched, but the issue has finally been resolved; Windows Phone 8 fully supports external storage up to SDXC, allowing you to add as much as 64GB in additional memory. Unfortunately, our particular review unit (the HTC Windows Phone 8X) doesn't include a microSD slot, so we were unable to experience this for ourselves.  NFC. Windows Phone 8 finally brings native support for Near-Field Communications. This opens up lots of possibilities for both users and developers. In addition to the new Wallet feature, you'll be able to use NFC to transfer plenty of content from your phone to either your PC or another person's device. We'll discuss these features in more detail as we go along through this review. (As an aside, we've seen the tech show up on a Windows Phone before -- namely in the Nokia Lumia 610 NFC -- but it was added in as a software stack on top of the OS, while WP8 will natively support the feature.) Just as it's done in the past, Microsoft has offered up a list of hardware requirements for each phone to run Windows Phone 8. The list includes:

  Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 dual-core processor  Minimum 512MB RAM for WVGA phones; minimum 1GB RAM for 720p / WXGA  Minimum 4GB flash memory  GPS and A-GNSS; GLONASS is supported if OEMs decide to include it  Support for micro-USB 2.0  3.5mm stereo headphone jack with three-button detection support  Rear-facing AF camera with LED or Xenon flash, optional front-facing camera (both need to be VGA or better) and dedicated camera button  Accelerometer, proximity and ambient light sensors, as well as vibration motor (magnetometer and gyroscope are optional)  802.11b/g and Bluetooth (802.11n is optional)  DirectX graphics hardware support with hardware acceleration for Direct3D using programmable GPU  Multi-touch capacitive touch screen with minimum of four simultaneous points Another requirement not listed above is that all Windows Phone 8 devices must include the same standard set of buttons: each one needs to have Start, back, search, power, camera and volume up / down keys. All of this sounds promising, given Windows Phone 7's frustrating hardware restrictions, but we're concerned at how often this set of standards will be updated in order to keep pace with the rest of the industry. It's nearly caught up with competing platforms, and we'd hate to see Microsoft fall behind again.

 User interface improvements 
 The initial boot sequence takes you through the usual litany of welcome and setup screens. You'll be prompted to create or log in to your Microsoft Account, set your preferred language and choose if you'd like to back up your pictures, texts and phone settings. From there you'll find yourself on the Start screen, free to roam through various Live Tiles and the app list as you please. If you've used a Windows Phone before, you'll instantly notice that something is different -- very different. As you enter the Start screen you're presented with a familiar checkerboard-like set of Live Tiles as you're used to seeing on a typical Metro Modern UI, but it now extends all the way to the right edge of the screen (in WP7, the tiles only comprised about two-thirds of it, while the rest was simply unused space). This adds a lot more real estate for each tile. Microsoft has also thrown in support for three Live Tile sizes (compared to two in WP7) and has given developers access to all of them. What used to be the smaller tile in WP7 is now considered medium, which means there is an even smaller option available for stuff you want access to but that doesn't require much space. This works well -- we want to have a settings tile pinned to Start, but there's no reason it needs to occupy a large portion of the screen. Same goes for other utilities. You also have the opportunity to change the tile size, a privilege not extended to WP7 users. Third-party developers are required to support small and medium, but it's up to them if they want to accommodate the largest size. To toggle back and forth between all three sizes, just long-press the tile and a new arrow shows up in the bottom-right corner. Press it and presto -- your tile just shrinks or expands, depending on the direction the arrow is facing. The folks in Redmond claim that this new setup makes your phone even more personal than it was before; we just like that we can add more viewable content to the Start screen, and do so in an efficient, well-organized way.




 While the Start screen got the biggest facelift in WP8, there are also some important changes to the lock screen that ultimately make it more useful. In WP7, you were allowed to receive some details about the next appointment in your calendar. Now, you can swap it out for your most recent unread email, text message or missed call. Notifications on the bottom of the screen are more customizable now, as you can choose which types of notifications you receive and what order you want them in from left to right. There's room for five icons, but the major limitation here is that only one of them can be used for notifications from a third-party app. (Update: Microsoft tells us that all five icons will be able to support third-party apps, not just one.) It's an improvement over WP7, but unfortunately it still doesn't best Android's notification system. The lock screen background can also be dynamically updated to display third-party app information -- HTC, for example, does a terrific job of this in its weather app, letting you view the current temperature and the day's forecast (along with pretty pictures of your local weather conditions), and apps like CNN will offer breaking news updates in the same way. You can also have the lock screen show off the Bing photo of the day, if you're just looking for eye candy. Aside from these two changes, WP8 doesn't include many drastic tweaks to the user interface. As you'll see in this review, that doesn't mean Microsoft hasn't thrown in extra features -- it just means people familiar with the Modern UI won't have much of a learning curve when they begin using their new phones. Fortunately, you'll also be able to enjoy OTA upgrades, a feature that's been offered on Android and iOS devices for a long time now. You can be notified when the next update is available, download the updates automatically or manually check for a new software version. Let's talk about how it works. When you go into settings (or the convenient Live Tile already on the Start screen), you can choose from a list of apps, games and photos that you want your kids (or meddling frat buddies) to have access to. You'll also need to set up a password for yourself, by the way, so they can't access it. Once you've set everything up, return to the lock screen and swipe to the left. You'll be greeted by a completely new lock screen, and all you have to do at this point is swipe up and you're in. Kid's Corner still has a Start screen that's just as customizable as your own, but your kids won't have an app list to take advantage of. This feature isn't the first of its kind on the system level: Android users can now take advantage of multiple user profiles with the recent unveiling of Jelly Bean 4.2, but that's still currently restricted to tablet use only, giving WP8 a slight edge in that sense. We've also seen a similar feature capable on jailbroken iPhones. Regardless, the opportunity to offer a second "guest" account within the OS is a welcome addition that should level the playing field with Android and even offer a competitive advantage over iOS in this area. We like the direction Wallet is heading here, as it combines the best ideas from iOS and Android's options. To further improve the experience, we'd love to see Microsoft include some sort of Google Now-like ability where the phone is capable of learning your interests and needs based on what you've previously looked at, but this is at least a start. WP8's NFC support is useful for mobile payments, but it doesn't stop there. The platform also allows you to use this technology to share videos, music, contact information and IE10 links between phones and other devices. Maps, sadly, cannot be shared (although you can at least send a map of your current location via MMS now, as an alternative). NFC transfers work best when done from one WP8 device to another, but there are some transactions technically possible between WP8 and Android; contacts push to Android phones easily enough, but we couldn't seem to transfer URL links the same way. Photos and music aren't compatible due to differences in the platforms -- they simply appear in the form of inaccessible tags. Attempts to go the opposite way and transfer files to WP8 from an Android device failed. While we're happy to see support for NFC, it looks as though our dreams of a true cross-platform solution have yet to be realized. When it comes to what you can do after the shot is taken, Windows Phone 8 has a few new editing tools to add to its collection: crop and rotate. On top of that, SkyDrive users are given more flexibility in how compressed their photos are when they're uploaded -- pics are uploaded in "good quality" by default, but you can change the settings so your shots will be pushed to the cloud in full res ("best quality") as long as you're connected to a hotspot. You can also use NFC once again to your advantage by sharing your pictures and videos with others. As for the Photos Hub, the panels are all the same; the galleries, however, now come with a much-needed multi-select button so you can delete, share, save or star more than one at a time. The address bar also can be customized a bit more than before, as you can now choose between three different functions for the main button found within: your options are stop / refresh, favorites and tabs. To add to the list of new features, IE10 now has "find on page," Do Not Track and NFC link sharing. IE10 also includes a SmartScreen filter, which is a lifesaver if you accidentally wander into a malicious site.