
 
Based on just how intimately we studied Chris Berman's hairdo from ESPN's 1979 launch, we're more than confident in saying that the video produced here to showcase a "new" wireless desk is most certainly a relic from yesteryear. WiPower -- a company that was trumpeting its wireless charging pad way back in '07 -- has purportedly joined up with Gill Industries in order to showcase the planet's first production through-desk, wireless charging system at NeoCon 2010. The solution would enable laptop users to plop their machine down anywhere on their desk (within the charging area, of course) and have it instantly charge, and if you play your cards right, doing so may open up a wormhole to the era of your choice. In all seriousness, we already saw a working demo of a similar solution at Qualcomm's Computex booth, so there's a better than average chance that this stuff is ready to ship right away. Trouble is, there's no official launch date for Gill's new family of energy-infused tables. Blast the from past is after the break... if you're prepared.
      

 

See more video at our hub!Show full PR textWiPower and Gill Industries to Debut Embedded Wireless Charging at NeoConWiPower, the leader in wireless power technology, debuts their technology in the world's first production through-desk, wireless charging system at NeoCon 2010. Gill Industries, an innovation leader for the furniture industry, will be introducing their embedded through-desk transmitter utilizing WiPower technology.Altamonte Springs, FL (PRWEB) June 14, 2010 -- WiPower, the leader in wireless power technology, debuts their technology in the world's first production through-desk, wireless charging system at NeoCon 2010. Gill Industries, an innovation leader for the furniture industry, will be introducing their embedded through-desk transmitter utilizing WiPower technology. The combination provides a system which offers a glimpse of the extended range products that WiPower and Gill will be launching later this year. This through-desk system represents the latest advancement in wireless power technology, enabling consumers to create clean, wirelessly-enabled spaces at home or the office by simply attaching a wireless power transmitter to the underside of a table or desk. In addition, at NeoCon, WiPower and Gill will show the scaling of the technology to charge anything from traditional smart phones to laptop computers.Wirelessly Charging Laptop on Gill DeskWirelessly Charging Laptop on Gill Desk"Consistent with WiPower's generation three technology platform, the through-desk system offers users similar advantages to its table top charging pad, notably multiple devices support and alignment insensitivity, but also the users can experience the benefits of extended range power transmission. Consumers can simply place their laptops on top of a WiPower enabled desk in any position within the charging area for efficient, convenient charging. The through-desk system is completely seamless – it can be embedded in new surfaces without any difficult routing requirement and can be retrofitted to existing surfaces," says WiPower's CEO, Rahul Razdan."We envision this technology becoming the standard in every home, office, and automobile. Consumers, and our customers, are excited about WiPower technology because of its potential to enhance the way we move through our day. Without the burden of power cords and the worry of having to find an outlet, a person's mobility is dramatically improved," says Richard Perreault, President of Gill Industries.WiPower is launching its table top charging pad and handset skins for the Apple iPhone, Blackberry Tour, and Blackberry 8900 at the end of July. The skins from the table top version will work seamlessly with the through-desk version coming out later in the year.About WiPower:WiPower (pronounced "y-power"), founded in 2004, has developed an induction-based, close range power system that enables the charging of compatible devices when placed on top of the charging pad. WiPower's system has the ability to charge multiple devices simultaneously that are placed in any position or orientation on the pad. For more information on the advantages of WiPower's solution, please visit: http://www.wipower.com/cadvantage.php. WiPower has partnered with OEMs, accessory manufacturers and design firms, to bring wireless power to consumers in a variety of applications and industries. Headquartered in Altamonte Springs, Florida, the company has offices in Gainesville, Florida and Boston, Massachusetts.
 