
 We wouldn't blame you if, three months into 2013, you'd let those New Year's resolutions slide a bit. Luckily for you, Withings is giving you a chance to wipe the slate clean after launching its air-sniffing flagship, the Smart Body Analyzer. As well as monitoring your weight and body fat, the new hardware measures the local atmosphere and your heart rate -- to ensure you're not overdosing on carbon dioxide. It's available for $150 / €150 from today -- just don't forget to cancel the In-N-Out order on your way to the store.



  Show full PR text   Withings Smart Body Analyzer: the first scale that listens to the heart and sees the invisible!
  Paris - March 20, 2013 – Withings, the creator of the first Internet-connected scale has transformed the body scale once again with the launch of Smart Body Analyzer, the first smart scale that is capable of measuring heart rate and air quality, as well as traditional weight measurements and body composition. An unparalleled revolutionary device, this brand new scale provides up to 8 users with a new and accurate way to improve well-being without changing anything within their daily lives.

   Measure your heart! Smart Body Analyzer provides users with a quick and comprehensive health snapshot providing an overview of data: weight, fat mass percentage and heart rate. Resting heart rate is an excellent indicator of someone's overall physical state of health. Integrating this metric into a scale makes complete sense when we know that 80% of users weigh themselves in the morning, the time of day when this indicator is most consistent. These measurements, which indicate a person's overall long-term fitness, are taken instantly when users simply step onto the scale and are uploaded to their dashboard. Each user is automatically identified by the scale and can be aware of their physical health in an easy and reliable way.

   Cédric Hutchings, co-founder of Withings says: "The Withings team has worked for over 3 years to develop this new generation of smart scale, a sector which we created in 2009. The primary challenge has been to introduce new measurements into our service so that our customers don't have to change their behavior or daily life."

   See the invisible! In addition to users' physical data, Smart Body Analyzer also measures the air quality of its surrounding environment through temperature and carbon dioxide monitoring. CO2 is a gas formed by metabolic activity that builds up to excessive levels in confined spaces, like bedrooms, if they are not aired out frequently to allow fresh air to circulate. High levels of CO2 can produce a range of adverse health effects: deterioration of sleep quality, headaches, dizziness, restlessness, difficulty breathing, increased heart rate, sweating, etc. By monitoring and managing indoor air quality, people can live and sleep in a healthier environment.

   Intuitive, simple and accurate. Smart Body Analyzer is ideal for managing users' daily weight data, enabling them to adapt their diet accordingly. Smart Body Analyzer is set up with just a few taps from a smartphone or tablet (iOS or Android). Then, users just need to weigh themselves for the data to be automatically sent to the free 'Withings Health Mate' application, which provides a detailed and precise history of past weigh-ins. Within the app, users can see the weight, BMI (Body Mass Index), fat mass, and heart rate recommended values for each user based on health professionals and the World Health Organization (WHO). Data is accessible from whichever device the user chooses (iPhone, Android phone, tablet or computer). Each user has their own account protected by a password, so that all data stays personal and confidential.   A daily health mate in your pocket. The Withings Health Mate is a unique tool which enables users to access their data in one spot, in order to understand at-a-glance their long-term evolution thanks to the graphs and to easily evaluate themselves in comparison to the recommendations from the WHO. Based on the collected data, the application can deliver pertinent advice in order to improve well-being. Withings Health Mate also accompanies users to achieve their objectives such as losing weight thanks to the appropriate guidance.

   Withings Health Mate offers users the possibility to share data in a simple, reliable and secure way with a third-party such as the doctor, nutritionist or a close friend or family.

   This agnostic application can save data from third party devices, sensors and applications. This gives users a synchronized at-a-glance dashboard of all their health data. More than 80 compatible applications and services such as LoseIt! Runkeeper, DailyBurn, or MyFitnessPal can retrieve data captured by the Smart Body Analyzer.

   Design: worth its weight in gold. Withings pays particular attention to the design of its devices which each year are recognized by a number of international awards: IF Design Award, Etoile de l'Observeur du Design, CES Innovations and others. The new Withings scale is a beautiful object with a sleek and refined look. The range of sensors which have been elegantly integrated underneath the plate of glass preserves the overall pure design. The whole Withings range of scales is equipped with a unique technology called Withings Position Control™. This advanced technology enables highly accurate weighing assisted by the indication on the screen which enables users to position themselves on the scale to optimize their weight reading.

   Key features

   Position Control™ technology: best-in-class weighing technology to ensure accuracy  Fat mass measurement: available in athlete and non-athlete modes  Heart rate measurement: this feature is introduced on a scale for the first time and allows tracking of the resting heart rate by just stepping on a scale. Like all other measurements, heart rate readings are automatically transmitted and rendered on the Withings Health Mate mobile app  Air quality measurement: CO2 and temperature monitoring to better control and manage bedroom air quality  Connectivity: Bluetooth, Bluetooth Smart and Wi-Fi for easy setup and hassle-free data upload

 
