
 
 Are you using a Withings WiFi Body Scale to monitor your weight-loss efforts? Are you also using a BodyMedia FIT Armband to track your activity and calories burned? Get ready for a body-stat explosion, because now you can pair the two devices to streamline all that info on your progress. Instead of manually entering your weight into the BodyMedia activity manager, just step on the Withings scale and it will be imported into your BodyMedia online dashboard via WiFi. That's all well and good, but it reminds us an awful lot of Fitbit, which sells a less-expensive body scale that integrates with the company's wearable fitness trackers. The full Withings / BodyMedia press release is after the break, but shouldn't you be out running or something?



  Show full PR text   Issy-les-Moulineaux, France – April 24, 2012 -- Withings, developer of the world's first WiFi-connected personal weight scale, today announced a strategic partnership with wearable body monitor pioneer BodyMedia, Inc. to aid consumers in weight loss efforts. Under the partnership, weight data can be automatically imported into the BodyMedia FIT™ Armband System simply by stepping on the Withings WiFi Body Scale, eliminating the need to enter the information into the BodyMedia FIT Activity Manager manually.   The Withings WiFi Scale measures a user's body weight, lean and fat mass, and calculates body mass index (BMI) and automatically transmits the data to a secure personal webpage using the built in WiFi. The data can be accessed from any Internet connected device or the free Withings smartphone application. The scale can track eight users and, if desired, automatically tweet or update the user's Facebook status with the details of the latest weigh-in to generate support for the user's weight loss efforts from Twitter followers or Facebook friends. By using the WiFi Scale, users can see a graphical representation of users' journeys in attaining their health goals.   BodyMedia FIT armbands collect physiological data from the human body using four unique sensors that capture over 5,000 data readings every minute. This raw data includes measurements of heat flux, skin temperature, motion and galvanic skin response. BodyMedia's proprietary algorithms convert these readings to accurately capture key areas that directly affect people's health and wellness: calorie burn, physical activity duration, steps taken, and sleep duration and efficiency. The data is then stored on each user's online Activity Manager, where it is available at any time via a computer or smartphone to help manage and track fitness and weight loss progress.   "Partnering with Withings will make it easier for BodyMedia armband users to log their weight information in our software," said Christine Robins, CEO of BodyMedia. "Being able to track your weight over time is a true motivator and indicator of when you're heading in the right or wrong direction for your goals, and now Withings makes this step simple."   "Weighing yourself is obviously a vital component of weight control, but BodyMedia's body monitoring armband system takes it a step further by measuring vital statistics like calorie burn that help consumers see exactly why they are or are not losing weight," said Cedric Hutchings, Withings General Manager. "Through this partnership, we have simplified the process of documenting weight data in the BodyMedia FIT Activity Manager, helping to provide ongoing support and motivation that is critical to weight loss success."   The Withings WiFi Body Scale is currently available on www.withings.com for $159.00 USD. The BodyMedia FIT system is sold online at www.bodymedia.com and select retailers. To request additional information or images, contact PR representative Jessica Darrican at (305) 374-4404 ext.116 or jessica@maxborgesagency.com.

 
