
 
You know that friend -- we all have one -- that bores you with incessant tweets regarding his weight, his caloric intake, number of miles jogged, so on and so forth? Well, don't let him get a hold on this: finally available in the US, the WiFi Body Scale by Withings has received a bit of an upgrade, with its web app now offering Twitter integration. Not only does this bad boy register your weight, body fat, and BMI, but you can now configure it to send your stats to "the Twitter" either daily, weekly, monthly, or each and every time you weigh -- and your followers will start dropping faster than even you could imagine. But don't take our word for it! As our man Cedric Hutchings (the company's general manager) states, "adding this social functionality makes the WiFi scale by Withings the first true flagship of the Internet of Objects." Right. He might have added that the company's given "fail whale" an entirely new meaning. Yours for $159. PR after the break.
 
 

Show full PR textWithings Announces Social Media Functionality to its WiFi Body ScaleWithings utilizes Twitter updates to keep users motivated and help them reach their weight loss goalsIssy-les-Moulineaux, France – November 10, 2009 -- Today, Withings is announcing Twitter integration into its first-of-its-kind WiFi Body Scale. As the world's first WiFi connected personal weight scale, it automatically records the user's body weight, lean & fat mass, and calculated body mass index (BMI) to their secure webpage and/or free Withings iPhone application, WiScale. Now, with this new added feature, users can set up alerts to automatically post their updates to Twitter accounts, further motivating them by sharing their progress with followers. "This social media feature was the next logical step in the evolution of the WiFi scale for our customers," said Cedric Hutchings, Withings General Manager. "Here at Withings we are committed to roll out new features and services on the field thanks to automatic updates. Adding this social functionality makes the WiFi scale by Withings the first true flagship of the Internet of Objects." By default, the Twitter feature will not be activated when you purchase your scale, it will have to be enabled by the user on www.withings.com. During the Twitter set up process, a user can set their Twitter alerts to post automatically at each measure, daily, weekly or monthly (see image here). The tweet will read the users current weight and how many pounds they have left to reach their set goal, whether they need to loose or gain! Since the scale tracks up to eight users per scale, only the users that enable this feature will benefit from the online peer motivation. More information on the Twitter feature here: Withings Blog. With its extra-flat (.9") black and steel design, the scale is an ideal addition to any bathroom. It's jam-packed with technology, while still remaining very simple to use. By using bioelectric impedance analysis (BIA), the scale calculates the user's body fat composition. The scale is the perfect tool for anyone who is concerned about their health and is interested in monitoring the benefits and progress of their diet and exercise plan. The scale is currently available on www.withings.com for $159.00 USD. For more information on Withings, go to www.withings.com. To request additional information or images of the WiFi Body Scale, please contact PR representative Jessica Darrican at (305) 576-1171 ext.16 or jessica@maxborgesagency.com.About WithingsWithings is a French start-up established by three executives from the technology and telecom industry. With a focus on the innovation and design for everyday products, Withings introduced in September 2009 its first-of-its-kind WiFi Bodyscale in the United States. For more information on Withings, visit www.withings.com. 
 