
 
Withings users not satisfied with only being able to share their weight with the world can now add blood pressure and heart rate to the mix. This iPhone-connected blood pressure monitor made its first appearance at CES, but you'll finally be able to order one of your own today. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch, the $129 accessory costs three to four times as much as off-the-shelf blood pressure monitors, but integrates well if you're looking to pair it with your Withings scale for a complete vitals management solution. Results can be sent to health sites like Google Health and Microsoft HealthVault, or directly to your doctor. Care to see how it works? Join us past the break for a hands-on look at the monitor, including a video comparison with the in-store vitals machine at our neighborhood Kmart.

Update: Withings wrote in to let us know that the blood pressure readings in the video below were likely inflated because we were talking, though we do appreciate the concern you've already expressed in the comments.






 	Even iOS newbies shouldn't have any issue getting started -- connecting the monitor to your device's dock connector launches the Withings app (or prompts you to install it, if you haven't already done so). An on-screen start button inflates the AAA-battery powered cuff, and presents your results about 30 seconds later. Colored circles indicate a possible health issue, and an FAQ screen helps to explain your results. During our Kmart test, the Withings monitor presented results of 147/93 with a heart rate of 94, compared to 133/95 with a heart rate of 96 on the in-store machine -- perhaps the c-list discounter was trying to imply that we can afford to load up on some junk food? Considering results tended to vary by a similar amount during multiple tests on the same machine, it's safe to conclude that both are accurate. The Withings Blood Pressure Monitor ships today, so early adopters could be tweeting a complete snapshot of their physical health before the week is out.    			Show full PR text  Withings Announces US Availability of its Connected Blood Pressure Monitor for iPad, iPhone and iPod touch 			Withings combines sophisticated technology and design to transform an ordinary blood pressure monitor into an accurate health self-monitoring device 			Paris, France – June 20, 2011– Today, French technology company Withings announced the US availability of its Blood Pressure Monitor (BPM) for iPad®, iPhone® and iPod touch®. This Withings BPM, including blood pressure cuff and companion Withings App, is a modern way to measure and record blood pressure readings in the personal and professional arenas. 			With more than 25% of the world's population* affected by hypertension, Withings has combined advanced technology and sophisticated design to create a medical device that is visually attractive, accurate and easy to use at home, in a professional setting or on the go. 			Cédric Hutchings, Withings co-founder says, "Apple has revolutionized the smartphone and tablet market with both its design and functionality. We have strived to extend this revolution into the field of health and fitness by integrating our products to work seamlessly with Apple iOS devices." 			The Withings BPM is truly a plug-and-play solution for blood pressure measurement and tracking. Users simply wrap the blood pressure cuff around their arm and plug it directly into their iPad, iPhone or iPod touch using the incorporated cable. Once connected, the Withings App launches instantly on the iOS device and is ready to begin the measurement. When the reading is complete, the full results (Systole, Diastole and heart rate) are saved directly on the device, eliminating manual tracking. 			A user's stats can be accessed instantly from their iOS device or from their personal Withings webpage. Results are saved denoting dates and time of day for each reading, to help when comparing morning, afternoon and evening readings, and readings over time. Results can easily be shared by emailing results to a doctor and/or using the device's automatic sharing feature to sync with popular personal health record sites like Google Health™ and Microsoft® HealthVault™ - virtually eliminating the gap between patient and doctor. 			When used in conjunction with the Withings WiFi body scale, weight and blood pressure are tracked on the same graph within the app, giving users an at-a-glance health snapshot. Both products bring together in one place two vital pieces of your overall health, which is ideal when tracking trends and early warning signs of health problems. 			Withings Blood Pressure Monitor Technical Specifications: (detailed specs) 			Works with: iPad, iPad 2, iPhone, iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPod touch 2nd			generation, iPod touch 3rd generation and iPod touch 4th generation			Measurement: Oscillometric Method			Measurement range: 0 to 285mmHg			Pulse: from 40 to 180 beats per minute			Cuff circumference: fits arm circumferences from 9" to 17"			Pump: automatic inflation with air pump, controlled pressure release			FDA: device has received FDA clearance 			The Withings Blood Pressure monitor works with iPad, iPhone and iPod touch. Starting today, the Withings Blood Pressure Monitor is available at www.withings.com for $129. The Withings App is available for free from the App Store on iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, or at www.iTunes.com/AppStore. 
 