
  Wolfram Alpha has made some fairly big strides in its few short years of existence, but the so-called computational knowledge engine has now rolled out what founder Stephen Wolfram says is the "the single most important development for Wolfram Alpha since the original website launched in 2009." That development is Wolfram Alpha Pro, a new premium service that will run you $4.99 a month (or $2.99/month for students) and give you access to a wealth of new options for both input and output. On the input end, you can now upload images, audio and other files (over 60 types in all) for automatic analysis and a detailed report -- according to Stephen Wolfram, the ultimate goal being "to do what a top data scientist would do if given the user's data." As for output, you'll now be able to take advantage of a number of richer download options, including the ability to interact with and tailor the reports to your liking. As you might expect, however, that's just scratching the surface -- you can get a detailed look at the new service at the links below, or take it for a spin yourself with a free trial subscription.
      

 

  Show full PR text  Wolfram|Alpha Pro Launches; Applies Computational Knowledge to Data From Users  CHAMPAIGN, IL, Feb 08, 2012 (MARKETWIRE via COMTEX) -- Wolfram Alpha LLC today announced the immediate availability of Wolfram|Alpha Pro, a new service building on its widely used Wolfram|Alpha computational knowledge engine.  "Wolfram|Alpha Pro is a major step forward for Wolfram|Alpha and the concept of computational knowledge," said Stephen Wolfram, Founder and CEO of Wolfram Alpha LLC. "It is the single most important development for Wolfram|Alpha since the original website launched in 2009."  Wolfram|Alpha Pro emphasizes closer interaction between the user and the Wolfram|Alpha computational knowledge engine. A key feature is the ability to upload virtually any common kind of file or data for automatic analysis. Raw tabular data, images, audio, XML, and dozens of specialized scientific, medical, and mathematical formats are among the more than 60 formats currently supported by Wolfram|Alpha Pro.  "Our goal is to do what a top data scientist would do if given the user's data -- but to do it automatically in just a few seconds," said Stephen Wolfram. "Wolfram|Alpha Pro automatically applies a large number of algorithms and heuristics, as well as uses its built-in knowledge, to derive the most important conclusions from data, and generate an organized report for the user." Wolfram|Alpha Pro also allows free-form linguistics to be used to make specific queries about uploaded data.  Wolfram|Alpha Pro also adds richer output to Wolfram|Alpha, automatically generating CDF (Computable Document Format) with interactive controls for animation and manipulation. In addition, users of Wolfram|Alpha Pro gain options for customizing graphical and tabular output for presentations and other purposes, and for downloading raw generated data in more than 60 formats.  Wolfram|Alpha Pro includes a host of other convenient new features, such as history, favorites, display options, whole-page download, and an on-screen keyboard for special technical symbols.  Free trial access to Wolfram|Alpha Pro is available immediately, with subscriptions starting at an introductory price of $4.99 per month, or $2.99 per month for students. Educational and site pricing are also available. The "standard" Wolfram|Alpha will remain free of charge to everyone, but only subscribers will have access to new Pro-level features and functionality.  More information is available at www.wolframalpha.com/pro .  About Wolfram|Alpha  Wolfram Alpha LLC is a Wolfram Research company whose long-term goal is to make all systematic knowledge immediately computable and accessible to everyone. The company aims to collect and curate all objective data; implement every known model, method, and algorithm; and make it possible to compute whatever can be computed about anything. Wolfram|Alpha builds on the achievements of science and other systematizations of knowledge to provide a single source that can be relied on by everyone for definitive answers to factual queries. In addition to the WolframAlpha.com website, Wolfram|Alpha is used in a variety of prominent mobile applications.  SOURCE: Wolfram Alpha
 