
Microsoft's Xbox 360 monthly free game promo, "Games with Gold," is being extended indefinitely. The program is essentially Microsoft's response on Xbox 360 to Sony's PlayStation Plus initiative on PlayStation 3 and Vita: members who pay the monthly or annual fee to the programs receive a variety of free games each month. Sony announced an extension of its program to its next game console, the PlayStation 4, back at E3 2013 -- anyone who already pays for PS Plus on PS3 or Vita is automatically a member on PS4.


Microsoft, however, won't say if "Games with Gold" will extend to its upcoming game console, the Xbox One."We're excited to announce we are extending Games with Gold for Xbox 360. We will share more details on the program soon. Stay tuned for our plans on Xbox One," a Microsoft spokesperson told Engadget. There are, of course, many other benefits to paying for an Xbox Live Gold account on the Xbox One, the least of which is the ability to play online multiplayer games.


Games with Gold kicked off in July 2013 with the aged Xbox Live Arcade title Defense Grid, and has since offered a smattering of other titles, from Crackdown to Dead Rising 2. This month's free games are Might & Magic: Clash of Heroes and Halo 3.



Show full PR textGames with Gold: Now an Ongoing Benefit for Xbox Live Gold Members on Xbox 360!

Friday, Oct. 18, 12:01 a.m. PDT

By: Xbox Wire Staff

At E3 2013, we launched Games with Gold as a limited-time program to thank our Xbox Live Gold members. Within that short period of time, we've seen an overwhelming response, with more than 120 million hours played with Games with Gold titles. Today, as a part of the "Week of Xbox Live," we're excited to announce that we are making Games with Gold an ongoing benefit for Xbox Live Gold members on Xbox 360.

Whether they are blockbuster AAA or popular arcade titles, Games with Gold continues to offer a diverse mix of games with two free Xbox 360 titles a month – yours to keep and at no additional cost. According to recent surveys, 97 percent of participating members have given their stamp of approval for Games with Gold, and we're excited to continue bringing you great games every month as part of our ongoing commitment to providing great value on Xbox 360.

Don't forget to download "Halo 3," called "nothing short of epic" by IGN.com and available Oct. 16-31. Stay tuned to Xbox Wire and Major Nelson's blog for new Games with Gold titles announced each month.

More details on the Games with Gold program are available here.


