
 A host of new Xbox Live apps came online for Gold subscribers today, including Vimeo and AOL On. Vimeo users will have the ability to share videos through Xbox Live and Facebook, but the new app may also be preparation for the official launch of the streaming site's pay-to-view service, available to all Vimeo Pro members in early 2013. AOL On also brings its library of over 380,000 videos, including content from HuffPost Entertainment, Reuters, CNET, Moviefone, Entertainment Tonight and yours truly. Lastly, Verizon FiOS users will now see 75 channels on Xbox Live, including 49 new additions such as AMC HD and NFL Network. All apps can be controlled via Kinect voice and gestures, though you may need more than zombie-like reflexes to flip to the Walking Dead.

 [Disclosure: Engadget is part of the AOL family]


  Show full PR text   New Apps Launch on Xbox LIVE
   You should be able to download many of the below apps from the Xbox LIVE marketplace starting today. We're launching a lot of apps at once so it may take a day or two for everything to arrive. You can get to know all of the apps from last week while you're waiting.

   Crunchyroll (Launching in All LIVE Markets excluding Japan, UAE, Slovakia and Saudi Arabia)  Watch your favorite Anime and Asian drama titles including "Bleach," "Naruto Shippuden," "Hunter x Hunter," "Sword Art Online," "Coffee Prince" and "Boys Over Flowers" in HD with Crunchyroll on Xbox 360. Instantly view over 20,000 episodes of professionally subtitled Anime, Korean drama, and live-action titles in HD. Enhance your Crunchyroll app experience with voice and gesture control via Kinect for Xbox 360.

   Televisa (Launching in Mexico)  Televisa is Mexico´s leading entertainment company and its free app offers rich live and on demand content such as recaps from telenovelas, sports, news and entertainment. Watch now your favorite local TV shows.

   Azteca (Launching in Mexico)  TV Azteca subscribers can now watch their favorite television shows and movies from their Xbox 360 console. TV Azteca is one of the Mexico's largest content providers and offers programming for everyone. Watch news, sports, soap operas and more with the TV Azteca app.

   Viaplay (Launching in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden)  The Viaplay app offers an exciting mix of television shows and on demand content spanning across movies, kids and sports. Users will be able to view a fantastic line-up of sports content including major international events as well as local television shows.

   AOL On (Launching in United States)  Get the latest videos from AOL On – now on Xbox 360. AOL On makes it easy to find top new stories, the hottest in entertainment, even simple recipes with all of the best videos from Reuters, Entertainment Tonight and many more.

   Vimeo (Launching in United States)  Packed with amazing ways to watch, discover, and share, the Vimeo app for Xbox 360 enables lovers of high-quality videos to stimulate their eyeballs through their console. Follow your Xbox Live friends' activity on Vimeo, control the app via voice or gesture with Kinect, and access Vimeo on your Xbox 360.

   SnagFilms (Launching in United States)  Sit back and watch acclaimed indie movies, from some of the greatest names in film - on demand, for free. SnagFilms brings you the best of its library including hundreds of films from award-winning documentaries to outstanding fiction feature films.

   IGN (Expanding to Australia and New Zealand)  Game previews, reviews, guides and gameplay videos as well as 'Instant access' to game help walkthroughs and IGN's extensive catalog of popular shows, including "The Daily Fix," "Strategize," "Weekly 'Wood" and more.

   For users in the U.S., we're also updating the Verizon FiOS app today with an additional 49 channels. The expanded app will now provide Verizon FiOS customers with access to 75 channels and to catch up on the latest programing from NFL Network HD, AMC HD, A&E HD and more. Verizon FiOS on Xbox LIVE includes an interactive media guide with TV Guide listings, favorite channels, search and more. You can use gesture and voice commands with your Kinect to change the channel or browse the guide. Check out more from Verizon here.

   We've got more coming in the new year, so stay tuned. For more information please visit Xbox.com.

 
