
 

The PlayStation 3 may have NFL Sunday Ticket but the Xbox 360 still has exclusive access to ESPN3's slate of games, shows and replays, and today the app was updated with a new look and a few new features. Viewers can designate their favorite sports and teams to bring related content right to the front, while a new mini-guide gives easy access to other streams while you watch. If you're trying to keep track of more than one game there's also support for split screen viewing (with independent control of each stream) and upgraded voice control for Kinect owners. Other tweaks include a college football scoreboard to keep track of all the games at once, reminders, live alerts on score changes and the addition of ESPN's BottomLine. Unchanged is the restriction that you need to subscribe to a TV provider that includes ESPN3 in its package, but if you do have the service (and shell out for XBL, of course) it should be available the next time you load up your console. Check out the YouTube videos embedded above and after the break along with a press release for a runthrough of some of the new features.
      

 

  		Show full PR text 		New ESPN on Xbox LIVE Update Gives Fans the Ultimate Sports Viewing Experience		Posted by Kristie Chong-Adler • August 25, 2011 • Printer-friendly 		To Tweet this release – http://es.pn/EXBL3 		Updating today and in time for the start of college football season, the new ESPN on Xbox LIVE delivers the ultimate sports viewing experience for fans. A newly redesigned user interface coupled with brand new personalization features, tools and more gives fans access to thousands of live events and highlights, including more than 400 college football games, 31 bowl games and more than 75 exclusive games – close to 50 in the first five weeks of the season alone – from ESPN3.com, including some of the biggest out-of-market showdowns. To view an intro video from SportsNation's Colin Cowherd and Michelle Beadle, click HERE. For screenshots of the new service, click HERE. 		New features launching with today's update include: 		My Sports – allows fans to choose their favorite sports and teams and designate them as "My Sports," giving fans a quick way to jump directly into the games and content most important to them. Additionally, it will automatically provide a personalized daily feed of news and highlights based on "My Sports."		Mini Guide – gives fans a preview and quick access to all the personalized sports content right at the bottom of the screen, including live events and highlights.		Split Screen – lets fans watch two events at once. Watch ESPN3.com live events on both screens or a live event on one while catching up on ESPN.com news and highlights on the other. Both screens can even be controlled independently with pausing and rewinding.		Voice Control with Kinect™ – allows fans to navigate through the Content Guide, skip to the next highlight, or play, pause, and rewind a big play all through voice control.		College Football Scoreboard – gives fans easy access to live college football scores at any time. Split Screen allows fans to watch the big game on one side while the live scoreboard occupies the other.		Reminders – lets fans tag games and set reminders so they never miss a moment.		Live Alerts – are located at the bottom of the screen and keeps fans posted on score changes from around college football.		ESPN BottomLine –keeps fans in the know with breaking news and score updates from around the world of sports.		Beyond college football, ESPN on Xbox LIVE delivers HD-quality live events and highlights from college basketball, NBA, MLB, international soccer, golf, tennis, cricket and much more. The service is available at no additional cost to Xbox LIVE Gold subscribers who are customers of an affiliated service provider. For a full schedule of upcoming college football games live on ESPN3.com, click HERE. 		ESPN3.com is ESPN's live multi-screen sports network that gives fans a 24/7 destination delivering thousands of live, global sports events annually. It is available in nearly 70 million homes at no additional cost to fans who receive their high-speed Internet connection or video subscription from an affiliated service provider. It is also available at no cost to approximately 21 million U.S. college students and U.S.-based military personnel via computers connected to on-campus educational networks and on-base military networks.
 