
   Anxiously awaiting the arrival of those brand spanking new apps for your Xbox 360 console? Well, the wait is over. Video apps for Comcast Xfinity TV, HBO Go and MLB.tv have arrived on a number of consoles here at Engadget HQ. Major Nelson dropped the official word a little while ago, leaving you mere moments away from live and on demand television and baseball just in time for the start of the season. Keep in mind all three of these high profile applications feature Kinect integration -- but don't worry, you won't be forced to swing any bats in your living room. If you're looking for more info, details on the HBO Go and MLB.tv offerings await in the PR below.
 

  Show full PR text  We are excited to announce today that HBO GO® has officially launched on Microsoft's Xbox LIVE, the online entertainment service for Xbox 360. With HBO GO on Xbox, consumers will be able to instantly access more than 1,400 titles, including every episode of every season of the best HBO® shows – streamed to their TVs for convenient, on-demand viewing from the comfort of home. HBO GO is available at no additional cost to HBO customers who subscribe through a participating television provider.  "HBO and Xbox is a marriage of the two preeminent brands in their respective fields," said Otto Berkes, senior vice president of Consumer Technology, HBO. "During my tenure at Microsoft, we always envisioned Xbox as an entertainment hub and the addition of HBO GO represents a coming of age for the platform. The experience is one that will impress both the HBO subscribers and the Xbox fans."  "Today, we are crossing another milestone in our mission to add voice control and voice search with Kinect to the world's best TV shows, movies, music and sports," said Yusuf Mehdi, Chief Marketing Officer, Xbox. "By offering HBO GO, and its entire catalogue of beloved TV series like The Sopranos, The Wire, Sex in the City and True Blood, we are another step closer to delivering all the entertainment you love on Xbox 360."  HBO GO features the best and latest HBO shows and hit movies including the critically acclaimed, award-winning series Game of Thrones®, Boardwalk Empire® and True Blood®; classics like The Sopranos®, Sex and the City® and Deadwood®; plus HBO original films, miniseries, sports, documentaries and specials; in addition to a wide selection of blockbuster theatricals.  Show full PR text  MLB.TV Now Available on Xbox 360  Live streaming of MLB games debuts for Microsoft's Xbox 360 entertainment & gaming system  NEW YORK, March 27, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- MLB Advanced Media, L.P., the interactive media and Internet company of Major League Baseball, today announced that MLB.TV is available on Microsoft's Xbox 360. MLB.TV, the Internet's most prolific live streaming video subscription offering, is marking its 10th year of service and in the past two years has delivered over 500 million live video streams.  Beginning today, MLB.TV Premium subscribers will have access to all available Spring Training games and every out-of-market regular season game on Xbox 360* as well as portability support to use their accounts across a variety of mobile and connected platforms. In addition, MLB.TV Premium subscribers get the award-winning MLB.com At Bat 12 mobile application for free on iPhone, iPad and Android.  "The launch of MLB.TV on Xbox 360 is an exciting development for baseball fans and symbolic of our commitment to deliver live games through Internet-connected distribution points," said Kenny Gersh, Senior Vice President, Business Development, MLBAM. "Combining the technology powers of MLB.TV and Xbox will give fans even more options for watching live baseball games in high definition."  "The future of sports entertainment will be more personal, interactive, and engaging," said Yusuf Mehdi, Chief Marketing Officer, Xbox. "With unique features like a split-screen mode that lets you watch two games at once, and voice-control on Xbox 360 that lets you pause, rewind, or fast forward with the sound of your voice, the MLB.TV app for Xbox is a giant leap into the future."  With MLB.TV on Xbox 360, subscribers will get a dynamic live viewing experience for every out-of-market regular season game. Among the features available at launch include:  Live Games, Recaps, and Archived Games – Watch every live regular season out-of-market game, or catch it later from the game archives, which will include 2011 games as well as 2012. Short-form game recaps, a complete review of the game in less than 5 minutes, also are available to all Xbox LIVE Gold Members, as well as a free Game of the Day.  My Teams – Designate favorite teams and put them front and center, making the live games, archives and recaps for selected favorite teams appear front-and-center for immediate access.  Every game in HD – MLB.TV delivers every game in beautiful streaming HD, and most games give every fan the option of the Home or Away feed.  Mini Guide – The Mini Guide gives you a quick preview of all of today's games right at the bottom of the screen, and makes it easier than ever to switch between games.  Split Screen – Allows fans to watch two games at once. Watch live games on both screens or a live game on one while you catch up with a game recap or archive game on the other. Both screens can be controlled independently, pausing and rewinding each separately.  Gesture Control and Voice Control with Kinect for Xbox 360 - Focus on the action instead of looking for the remote. Navigate through the Content Guide, skip to the next inning, or play, pause, and rewind that double play...all with the wave of a hand or the sound of a voice with Kinect for Xbox 360.  *Xbox LIVE Gold Membership ($59.99/ 12 months) also required.
 