
When we were first introduced to the Xbox One, we heard about the hardware. Today, at Microsoft's E3 keynote, it was all about the games. We had a look at Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain, a One-exclusive Killer Instinct reboot and Ryse: Son of Rome (both an exclusive and a launch title). We also learned that Minecraft would be getting some expanded multiplayer options when it hits the new console, and checked out the "open-world shooter" Sunset Overdrive. That wasn't all: we caught some stunning footage of Forza Motorsport 5, as well as Quantum Break (exclusive), Crimson Dragon, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt and zombie survival game Dead Rising 3 (arriving "this holiday" as a One exclusive). We saw some hectic action in Battlefield 4, which will have a "Second Assault" DLC available to Xbox One users first, and spied Titanfall, another exclusive landing "spring 2014." You can also make your own games in Project Spark, and there are a bunch of trailers for the titles mentioned above available now at the YouTube source link, including some for games that weren't featured on-stage. Oh, we almost forgot to mention. New Halo.


Follow all of our E3 2013 coverage at our event hub.


Show full PR textXbox One brings the future of gaming to life
Microsoft Studios and the world's biggest and most renowned publishers unveil blockbuster games lineup for Xbox One, with more exclusive titles coming than any time in the history of Xbox.
LOS ANGELES, June 10, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Embark on a heroic adventure to seek vengeance across the battlefields of ancient Rome. Fire up the engines in the exhilarating return of the highest-rated racing franchise of the past 10 years.1 Fight for survival in an immersive open world teeming with thousands of undead. Today, on the eve of the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), Microsoft Corp. kick-started a new era of games and entertainment with a stunning lineup of blockbusters for the highly anticipated Xbox One gaming and entertainment system, showcasing why it will be the premier platform to experience the future of games when it launches in 21 markets around the world this November.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20000822/MSFTLOGO)

Home to the biggest next-generation exclusives

At its E3 press briefing, Microsoft unveiled an unprecedented lineup of world-premiere Xbox One blockbusters from some of the most innovative and celebrated studios on the planet, including 343 Industries, Crytek, Turn 10 Studios, Remedy, DICE, Capcom and Insomniac Games, along with support from virtually every major publisher in the industry.

"Microsoft Studios is committed to making Xbox One the best place to play games, with more titles in development and more exclusives coming than at any time in the history of Xbox," said Phil Spencer, corporate vice president, Microsoft Studios. "With amazing games such as 'Forza Motorsport 5,' 'Ryse: Son of Rome,' 'Dead Rising 3,' 'Halo Xbox One,' 'Kinect Sports Rivals,' 'Project Spark' and 'Quantum Break,' Xbox will continue to lead the industry with the biggest exclusives, new IP and blockbuster franchises that will delight gamers for the next decade and beyond."

The world's most visionary developers showcased how they're leveraging the unrivaled power and performance of Xbox One to bring a new generation of games to life that look and feel like nothing else - fueled by the power of Xbox One, the fidelity of the new Kinect and the expansive power of Xbox Live. Renowned studio Crytek unveiled "Ryse: Son of Rome," an epic action-adventure story that immerses you in the brutality and intensity of Roman warfare. "Ryse: Son of Rome" extends the gameplay experience with Xbox SmartGlass and Game DVR and lets you command legions with the sound of your voice using Kinect.

Award-winning developer Turn 10 Studios showcased the breathtaking visuals and adrenaline-filled action of "Forza Motorsport 5," the next installment of the genre-defining racing franchise. Built from the ground up to take advantage of Xbox One and the vast power of the cloud, "Forza Motorsport 5" features revolutionary Drivatar technology that learns how you and your friends drive, delivering real human behavior and an ever-evolving network of opponents always ready to race - even when they're not online. Real tendencies, real mistakes.

In addition, Microsoft delighted gamers with the world premiere teaser trailer for "Halo Xbox One," the next chapter of the award-winning Xbox franchise developed by 343 Industries that will take you on a new journey in the "Halo" universe beginning in 2014.

Other highlights at Microsoft's briefing included "Dead Rising 3," the next installment of Capcom's massively popular zombie franchise coming exclusively to Xbox One that takes open-world action to a whole new level; "Project Spark," an open-world digital canvas that enables anyone to build, play and share their own worlds, games and stories with millions of others online; and "Sunset Overdrive," a high-energy open-world shooter set in the not-so-distant future from Insomniac Games that delivers an always-changing gameplay experience with an arsenal of explosive and overpowered weapons.

Home to the best multiplayer and entertainment experiences through Xbox Live Gold

Xbox Live Gold membership offers Xbox One owners a premium service that unlocks a new generation of online gaming and entertainment experiences, including an expanded list of friends that lets you stay connected and play with more people through Xbox Live. Not only does an existing Xbox Live Gold membership for Xbox 360 carry over to Xbox One, you can still join for as low as $5 per month, and now anyone in your home can access most Gold member benefits on your Xbox One at no additional cost.2 Your Gold membership also travels with you wherever you go, turning any console into your own.

For gamers, Xbox Live Gold on Xbox One delivers new benefits that make online gaming with your friends easier and more enjoyable than ever. Xbox Live Gold unlocks Twitch as a built-in experience on Xbox One, allowing gamers to seamlessly broadcast their gameplay as well as view and interact with other live gaming broadcasts.3 Twitch on Xbox One also includes the ability to discover tailored, relevant and inherently social video content that spans everything from e-sports events to user-generated original shows and game walk-throughs. Other benefits of Xbox Live Gold on Xbox One include the following:

Access to the premier multiplayer community. All of your friends can come together on Xbox Live to play the best games for the ultimate bragging rights. Backed by a powerful cloud service, matches are now bigger for games across Xbox One.No more waiting for matchmaking. Smart Match on Xbox One allows for asynchronous matchmaking, where the system begins looking for your next match while you continue to game, watch TV or listen to music. Smart Match also instantly finds people you want to play with, where your reputation also plays an important role.Rewards for good reputation. Your new Xbox Live reputation plays a prominent and valuable role by rewarding healthy participation while reducing troublemakers and cheaters. A unified system across Xbox Live and all of your games allows for you to have much more control over who you play with while giving you new and exciting ways to get even more involved in your community.Ability to record, edit, share and broadcast. With Game DVR and Upload Studio,3 gamers can instantly capture their favorite moments and edit and share them with their friends around the world. With Twitch on Xbox One, a single voice command starts live broadcasting.Home to the most complete portfolio of world-class blockbusters

The full lineup of Xbox One games unveiled by Microsoft at E3 that showcased the fun, color and immersion of the future of gaming includes the following:

"Battlefield 4" (DICE, Electronic Arts). DICE ushers in the next era of world-class gaming with "Battlefield 4." The chaos of all-out war explodes, now with groundbreaking new innovations all running at a smooth 60 frames-per-second on Xbox One. With "Battlefield 4," the intensity of combat will never be the same."Below" (Capy Games, Microsoft Studios). "Below" is a classic rogue tale with moody graphics and Kinect technology. You'll scour the open world in search of rare and special loot while battling the malevolent Darkness, an artificial intelligence-controlled character that uses Kinect to sense and change level progression based on the room's surroundings."Crimson Dragon" (Grounding/Land Ho!, Microsoft Studios). Humanity has been driven to the brink of extinction on a colonized planet ruled by dragons. It's up to you to take control of a powerful dragon and battle for control of the skies in this thrilling flight-based shooter."D4" (Access Games, Microsoft Studios). An episodic noir adventure, "D4" follows the story of a detective with the curious ability to dive back in time. He must use this power to solve his wife's murder and then try to prevent it from occurring."Dead Rising 3" (Capcom Vancouver, Microsoft). Launching in November exclusively for Xbox One, "Dead Rising 3" marks the return of the wildly popular zombie franchise and introduces a blockbuster open-world action experience that will define a new generation of zombie-slaying mayhem. With intense action, an unmatched level of weapon and character customization, and immersive Xbox SmartGlass and Kinect integration, "Dead Rising 3" delivers a heart-pounding experience unlike any other as players fight for survival in a massive, open world teeming with thousands of undead."Forza Motorsport 5" (Turn 10 Studios, Microsoft Studios). Launching in November, "Forza Motorsport 5" is a cinematic automotive journey starring the world's greatest cars and tracks. Built from the ground up to take advantage of Xbox One and the vast power of the cloud, no game better delivers the wide-eyed thrill of racing."Halo Xbox One" – working title (343 Industries, Microsoft Studios). The award-winning franchise continues on Xbox One, beginning in 2014."Killer Instinct" (Double Helix, Microsoft Studios). After nearly a decade, the popular fighting franchise returns to Xbox One with the "Killer Instinct" characters and combos that revolutionized fighting games. "Killer Instinct" is enabled with robust progression and rewards, dynamic challenges customized to player behavior, and predictive matchmaking for seamless competitive fights."Kinect Sports Rivals" (Rare, Microsoft Studios). Launching in November, "Kinect Sports Rivals" is the next generation of the best-selling Kinect franchise, "Kinect Sports," that brings your favorite sports back in re-imagined ways, and delivers new sports, made possible only with Xbox One's all-new re-engineered Kinect. "Kinect Sports Rivals" puts you in the game like never before, tracks your movements and expressions with incredible accuracy, and offers never-ending competition with your friends and competitors."LocoCycle" (Twisted Pixel, Microsoft Studios). "LocoCycle" takes you on an action-packed adventure only seen on Xbox One with a sentient motorcycle named I.R.I.S and her mechanic, Pablo (who, against his will, is literally being dragged along for the ride). Together, I.R.I.S and Pablo fight for their freedom while facing the Big Arms agents and their secret sentient motorcycle weapon, Spike."Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain" (Kojima Productions, Konami Digital Entertainment Co., Ltd.). The concept of this title is "Realistic Espionage Action in an Open World Environment." Environmental elements like weather and wildlife, and enemies that adapt their strategy to the player's actions, let players experience a more realistic world. The vast open world environment enhances the thrill and freedom of stealth. Aside from numerous optional missions, there are a variety of gameplay elements that encourage exploration and item-collection outside the main missions."Minecraft: Xbox One Edition" (4J/Mojang, Microsoft Studios). "Minecraft: Xbox One Edition" will deliver the "Minecraft" experience to Xbox One. Building off the hugely successful "Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition," the edition on Xbox One will include larger maps for more complex structures, expanded multiplayer features and enhanced gameplay powered by the Xbox One platform. "Minecraft: Xbox One Edition" will be available within the Xbox One launch window."Powerstar Golf" (Zoe Mode, Microsoft Studios). Tee up for fun with "Powerstar Golf" for Xbox One. Whether you're playing a round to unwind and admire the amazing vistas or a pro trying to climb the leaderboards for bragging rights, it's time to load up the cart and aim for the green."Project Spark" (Team Dakota, Microsoft Studios). "Project Spark" is an open-world digital canvas that enables anyone to build, play and share whatever they can imagine and create in the game. It's a powerful, yet simple way to build and play your own worlds, stories and games. Share all of your creations with a dynamic community and play what the community makes. "Project Spark" brings creation to life and presents endless opportunities for play across Xbox One, Windows 8 and Xbox 360."Quantum Break" (Remedy, Microsoft Studios). From the creators of "Alan Wake" and "Max Payne" comes a revolutionary entertainment experience that blurs the line between gaming and TV by integrating drama and gameplay into one seamless, uniquely immersive experience. How you play the game impacts the show, and the show informs how you play the game."Ryse: Son of Rome" (Crytek, Microsoft Studios). Coming exclusively to Xbox One in November, "Ryse: Son of Rome" is an immersive action-adventure story of struggle, brutality and heroism, following a fearless Roman soldier named Marius Titus as he seeks to avenge the death of his family and leads an army to save the Roman Empire. "Ryse: Son of Rome" presents a cinematic re-creation of ancient Rome and brings the brutality and intensity of Roman warfare to life in visceral detail, thrusting you into the chaos of close-combat and epic-scale battles."Sunset Overdrive" (Insomniac Games, Microsoft Studios). "Sunset Overdrive" is an always-changing, open-world shooter set in the not-so-distant future. A catastrophic event has left your city overrun by mutants. While the majority perish or transform, you flourish. It turns out your calling isn't picking up trash or serving food, it's mutant destruction. With an arsenal of explosive, overpowered weapons and a knack for traversing the city with hyperagility, it's not the end of days for you. Available for future release, your story is just starting."The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt" (CD Projekt RED). "The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt" is a unique combination of a non-linear story and an open world – a fantasy RPG focused on player choice, tactical combat and an immersive environment. Spinning the tale of Geralt of Rivia, a professional monster hunter, "The Witcher 3" aims to attract gamers with a mature and compelling narrative told as no other game has before. With over 100 hours of hand-crafted core and side quest gameplay, "The Witcher 3" redefines the genre and shapes RPGs of the next generation."Zoo Tycoon" (Frontier Developments Ltd., Microsoft Studios). The wildly popular "Zoo Tycoon" franchise is coming to Xbox One and Xbox 360 worldwide later this year. Fully re-imagined and featuring a menagerie of beautiful species, reactive gameplay and real calendar tie-in, this zoo simulation will charm "Zoo Tycoon" fans and new players alike.For more details about the Xbox One games lineup and all the exciting Xbox news at E3, visit news.xbox.com. For press releases and media assets, please visit news.xbox.com/media (select "Choose a Category" to find relevant content).

About Xbox

Xbox is Microsoft's premier entertainment brand for the TV, phone, PC and tablet. In living rooms or on the go, Xbox is home to the best and broadest games, as well as one of the world's largest libraries of movies, TV, music and sports. Your favorite games, TV and entertainment come to life in new ways through the power of Kinect, Xbox SmartGlass and Xbox Live, the world's premier social entertainment network. More information about Xbox can be found online at www.xbox.com.

About Microsoft

Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.

The information contained in this press release relates to a pre-release product that may be substantially modified before its first commercial release. Accordingly, the information may not accurately describe or reflect the product when first commercially released. The press release is provided for informational purposes only, and Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the press release or the information contained in it.

1 Source: Metacritic, May 2003–May 20132 $5 per month with 12-month Xbox Live Gold Membership at $59.99; applicable taxes extra. Available Xbox Live features vary across systems. Some Gold benefits cannot be shared on Xbox One; restrictions apply.3 Upload Studio and Twitch features available with supported games.


