
 

Xbox Live Gold members might have yet another reason not to go outdoors this summer, as Microsoft has will have its own version of the TWC TV app -- recently released on Samsung TVs and Roku boxes -- launching in the next few months. Joining the console's existing HBO Go stream, Time Warner Cable subscribers will be able to watch AMC, BBC World News, Bravo, CNN, Comedy Central, Food Network and more through their Xbox 360, with Kinect controls to switch channels and more with a wave of your arms. The announcement also kindly reminds us that its incoming Xbox One will let users switch between live TV and gaming in an instant, while Time Warner says it is "exploring" the platform, so stay tuned.


 
Show full PR textIn a landmark deal announcement for Xbox 360 and Time Warner Cable customers, we're excited to share a new partnership that will deliver up to 300 of the most popular live TV channels to Xbox 360 for Xbox Live Gold members. This deal, which will bring more live channels than any other experience on Xbox 360, will offer Time Warner Cable subscribers with an Xbox Live Gold membership the ability to watch their favorite shows from right from their Xbox 360 - including favorites like AMC, BBC World News, Bravo, Cartoon Network, CNN, Comedy Central, Food Network, HGTV and more. And unlike any other platform, you'll be able to control your entertainment using your voice via Kinect for Xbox 360.

"TWC TV is a significant addition to Xbox 360, bringing our customers their favorite entertainment in one place-enhanced TV experience, games, movies, music, sports and entertainment apps," said Blair Westlake, corporate vice president, Media & Entertainment Group at Microsoft. "Our partnership with TWC enhances all that is available on Xbox 360 today, which will we continue expand. We're thrilled to offer TWC TV to U.S. Xbox Live members and Time Warner Cable subscribers."

When the TWC TV app launches later this summer, you'll be able to download it right from the Xbox Live Marketplace, log-in with your Time Warner Cable credentials and start watching your favorite channels and programs instantly.

Mike Angus, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Video for Time Warner Cable said, "We look forward to introducing TWC TV to Xbox 360 and providing customers with this new viewing experience within the home. We are very excited about Microsoft's vision for entertainment and the vast possibilities Xbox offers."

At Xbox our vision has always been to provide all the entertainment people want in one place. With Xbox 360 we have a growing entertainment app portfolio of more than 120 voice-controlled apps, and we are happy to expand with the addition of TWC TV. We are equally excited to deliver new entertainment experiences with Xbox One launching later this year, which will allow you to instantly switch from watching live TV to playing a game with the sound of your voice. We will have more details to share about Xbox One entertainment in the coming months.


