
Engadget is re-reviewing the current generation of game consoles, each of which has benefited from major firmware updates, price drops and an improved selection of games. We're kicking off this series by revisiting the Xbox One. Though we've changed our minds on some things and raised the score to 84, you can still find our original review here, if you're curious to read what we said at launch.

The Xbox One is the product of two different Microsofts. The console debuted in 2013 following a disastrous six-month-long PR campaign that ultimately led to then–Xbox head Don Mattrick leaving the company. Initially Microsoft said that the Xbox One would require an internet connection even for single-player, store-bought games. The company backpedaled on that ahead of the console's release, cobbling together bits of code to ensure that games played at launch. Even then, the Xbox One arrived with a sizable day-one patch.


Months of incremental post-launch updates added Twitch streaming, a controller battery-life indicator, custom wallpapers, party chat and some much-needed UI improvements. The biggest changes, though, have come since Phil Spencer assumed Mattrick's old position. The Kinect sensor is no longer a requirement for the system, nor is Microsoft packaging it with every console sold. Because of that, the Xbox One is now priced lower than its most obvious rival, the PlayStation 4: $299 with an included game and 500GB hard drive. At launch it cost $500 with just the 500GB console, a controller and Kinect in the box.




Spencer's focus is on games -- an about-face from Mattrick's "services and entertainment first" approach. Notably, Microsoft found success in January 2015 when it debuted the forthcoming Windows 10 update that brought Xbox One–to–PC game streaming, improved speed and backward compatibility. That rolled out last fall, but if you poke around the Xbox One of today, there are still some skeletons from the console's past lurking in the corners.

Hardware
Aside from Kinect no longer being a requirement, nothing has changed about the Xbox One's hardware. Until a possible mid-cycle hardware refresh happens, the system still has HDMI input and output sockets on the back, an awkwardly placed USB 3.0 port on the left (plus two more on the back), gigabit Ethernet and a Kinect-specific USB input.

Design-wise, it's still a big, black box, but now you can get it in different game-themed colors if that's your thing. There are now models with 1TB hard disks (or even hybrid hard/solid-state drives), but they all cost more than the 500GB configuration (now $299), ranging from to $400 to $500. And with support for USB 3.0 external HDDs, it's still more economical to go the 500GB route than for an Xbox One with more internal storage.

Stepping up to the $500 Elite console with the 1TB hybrid drive has a different type of benefit, though: It includes Microsoft's awesome Xbox One Elite controller in the box. Whereas the gamepad that came with the console at launch suffered from sharp edges, stiff shoulder buttons and a generally unfinished feel, the Elite is an improvement in every way.


For starters, it sports a rubberized grip on the underside, a standard 3.55mm headphone jack for headsets and voice chat microphones, soft-touch finish and higher quality thumbsticks. It's modular, too, supporting interchangeable thumbsticks, control levers and directional pads.

You can also remap nearly everything on the controller (save for the "menu" and "options" buttons) to customize the gamepad even further. In the run-up to launch, Microsoft promised that we'd see different controller configurations on a per-game basis from developers, but there haven't been any new ones released yet beyond the initial offering.

So is it worth the $150 premium? That depends on your priorities. But for someone like me who felt the original pack-in controller felt cheap and unfinished, it's a sensible investment -- especially if the Xbox One is your console of choice.

UI
The most visible change to the Xbox One is its user interface. The Windows 8 tiles that made up the console's dashboard at launch have given way to a more streamlined experience that's easier to use and faster than what came before it. The good thing with Windows 10 is that the massive window that dominates the home screen and quickly gets you back to whatever you were doing previously hasn't been altered just for the sake of change.




