
Will Microsoft's Xbox One be the one gaming console to purchase over the Wii U and PS4? That's a question we'll have to wait until later this year to answer, so let's stick to the present. Redmond made a huge showing across both the software and hardware fronts today, ensuring gamers will have lots to look forward to. Whether you missed parts of the keynote or are looking for specific stories from the event, we've got you covered right here. Click past the break to find a full directory of today's news, from our exclusive look at how engineers built the Xbox One to details about fresh titles like Call of Duty: Ghosts and Forza Motorsport 5.




Xbox One hardware
 Hands-on with prototypes of the Xbox One and new Kinect sensor Building Xbox One: An inside look at Microsoft's play for the next generation of gaming Xbox One guide brings HDMI in/out, overlays for live TV Microsoft confirms: Xbox will have Blu-ray drive Xbox One hardware and specs: Blu-ray, 8GB RAM, 500GB hard drive and more Microsoft's new Kinect is official: larger field of view, HD camera, wake with voice A new gamepad for a new game console: Microsoft's next-gen wireless controller revealed Microsoft reveals the Xbox one Xbox One controller vs. Xbox 360 controller, fight!  Xbox One vs Xbox 360 vs PS4: fight!  Xbox One has non-replaceable hard drive, external storage is supported Hands-on with Xbox One's new gamepad, 'impulse triggers' included Software and services
 Xbox One runs three operating systems, including cut-down Windows for apps Xbox One isn't backwards compatible with Xbox 360 discs or Xbox Live Arcade, Gamerscore transfers Microsoft updates Xbox Live to outfit Xbox One with 300,000 servers, game DVR and more Microsoft shows off new Xbox One dashboard Microsoft announces Skype integration for Xbox One, leverages Kinect enhancements Xbox One's 'Snap Mode' lets you use two apps simultaneously Installing, buying, selling and sharing games on Xbox One: here's what we know Multiple accounts can use a single Xbox Live subscription on the One Xbox One installs discs to the HDD, friends list capped at 1,000Content and games
 Call of Duty: Ghosts DLC will launch first on Xbox One Microsoft lands NFL partnership for Xbox One Halo live-action TV series created by 343 and Steven Spielberg Xbox Studios will release 15 exclusive One titles in the first year, eight new franchises Max Payne creator Remedy Games crafting 'Quantum Break' for Xbox One Forza Motorsport 5 coming to Xbox One at launch EA announces EA Sports Ignite, a next generation game engine EA shows first Xbox One games: FIFA, NBA Live, Madden and UFCRelated stories
 Live from Microsoft's New Generation Xbox event! Microsoft Xbox One FAQ responds to always-on DRM, used games rumors  Relive the Xbox One unveiling with this video  Xbox One architecture panel liveblog!  Xbox One pre-order notification is live: here's where to sign up (update: no more $10 credit) Editorial: Engadget on the Xbox One 
 