
 

The Xbox One's March update is so last month, those enrolled in the update preview program are already being invited to test the latest batch of upcoming tweaks. Version 1404, the April update, or whatever else you'd like to call it, will be rolling out over the next couple of days, with features and fixes being implemented piecemeal. Nevertheless, we know the full intentions of the next update, which will bring back friend sign-in notifications, make it clear who on your buddy list is engaged in multiplayer action, and allow you to check their favorite apps. A 'saving game' progress bar will be added, as well as flags that show what games/apps are being updated or have been recently. Beyond that, there's another fix for the European 50Hz media playback problem, this time for Blu-rays, and improvements to voice and motion controls, game recording quality and compatibility with A/V gear under the One's control, like TVs and set-top boxes. Most of us will have to wait until the update is properly tested, remember, but take comfort in the knowledge it's on the way.


Update: Major Nelson has also posted the list of changes to expect, check them out after the break.


 
Improved friends notifications and Game DVR quality + more: Details on the next Xbox One system update http://t.co/6h26mlu9XK
- Larry Hryb (@majornelson) March 18, 2014 Game and app saves and updates. A game save progress bar will show you the status of your game saves. You will also be able to easily tell what games and apps are being updated or have been updated recently. Friends improvements. Notifications will be added to see when favorites and friends sign in to Xbox Live. This actually was one of the most frequently requested features from the first preview wave and we made it a priority to include it in the April update. Also, friends who are in multiplayer will be identified in the friends list. We'll also add the ability to view friends' most popular apps. Blu-ray 50 Hz video output support for content recorded at 50 Hz will resolve video playback issues some Xbox Live members in Europe are experiencing. Kinect voice and motion improvements will continue to fine tune the quality and reliability of Xbox One commands. Improved GameDVR video quality through compression algorithm improvements. Updates to Xbox One device management to address issues controlling TVs, set top boxes, and receivers that our customers have reported. New audio settings to tune how much volume is lowered when Kinect is used in communications.
