
 

Chances are you'll see a metric ton of new gizmos surfacing at CES next week, and if we're lucky, two or three of them will be bona fide game changers. Lucky for you, Xcom Global is serving one up ahead of the mayhem, with a single WWAN device that enables you to suck down 3G data in nearly every country on the planet. If you'll recall, the outfit's Euro SIM took a giant step in the right direction by providing universal 3G data coverage to jetsetters who passed through some 40 nations in Europe, but true globetrotters need something even more advanced. And frankly, even those who are only hitting three or four nations in a swing will surely appreciate the ability to carry just a single USB stick or MiFi hotspot versus a handful of 'em. Xcom's deeming it the Global Travel Plan, and thanks to its partnership with iPhoneTrip, the outfit is adding support for some 130 nations, bringing the grand total to 195. Better still, users will be able to enjoy unlimited surfing in any of those places, all for just $12.95 per day.

For those unaware, Xcom's service -- which we reviewed back in 2010 -- works a bit like this. If you're in the US, you hit its website and select your travel dates as well as the nations you're planning to travel through. If you select the Global Travel Plan, you'll get a single device shipped to you before you depart. It'll serve up data from local 3G networks in the countries you travel through, and once you're home, you pop the device back into a prepaid envelope and carry on. Yeah, you could argue that scrounging up a local SIM in every place you go is more affordable, but the ease of use here can't be overlooked. We'll be giving the new plan a go in some of the world's most far-out locales in the coming weeks, so be sure to keep an eye out for our results. Till then, hit the source link for a PDF of every supported nation as of January 2012.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  XCom Global Expands Coverage to 195 Countries and Offers a Single Device Global Travel Plan Option 		– International travelers can now connect from just about anywhere in the world via the company's wireless Internet Access rental services – 		SAN DIEGO, Calif. – XCom Global, Inc., a leading provider of low cost wireless Internet access rental services for international travelers, announced today that it has expanded its coverage to a total of 195 countries. In addition, itineraries that include multiple countries can be covered with a single device using the company's new Global Travel Plan option. 		XCom Global's newly formed alliance with iPhone Trip allowed it to extend its reach and create the single device Global Travel Plan. "We want to be able to keep our customers connected no matter where their travels take them," said Seiji Nishimura, founder and CEO, XCom Global, Inc. "We are really close to achieving our goal with this latest addition of over 130 countries." http://xcomglobal.com/coverage/ 		XCom Global's high-speed Internet access rental service provides international travelers unlimited data usage and the freedom to wirelessly roam abroad at fixed rates starting at $12.95/per day in 195 countries. Bundled with the Unlimited aXcess plan, the XCom Global's MiFi Hotspot rental unit enables instant access to a personal mobile hotspot, so travelers can stay connected wherever they are. Up to five WiFi-enabled devices can use the unit simultaneously allowing the MiFi Hotspot to be shared with traveling companions and saving on multiple usage charges. http://xcomglobal.com/devices/ 		The Europe Travel Plan is a single device solution for those traveling to multiple countries within the European continent. The new Global Travel Plan provides a single device solution for those with multiple-country travel plans – including, but not limited to, European destinations. To keep the process quick and easy, travelers simply provide their itinerary and XCom Global recommends the best plan to fit their needs.  		About XCom Global, Inc.		Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., XCom Global, Inc. is a leader in providing easy access to low cost, high-speed, wireless Internet access rental services to international business and leisure travelers. The company offers broad worldwide coverage at rates substantially below standard international roaming charges. XCom Global is a U.S. subsidiary of an established Japanese company that has been in the forefront of providing travelers with innovative wireless communications services for over 14 years. For more information, please visit www.xcomglobal.com or call Toll-Free at 877-520-8242 or contact us at info@xcomglobal.com. In addition, get updates and travel tips by connecting with us on Facebook and Twitter@xcomglobal.
 