
 

We've sung Xcom Global's praises to the heavens before, and that's because it's made our always-on internet addiction an easy fix abroad. Well, prepare to add the international wireless convenience to your list of last minute carry-ons. Announced today, the company has opened its first satellite service center at Los Angeles' LAX airport, bringing unlimited roaming data to US-based travelers starting at $12.95/day. The rental MiFi Hotspot units, available prior to boarding, come packaged with an Unlimited aXcess plan, and can feed up to five of your data-hungry devices. So, if you're headed out on that next Eurotrip, or just a terminal-bound refugee from Krakozhia, you might want to give this internet lifeline a whirl.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  XCom Global Opens First Satellite Customer Service Centers in Los Angeles International Airport 		– International travelers can now rent low-cost international 3G WiFi access before boarding their flights at LAX– 		SAN DIEGO, Calif. – September 1, 2011 – XCom Global, Inc., a leading provider of low cost wireless Internet access rental services for international travelers, announced today the opening of its first satellite customer service centers in Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). 		The satellite customer service centers are located in the Tom Bradley International Terminal 1F Arrivals Level and Terminal 2F Ticketing and Departures Level. http://www.xcomglobal.com/airport/ Travelers will be able to pick up and drop off XCom Global's high-speed Internet access rental service devices as they head out to or return from over 60 selected countries. 		"We have opened these satellite customer service centers as an added convenience for our customers," said Seiji Nishimura, founder and CEO, XCom Global, Inc. "They can borrow and return their rental devices right in the airport terminal. If they forgot to place their order ahead of time, they can secure their rental before they board their plane. And for those who do not know about us yet, this will give them an opportunity to learn about our service and try it out as well." 		XCom Global's high-speed Internet access rental service provides international travelers unlimited data usage and the freedom to wirelessly roam abroad at fixed rates starting at $12.95/per day in over 60 countries including Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom. A complete list of countries can be found on the website: http://www.xcomglobal.com/coverage/ Long term (over 14 days), multiple country, and student discounts are also available. http://xcomglobal.com/plans/ 		Bundled with the Unlimited aXcess plan, the XCom Global's MiFi Hotspot rental unit enables instant access to a personal mobile hotspot, so travelers can stay connected wherever they are. Up to five WiFi-enabled devices can use the unit simultaneously allowing the MiFi Hotspot to be shared with traveling companions and saving on multiple usage charges. http://xcomglobal.com/devices/
 