
 

Say it with us: Hallelujah! It's a problem that BMW European Delivery owners (not to mention gap-year backpackers and generic business travelers) have had for eons, and while the EU seems to have the whole "one currency" thing under control, the lack of a "one data plan" has continued to break the backs of connected travelers. No more. Xcom Global -- the company that revolutionized the art of staying connected abroad -- has just done the same thing for those planning their next Eurotrip. The newly-launched Euro SIM enables US-based jetsetters to rent a single device that'll provide unlimited data access in a staggering 40 nations across the pond. Everywhere from Iceland to San Marino is covered, including 20 extra countries that weren't covered even last week. Folks can pick up a MiFi for $14.95 per day (and yeah, that covers all 40 countries!) or a USB WWAN model for $12.95 a day, and if you happen to scoot over to a locale in Europe that isn't covered, you'll still be able to get online at a cost of one cent per KB. Hit the source link to find out more, and ping your best friend's travel agent to set those long-backburnered plans in motion.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  XCom Global Announces the Availability of a Euro SIM and the Addition of Over 20 European Countries to its Wireless Internet Rental Coverage 		– International travelers have low-cost international 3G WiFi access available to them across a rapidly expanding coverage area that now includes more than 60 countries – 		SAN DIEGO, Calif. – August 1, 2011 – XCom Global, Inc., a leading provider of low cost wireless Internet access rental services for international travelers, announced today the availability of a Euro SIM card which will enable travelers heading for multiple European destinations to rent a single device. This new SIM card will provide coverage in most major European countries: http://www.xcomglobal.com/europe40/ 		The cost will be the same as a standard daily rental with the added convenience of one device providing coverage for every country on a traveler's European itinerary. In addition, 20 more European countries are now covered under the company's Unlimited aXcess plan. Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Hungary and Portugal are among the destinations that were added. 		"Thousands have experienced the no-hassle Internet access that XCom Global can provide while traveling overseas," said Seiji Nishimura, founder and CEO, XCom Global, Inc. "If you have a need or desire to stay connected, once you've tried our rental service, you won't want to travel any other way. International roaming charges, exceeding your data plan's data limit, or seeking out specific locations like a hotspot or hotel business center for access will no longer be an issue. We make it easy – easy to rent, easy to understand your costs, easy to use. And now for travelers heading to Europe with multiple-country itineraries, we're offering an easy single-device solution." 		XCom Global's high-speed Internet access rental service provides international travelers unlimited data usage and the freedom to wirelessly roam abroad at fixed rates starting at $12.95/per day in over 60 selected countries including Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom. A complete list of countries can be found on the website: http://www.xcomglobal.com/coverage/ Long term (over 14 days), multiple country, and student discounts are also available. http://xcomglobal.com/plans/ 		Bundled with the Unlimited aXcess plan, the XCom Global's MiFi Hotspot rental unit enables instant access to a personal mobile hotspot, so travelers can stay connected wherever they are. Up to five WiFi-enabled devices can use the unit simultaneously allowing the MiFi Hotspot to be shared with traveling companions and saving on multiple usage charges. http://xcomglobal.com/devices/
 