
 


	It looks like Comcast's trial bubble has been something of a success, and now the company is announcing that its Xfinity Home Security Service will be branching out beyond Houston to arm alarms, dim lamps and keep home automation freaks appraised of sports scores in an additional six markets (including Philadelphia, Portland, Jacksonville, Sarasota/Naples, Chattanooga and Nashville). Powered by iControl Networks' Open Home automation and security platform, packages start at $40 a month and feature live video monitoring, lighting and climate control, burglar and fire alarm monitoring, and more -- via touchscreen interface, web portal, and iPhone app. Now you too can put your family's safety in the same hands that bring Gilligan's Island into your home! Video, PR-palooza after the break.
 

    		Show full PR text  Comcast Helps Power the Digital Home with New Xfinity Home Security Service		Broadband-Based System Enables Customers to Remotely Monitor Their Home and Control Digital Thermostats and Lights in Real Time 		Available Today in Several Market Areas Including Philadelphia, Houston, Portland and Jacksonville with Additional Markets Launching Before End of the Year 		Press Release Source: Comcast Corporation On Wednesday June 8, 2011, 10:00 am EDT		PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq:CMCSA - News), one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information, and communications products and services, today announced it has expanded its new home security business into six additional U.S. market areas. Xfinity Home Security offers traditional home security components, like police and fire alarm protection backed by 24/7 professional monitoring, as well as the ability to adjust digital thermostats, turn lights on or off and watch secure live streaming video from wireless cameras while away from home. The service also comes with a new Xfinity Security app, which is available for free on Apple's iTunes App Store®. 		"Xfinity Home Security brings digital home monitoring to a new level," said Mitch Bowling, Senior Vice President and General Manager of New Businesses for Comcast Cable. "It comes with a range of broadband-based technologies that empower customers to stay better connected to their home virtually anytime, anywhere." 		Xfinity Home Security offers consumers the ability to create personalized settings that can do things like provide real-time e-mail or text alerts when doors open or close or when motion detectors report activity occurring inside or outside of the home. In addition, the service comes with a tablet-like touch screen with a menu of widgets that allow access to the latest weather, news, traffic, and sports scores. 		In addition to 24/7 professional monitoring, Xfinity Home Security provides customers the ability to: 		watch live streaming video of their home via video wireless video cameras;		access security controls remotely via a Web portal or the Xfinity Security app for the iPhone;		manage home utilities like digital thermostats and lights;		have more peace of mind since both battery and cellular backup helps ensure customers remain fully protected even in the event of a power outage;		access features from some of Comcast's existing services. For example, an Xfinity Voice customer could listen to a voicemail through an app on the security interface.		Today, Comcast is selling the Xfinity Home Security Preferred Package for as low as $39.95 per month. Xfinity Home Security customers will also be eligible to receive up to a 20 percent discount on their homeowners' insurance. Visit www.xfinity.com/homesecurity for more information on pricing, equipment and additional features. 		The service was first unveiled in Houston in mid 2010 and is now being rolled out in parts of Philadelphia, Portland, Jacksonville, Sarasota/Naples, Chattanooga and Nashville. Additional markets will be introduced on a rolling basis.  iControl Networks Powers Comcast's XFINITY® Home Security Service 		First Broadband Service Provider Introduces New National Service Based on iControl's OpenHome™ Software Platform 		PALO ALTO, Calif., June 9, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- iControl Networks, a leader in broadband home management, today announced its OpenHome™ software platform is powering Comcast's XFINITY Home Security service. 		Comcast's XFINITY Home Security service provides intrusion and fire protection in addition to a host of interactive features including home monitoring, home management and energy management services, with the added benefits of web and mobile access. 		"Comcast is the first national broadband service provider to launch iControl's software platform, bringing greater peace-of-mind to millions of homeowners who can now know that their homes and families are protected whether they're home or away," said Jim Johnson, co-CEO of iControl. "This is a momentous day for iControl and we are very excited to be a part of Comcast's initiative." 		XFINITY includes an interactive, easy-to-use touch screen security panel that has been certified to meet UL standards for dual-mode broadband and cellular connectivity to the Central Monitoring Station. Other features and equipment include extended battery backup, video monitoring, lighting control, custom text and email alerts, 24/7 monitoring, thermostat control and remote arm/disarm. 		"Consumers have responded enthusiastically to early market deployments of XFINITY Home Security service," said Mitch Bowling, Senior Vice President and General Manager of New Businesses for Comcast. "We're thrilled to be adding another value-added service to the XFINITY bundle and we're confident that this next generation solution will be of great interest to our customers." 		About iControl Networks 		iControl Networks is a venture-backed software and services company providing interactive solutions defining the broadband home management market. The iControl OpenHome™ Software Platform, an award-winning software solution that has made the Connected Home a reality, enables home security companies, broadband service providers and utilities to offer the next generation of home management, security and connectivity to their customers. Investors in iControl include ADT, Charles River Ventures, Cisco, Comcast Interactive Capital, GE Security, Intel Capital and the Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers iFund. For more information, visit www.icontrol.com. 		About Comcast Corporation 		Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communications products and services. Comcast is principally involved in the operation of cable systems through Comcast Cable and in the development, production and distribution of entertainment, news, sports and other content for global audiences through NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential and business customers. Comcast is the majority owner and manager of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates entertainment and news cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, local television station groups, television production operations, a major motion picture company and theme parks. 		SOURCE iControl Networks
 