
 
"A few weeks"? "Later this year"? Don't worry about Comcast's recent meddling with the fine print, Xfinity TV's latest update for the iPad allows you to "play movies and TV shows anywhere and anytime on your iPad using a Wi-Fi Internet connection." The deal is for select networks (aka not everyone's on board to start) including HBO, Starz, Showtime, and Cinemax. Version 1.1.1 is now available; we're downloading now and will let ya know exactly what we find.

Update: We've taken it for a brief spin, and it looks like only ten networks are currently available, but there's still a hefty selection of content to choose from: BBC America, Cartoon Network, Cinemax, Starz Encore, HBO, MoviePlex, Showtime, Starz, TBS, and TNT. All are VOD only at the moment, but we hope that live streaming could theoretically be around the corner. Video starts streaming pretty quickly, and while quality probably won't be as good as your 1080p TV, it more than suffices for the iPad's 10-inch screen -- especially the HD stuff. Check it out in the gallery below!





Show full PR textCOMCAST LAUNCHES VIDEO STREAMING ON XFINITY TV APP FOR IPADNearly 3,000 Hours of Movies and TV Shows Including HBO, SHOWTIME®, Starz, Encore, Cinemax and MoviePlex Available For Free to Subscribers; App Exceeds One Million DownloadsPHILADELPHIA – February 2, 2011 – Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) today announced its Xfinity® TV service now enables customers to watch many of their top favorite TV programs and movies On Demand directly on the iPad® mobile digital device either at home or on-the-go. This new feature is available as part of an updated version of the Xfinity TV app, which is offered for free to Xfinity TV digital customers, and has been downloaded more than one million times since its launch in mid-November. With it, hundreds of TV programs and movies are available for subscribers to stream directly to the iPad.Content from premium cable networks including HBO, SHOWTIME, Starz, Encore, Cinemax and MoviePlex can be accessed free by Xfinity TV subscribers of those networks with the swipe of a fingertip, in addition to hit programming from TBS, TNT, Cartoon Network and BBC America. Today's selection of available programming and movies is just the beginning – Comcast plans to bring thousands more choices to the iPad in the weeks and months ahead."The Xfinity TV app with video streaming is part of our ongoing effort to deliver great entertainment experiences for our customers on all screens and devices," said Matt Strauss, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Comcast Interactive Media. "We have an aggressive development plan to introduce even more features in the coming months that enable customers to more richly watch, control, and personalize their entertainment experience."Top entertainment available on the iPad today includes nearly 3,000 hours of hit TV shows or series like: HBO's True Blood (every episode from all three seasons), Boardwalk Empire and Big Love; Showtime's Dexter®, Weeds and Californication (every episode from first three seasons plus new episodes from season four); Starz's Spartacus: Blood and Sand (season one) and Spartacus: Gods of the Arena (prequel). Top movies in a variety of categories include popular films Alice in Wonderland, 2012, and The Hangover; kids' movies including G-Force and Monsters vs. Aliens; Oscar® winners or nominees including An Education and The Blind Side; plus a variety of romantic comedies, dramas, thrillers and horror films.The Xfinity TV app is a mobile video player and a TV guide all in one – it also enables customers to easily search and browse through their TV and On Demand listings, program their DVRs and change TV channels. Comcast's development team will continue to enhance the app with many new features and releases planned in the coming months on as many devices as possible.The Xfinity TV app is another example of the Company's larger commitment to deliver more choice and control to its customers through its Xfinity services, which include 150,000 online entertainment choices through Xfinity TV (at www.XfinityTV.com) as well as other applications that enable customers to program a DVR from the Internet or a mobile device, and cross-platform features like Caller ID to the TV and PC.To learn more about the Xfinity TV app for iPad, please visit www.xfinity.com/tvapp.About Comcast CorporationComcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communications products and services. Comcast is principally involved in the operation of cable systems through Comcast Cable and in the development, production and distribution of entertainment, news, sports and other content for global audiences through NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential and business customers. Comcast is the majority owner and manager of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates entertainment and news cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, local television station groups, television production operations, a major motion picture company and theme parks.
 