
 

Great news for the disposable income crowd: The Sony Ericsson Xperia Pureness is finally available online through Saks Fifth Avenue -- and it can be yours for a mere $990. According to some seriously high-minded PR, the sleek and feature-poor handset "represents an alternative approach to life in the complex, digital age by refining the mobile phone to its most essentials functions." You see, this bad boy "is not simply about a phone; it is about opening a debate about people's relationship with technology in a complex world." Got that? In case you're still not sold, did we mention that the purchase price includes a concierge service? Although we don't know for sure, it's probably not a leap to assume that this "concierge" is a help desk employee somewhere who could feed his village for a month with the grand you dropped on a cell phone. PR after the break.
 

Show full PR textSony Ericsson Offers a New Approach to Talk, Text and Time With the Xperia Pureness Phone Now Available Through Saks.com and Sony VIP Shopping ServicePurchase includes Pureness Concierge, a 24 hour serviceNew microsite launches on-line debate on simplicity and modernity in communicationRESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C., Dec. 14 /PRNewswire/ -- Xperia(TM) Pureness, the world's first mobile phone with a transparent liquid crystal LCD screen, offering ground-breaking miniaturization technology in the battery, memory card and antenna, is now available in the U.S. through Saks Fifth Avenue online, www.saks.com, and Sony VIP Shopping Service via email at sonyvipservices@sonyusa.com or 877-316-7669. Manufacturer's suggested retail price is $990.The Xperia(TM) Pureness phone represents an alternative approach to life in the complex, digital age by refining the mobile phone to its most essentials functions - Talk. Text. Time. It offers true mobile phone essentials and strips away the unnecessary in both form and function. The keys are hidden and only light up when touched. The subtle illumination, with call and message notification, transforms the handset from an object of design to a phone only when needed.The new Sony Ericsson Xperia(TM) Pureness mobile phone comes with Pureness(TM) concierge service. Pureness(TM) concierge is the only truly localized global concierge service in the world, providing its members support for all lifestyle requests through a 24 hour service in cities around the world for almost any type of need.The Xperia(TM) Pureness is not simply about a phone; it is about opening a debate about people's relationship with technology in a complex world. Sony Ericsson has created a microsite at www.sonyericsson.com/pureness/talktexttime and has invited personalities from the fields of design, lifestyle, art and culture to share their thoughts around simplicity and modernity. Sony Ericsson encourages consumers to check out the site and weigh-in on the conversation as well."We are very proud to be launching such a beautifully designed phone with premium retail partners Sony VIP Shopping Service and Saks Fifth Avenue and we're looking forward to delivering many more exciting new phone concepts from our Xperia(TM) brand," said Stacy Doster, head of PR for Sony Ericsson North America."We love to offer our customers beautiful, high-quality products and Sony Ericsson's Xperia(TM) Pureness phone embodies the sophisticated type of technology our fashion customer appreciates. We're excited to be the exclusive retailer launching the phone in the US," noted Denise Incandela, President of Saks Direct.Legal1. Facts and features may vary depending on local variant.2. Kit contents and colour options may differ from market to market. The full range of accessories may not be available in every market.© 2009 Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB.The Liquid Identity and Liquid Energy logos, Xperia, and Pureness are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB. Sony, "make.believe", MEGA BASS are trademarks of Sony Corporation. Ericsson is the trademark or registered trademark of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved. Subject to change without prior notice. Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, SE-221 88 Lund, Sweden.
 