
 

Our friends across the pond have had a month's head start getting to know Sony Ericsson's Xperia arc S inside and out. Now, it appears that refreshed flagship's gearing up to hit stateside as early as this week in unlocked fashion. Shown as having an estimated November 15th ship date on Sony's site, the 4.2-inch Gingerbread handset brings its Mobile Bravia Engine display, 1.4GHz Qualcomm processor and 8 megapixel shooter to North American mitts for $499 in four distinct shades. If carrier subsidization is your preferred method of purchase, you'll have to hold off for a bit as official US plans have yet to be announced. But why wait? Your early access mobile bragging rights await you at the source.

[Thanks, Michael]
      

 

 		Show full PR text   XPERIA arc S AND XPERIA neo V FROM SONY ERICSSON ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE U.S. 			The Xperia™ arc S and Xperia™ neo V from Sony Ericsson are now available for purchase in the U.S. at the Sony Store. The Xperia™ arc S and Xperia™ neo V showcase an enhanced entertainment experience with the latest Sony technology and Android™ operating system, version 2.3.4 (Gingerbread). 			The Xperia™ arc S and Xperia™ neo V feature Sony's groundbreaking 3D sweep panorama technology, which enables image capture and viewing in 3D by connecting the phone to a 3D TV using the HDMI output, so you can show off those amazing pictures from your last vacation or that video of the flash mob you saw today to your friends and family. 			This version of Android™ Gingerbread includes new functionality and features that allow you to benefit from improvements to Sony Ericsson's unique Facebook inside Xperia™. Share, see, like and comment on all your favorite stuff – from tracks on your music player to photos from your gallery and even apps and games downloaded on your phone. 			Xperia™ arc S Key Features and Pricing: 			· Android™ 2.3.4 operating system 			· 1.4 GHz processor 			· 8.1 megapixel camera with Exmor R™ for mobile image sensor 			· 4.2" Reality display with Mobile BRAVIA Engine® Engine 			· 3D and 2D sweep panorama photography 			· Available in Pure White, Gloss Black, Midnight Blue, and Misty Silver 			· MSRP $549.99, unlocked 			Xperia™ neo V Key Features and Pricing: 			· Android™ 2.3.4 operating system 			· 3.7" capacitive, multi-touch screen 			· 5 megapixel camera with 16x digital zoom 			· Front-facing camera 			· Available in Pearl White, Silver, and Blue Gradient 			· MSRP $349.99, unlocked  			Android™ 2.3.4 – At a Glance* 			· Xperia™ smartphones introducing world's first 3D sweep panorama functionality powered by Sony 			· Updated Facebook inside Xperia™ functionality for enhanced like, share and discover abilities 			· Gesture input - text input by swiping the finger from one letter to the next 			· New features including Google™ Talk with Video Chat for smartphones with front-facing cameras   			Availability: 			The Sony Ericsson Xperia™ arc S and Xperia™ neo V are available unlocked, at Sony Store. Additional availability can be found at other retailers such as Newegg.com starting early December. Check for pricing and availability. 
 