
 
Yamaha's been the go-to company when it comes to iPod docks that are a notch above average, and the outfit's latest is no different. It's a me-too world out there, and somehow the TSX-140 manages to set itself apart by offering an eye-pleasing motif alongside an IntelliAlarm feature. Put simply, the latter allow users to be awoken by music on their iPod, but rather than blasting firmly at 11 when the clock strikes way-too-early, it gradually ups the volume until your brain is alert enough to obliterate the snooze button. As expected, there's an iPod docking port on the top as well as a USB port, and you'll find a pair of 3.5-inch ported bass reflex speakers beneath the Earthy exterior. In addition to the illuminated buttons on the top panel, three front panel controls give access to source, volume, radio presets, alarm clock and equalizer functions, and while Yamaha claims that this guy provides "a gentle, stress-free feeling that makes waking up a pleasure," we're guessing it'll still be a chore doing everything after.
      

 

Show full PR textYAMAHA TSX-140 DESKTOP AUDIO SYSTEM WAKES YOU GRADUALLY, GENTLY TO YOUR PERSONAL SELECTION OF HIGH QUALITY iPOD/iPHONE MUSIC--Yamaha's Proprietary IntelliAlarm provides soft fade in of music, early suppression of jolting high frequencies found in other, more traditional systems--BUENA PARK, Calif.––Yamaha Electronics Corporation today introduced the TSX-140 Desktop Audio System that wakes you gradually and gently, leaving you feeling more relaxed and refreshed than ever before.With earth-inspired color choices, the TSX-140 is beautiful to the eye and ear, offering compact, elegant design. It represents the latest addition to Yamaha's TSX family of docks compatible with Apple's iPod Touch and iPhone (3G/3GS/4). Moreover, the Yamaha TSX-140 is capable of playing MP3 and WMA files stored on a USB stick, as well as FM/AM radio programming.With its twin 3½–inch ported bass reflex speakers and Yamaha digital amplifiers, the TSX-140 delivers its superlative performance through Concert Quality Sound, a proprietary Yamaha concept that virtually eliminates all unnecessary noise and distortion, and Extended Stereo, which creates a perceptually larger stereo sound field through Yamaha DSP. Unique to Yamaha, the TSX-140's IntelliAlarm wakes you gently with the audio source of your choosing, first filtering out uncomfortable high frequencies, then gradually restoring the full audio spectrum before beeping to ensure you are awake. The IntelliAlarm provides a gentle, stress-free feeling that makes waking up a pleasure.For added convenience, the TSX-140 offers a USB mini-B connector that facilitates iPod/iPhone syncing to a computer while charging in the dock. In addition to the illuminated buttons on the top panel, three front panel controls give access to source, volume, radio presets, alarm clock and equalizer functions. LED indicators show which function has been selected for simple, fast tuning. A brightness sensor automatically adjusts all display LEDs to suit the ambient light level."The Yamaha TSX-140 is designed for the consumer who wants a no-compromise sound experience, even on a nightstand," said Tom Sumner, President, Yamaha Electronics Corporation. "IntelliAlarm offers consumers a gentler, more natural way to get going in the morning, instead of being jolted out of a sound sleep."Inspired by natural colors and echoing ceramic art, the TSX-140 is available in three finishes: black, brick and gray.The Yamaha TSX-140 carries an MSRP of $399.95.For more information, write Yamaha Electronics Corporation, P.O. Box 6660, Buena Park, CA 90620; telephone (714) 522-9105; email infostation@yamaha.com; or visit www.yamaha.com/hometheater.
 