
 Google's signed a deal to bring YouTube to Freesat, liberating users of the subscription-less service from the tyranny of needing an additional device. The BBC / ITV joint venture already has 60-odd channels and has now sold over 3 million boxes to 1.7 million viewers, who will be able to access the official YouTube addition through the main programming guide by the end of March. While details are scant, it'll presumably join ITV's player and the BBC iPlayer in the on-demand channel list, which require a compatible Freesat box (see coverage link below) and an internet connection. We're not sure how it'll look in the final guide, but the fanciful image above shows our best guess.



  Show full PR text   Freesat celebrates 3 million sales with YouTube launch
   YouTube launches for first time on British free-to-air TV

   Freesat today announced it has sold its 3 millionth product, taking gross retail sales to well over £1bn; four years after the service first launched in 2008. Internet phenomenon YouTube are joining the Freesat celebrations and will soon be available on the platform, in a first for free British TV.

   Freesat added 55,000 new households in the third quarter of 2012. This is more than Sky (25,000 households) and BT Vision (20,000) combined in the same period. Emma Scott, Freesat's Managing Director said: "In just four years we have established ourselves as a real challenger and genuine alternative to pay-TV. In that time we've delivered choice and quality, subscription free. Customer choice has driven every stage of our development; not least the launch of our second generation service, , in Q3 of last year. We're now delighted to add to our already fantastic customer offering with YouTube. They join Freesat at a time of rapid growth for our business and will offer our viewers an exclusive, first view of their latest version – previously unseen on free to air TV in the UK." 
  YouTube is the world's most popular online video community allowing millions of people to discover, watch and share originally-created videos. Access to YouTube will soon be possible from the Freesat platform - the first time the service will be available from a free to air provider in the UK. The version of YouTube that will be launched is built on HTML 5 and will be its very latest iteration offering a TV-optimised, visually stunning and fully interactive viewing experience. 
  Peter Sherman, Product Marketing Manager for YouTube said, "We're happy to be working with Freesat so that Freesat users can now access YouTube from the platform. Our creator community is developing quality content that will delight and inspire viewers and we're pleased to be able to bring it to people in new ways."
   Emma Scott added: "Today's great news is a testament to our ongoing commitment to delivering genuine viewer choice."

 
