
 Planning a gluttonous holiday season and then a health kick in the New Year to balance it out? Well, when you start on the latter, you might want one of Zensorium's Tinké cardiorespiratory monitors to track your progress. The sensor is compatible with any of your old-fashioned 30-pin iOS devices (it'll work with the Lightning adapter, too), and with the press of a thumb, it can measure heart rate, blood oxygenation and respiratory rate using light. All this data is fed into the free companion app, which generates an overall fitness score called the "Vita Index" and logs it for later comparison. Stress levels can also be assessed, using fluctuations in your heart rate to score the "Zen Index." Sharing how unfit and stressed you are can be done via Facebook or Tinké's own network, which also allows you to compare results with other users worldwide. The monitor will set you back $119 and is available now from Zensorium (link below) in a choice of four colors. If you'd like to start improving your Zen Index right now, then check out the soothing acoustic sounds in the product walkthrough video below the fold.



 
  Show full PR text   Zensorium Introduces a New Way to Measure Cardiorespiratory Health & Stress Levels On-the-Go
  Tinké for iOS devices tracks and monitors your heart and respiratory rate, alongside blood oxygen level and stress levels with the touch of a finger
  SINGAPORE – December 4, 2012 – Zensorium, creators of mobile health and wellness monitoring devices, officially announces the availability of Tinké, a device used to monitor cardiorespiratory health and stress levels. 
  "Monitoring cardiorespiratory health and stress levels are an important yet neglected aspect of understanding one's health and wellness progression which is in line with the Quantified Self movement" said Juliana Chua, Principal of Zensorium's Business Innovation Group. "Tinké's compact, innovative and unique design with no‐fuss portability means that it can be used anytime, anywhere."  Defined as the ability of your heart, lungs and organs to consume, transport and utilize oxygen, cardiorespiratory health should be tracked and monitored to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Tinké uses optical sensing technologies to capture blood volume changes at your fingertips and quantifies not only cardiorespiratory health but also stress levels into indexes. Both indexes trend alongside one another for daily and monthly monitoring and enable users to easily understand their health progression from their mobile devices: 
   Vita Index: A personalized cardiorespiratory score that is created by piecing data collected from heart rate, blood oxygen level and respiratory rate  Zen Index: Using heart rate variability as a basis, a personalized score for your stress levels is determined from analyzing the rhythm of your heart rate   Tinké's social component allows users to share their results on Facebook, add friends and family to the Tinké network as well as compare scores with other global Tinké users. The Tinké App is available for free on the iTunes App Store and is designed to work with iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.   Easy to use, Tinké plugs into your iOS device and instantly springs to life once plugged in via the 30-pin connector. For users of the new iPhone 5, iPad Retina and Mini, as well as iPod 5th generation, Tinké can be used with Apple's Lightning to 30-pin adaptor.   Tinké is available in grey, blue, pink, and white for the price of $119.00 at shop.zensorium.com. To see Tinké in action watch the demonstrational video here, or for more information, visit www.zensorium.com/tinke. 
