
Activity trackers like FuelBand are great if you just want to exercise, but Zepp Labs' new 3D motion sensor might be more useful if you're seriously training in a sport -- especially if it's tennis, baseball or golf. A 1-inch square of negligible weight, the sensor captures data from each swing you make -- so long as you attach it to a glove, racket or bat -- then transmits info to its accompanying iOS or Android app via Bluetooth. The kind of data saved depends on the sport, such as bat speed and angle at impact for baseball, or shot type, power and spin for tennis, which you can then examine in 3D with a 360-degree view within the app. According to the company, the sensor lasts up to eight hours per use. So, if you're into real sports instead of their virtual counterparts, you can snag Zepp Tennis, Baseball or Golf in November for $150 per set, which includes the sensor, mount and app.



Show full PR textZepp Labs Unveils New Sensor-Based Sports Platform To Radically Improve The Way We Practice, Play And Experience Sports
Los Gatos, California – October 3, 2013 – Zepp Labs, a leader in motion capture technology and mobile sports applications, announced that is has created the world's first multi-sport sensor and the first three apps on the new Zepp Sports Platform: Zepp Baseball, Zepp Golf and Zepp Tennis.

"For the first time in history, players and coaches can now capture and analyze 3D swing data on their smartphone or tablet and discover ways to improve their game," said Jason Fass, chief executive officer of Zepp Labs. "We see a tremendous opportunity to improve the way we practice, play and experience sports by providing meaningful and actionable data in a beautiful design with an easy-to-use interface."

Zepp Sensor

The Zepp 3D motion sensor was designed with the athlete in mind. It is extremely small, about 1-inch square, less than half an inch thick and weighs just 6.3 grams, so it never impedes the athlete's performance. Constructed of a rugged rubber exterior and shock-resistant core, the sensor is also extremely durable to withstand all types of abuse on the baseball field, golf course and tennis court.

Each sensor contains a powerful ARM processor, multiple motion sensors, storage for up to 200,000 swings (200,000 tennis swings / 2,000 baseball and golf swings) and up to 8 hours of battery life (varies by use). Using innovative sport-specific mounts, the Zepp sensor attaches easily to any baseball or softball bat, tennis racket or golf glove. It captures 1,000 data points per second and transfers all of this data to a user's smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth.

Zepp Baseball

[Baseball Image]

Zepp Baseball is a training system (motion sensor + bat mount + mobile app) that helps you analyze and improve your swing. Just attach the Zepp 3D motion sensor to the handle of any baseball or softball bat and swing away to get instant data and feedback and on your iPhone, iPad or Android device. The sensor wirelessly sends data to your mobile device via Bluetooth after every swing. For the first time in the history of baseball, players and coaches can now review swings in 3D and rotate around them in 360°, measure important aspects of each swing like bat speed and bat angle at impact, track progress and trends over time, compare swings to pros and friends, and get personalized tips, drills and coaching.

Zepp Golf

Zepp Golf is the evolution of Zepp Labs' award-winning first product, GolfSense, the world's first 3D golf swing analyzer system for your smartphone and tablet. Zepp Golf is a training system (motion sensor + glove mount + mobile app) that helps analyze and improve your golf swing. Just attach the Zepp 3D motion sensor to the back of your golf glove and swing away to get instant data and feedback and on your iPhone, iPad or Android device. The sensor wirelessly sends data to your mobile device via Bluetooth after every swing. Golfers and professional instructors can review swings in 3D and rotate around them in 360°, measure important aspects of each swing like club head speed, tempo, club plane, hand path, backswing position and hip rotation, track progress and trends over time, compare swing to pros and friends and get personalized tips, drills and coaching.

Zepp Tennis

Zepp Tennis is a training system (motion sensor + racket mount + mobile app) that helps you analyze and improve your swing. Just attach the Zepp 3D motion sensor to the handle of any tennis racket and swing away to get instant data and feedback and on your iPhone, iPad or Android device. The sensor captures and stores your swing data and then wirelessly sends that data to your mobile device via Bluetooth. For the first time in the history of tennis, players and coaches can now get in-depth analysis of their matches and practices sessions, track important aspects of their game like shot type mix (serve, forehand, backhand, smash), power and spin (topspin, slice, flat), compare data to pros and friends and get personalized tips, drills and coaching.

Pricing and Availability

Zepp Baseball, Zepp Golf and Zepp Tennis will be available for purchase at zepp.com and select retail outlets in November for a suggested retail price of $149.99 (U.S.).


