
 Back in July, we caught a glimpse of the Voomote One -- Zero1.tv's universal remote adapter for iPhone and iPod Touch users. Now, the company has just announced a slimmer, iPad compatible successor to its bulky peripheral, with the Voomote Zapper. Slated to debut at IFA later today, this paperclip-sized dongle attaches to your iDevice's 30-pin connector, allowing you to remotely control any A / V gadget with the help of Zero1.tv's free and customizable iOS app. The Zapper's Room Control feature also lets you catalog all your infrared devices by location, while controlling multiple systems with a single button, thanks to its One View function. Its iPad-optimized TV Guide, meanwhile, allows you to fire up your favorite shows with even greater ease, using the app's graphically-displayed programming schedules. No word yet on pricing or availability, but you can zap your way past the break for the full press release.
      

 

 		Show full PR text  Zero1.tv Unveils New VooMote Zapper at IFA 2011, Offering an Unparalleled Universal Remote Control Solution and TV Guide Functionality 		Elegant, lifestyle-inspired dongle transforms your iPhone, iPod touch and iPad into a digital hub with ease, flexibility, and style 		Berlin, Germany (August 1, 2011) – Zero1.tv, leading provider of user		interfaces for home entertainment solutions, reveals its new ground-breaking solution, VooMote Zapper, at the IFA show in Berlin today. This device, like the VooMote One, effortlessly converts your iOS device into an impressively smart universal remote that controls virtually all of your A/V gear and allows you to conveniently find your favorite TV shows. 		This next generation remote control is designed to be light-weight and		convenient, for maximum pocket-ability and ease of use. It is as small as a		paperclip and easily plugs into the 30-pin connector on your iOS device. Once you download the free app you have full control over hundreds of thousands of electronic devices. This intuitive set up means no manuals, websites cords or PCs are necessary. With the VooMote Zaper, you have the ability to control almost any A/V device in just seconds. 		The VooMote Zapper is also iDevice agnostic, making it incredibly versatile and mobile. The app itself is fully customizable, allowing you to optimize the layout of your remote. Users can also utilize the Edit Mode to create macros that execute functions with one touch. This tailor-made touch screen will create a user interface that is optimized just for you. The Room Control and One View features made popular by the VooMote One are also found in VooMote Zapper, meaning you can categorize your infrared devices by room location and also control multiple devices with the touch of a button on your touch screen. 		Another attribute that sets the VooMote Zapper apart is the TV Guide feature. The innovative TV guide depicts your programming graphically for an enjoyable view of your favorite shows schedules. You can navigate to find TV shows on you iPad, and enjoy the luxury of its grander sized display screen for optimal guide viewing.
 