
 

For now, the HTC Flyer can console itself for not having a second core (like all the other guys) by noting that its 1.5GHz clock speed is faster than any other tablet. Pretty soon, however, the choice between speed and core count might not have to be made at all, as ZiiLabs has just announced new dual-core and quad-core ARM Cortex-A9 systems-on-chip that run at the same 1500MHz speed as the Flyer. Dubbed ZMS-20 and ZMS-40, respectively, they're taking the ZMS-08 legacy of focusing on HD video decoding even further, while also throwing in specific optimizations for Android Honeycomb tablets. The earlier-gen SOC was only picked up by parent company Creative, who inserted it in its ZiiO tablets, so let's hope the new silicon proves compelling enough for us to see it in more manufacturers' slates. Full PR and an intro video follow after the break.
      

 

   		Show full PR text  ZiiLABS Announces ZMS-20 & ZMS-40 		Energy-Efficient Processors Optimized for High-Performance Android 3.0 Tablets 		-- ZMS-20 Combines 48 Stemcell Media Processing Cores and Dual-Core 1.5GHz ARM Cortex-A9 Processors to Reshape the Landscape for Tablet Computing 		-- Quad-Core ZMS-40 Delivers Aggregated Cortex-A9 Clock Speed of up to 6GHz and Scales Up Total Performance to 100 Processing Cores 		Singapore – 10th May 2011 – ZiiLABS, a pioneering media processor and platforms company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Creative Technology Ltd, today introduced its most powerful Zii family of energy-efficient media processors, the ZMS-20 and the ZMS-40. 		Targeting the up and coming explosive tablet computing markets, the ZMS-20 (with Dual-Core 1.5GHz ARM Cortex-A9 Processors) and ZMS-40 (with Quad-Core 1.5GHz ARM Cortex-A9 Processors), besides having more than generous ARM processing power, are turbo-charged by an array of up to 96 Stemcell media processing cores to give an incredible performance of up to 100 processor cores, previously unheard of in the handheld mobile device markets! 		Engineered for the high-resolution tablet computing markets, the ZMS-20 combines ZIiLABS' 48 Stemcell media processing cores with dual 1.5GHz ARM Cortex-A9 MPCore processors with Neon to deliver stunning 1080p high profile video playback, immersive OpenGL ES 2.0 3D graphics, HD video calling and a rich desktop browsing experience including Adobe Flash Player. 		With multi-core application acceleration and dynamic power management for longer battery life, the ZMS-20 delivers the efficient and high-performance platform required for the next generation of Android 3.0 based devices and beyond. 		"Designed to increase application performance by 4X over the ZMS-08 processor, the ZMS-20 was specifically engineered to meet the performance and power efficiency requirements of high-resolution Android tablets more effectively than any other processor on the market," said Hock Leow, President of ZiiLABS. "The ZMS-08 established our leadership position for High Profile H.264 playback and the ZMS-20 takes that to the next level by adding dual ARM Cortex-A9 cores plus a host of new features such as DDR3 and LPDDR2 support, HDMI 1.4 and OpenCL." 		"We are targeting this amazing family of ZMS-20 and the ZMS-40 Zii Stemcell media processors dead-on the explosive tablet computing market. The competitively priced ZMS-20, and the ZMS-40 with its quad Cortex-A9 cores will herald a new generation of low-cost, low-power yet high-performance tablets, mobile thin clients for cloud computing and other embedded appliances for the post-PC era," said Sim Wong Hoo, Chairman and CEO of Creative Technology Ltd. 		"The design and development of ZMS-40 is done, we will unleash it to ride on the up and coming new wave of tablet computing revolution. The scalable ZMS-40 will lead the way to show the world that tablet computing can be truly effective and without any compromise. With the ZMS-40, we will be able to bring the performances of tablets or other handheld devices to rival notebooks and even desktop PCs." Sim added. 		"As consumer demand for smarter connected devices increases, so does the industry's requirement for low-power, high performance semiconductor solutions," commented Eric Schorn, Vice President Marketing, Processor Division, ARM. "The combination of Cortex-A9 processors incorporating ARM NEON and TrustZone technologies provides the multicore technology to drive the latest Android tablets and ensure a high-quality user experience." 		Android 3.0 (Honeycomb) tablets and associated design-kits based on the ZMS-20 will be showcased at the ZiiLABS suite (Grand Hyatt Hotel Taipei, Grand Room, #1137) in Taipei, Taiwan between 31 May and 4 June at the Computex 2011 tradeshow. 		ZMS-20 Key Features		Dual 1.5GHz ARM Cortex A9 cores with Neon		ZiiLABS flexible Stemcell media processing capabilities		Low-energy SIMD architecture for high performance media acceleration		48 x 32-bit floating point media processing cores for 26GFlops of compute		High Profile H.264 video playback at 1080p@30fps		Wide range of accelerated video codecs including H.264, VC1 and VP8		High Definition, low latency video conferencing		Optimised OpenGL ES 2.0 for robust 3D graphics acceleration and application compatibility		Accelerated OpenCL 1.1 (desktop profile) integrated into Android NDK		High Dynamic Range (HDR) Image Processing		High-quality Text-to-Speech and Voice Recognition		150 MPixel/sec image processing		Adobe Flash 10 acceleration		Integrated HDM1 1.4 with 3D stereo support		1GB addressable memory		DDR2/3 at 533 MHz for low-cost		LPDDR2 for maximum memory bandwidth and low-power		64-bit wide memory bus		Quad independent video controllers supporting 24-bit displays and cameras		3V3 and 1V8 I/O's reduce peripheral power consumption		Dual USB 2.0 HS OTG (Host/Peripheral) controllers with PHY for low system cost		Three independent SDIO/MMC controllers		Extended battery life with robust Dynamic Power Management and Instantaneous On		Xtreme Fidelity X-Fi audio effects		Enhanced Security: 256-bit AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) and TrustZone		Availability		The ZMS-20 is sampling now to select customers and is scheduled for volume shipment to customers in the 3rd quarter of 2011. Detailed specifications of the ZMS-40 will be announced later. Visit ZiiLABS suite (Grand Hyatt Hotel Taipei, Grand Room, #1137) at the Computex 2011 tradeshow to find out more. 		Complete Tablet Solutions		ZiiLABS' high-quality OEM-ready reference platforms combine all the hardware, software and integration required to enable ODMs to rapidly deliver customized solutions to meet the growing demand for next-generation Android based tablets.
 