
 
Until now, Samson's Zoom H4n digital recorder has been a staple in niche music equipment stores like Sam Ash, Musician's Friend, and Sweetwater, but a no-show in more mainstream retailers. Now the two year-old handheld is on sale at Best Buy, making it much easier to walk into a brick-and-mortar store and handle the thing a bit before deciding to shell out $299. The H4n's undergone some minor upgrades since its debut, with the current model sporting built-in X/Y stereo condenser mics, a rubberized, shock-proof design, an improved UI, a new digitally controlled mic preamp, and the ability to use internal and external mics for four-channel recording. It comes with a 1GB SDHC card, but you can swap it for one as large as 32GB. Last but not least, there's a tripod mount, making it easier to pair the device with a DSLR that could use some oomph in the audio department -- you know, when you film your next My World 2.0 fan video next week.
      

 

Show full PR textZoom Announces H4n Handheld Recorder, Now Available at All Best Buy LocationsWith 4-channel high resolution audio recording and variable recording pattern capability, H4n represents the next level of recording performanceHauppauge, NY – (April 11, 2011) – Zoom's H4n Handy Video Recorder is now available at all Best Buy locations. Focusing on improving the user experience at every level, H4n is Zoom's most sophisticated handheld recorder to date. Available now at all Best Buy stores for $299.H4n offers built-in X/Y stereo condenser mics that allow variable recording patterns at either 90° or 120°. Audio quality is improved through its new digitally controlled, high-quality mic preamp and the ability to use internal and external mics simultaneously for 4-channel recording. A large LCD screen, a more intuitive interface and onboard reference speaker will take the user's recording experience to the next level.In addition to musicians and songwriters, H4n has become the "go to" audio solution for filmmakers and video professionals looking to record high-quality audio while filming HD video with their DSLR cameras. H4n is the only recorder that makes it possible to capture audio with its two XLR inputs and get incredible stereo imaging with its onboard mics, all at once.The H4n is also the most robust recorder from Zoom, with a rubberized, shock resistant body for improved chassis protection, all-metal microphone design and a built-in mounting joint for tripod and microphone stand use. H4n also includes a 1 GB SD card, wind screen, mic clip adapter, AC adapter, USB cable, protective case and Cubase LE recording software. An optional remote control is also available."We are extremely excited to be partnering with Best Buy for the Zoom H4n nationwide launch," says James Tsaptsinos, Vice President of Sales with Zoom. "After years entrenched in the industry, we have learned a great deal from singers, songwriters, and filmmakers. The Zoom H4n combines years of knowledge into one universal solution for all forms of high- quality audio recording."
 