
 

We'd hazard a guess that just a couple of things evolved in the portable audio world from the year 2007. That's when the original Zoom H2 SD launched, and it's become somewhat of a staple in the years since. Now, some four years later, it's time for a refresh. The outfit's launching the Zoom H2n today, complete with a bolder design, five "studio-quality" microphones and a foursome of recording modes: Mid-Side (MS) stereo, 90° X/Y stereo, 2-channel and 4-channel surround sound. The standout feature, however, is its ability to widen and narrow one's recording range on the fly. For reporters, you can hone in on the interviewee and block out other reporters / crowd noise, while concert goers can adjust to target audio from just the singer. Other specs include a 1.8-inch LCD, built-in reference speaker, USB 2.0 connectivity and a thing for pushing through for 20 full hours on a single set of AA cells. It'll sell for $199 when it ships this September, but you'll see that figure head north should you decide to pick up an optional accessory pack with windscreen, tripod, protective case, and remote control.





  		Show full PR text  Zoom H2n Handy Recorder. Enjoy the new standard. 		First and only portable recorder with five studio-quality microphones onboard		Hauppauge, NY – (July 12, 2011) – Representing a new generation of portable recording, the H2n is Zoom's most innovative handheld recorder to date. We've packed groundbreaking features into an ultra-portable device that allows you to record pristine audio anywhere you go. 		The H2n features our best microphones yet and is the only portable recorder with five studio-quality microphones onboard. This design enables the H2n to offer four unique recording modes: Mid-Side (MS) stereo, a technique used for many years in film and broadcast, 90° X/Y stereo, 2-channel and 4-channel surround sound. With its newly designed user interface, 1.8-inch backlit LCD display for crystal-clear monitoring and built-in reference speaker that allows you to playback recordings on the spot, the H2n is remarkably easy to use in any application. 		"A lot of people are going to be knocked-out when they use this device, but we're really interested in seeing the response from the film and broadcast industries," says Scott Goodman, President of Samson. "Mid-Side miking has been used in those industries since the '80s, but it's never been available in a handheld recorder." 		Further enhancing its flexibility and convenience, the H2n provides over 20 hours of continuous operation on just two standard AA alkaline batteries. In addition, the H2n features a new data recovery function and a High-Speed USB 2.0 interface. You can even use the H2n as a USB microphone and record directly to your computer. 		No matter the application, the H2n brings the very best in stereo recording to a convenient, user-friendly package that fits in your pocket. 		Zoom H2n Handy Recorder. The new standard in portable recording. The H2n will be available September 2011 for $199.
 