
 
Hailed as the first and only handheld video recorder to record HD audio, Zoom's Q3 Handy Video recorder is definitely a unique offering amongst the legions of me-toos. After being announced in July and tickling our senses right around a month ago, the Q3 has finally begun to ship en masse to eager consumers. Just in case you've forgotten, this bugger records 24-bit/48 kHz audio via a pair of condenser microphones, gets powered by two AA cells and captures video at 640 x 480 (30fps). There's also a 2.4-inch 320 x 240 LCD and an SDHC card slot, though you'll have to shell out $249 in order to get this kind of technology into your own pocket. Order up, kids!





Show full PR text Zoom Announces Availability of the Q3 Handheld Video Recorder with HD Audio at Nationwide RetailersQ3 provides amateur videographers with professional studio quality audio that no other handheld video recorder can matchHauppauge, NY – October 13, 2009 – Zoom, makers of award-winning professional audio recording devices, are excited to announce the much anticipated availability of the Q3 Handy Video Recorder. Unlike other handheld video camcorders, the Q3 records stereo sound with two condenser microphones, which allow users to capture crystal clear HD audio with their movies. The ability to capture audio at 24-bit/48 kHz is especially important for users planning to upload their footage to video share sites like YouTube, which compress video but now allow files with stereo audio at 44.1 kHz, which is CD quality. "While it can be difficult to discern the difference between High Quality and High Definition videos on sites like YouTube, High Definition audio makes a big difference in the viewing experience," says Mark Wilder, Samson Director of Marketing. The Q3 Handy Video Recorder allows you to capture audio that your audience can easily identify as superior quality and is unmatched by audio captured on any other handheld camcorder."Powered by 2 AA batteries, the Q3 will record for up to two hours in true stereo and clear 640 x 480 resolution refreshed at 30 frames per second. The Q3 features a brilliant 2.4-inch 320 x 240 resolution LCD that displays audio level meters, a battery indicator and time elapsed. The Q3 accepts up to a 32 GB SDHC card to deliver up to 16 hours of movie making capacity. Users can easily upload videos to a computer with the clever flexible USB cable for immediate editing and sharing. 
 