
 LTE technology is usually divided into two distinct camps, FDD-LTE and TD-LTE, that might as well exist in two different worlds: own a device using one and you can't access the other. ZTE is bringing some harmony to 4G through the Grand Era LTE. The smartphone can connect to both LTE formats on China Mobile Hong Kong's newly dual-mode network, keeping locals in the high-speed zone no matter which 4G format is available. As our friends at Engadget Chinese discovered in a hands-on, however, it's not quite seamless at this stage. Subscribers have to reboot to switch networks, and the Hong Kong take on TD-LTE access doesn't upload as quickly as its FDD counterpart. Even with those bubbles burst, the Grand Era LTE is still a solid phone in its own right, touting a 4.5-inch 720p screen, a 1.5GHz dual-core processor and ZTE's relatively light Mifavor interface sitting on top of Android 4.0. Check our video after the break to get a taste of the phone and the network -- although the clip is in Cantonese, the results are universal.



   Show full PR text   ZTE Introduces Its First Dual-Mode Grand Era LTE Smartphone in Hong Kong
  18 December 2012, Shenzhen, China – ZTE Corporation ("ZTE") (H share stock code: 0763.HK / A share stock code: 000063.SZ), a publicly-listed global provider of telecommunications equipment, network solutions and mobile devices, has introduced its first dual-mode LTE smartphone, the Grand Era LTE, in Hong Kong as part of the launch of China Mobile Hong Kong Co. Ltd. (CMHK)'s first commercial converged TD-LTE / LTE FDD network.
  The TDD/FDD dual-mode ZTE Grand Era LTE smartphone operates on the Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich platform. It features a 1.5GHz dual core CPU, 1GB of memory and a multi-touch 4.5-inch 1280×720 Gorilla Glass display providing a high quality user experience on high-speed LTE networks. The device also has a 1780mAh battery and ZTE's customisable Mifavor User Interface.   In addition, ZTE will showcase its FDD/TDD dual-mode MF93E uFi device and the MF825 data card on the new Hong Kong network. Both devices use Qualcomm's MDM9215 second-generation LTE chip platform. The size and average power consumption of the MF93E and the MF 825 have been reduced by nearly a third compared to the first generation LTE devices making them smaller and faster.   "With the growing popularity of the LTE environment in Hong Kong, LTE smart terminal products will become more prevalent in the future, which will also be the model for LTE development in mainland China, further accelerating the maturity of the global TD-LTE industry, " said Mr. He Shiyou, ZTE EVP and Head of the Terminal Division.   TD-LTE continues to gain momentum across the globe. ZTE recognised the potential of TD-LTE very early on and in the last ten years has invested 900 million on TD-LTE research and development and has over 4,000 engineers working on the programme focused on delivering innovations to improve user experience and value. The focus has been on TD-LTE terminals and converged services solutions from the chip to the product through to the solution. Today, ZTE TD-LTE terminal products include a wide range of smart terminals, family integration equipment and innovative terminals such as handsets, platforms, datacards and MiFi/uFi devices.
 
