
 There's no point in feigning surprise. We knew this one was coming. Still, it's hard to deny the importance surrounding the Grand S, which ZTE just made official. Just as quickly, the Chinese outfit secured its title as manufacturer of the world's thinnest full HD smartphone -- a ballsy move for a company that's historically associated with the bargain bin, at least in the US. The Grand S now stands as ZTE's flagship handset, and there's little doubt that the company's looking to stake its claim in the high end market. As you'd expect, the phone carries a spec sheet that's designed to grab a lot of attention.

 For starters, yes, we're looking at a 5-inch HD (1,920 x 1,080) display. The Grand S is powered by a 1.7GHz quad-core Snapdragon S4 Pro and will debut this quarter in China with Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean). It's accompanied by a 13-megapixel auto-focus camera on the rear and a 2-megapixel camera on the front. Both shooters are capable of recording video in 1080p. The Grand S boasts 2GB of RAM, 16GB of built-in storage, and despite its super thin 6.9mm enclosure, it features a microSD card slot -- something the Droid DNA can't match.

 If anything, it appears that ZTE sacrificed battery capacity to meet the size constraints of the Grand S, as a somewhat meager 1,780mAh cell is sealed within the phone's unibody enclosure. As for connectivity, ZTE has revealed that its svelte beast includes LTE, but the company has yet to disclose which bands are supported. To learn more, be sure to check our hands-on.



  Show full PR text   ZTE Announces World Debut of the Thinnest 5.0 FHD Quad-core Smartphone Grand S at CES 2013
   Introducing more High-end Smartphones with Power and Style in 2013

   LAS VEGAS, N.V. – January 8, 2012 – From the 2013 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), ZTE Corporation ("ZTE") (H share stock code: 0763.HK / A share stock code: 000063.SZ), a publicly-listed global provider of telecommunications equipment, network solutions and mobile devices, today announced the world debut of the ZTE Grand S – 5.0 FHD LTE. As the flagship handset in ZTE's high-end Grand Series line of products, the ZTE Grand S is the company's first FHD smartphone and the world's thinnest within 5 inch FHD quad-core smartphones, enabled by the Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor, a product of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated. Developed by ZTE, the ultrathin body and high definition display of the ZTE Grand S offer consumers the latest in style, quality and functionality.

   From the full-website display which enables optimal content browsing, to the 4G LTE high-speed network which powers a world-class multimedia experience, the ZTE Grand S offers cutting-edge features for even the most discerning smartphone user. The blazingly fast 4G LTE network allows for top-speed downloading and establishes the handset as a premier gaming and movie-viewing portal. Furthermore, the ZTE Grand S offers smartphone photography mavens advanced functions for more vivid self-photography and video calling effects. With face recognition, anti-shake and a panoramic camera, the ZTE Grand S truly presents a high-quality multimedia option for today's smartphone audience.

   The introduction of the ZTE Grand S completes the new Grand Series, which also includes the Grand Era and Grand X. In the series, the ZTE Grand X is for consumers with a passion for high tech, the ZTE Grand Era is for the most advanced smartphone user and the ZTE Grand S is the flagship handset offering the perfect combination of art and technology. The ZTE Grand S represents the company's latest entry in a new era of smartphone design, which will continue in 2013 with the introduction of additional high-end smartphones.

   "The ZTE Grand S gives our customers the latest in technology, functionality and style. We understand that today's consumers call for advanced features and state-of-the-art multimedia options in their handsets, and the ZTE Grand S confidently addresses those demands," said Mr. Kan Yulun, Corporate Vice President of ZTE Corporation and CTO of the ZTE Mobile Device Division. "It is fitting that we can announce the world debut of the ZTE Grand S at CES 2013, the world's largest annual innovation event."

   Key features of the ZTE Grand S include:

   4G LTE –Customers can expect fast download speeds of 100 Mbps and upload speeds of 50 Mbps in 4G LTE Mobile Broadband coverage areas  Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with 1.7GHz quad-core CPU  Android Jelly Bean operating system  13M AF camera with Flash and 2M FF 1080P video  Expert hardware and software safety protection standard - Palm Manager helps users manage mobile phone software, optimize electricity use and protect private information  5 inch FHD screen capable of full-website display  Dolby Digital surround sound  Memory: 2GB RAM + 16GB EMMC  Dimensions: 142*69*6.9mm

   The ZTE Grand S was introduced at a special press event at the Las Vegas Convention Center and will remain on display at the ZTE booth (Las Vegas Convention Center, Booth #36612) throughout CES.

   The ZTE Grand S will be available for online purchase in China first in Q1 of 2013.

 
