


Thus far, ZTE's biggest reach in the US market has been tied to carriers, and the vast majority of its phones are sold as prepaid, white-label devices on the cheap. We rarely see any of the manufacturer's higher-end products on this side of the Pacific, however, and ZTE is ready to change that in time for the holidays with a pair of mid-range Android handsets that will be offered unlocked and without the influence of mobile operators. Both phones are going to be up for pre-order on October 5th through multiple online channels (the press release tells us "Amazon and other channels," so check your preferred retailer), and both of them will ship October 16th.


First up is the Grand S, which made its global debut at CES last January (yes, ten months ago). It'll go on sale for $400 and will feature a 5-inch 1080p display, 1.5GHz quad-core Snapdragon S4 Pro with 2GB of RAM, 13MP rear camera, 1,780mAh battery and 16GB total internal storage space. It will run Android 4.1 Jelly Bean (ZTE wouldn't give specifics on if or when we can expect to see an upgrade) and will offer a frame that's 6.9mm thin.


Last but not least is the Nubia 5, which can be yours for $450. This one is a bit interesting, as ZTE tells us that this model is different from the Nubia Z5, although most of the specs (and its overall look) are the same. It runs on Android 4.1.2 Jelly Bean and features a 5-inch 1080p display, 16GB of internal storage (as opposed to the Z5's 32GB), 2,300mAh battery, 13MP rear camera, a 1.5GHz quad-core Snapdragon S4 Pro and 2GB of RAM. The duo have HSPA+ radios (LTE isn't included) that are compatible with both AT&T and T-Mobile, in case you have any allegiance with either.



Show full PR textThe ZTE nubia 5™ Packs Advanced Photography and Entertainment Into the Palm of Your Hand
Available for Preorder Oct 5, ZTE's nubia 5 Features Full HD Display, Dolby Digital Plus, and a 13MP Camera

RICHARDSON, Texas, October 3, 2013 – ZTE USA, the world's fastest-growing smartphone provider, today announces the U.S. pricing and availability of ZTE nubia 5™, a high-end smartphone packing entertainment and performance into an approachable industrial profile. The ZTE nubia 5 is compatible with GSM/UMTS carriers, and is available for preorder on Saturday, October 5 with an MSRP of $449.99, through Amazon and other channels.

Whether you're a photo enthusiast looking to capture and edit amazing pictures using a 13 megapixel camera with a Konica-Minolta lens and intelligent stabilization, an always-on road warrior looking to stay connected via countless apps, or an audiophile looking to plug into Digital Dolby Plus audio with specially-designed earbuds, the ZTE nubia 5 packs a punch. With a low-profile bezel, matte finish and glowing red custom fixed buttons complementing the industrial design, the ZTE nubia 5 creates a mobile experience unlike any other Android smartphone.

"As the software and apps available on today's smartphones replace more and more of the other devices we use on a daily basis, the specifications for features like cameras, displays and speakers are becoming increasingly sophisticated. The nubia 5 really pushes that trend further," said Lixin Cheng, Chairman and CEO of ZTE USA. "Moreover, the launch of the ZTE nubia 5 builds on our ongoing commitment to the U.S. ZTE will be working closely with our customers to make devices like this available in the U.S."The nubia 5 offers one of the most versatile smartphone photography experiences available through three photography modes – Fun Mode, Auto Mode and Pro Mode. Fun Mode is for taking quick snapshots and applying filters, while Auto Mode provides a step up in features, like smile recognition and HDR. Lastly, Pro Mode brings the core functions of a professional SLR into the phone through features like 4-direction panoramic shooting, burst mode continuous shooting, and putting control of light, focus, and gradient into the user's hands.

ZTE nubia 5 technical specifications include:• OS: Android 4.1.2 Jelly Bean• Display: 5" FHD 16.7M Color 1920 x 1080, 443PPi• Processor: Qualcomm® Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with 1.5 GHz quad-core CPUs• Camera: Konica-Minolta 13 MP AF with LED Flash and Sapphire Lens, Front 2 MP• Battery: 2300 mAH• Dimensions: 5.43" x 2.71" x 0.30"• Memory: 16GB in ROM, 2 GB in RAM

Show full PR textZTE's Grand S™ Makes a Grand Entrance in the U.S.Available for Preorder Oct 5, ZTE's Slimmest Smartphone is Elegant, Stylish and Open

RICHARDSON, Texas, October 3, 2013 – ZTE USA, the world's fastest-growing smartphone provider, today announced the U.S. pricing and availability of the award-winning Grand S, a beautifully-crafted smartphone decorated with the 2013 iF International Design Award.

First introduced globally at CES 2013, the 0.27-inch Grand S is ZTE's slimmest smartphone available in the United States, and is compatible for use with GSM/UMTS carriers. The phone is now available for preorder, with an MSRP of $399.99, through Amazon and other channels.

With a large, eye-catching five-inch display and 13 megapixel camera, the Grand S caters to today's design-conscious consumer by providing the perfect combination of aesthetics and technology. Its quad-core 1.5 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor and use of several MiFavor applications designed by ZTE provide the brains behind the elegant uni-body design, capturing true user demands."For many consumers, technology and design are inseparable. Today's higher-end smartphones must be both physically and emotionally compelling, and the Grand S offers this winning combination of form and function," said Lixin Cheng, Chairman and CEO of ZTE USA. "We've been looking forward to bringing the Grand S to the U.S. since we announced the device at CES. Our goal is to launch more products like this in the future."ZTE Grand S technical specifications include:• OS: Android 4.1 Jelly Bean• Display: 5" FHD (1920 x 1080), 440 ppi with scratch-resistant glass• Processor: Qualcomm® Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with 1.5 GHz quad-core CPUs• Camera: 13 megapixels AF with Flash, Front 2 megapixels FF• Battery: 1780 mAH• Dimensions: 5.59" x 2.72" x 0.27"• Memory: 16GB in ROM, 2 GB in RAM


