
 Today marks the second time we've come across ZTE's Grand Memo. Except now, the Chinese OEM's unveiling it as the first to feature Qualcomm's Snapdragon 800 Snapdragon 600 processor. The Grand Memo's 5.7-inch display size has remained the same, but the screen on this new 8.5mm thick LTE variant will now pack a 1080p 720p resolution -- a handy spec given its usability as a multimedia point of consumption. (Update 2: The official press release says that the screen is 720p resolution. We're asking for clarification. Until we get confirmation, we reckon ZTE's hinting at the camera capability, not the screen -- those scoundrels.)

 The audio experience on this tabletphone will also get a suitable premium bump with the inclusion of Dolby Digital Plus Surround. Apart from all that, there's still a 13-megapixel camera module on back and healthy 3,200mAh battery inside its plastic shell. No specifics regarding pricing and regional availability were given, but we can expect to see it launch sometime "this year."

 Update: ZTE's confirmed that the Grand Memo will initially launch in China and then Europe soon after. As for its US destiny, all we were told is that the company's exploring its options.

 Update Tres: We just got to play with the new iteration. See our first impressions here. 
 Update 4: So Qualcomm's just reached out to clarify that the Grand Memo actually has a Snapdragon 600 inside. At this point, who knows what specs the Grand Memo has.

 Update 5: After chatting with Qualcomm we circled back with ZTE, who confirmed that the Grand Memo does, in fact, have a Snapdragon 800 inside. The company informed us that there are two versions: one with a Snapdragon S4 Pro APQ8064 destined for China, and a European model packing a Snapdragon 800 with LTE.


  Show full PR text    ZTE Launches Grand Memo 5.7-inch handset using Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 Processor

   Featuring leading performance, battery life and a 13MP camera, the ZTE Grand Memo offers high functionality for home and office use

   25 February 2013, Barcelona, Spain - ZTE has launched the ZTE Grand Memo 5.7-inch handset running on Qualcomm ® Snapdragon ™ 800 processors.

   The ZTE Grand Memo offers the ideal balance between the portability of a handset and the larger viewing and easier touch-interaction experience of a tablet. It features a 5.7-inch, high definition, 720 x 1280 display, and a powerful Qualcomm 800 processor with quad-core Krait CPUs and 2GB of RAM. Combined with a 13MP rear-facing camera, 1MP front-facing camera and 1080 HD video playback, this gives users a smooth, high quality multimedia experience that is perfect for gaming and video.

   The Grand Memo caters for those who are always on-the-go, with voice-response technology which allows users to answer calls safely while driving, and A-GPS and car-mode navigation system for high quality mapping and directions. It comes with a HD version of ZTE's Mifavor user interface that is specially designed for smartphones, providing a simpler user experience, and ZTE's Z Cloud service for the security and access-anywhere provided by cloud services. It also includes a 3200mAh battery for super-long standby time.

   "The ZTE Grand Memo's large, high definition screen makes it perfect for media and entertainment, but its uses reach far beyond that," said Mr. He Shiyou, ZTE EVP and Head of the Mobile Devices Division. "With ZTE's custom Mifavor UI, a powerful processor, and LTE connectivity, this device offers users a wide array of benefits that go well beyond the capabilities of the typical handset."

   Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processors target premium mobile and computing devices. They are designed to deliver outstanding overall user experience, expand the possibilities of seamless connected computing and enable brand new mobile experiences while maintaining industry-leading battery performance.

   "Qualcomm Snapdragon platforms are at the heart of over 770 announced smartphones and tablets, and we are thrilled to work with ZTE to bring the Grand Memo to consumers" said Raj Talluri, senior vice president of product management at Qualcomm Technologies.

   The Grand Memo is a slim 8.5mm, ensuring that its advanced performance is matched by its sleek appearance. The 1080P HD video and 13MP rear-facing Intelligent Camera, coupled with the 16GB storage memory make movie watching as sharp and detailed as the capturing of users' own multimedia. Combined with high-speed LTE capabilities of the Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor, integrated Qualcomm WCN3680 802.11ac/.11n dual-band Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth solution for high-bandwidth communications, MHL and DLNA connectivity for mobile entertainment, the ZTE Grand Memo is perfectly suited for both personal and office use.

   "We have really tried to make this device fun for use at home, and practical for use in the office. By combining both of these factors, we have created a well-rounded large-screen handset that is suitable for any situation. It's perfect for videos, gaming and music, and also for sending e-mails, checking news and making calls on the go. For those with a busy lifestyle, the ZTE Grand Memo will be indispensable," said Mr. He Shiyou, ZTE.

   Key specifications of the Grand Memo  ü Android 4.1 - Jelly bean

   ü Thickness: 8.5mm

   ü 5.7inch, HD.TFT, 16M color, multi-touch capacitive screen

   ü Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor with quad-core Krait CPUs

   ü 3200mAh super-long standby battery

   ü Memory: 16GB Rom +2GB RAM

   ü Mifavour UI user interface

   ü WiFi 802.11 a/b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.0, accelerometer, proximity sensor, ambient light sensor, gyro

   ü LTE 100/50Mbps

   ü 13MP Intelligent AF Camera with face recognition and panorama,1MP front-facing camera, 1080p HD video playback

   The ZTE Grand Memo is on display at Mobile World Congress 2013 in Barcelona at Stand 3C64/3C74, Hall 3. ZTE Grand Memo is expected to launch the second quarter of 2013 with specifications varying between countries and regions.  ZTE is the 4th biggest handset manufacturer in the world according to IDC, a leading provider of global ICT market research and advisory services.

 
