
 
 ZTE's LTE-capable version of its Grand X smartphone will arrive on China Mobile's GSM network at the end of this month. The Grand X LTE (T82) is the company's first single-chip LTE handset, coming with a 1.5GHz dual-core CPU, 8-megapixel rear camera and Ice Cream Sandwich. It'll arrive in Hong Kong on August 31st, setting locals hack HK$3,180, before being rolled out to the rest of Asia-Pacific from Q3.



  Show full PR text   ZTE's Global Debut of Grand X LTE (T82) with China Mobile Hong Kong
   ZTE: the first China Mainland vendor to launch 4G LTE smartphone

  28 August 2012, Hong Kong – ZTE Corporation ("ZTE") (H share stock code: 0763.HK/ A share stock code: 000063.SZ), a publicly-listed global provider of telecommunications equipment and mobile devices, announced today the global launch of the Grand X LTE (T82) in Hong Kong in partnership with China Mobile Hong Kong Company Limited ("CMHK").

   The Grand X LTE (T82) is the company's first single-chip LTE smartphone equipped with a 1.5 GHz dual-core CPU, which is based on advanced 28nm technology. When compared to most phone models available in the market, the single-chip model is faster and more energy efficient. It showcases a 4.3-inch qHD screen which provides an exceptional HD quality visual experience. The device has an 8 mega pixel rear camera that supports 1080p HD video shooting and playback. The camera module with enhanced flash light captures the sharpest images day and night. In addition, there is a front camera that supports 720p HD video calls. The Grand X LTE (T82) is also WiFi capable and uses Android 4.0. The maximum download rate of 100M plus the robust configuration of the product allows users to download over 600,000 Android applications and enjoy a brand new mobile experience. The Grand X LTE (T82) also has a unique buttonless design resembling a mini tablet PC.

   Following the global premiere in Hong Kong, ZTE will also roll out the product in Asia Pacific in the third quarter 2012. As the flagship of the Grand series products, the Grand X LTE (T82) will further advance ZTE's position in the global mid to high-end smartphone market.

   "ZTE is proud to continue its leadership in 4G with the launch of the Grand X LTE (T82)," said Mr. He Shiyou, Executive Vice President and Head of Terminal Division of ZTE. "We are the first China Mainland company to launch 4G LTE smartphones globally and are confident of its success in the market."

   "We are very pleased to partner with ZTE and be the first mobile network operator in the world to roll out the Grand X LTE (T82). It offers exceptional design and innovative features at a competitive price," said Mr. Sean Lee, Director and Chief Executive Officer of CMHK. "Through this partnership, we'll be able to enrich our product portfolio, and provide our Hong Kong customers with an exceptional yet affordable 4G handset powered by a robust and reliable 4G service."

   ZTE is a frontrunner in the LTE space. It offers a full series of 4G/LTE terminals products, including tablet PC, pocket WiFi hotspot, modem and broadband customer premises equipment (CPE). The company now holds 7 per cent of all global LTE patents among vendors.

   Grand X LTE (T82) will soon be available at all CMHK shops in Hong Kong on 31 August 2012 for HK $3,180. Customers can sign up for service plans for Grand X LTE (T82) with promotional discounts and interest-free installment.

 
