
 US Cellular has had precious few truly low-cost smartphones running an Android build that wasn't baked in 2010. For those who'd like something a little fresher, the ZTE Director is here. While it's only slightly ahead of the trailing edge with stock Ice Cream Sandwich, that's an improvement on a category where Gingerbread still rules. Likewise, no one will be floored by the 1GHz Snapdragon processor, 3.5-inch 480 x 320 screen, 4GB of storage (plus microSD slot) and 3-megapixel rear camera, although the 1,500mAh battery is ample for the size. We imagine that customers will mostly be enamored by the price -- when the Director costs a penny on contract and $200 contract-free, it may bring in those who'd have held on to that basic flip phone for a little while longer.



  Show full PR text   U.S. Cellular Introduces the Budget-Friendly ZTE Director™ Smartphone
  RICHARDSON, T.X., April 12, 2013 – U.S. Cellular and ZTE have announced the arrival of the user-friendly, and affordable ZTE Director™ smartphone. The small, yet powerful ZTE Director™ runs on Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich. It provides consumers looking to make the leap from a feature phone to a smartphone with a solid operating system, while giving them style and simplicity at a great value.
  The new smartphone meets the needs of today's on-the-go consumers who want to utilize their smartphones for organizing business schedules and social events, but also require access to a highly organized hub of social networks and popular games. The ZTE Director™ bridges the gap between feature phone and a full functionality smartphone.
  "We understand that bringing a stylish, all-purpose smartphone to market at an affordable price point is critical," said Lixin Cheng, CEO, ZTEUSA, and president, North American Region, ZTE. "The new ZTE Director™ smartphone offers access to popular smartphone features, including fast access to websites, popular games and applications, while keeping price-conscious shoppers in mind. It is an ideal choice for those looking to purchase their first smartphone."
  Technical specifications include:
  · Android Ice Cream Sandwich with 3.5 inch screen  · 1 GHz processor  · 4GB built-in storage with expandable\ memory card slot  · 3 megapixel camera with Video Camcorder  · Battery: 1500mAh
  The ZTE Director™ is available in all U.S. Cellular markets. For additional information on the smartphone, visit www.uscellular.com or www.zteusa.com.
 
